Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https ://arch i ve. org/detai Is/b21980056A SYSTEM OP HUMAN ANATOMY: ON THE BASIS OF THE « TRAITE D'ANATOMIE DESCRIPTIVE" OF M. H, CLOQUET. BY ROBERT KNOX, LECTURER ON ANATOMY, FELLOW OF THE -EOYAL SOCIETY, AND OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS \^.f< - ^ .'• IN EDINBURGH. O EDINBURGH: MACLACHLAN AND STEWART, EDINBURGH. M.DCCC.XXX.EDINBURGH : rniNTED BY A. BALFOUR AND CO. NIDDRY STREET.ADVERTISEMENT. ✓ About two years ago the Compiler of the following work caused to be translated, for the use of the gentlemen at- tending his anatomical lectures, the very excellent work of Mr. H. Cloquet, entitled, " Traite d'Anatomie De- scriptive;" in reality the best treatise of its kind, on the exact descriptive anatomy of the human body, ever offered to the public. There was this peculiarity in the work of M. Cloquet, or rather this in which it particu- larly differed from all, or from most British anatomical works, that it was really what its title declared it to be. The reasons why the writer of this advertisement troubled himself and the public with a translation of a work on anatomy written in a foreign language, were briefly and partly stated in a preface prefixed to that translation : nothing has occurred since to alter or modify the opinion stated therein; and the rapid sale and exhaustion of that work must convince, he thinks, every one that he had not miscalculated nor misjudged the wishes of the anatomical students of this kingdom. The sale of a thousand copies of a work addressed almost exclusively to one class of students, implies irresistibly, that perhaps more than two- thirds of all the anatomical students in Britain entertained opinions, similar to those on which the translator has, in his capacity of lecturer on human anatomy, more particu- larly insisted, as to the advantages of studying correct and positive anatomy, in preference to acquiring vague, imper- fect and inaccurate notions of structure.vi ADVERTISEMENT. The writer of this would fain believe his opinions to be correct, when he supposes that all this has greatly altered, and for the better, the general character of anatomical studies, and that there are few students now, who com- mence their professional career by calculating with how little anatomy they may practise surgery. He hopes also, and in this is confident, that excellent surgeons, instead of being rare and thinly scattered, will be found everywhere ; thus will surgery become more and more exact, and physic less and less conjectural. The writer has been accused of too forcibly influencing the student's mind, and of dragging it away from other collateral stu- dies as they are termed, to fix it exclusively on anatomical pursuits. Let others look to this. If anatomy be the basis of all medical education, as twenty years* active exer- cise of his profession has convinced the writer of this adver- tisement, beyond all doubt, it is reasonable to presume that it ought to be studied profoundly. It has never occur- red to him to meet with a surgeon or physician possess- ing a superfluity of anatomical knowledge, but, not un- frequently, to witness men at the summit of their pro- fession, renewing their anatomical knowledge, and prose- cuting anatomical inquiry, when far advanced in life. This he has seen even in Britain, but admits reluctantly, and with great regret, that it should occur more frequent- ly in foreign countries than at home. Finally, the writer cannot feel irritable or displeased, seeing that the medical and surgical student has unlimit- ed ly adopted his views ; neither is he uneasy at the efforts made to arrest the impulse given to anatomical studies : whether these flow from private or corporate malignity, the good sense of the professional public must always render them abortive ; and even should these ef- forts to depreciate anatomical knowledge, assume, under the very specious pretence of improving, extending, and amending medical education, a more formidable and more tangible shape, as it is said they speedily will, the writer.ADVERTISEMENT. VI1 from his position, does not altogether despair of power- fully counteracting, as far as an individual can, these efforts, which, however well intended they may be, have simply for their result the rendering medical studies less useful and more expensive.* But to return. The work which is now presented to the medical student differs considerably from its prede- cessor ; based upon it, the text has again been very care- fully revised, and, it is hoped, greatly amended; it has been compared with Soemmering's work, " De Fabrica Corporis Humani;" and much has been added from prac- tical knowledge, so as to render it a work fitted equally for the Class Room and Dissecting Room. In all this the writer has been much assisted by Mr. T. Wharton Jones, Lecturer on General Anatomy, who has omitted nothing on his part to secure extreme accuracy, and to render it useful to all classes of medical students. R. IC. * Though the writer of this notice did suppose, that he appreciated fully the mischievous nature of non-professional interference in the regulation of Medical Education, he yet admits, that the principle which regulates such interference, together with the absolute destruction and withering influence exercised over a professional education by coi'porate bodies, with vested i-ights and hereditary tenures, were not fully understood by him until he perused an admu'able pamphlet on the subject, entitled " Additional Hints respecting the Improve- ment of the System of Medical Instruction followed in the University of Edinbm-gh, &c. by John Thomson, M. D. late Regius Professor of Military Surgery."PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 1. Anatomy* is the science of organization, that is, the science whose object is the examination of the organs or instruments of life. All organized bodies are the subjects of it. 2. As living beings are divided into two great sections. Vege- tables and Animals, so there are two kinds of anatomy, viz. Vege- table Anatomy and Animal Anatomy. 3. The peculiar object of the latter kind of anatomy is the know- ledge of the organization of animals, considered in a material point of view, or the apparent qualities of the organs which enter into the composition of their bodies. By it we learn the number, the shape, size, structure, intimate texture, physical properties, situa- tion and connexions of each of them ; it assists in discovering and explaining the laws that regulate the functions which they are dis- tined to perform. The knowledge of this science is obtained by inquiries and experiments made upon dead bodies, by means of dissection, and numerous other processes, such as desiccation, cor- rosion, injection, maceration, the construction of skeletons, &c. 4. Animal anatomy is divided into Human Anatomy and Com- parative Anatomy, according as it treats of the organization of the human body, or of that of other animals. The anatomy of man is the object of the present work. The numerous organs of which the human body consists, we shall consider principally with refer- ence to their shape and mutual relations ; this is what constitutes Descriptive Anatomy, properly so called, which may be subdivided into the Particular Anatomy of Organs and the Anatomy of Re- gions, or Surgical Anatomy ; while that branch of the science which treats of the structure and properties of the different tissues which are common to several organs, takes the name of General Anatomy. To the latter also belongs the examination of the ge- neral characters of all the organs and humours. • 'Antrl^va;, dissr.co. Somc authors Jiavc proposed to substitute for tlic word Anatomy, those of Morphohir,,, Phyno^raphy, Organoffraphy, and Orgiinofogy, vfh\ch, Jiowcver, have by no means been generally adopted.PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 2 THE ORGANIC ELEMENTS, OR PHOXIMATE ANIMAL PRINCIPLES. 5. In living bodies there are two kinds of elements, inorganic and organic. The inorganic elements are those which may be obtained by the processes of chemistry from minera,ls as well as or- ganized bodies ; they are, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, azote, fluor- ine, phosphorus, sulphur, iron, manganese, calcium, sodium, po- tassium, silicium, magnesium, and chlorine. By the mutual com- bination of these principles are formed the organic elements^ which exist only in living beings, and are the exclusive product of organ- ization ; they form a kind of substances which may be extracted from the bodies of animals by very simple processes. These or- ganic elements are, gelatine, albumen, fibrin, fat, mucus, and cer- tain other substances less generally distributed, or only existing under particular circumstances. 6. Gelatine, when pure, is a substance destitute of smell, taste, or colour, and heavier than water. It is distinguished from all animal principles by being soluble in warm water, which it renders more or less viscid, and forms what is called an animal jelly. This jelly is a hydrate of gelatine, and contains so much water, that it readily liquifies when heated ; on being left to itself, it quickly turns sour, and passes into putrid decomposition. Acids favour the solution of gelatine, as do likewise the alkalies; but alcohol, and especially tannin, precipitate it. With the latter it forms an insoluble compound, similar in its composition to leather, which is not liable to putrify. It is precipitated by several of the metal- lic salts. Gelatine does not occur naturally in any of the animal fluids, , which seems to confirm M. Thenard''s opinion that it does not ex- i ist ready formed in the economy, but is produced by the action of | caloric. 7. Alhicmen* is a very viscid, transparent fluid, nearly destitute 1 of smell, and taste. It froths on being agitated in water, and is 1 coagulated by heat, alcohol and the stronger acids; when burned I it gives out a peculiar smell. It has the property of decomposing corrosive sublimate, by reducing it to the state of calomel; in con- 1 sequence of this albumen is a ready and efficient antidote to this I poison. Lastly, it is always combined with sulphur and subcarbo- j nate of soda, the latter of which gives it the pi-operty of colouring | green the tincture of mallows and the syrup of violets. I This substance is found in almost all the animal fluids, the chyle, the synovia, the serum of the blood, &c. _ 8. Fibrin or Gluten, is a soft, white, solid substance, without ' either smell or taste, elastic when moist, but hard and brittle when dry. It is insoluble in water at the common temperature; when * Tlic Latin word nlhumcn, signifies the wliite of an egg, which is almost entirely composed of this principle.PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 3 acted on by alcohol of 0.81, it is converted into a kind of adipo- cire, which has a strong and disagreeable smell. By strong acetic acid it is changed into a jelly, and by the action of nitric acid on it, a quantity of nearly pure nitrogen is given off; weak alkalies dissolve without decomposing it. It enters very largely into the composition of the blood, and forms nearly the whole of the muscles. It is also met with in the chyle and in the humour exhaled from the internal surface of the serous membranes. 9. Fat or oil exists in almost every part of the body of animals, varying however in its physical properties, being sometimes fluid, sometimes solid, at one time white, at another coloured, but always unctuous to the touch, destitute of smell, of a mild taste, so as to be nearly insipid, insoluble in water, and lighter than that fluid. It melts at a rather low temperature, frequently at 66° F. for ex- ample, and takes fire at a high temperature, becoming at the same time decomposed. With alkalies it forms soap, and is converted into a mild principle called glycerine, and into margaric and oleic acids. M. Chevreul has shown that all the fats are composed of two immediate principles, stearine and elaine. 10. Mucus is a viscid, ropy, transparent fluid, without smell and of a saltish taste. It is soluble in water, insoluble in alcohol, frothing in the former of these fluids by agitation in the air, does not possess the property of forming a jelly, and is incapable of being coagulated, but is easily dried by heat. It is precipitated by chlorine, alcohol, and subacetate of lead, but is not so either by tannin or corrosive sublimate. It occurs at the surface of the mu- cous membranes, in the synovia, the urine, the hair, the nails, the seminal fluid, &c. 11. The organic elements variously combined with one another, and with certain of the inorganic elements or elementary bodies pro- perly so called, such as phosphorus, iron, &c. give rise to the fluids and so/ids constituting the general mass of the body, which conti- nually acting and re-acting upon each other, exist in a state of es- sentially mutual dependence and connexion. _ The fluids constitute the greater part of the organs, their quan- tities varying, however, according to circumstances. It is very difiicult to determine their relative amount, but in general the pro- portion which they bear to the solids is as nine or six to one: thus, a fresh carcass which weighs about 120 lbs. does not weigh more than 12 lbs. when thoroughly dried ; even the bones have only a third of their weight of solid matter. The fluids are contained either m vessels, in areolar and spongy tissues, or in reservoirs; as 18 the case, for example, with the blood, the serous fluid of the cellular tissue, the bUe, the seminal fluid, the chyle, the vitreous humour, &c. P if' '^^t ^''^^^^ ^^'^ consistence to the different parts ot the body. Their particles are interwoven in various ways, on Tvhich account the name of tecvticre is apphed to their structure.PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 4. It is of them that the organs are really formed; they are composed of the same elements as the fluids, which they enclose, and either retain them or allow them to escape; but they are always so com- bined with them as nowhere to exist in an isolated state. 13. Every organ, then, is a compound of fluids and solids, and has for its principal basis the latter under the form of an areolar or cellular tissue, which is soft, extensile, contractile, and permeable to fluids. This tissue is capable of being niodified in various ways, being sometimes expanded into membranes, sometimes rolled up so as to form canals—in short, it is found under many different as- pects. Besides this there are two other elementary tissues ; the nervous and muscular, which are the basis of the instruments of sensation and locomotimi. The figure of the organs is generally rounded ; their colours are white, red and brown ; their consistence presents all the gradations from extreme softness to extreme hardness; their texture is some- times fibrous, sometimes laminar, at other times it has the appear- ance of being homogeneous: their bulk and complication are as various as their other properties. 14. By the mechanical division of the solids, there are always ultimately obtained minute laminfe or filaments, which seem to \>q their elementary molecules, by the combination of which all the kinds of tissues observed in the animal 'Economy are produced. The extreme term of this division, however, is yet unattained, for the smallest perceptible fibres inay be divided into others still smaller. 15. All that can be learned with certainty on this subject is, that in the human body, and in those animals whose structure is similar, the organic elements are formed of microscopic globules and an amorphous substance, which in the fluids is liquid, in the solids concrete, coagulable in the one kind, and coagulated in the other. OF THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF TISSUES. 16. The elementary fibres or lamellae variously combined or as- sociated, form tissues more or less compound, which, by their ar- rangement in a particular manner, compose the organs; these either alone, or in combination, produce the different actions of the animal body: where several organs are combined to perform one action, they are called an apparatus. No organ is isolated, but they are all interlaced and mutually connected. The Tissues are as follows :— A. The Cellular or Mucous* Tissue, ( Tela cellulosa seu mu- cosa) is an assemblage of whitish, filamentous, extensile, tenaci- ous, and retractile laminae. It is met with in all parts of the body • " The cellular tissue lias been so called by Bordeu and other Anatomists, parti- j IPliELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 5 in "-cneral (tela cellulosa intermedia seu lacca) ; surrounds all the ort^ans (tela cellulosa strictaJ ; penetrates into their interstices (t'ela cellulosa stipataj, and is the basis of all (tela cellulosa or- ganica seu parenchymalis), serving in one sense to unite, and in another to separate them. a. The Adipose Tissue is an aggregation of microscopic vesi- cles, grouped together in greater or less numbers, and connected to each other by laminar cellular tissue. It serves as a reservoir for the fat. B. The Membranes, (Membrance) are broad, thin^ and soft organs, composed of fibres or laminae variously aggregated. They line the different cavities of the body, surround many of the visce- ra, and often serve to facilitate their motions. Their structure com- prehends many vessels of different orders, and frequently nerves. The membranes are divided into serous, mucous, and fibrous^ which are again subdivided; the former into the splanchnic se- rous membranes and the synovial membranes; the second into the mucous membranes properly so called and the skin, whilst the third, by its combination with the two former, constitutes the Jibro- se?'OM« and Jibro-mucous membranes. C. The Vessels, (Fasa) are canals which divide and subdivide into branches, are moi;p or less elastic, and are formed by the super- position of different membranes. They are distinguished according to their uses and general disposition into Arteries, Veins, and Lym- phatic Vessels.* The Arteries, (Arteries) after leaving the heart, proceed in a radiating manner from the centre to the circumference, and are distributed through all parts of the body, whither they carry the blood which has undergone the changes operated upon it by respi- ration.j- The Veins, (Vencs) in general, aris^from the last ramuscules of the arteries, unite together so as to form trunks of greater or less size, and proceeding from the circumference to the centre, pour in- to the heart the blood which they have collected from the whole system. Besides being much more numerous, the veins are more capacious than the arteries. Their walls are semitransparent and much thinner than those of the arteries, which are opaque, thick, and of a yellowish colour. Their internal cavity presents, at inter- yals, valves which are folded projections of the inner membrane, intended to support the blood, so as to obviate the effect of gravity upon it. In this circumstance the veins differ much from the arteries. cularly the Germans, because they think it is nothing but a kind of jnucus, and that Its cellular appearance is owing to the way it is examined. _ n e may also consider as vessels the Excretory Duels (Ductus ExcrcloriiJ, which, arising from the glandular organs, transmit outwards, or into particular reservoirs, the fluid secreted by them. t The pulmonary artery conveys to the lungs the dark or venous blood which has already circulated in the body.rilELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 6 The Lymphatic, or absorbent vessels (Vasa lympliatica), arc thin, transparent, and, like the veins, furnished internally with val- vules ; but, in place of blood, they contain a peculiar fluid named lymph, which they empty into the veins.* a. The Erectile or Caveroious tissue. This consists of a pecu- liar arrangement of the terminations of the arteries, but more par- ticularly of the radicles of the veins, which are much dilated, and when excited, become distended with blood. This tissue is most evident in the organs of generation. D. The Lymphatic Ganglia ox Conglobate glands. Connected with the lymphatics, are the lymphatic ganglia ox the conglobate glands, small bodies which vary in size and form. They are generally of a reddish white colour, but those placed near the liver are yellowish, those near the spleen brown, and those in the neighbourhood of the lungs black. The intimate texture of these bodies has not yet been determined; they are of a firmer consistence than any other soft part. They are supposed to be to the lymphatics what the nervous ganglia are to the nerves ; for, on the one hand, they re- ceive the lymphatic vessels (vasa inferentia), and, on the other, transmit them to join their common trunk (vasa efferentia). E. The Glands (GlandulcB) are organs varying much in form, size, colour, consistence and structure, but all destined to separate from the mass of the blood a fluid peculiar to each of them, which is immediately thrown out by means of ramified excretory ducts, on the surface of the tegumentary membranes.f . a. As nearly allied to the glands we may include the Follicles or Crypts, which are membranous and vascular vesicles connected with the tegumentary membranes, and of which their inner surfaces are continuations. They are of a rounded or lenticular form, and in them is secreted a peculiar fluid, which is effused over the surface of the part, and lubricates it. F. The Ligaments {Ligamenta, Nervi colligantes) are parts of a fibrous nature which are situated around the joints, and serve to connect the bones to each other. They vary much in their form and general appearance, being sometimes membraniform and some- times existing as compact, round, and whitish cords of great strength, attached to the bones by their two extremities. a. The Tendons (Tendines) are white, glistening, and fibrous cords, to which the muscular fibres are attached, varying as to length and thickness, sometimes round and som,etimes flat; in them the muscular fibres terminate, and through the medium of them are connected to the bones. b. The Aponeuroses (Aponeuroses) are fibrous membranes si- • A great division of these vessels, tlie Laclcah, is destined to carry the chyle from tlie intestinal canal into the general mass of blood. t Some bodies termed glands have no excretory ducts, these are the thjToid, thy. mus, and supra-renal glands, and the spleen, which, from the large quantity of Idood tlicy receive, have, with some reason, been supposed to have an influence on its furniatioii.PRELIMINAHY OBSERVATIONS. 7 milar in texture to tlie tendons, of a pearly white colour, being iri- descent, glistening, and sattiny. They are more or less broad and strong, are elastic, but not extensible. They envelop the muscles and afford attachment to their fleshy fibres. c. The Elastic Tissue forms organs of a peculiar yellowish tint, possessed of extreme elasticity, and of an albuminous and fibrinous nature. It is always in a state of antagonism to the action of gravity and muscular contraction, as may be observed in the ar- teries, the Hgamenta ;flava of the vertebral column, Sec. G. The Cartilages, (Cartilagines). The substance of these bo- dies, which is of an opaque white colour, is less compact, less heavy, less hard, but more elastic than that of the bones, and is capable of being reduced to gelatine by boiling. They are flexible and elas- tic, and sometimes serve as a prolongation to the bones, as is the case with those that are observed between the ribs and sternum, {cartilages of prolongation); or they cover their articular extremi- ties, as in all the moveable joints, (cartilages of incrustation). In other cases, they epter into the formation of organs, as the larynx, the nose, &c. The direction of their fibres is not easily perceived, because they are so close that at first sight they appear to form a homogeneous whole. a. The Fibro-Cartilages, or Membraniform Cartilages, are in- termediate between cartilages, properly so called, and ligaments, indeed they appear to be nothing but the latter incrusted with ge- latine. They possess great flexibility, are highly elastic, very thin, and compose certain organs, such as the external ear, and the tra- chea ; they also enter into the structure of the joints, as may be seen in the articulations of the clavicle, the lower jaw, the knee joint, &c. (interarticularjibro-cartilages). Cartilages of this kind also exist wherever there is much friction of a tendon upon the periosteum of a bone, as is observed on the grooves at the lower extremity of the tibia, fibula, &c. (Jibro-cartilages of incrustatiofi). H. The Bones (Ossa) are the hardest, most compact and solid parts of the body. They serve as a basis and support for the other organs, and are composed of a cartilaginous and cellular organized parenchyma, incorporated with earthy salts. The aggregate of all the bones of the body bears the name of skeleton. I. The Muscles (Musculi) are organs of a red or reddish co- lour, possessed of great irritability and contractiUty. They are composed of a fibrous tissue collected into fasciculi of various sizes, which are kept together by cellular tissue, in which are seen ves- sels and nerves ; what is peculiarly characteristic of the muscular h ] composed of a linear series of microscopic glo- ^i^' AT^ constitute what is named the Jlesh of animals. Nervous fibre—This is the peculiar substance of which the Drain and nerves arc composed. It presents itself under two dif-8 PUELIMINAUY OBSERVATIONS. ferent forms; under the one form it is called the medullary sub- stance, under the other the cineritious; the latter is softer and more vascular than the former. Both when examined by the mi- croscope appear to be composed of semitransparent globules, joined together by a transparent and viscous substance. In the medullary substance the globules are larger and more numerous than in the cineritious, besides, they are in the former arranged in lines, which gives it its fibrous appearance. The brain and spinal marrow, which are masses composed of the medullary and cineritious substances, are the central point of the nervous system, the point to which all sensations are referred and from which the will to move passes. The nerves, which are soft, whitish cords of variable form, ramified through the substance of the organs, are the conductors of sensation and motion. a DIVISIONS OF ANATOMY, 17- The study of anatomy is commonly divided, according to the mutual resemblance of the organs, into several distinct branches, which have corresponding denominations. Thus: Osteology {Oalm, os ; Tioyog, sermo) comprises a description of the bones. Syndesmology (Sui'&o'/aoj, ligamentiim; Xoyog, sermo.) Under this are included not only a description of the ligaments properly so called, but also of all those parts which enter into the structure of joints ; it would be better therefore to call it Arthrology, (ag^^o/, articulus; Xoyog, sermo.) Myology (Mug, musculus) embraces the description of the muscles. Neurology (J>!tv§ov, nervus,) the description of the nervous sys- tem and organs of sense. Angiology {iCyyuov, vas.) comprehends the vessels. Adenology {A'bnv, glandula,) the description of the glands. Splanchnology.) (29rXay;)(;Kos, viscus,) the description of the vis- cera. The arrangement which will be followed in this treatise is, that into the organs of the functions of relation ; the organs of the niUritive functions; and the organs o"f the generative functions.CLASS FIRST. ARTICLE FIRST. ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 18. The really essential organ of motion is the fleshy or mus- cular fibre, which, by contracting under the influence of the will, enables the animal into the composition of whose body it enters, either to change its position in part, or altogether to remove from the place which it originally occupied. But in order that motions of this kind may be performed with the requisite precision, it is ne- cessary that the muscles should be attached to hard parts, within or without the body, to serve as levers, and afibrd fulcra to each other. Hence the very natural division of the apparatus of loco- motion into two kinds, the one consisting of the passive organs, the other of the active organs of this faculty. The bones and their appendages belong to the former, the muscles and the parts con- nected with them, to the latter.* DESCRIPTION OF THE PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. CHAPTER FIRST. OK THE BONES. § Preliminary Remarks. 19. The bones are the hardest organs of animal bodies, but they arc easily broken on account of their want of flexibility and their fill, f ""^ inlenml, i>ii:ulni,lun/, orgnnic molimi.i, by means of which each of the rp "''^"'u" '° '"^ I'e"o"necl. These have no connexion with tlie niolions reicired to in the present article.10 PASSIVE ORGANS OF roCOMOTION. incapability of extension. In general, their colour, when fresh, is an opaque white, reddish externally, and of a more or less deep red internally. In man, and the animals of the higher orders, the bones are always internal, being surrounded by the muscles and integuments, whether they form cavities for the nervous and vas- cular centres, or constitute the framework of the limbs. They are immediately invested on the outside with a fibrous membrane, call- ed the periosteum, and are moistened through their whole sub- stance by an oily fluid. 20. The bones, like other parts of the body, have arteries and veins. No lymphatic vessels have as yet been discovered in them, but M. Dumeril has seen nerves which penetrated into their tissue along with the arteries. That they contain much cellular tissue, is demonstrated by the phenomena of the formation of callus, and by long maceration in acidulous water. 21. On examining the intimate structure of these organs, it is observed that they are composed of two principal elements, viz. an organized parenchyma, formed of gelatine and an inert salino-ter- reous substance, which fills up the areolae of the parenchyma, and exists in the midst of these living parts, only for the purpose of giving them a solidity which is absolutely necessary for the per- formance of the functions that have been allotted them. 22. The existence of the parenchyma of bones is demonstrated, by immersing them in dilute muriatic acid, which removes the saline matter, and leaves untouched a cartilaginous body retaining the form of the bone. After this process the bones of children become softer and more viscid than those of adults. Also, by the appear- ances exhibited in certain diseases, in which the bones become soft and almost cartilaginous, as in rachitis in particular. 23. The earthy matter of bones may be obtained separately and with the same form as before, by calcining them. By this means the gelatinous part is destroyed and the earthy part left, which is white, friable, and brittle, unless the heat has been urged so far as to reduce it to a state of imperfect vitrification. The earthy matter is also obtained separately by boUing bones in a Papin''s digester, and those bones met with in the sandy deserts of Africa are found to have lost their animal matter by the action of the elements. Lastly, Some diseases, cancer for instance, render the bones very fragile, on account of the greater relative quantity of this matter which they induce in them. 24. The animal matter constitutes more than one half the weight of bones; the remaining part is composed of inorganic matter, which, according to Berzelius, consists of phosphate of lime, carbo- nate of lime, fluate of lime, phosphate of magnesia, soda, muriate of \ soda, and water. Traces of iron, manganese, silica, and alumina i have been discovered by M. Vauquelin. Phosphate of lime, how- ever, undoubtedly forms the prcdommant ingredient in the consti- tution of the bones.11 BONES IN GENERAL. 25. By the combmation of the various elements of which wc have been speaking, there are formed fibres, which are of the same nature in all the bones, but which present themselves under two different aspects, being in one part rarefied to form the cellular, the areolar or spongy tissue, and in another condensed to form the compact tissue. The former of these tissues results from the interlacing of nu- merous laminae running in all directions, and leaving between them small vacuities or cellules of variable extent, generally very irregu- lar in their form, which communicate with one another, as is de- monstrated by the circumstance, that mercury may be made to pass through them. This tissue almost always occupies the centre of the bones. The inferior turbinated bones of the nose, according to most anatomists, form the only exception. We shall presently see how far this opinion is correct. The reticular tissue of authors is merely a variety of the cel- lular tissue, in which the cellules are larger, and the laminae and fibres by which they are bounded much thinner and more delicate. The compact tissue is formed by fibres placed so close as to leave no intervals; they are however not held together by small pegs, as Gagliardi imagined. This tissue commonly exists at the surface of the bones, and forms the walls of the various apertures and canals that may occur in them. Although by the naked eye no interstices are perceptible between the fibres or lamellae of which it is composed, the microscope, however, discovers small medullary and vascular canals in its substance. 26. The bones vary much in size, some of them being a fourth, a fifth, or a sixth of the length of the body, while others of them are not more than a few lines in diameter. 27. Their form is always symmetrical, some being median and single, others lateral and in pairs. In the former, the one lateral half is a counterpart of the other. In the latter, the bone of one side of the body corresponds ex- actly to that of the opposite side. There are, however, in these respects some shght irregularities. 28. With respect to figure, the bones are distinguished into long, flat, and short, according as the length or the breadth pre- dominates in their dimensions, or is equal to the thickness. This division, which is founded on the relative proportions of their three geometrical dimensions, is however subject to some exceptions ; and there are in fact bones, which in one respect may be considered as long bones, while in another they ought to be arranged among the 9Q "^^^^ ^^i"^ the ribs, and the lower jaw. 1' 1?' '^'Tv, ^^^^ Bones (Ossa longa, sive cylindrica) occur in the limbs. Those nearest the trunk are the longest, but least numer- ous. Iheir extremities are enlarged, and their middle part, which IS named body or diaphysis, is contracted, and most commonly triangular and twisted. Their centre is hoUowed by a cylindricalPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 12 cavity, named the medullary canal, which renders the bones stronger without increasing the quantity of matter entering into their com- position, and is larger in old than in young individuals. This ca- vity is divided into numerous cells by the filaments of the reticular tissue, already mentioned, which extend in different directions from one wall to the other. 30. The body of these bones, which is whiter than the rest of their extent, is every where composed of a very thick compact tissue, of which a very thin layer only covers the spongy substance of their extremities; the fibres of this compact tissue have a longitudinal disposition, althovigh they are inclined over each other in all direc- tions, forming numerous connexions by means of transverse and oblique fibres, and constituting superimposed plates. 31. The Flat or Broad hones (Ossa lata sive plana) are for the most part destined to protect important viscera, and by uniting to- gether form the walls of certain cavities, such as those of the cra- nium, pelvis, &c. They are almost all bent upon themselves, and their margin, which is generally a little thickened, forms articula- tions, or affords insertion to muscles. They are formed of cellular tissue contained between two thin tables of compact tissue, whose fibres are frequently radiated. In the bones of the skull in particular, this cellular tissue has received the name of Dlploe or Meditullium. 32. The Short Bones {Ossa crassa) are always of small dimen- sions, and generally globular, tetrahedral, cuboidal, cuneiform, or polyhedral. They occur associated in great numbers in the regions which they occupy, as in the tarsus, carpus, and vertebral column. Their surface, which is always uneven, presents many cavities and eminences ; and, like the flat bones, they have no medullary canal. In general also, their articulating surfaces are broad. These bones are composed of cellular tissue, surrounded by a I thin compact lamina, with fibres crossing each other in all direc-i tions. Their whiteness is never so great as that of the flat bones,! nor of the bodies of the long ones. 33. The surface of the bones is often surmounted by eminences,! to which the general name of Apophysis* or Process,■\ is given., During the earlier periods of life, however, these eminences are for: the most part called Epiphyses, % because they are then separated from the rest of the bone by a cartilaginous substance, which isi not the case at a more advanced stage, when all the processes are; perfectly continuous with the substance of the bones, and form part of the same body. * A ^ojui>fi.a.i,itascurdc,cTorior. f Processus, ;;;-ocerfo. $ Ew/^MiKom, arfnajcor.BONES IN GENERAL. 13 The following table contains an enumeration of the different ^ kinds of processes, together with their peculiar characters :— o ci serve for articula- tions. r the inser- tion of fibrous organs, whose points of attach- ment they multiply, are called, r Those which be- Heads, which are nearly hemispherical, long to t le I Condyles, which are broader in one direc- moveable ^^^^ ^^^^^^^ articula- tions : are Those be- rSerrce or Dentations, as in the bones of the longing to cranium. theimmove-< Moots, as in the teeth, able articu- Ridges, as is seen in those articulations, . lations: are called schindyleses. Impressions, irregular eminences, not much elevated but rather broad; they are form- ed of a great number of small tubercles placed very close together, and separated by slight depressions. Lines, unequal eminences, long but not neral form, \ very prominent. Crests, eminences resembling lines, but broader and more prominent. Prominences, when they are rounded, broad and smooth. Tuberosities, when rounded and rough. After the C Spinous processes, that is of the form of a bodies to spine. According to their se- which they j Styloid, like a style. ■ > ^ n -1 „ have been compared. According to their uses. According to their di- rection and relative si- tuation. Coracoid, like a crow's beak. Odontuid^Mke a tooth. Mastoid, like a nipple. ■ Trochanters, or those which are subservient to the act of turning. Orhiiar, belonging to the orbit, &c. j Ascending processes. \ Vertical ' Transverse Superior, &c. The re- flection of certain tendons which de- viate from their ori- ginal di- rection, Lare called J Corresponding to cavities exis'ting on the surface of some organs, I i^rocesses of impression. Pj'ocesses of reflection. are called 34. In the processes the direction of the fibres of the compact I ssue IS not the same as in the rest of the bone. They arc longi, tuciinal m those which are elongated, and run in all directions in 8UC11 as are large and thick ; but they are never radiated, except- ing in the protuberances of the broad bones of the cranium.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 14 35. The bones also present various kinds of cavities on their surface, which are usually characterized as follows :— (U S o u '3 c ■*-» Articular, are called Of reception, these are. Of insertion, these are. articu- /ar, are called, Of impression, which are call- • ed, I Cotyloid, when they are hemispherical. Glenoid, when broad and shallow. TrochlecE, when they are grooved like pulleys. Facet, when nearly plain, [^Alveoli, when they are conical. C Fossa;, when the entrance is wider than the < bottom. ([ Sinuses, when it is narrower. C Impressions, when they are wide, irregular, and ^ shallow. ( Fissures, when extended in length. Grooves for the passage of tendons. Of transmis- sion, named. Grooves, gutters, or channels, when they corres- pond to arteries or veins. Notches, when superficial, and formed in the edges of bones. Foramina or holes, when they pass through and through a thin bone. Canals or aqueducts, when their passage is of great extent, or when formed by the super- position of several holes. Clefts or scissures, if they are longitudinal and very narrow. nf /V ( medulla of the long bones, ut nutrition; \ ^j^^ spongy tissue of the short bones, and of they transmit^ the extremities of the long bones, vessels lor / m, . . - ° \^ 1 he compact tissue. 36. The cavities which transmit the vessels to the medulla are very distinct, and are always met with on the body of the long bones, where they pass obliquely between the fibres of the compact tissue. Those which belong to the cellular tissue are always asso- ciated in great numbers, in which respect they differ from the preceding, which are always single, at least in man. They are equally distinct; but those observed in the compact tissue are mere pores, rendered visible principally by the blood which issues from them in the fresh state of the bones. 37- Like the processes or eminences of which we have spoken above, the cavities in questioia are sometimes formed by a single bone, which is the more ordinary case, sometimes by the concur- rence of several pieces ; but they are never, as is too commonly imagined, the result of pressure. 38. The bones in their fresh state are surrounded, except at the surfaces by which they are articulated to each other, by a dense fibrous membrane, which is strong, particularly in old subjects. It is shaggy on its outer surface, is very vascular, but feebly attached to the bone in early life, and affords a point of attachment to all the fibrous organs of the system, except the tunica albuginea, the sclerotica, the pericardium, and the fibrous capsules of the liver, spleen, and ot|;i|fr viscera. Various names are applied to this mem- brane, according to the parts where it is observed. On the skull,15 SKELETON IN GENERAL. it is called the 'pericranium on the cartilages, the perichondria iim ,-t on the bones in general, the periosteum-X 39. The medullary canal of the long bones is lined by a thin, pellucid, vascular raembrane,§ folded upon itself a great many times, and divided into cellules or vesicles, by numerous prolonga- tions which extend from one of its sides to the other. It is filled with an oily inflammable juice, of a whitish or yellowish colour, which is fluid during life, and after death presents itself under the form of small shining grains. The substance has received the name of marrow, {medulla). 40. The cellular tissue of the extremities of the long bones, the diploe of the flat bones, and the interior of the short bones, is also Mned by a membrane, which appears to be nothing else than an expansion of vessels anastomosing ad infinitum with one ano- ther. This vascular network also furnishes a fat substance, re- sembhng the preceding, but having less consistence, and of a red- dish tint. 41. The medullary fluid does not occur solely in the large cavi- ty of the long bones and in the spongy tissue, but is also found in the interstices of the laminae of the compact tissue, and the poro- sities with which they seem perforated. || The sinuses and air-cells of the bones of the skull, however, do not contain any. OF THE SKELETON IN GENERAL. 42. The hard parts of the body taken collectively, bear the name of Skeleton, as we have already said. Almost all animals have a skeleton, but it does not exhibit the same arrangement in all. Of whatever nature it be, its object is to sustain the other organs: it forms the steady foundation on which is erected the whole edifice of the living machine, constituting a solid frame- .work, whose various parts, connected by flexible ligaments, are, at once, capable of moving on each other, and of resisting the effects of a foreign motion. It is on it that the general form of the body depends, as well as that of its various part.s; and it is by it that their proportions, figure, sohdity, and principal divisions are determined. 43. When the bones are connected by their own ligaments, the skeleton is called a natural one,t when, on the other hand, they • Hij;, cirra ; Kgav/«, calvaria. t H.-j,, circa ; 'X.ov^ot, cartilago. „ . t Ilsfj, circa; O^tiov, os. monJrnll>""«''''"^.K' '° ''^ ^^""^ '^l"''"'^' following preparation to de- S .V w. \ T^^ ^ ^•'"^ ''"'^ '"■'"^ "^^-^ the fire 0/ immerse it in an acid l)y which means the membrane is separated from the bone. ral" f„ l'^' ^''"^ t''^' f''" oi'y fl^W found here, is not natii. Serior Th-P'^.l 1?' transuded from the medulla contained in the n tl ^vcsic^^ nn J n^'^''' t'"^ '» •■^•1 '-•ases contained in vesicles: now no such thing exists in the compact tissue. ouJcel th.Vof °^ '"''I'l'^ ^veigl's torn 150 to 200 ounces ; tnat of a woman from 100 to 160. .16 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. are joined together by connexions of a different kind, such as ;vire3 or plates of silver, iron, &c. it is denominated an artificial skele- ton. Skeletons are also distinguished into those of fetuses, chil- dren, adults, women, men, &c. 44. In man the Skeleton is divided into Trunk and Extremities. The trunk consists of a middle part and two extremities. The middle part is formed by the Vertebral column and Chest. The A^ertebral column, which is composed of twenty-four bones, called Vertebrce, is divided into three regions; the cervical., dor- sal, and lumbar. In the cervical region, are contained 7 VertebnT?. In the dorsal region, . 12 Vertebra. In the lumbar region, . 5 Vertebra?. The Chest or Thorax is formed by the following bones,— Anteriorly and in the middle, by 2 or 3 Ossa Sterni. On each side, by 12 Ribs. Posteriorly, by 12 Dorsal Vertebrte, already men- tioned. The upper extremity of the trunk is the Head, which compre- hends the Cranium and Face. The Cranium contains 1 Sphenoid bone. 2 Turbinated bones of the Sphenoids I Ethmoid bone. 1 or 2 Frontal bones. 1 Occipital bone. 2 Temporal bones. 2 Parietal bones. Sometimes, and in variable number, Ossa Wormiana. 2 Mallei. 2 Incudes. 2 Ossa orbicularia. 2 Stapedes. The Face is divided into Upper and Lower jaw. The Upper jaw contains 2 Superior maxillary bones. 2 Palate bones. 2 Malar bones. 2 Nasal bones. 2 Lachrymal bones. 2 Turbinated bones. 1 Vomer. The Lower jaw contains 1 Inferior maxillary bone. To the face also may be referred 32 Teeth. And as belonging to"the Tongue 6 Lingual bones, which, when unitei together, receive the name o Hyoid bone. The lower extremity of the trunk is the Pelvis, which is formed c 1 Os Sacrum. 4 Coccygeal bones. 2 Ossa innominata. The Superior or Thoracic extremities consist each of four part;: VIZ. the Shoulder, Arm, Fore-Arm, and the Hand. The Shoulder ia formed of i Clavicle. I Scapula.OF THE SKELETON IN GENERAL. 17 The Arm is formed of 1 Humerus. The Fore-arm of 1 Radius. 1 Ulna. The Hand is subdivided into Carpus, Metacarpus, and Fingers. The Carpus consists of bones arranged in two rows, which, commencing from the radial side, are named as follows,— In the first row 1 Scaphoid bone. I Semilunar bone. 1 Pyramidal or Cuneiform bone. 1 Pisiform bone. In the second row 1 Os Trapezium. 1 Os Trapezoides. 1 Os Magnum. 1 Os Unciforme. The Metacarpus consists of 5 Metacarpal bones, called^7-i/, second, &c. counting from the radial to theiulnar side. Each of the fingers, excepting the thumb, which has only two, consists of three bones, named Phalangeal. They are as foUows, 5 Proximal phalangeal bones. 4 Middle phalangeal bones. 5 Extreme or distal phalangeal bones. The Inferior or Abdominal extremities are each divided into three parts, the Thigh, the Leg, and the Foot. The thigh consists of 1 Os Femoris. The Leg is composed of 1 Patella. 1 Tibia 1 Fibula. The foot, like the hand, is divided into three parts; the Tarsus, Metatarsus, and Toes. The Tarsus consists of 1 Astragalus. 1 Calcaneum. 1 Os Naviculare. 1 Internal cuneiform bone 1 Middle cuneiform bone. 1 External cuneiform bone. 1 Cuboid bone. The Metatarsus consists of 5 Metatarsal bones, which, like those of the metacarpus, are called first, secon4,] Sec. counting from the tibial side- The toes, like the fingers, consist each of three phalangeal bones, except the great toe, which, like the thumb, has only two. They are as follows: 5 Proximal phalangeal bones. 4 Middle phalangeal bones, 4 Extreme phalangeal bones. In addition to the above mentioned bones, the skeleton also pre- sents several anomalous ones, whose existence is not constant. These are the sesamoid bones, which are developed in the substance of certain tendons. 45. It is to be remarked here, that the number of the bones, such as we have represented above, is only what is found in adults; and that to determine it with strict accuracy, it is necessary to take into consideration the age, and peculiarities of the individual. In childhood, a bone may consist of several pieces, which will after- wards become united into one. 46. The external conformation of the human body is symmetri, cal. The line of direction is considered vertical, forming an c18 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. an angle of ninety degrees with the ground on which it rests ; this line, which is supposed to pass through the summit of the head, to terminate between the feet, serves as a basis for giving regional names to the different organs, according as they are, with refer- ence to it, anterior, posterior, lateral, superior, &c. It is named the vertical mesial line, and divides the body into two similar halves. OF THE TRUNK. OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN, (Columyia vertebralis ; spina dorsij. 4s']. The Vertebral or Spinal Column, is a sort of flexible bony pillar, placed at the posterior and central part of the trunk, and extending from the head to the sacrum. Although capable of bend- ing in all directions, it is yet very solid, and is excavated through- out its whole length by a canal which lodges the spinal marrow (ca- nalis pro medulla spinali). It is rounded in'front, irregular be- hmd, and perforated on the sides with a great number of holes. This part of the trunk is composed of twenty-four short and very angular bones, placed one above the other, named Vertebras.* OF THE VERTEBRvE IN GENERAL. 48. Form. In every Vertebra, there are distinguished a body, seven processes, four notches, and a hole. The Body (Corpus vertebrae) occupies the middle and anterior part. It is cyhndrical or oval, thick and broad. Above and be- low, it is adapted to certain cartilages, which are placed between the vertebras. Transversely convex in front, it forms part of the vertebral foramen behind, and in both these directions, but espe- cially the latter, presents several distinct apertures for blood-ves- sels. The seven processes of each vertebra are -.—Ist, The Spinous Process, (Processus Spi7iosus,) situated posteriorly, and on the median hne, most commonly terminating in a point, and bifurcat- mg at Its base, to unite, by means of two osseous planes, named Vertebral Lamince, with the transverse processes. 2d, The two Transverse Processes, f Processus Transt^ersi) which project outwards on either side, and give attachment to muscles. 3d, The four Articular or Oblique Processes, f Processus arfic7i. lares seu Obhqui) of which two are superior, and two inferior. They are covered with cartilage, and serve to connect the vertebrae with each other. • From vcrlcrc,\o turn.VEllTEBRAL COLUMN. 19. These different processes arc united in such a manner as to form a sort of arch of the posterior and lateral parts of the vertebra. This arch is joined to the body by a pedicle, on which are scooped out, above and below, the Notches (incisures vertebrales) which are deeper itii the latter than in the former direction, and which, when the vertebra are applied one upon another, form the inter- vertebral foramina. The Hole or foramen of the vertebrtE, (foramen vertehrale, seu foramen pro medulla spinaliJ which is oval or triangular, and concurs to form the canal, is placed between the bodies and the processes. The vertebrae are all articulated with one another. 49. Structure and Development. While the body of the ver- tebr£e is cellular, their processes are almost entirely formed of com- pact tissue, being spongy only in the middle and in the places where they are enlarged. The development of these bones generally takes place by three points, "of which one belongs to the body, and the other two to the lateral and posterior parts. In newly-born infants, the spinous process is not yet formed ; this and the transverse processes have cartilaginous summits, which becoming ossified form epiphyses which have been found separate, even at a pretty advanced age ; this also takes place on the upper and under surfaces of the body. In this manner, each vertebra, properly speaking, commences its development by six or eight points. 50. Divisions. The vertebrse, as we have already said, are di- vided into three regions; in each of which they present peculiar characters, and are commonly designated by their numerical name, counting from above, there being seven cervical, twelve dorsal, and five lumbar. 51. It is right, however, to observe, that each vertebra has a pretty close resemblance to the one preceding, and the one follow- ing it, both in form and size. The general characters of the verte- brte of each region are much more decided in the middle part than at its extremities, where they pass into those of the next region. In this manner, the last cervical vertebra forms a transition to the first dorsal, the last dorsal has the greatest resemblance to the first lumbar, the last lumbar to the first bone of the sacrum, and the last bone of the sacrum to the first of the coccygeal bones. CHAttACTEUS OF THE DIFFEKENT ORDERS OF VEUTEB11.E. 52. Characters of the Cervical Vertebra (Vertebrce Colli). The vertebrae of the neck are smaller than the others. They have their body elongated transversely, a little thicker anteriorly than posteriorly, and on the sides than in the middle. It is concave above, and surmounted laterally by two small projecting laminae ; convex below, and presenting two superficial notches on the sides,20 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. which correspond to the laminae of the upper surface. Another peculiar character which the body of these vertebrae possesses, is, that its upper surface is broader than the lower, whilst in the other vertebrae it is the latter which is the more extensive. The body is also lower than in the dorsal and lumbar vertebras. The spinous process is bifurcated, horizontal, and short. There is a hole for the passage of the vertebral artery at the base of the transverse processes, which are short, bifid at the summit, and present a chan- nel above, the edges of which give attachment to the inter-trans- versales muscles. On account of the hole which passes through their base, these processes seem as if they had two roots, one of which arises from the body itself. The inferior articular processes are of an oval form, somewhat concave, and are directed forwards and downwards ; the superior are also oval, but present opposite characters. The Lamince of the cervical vertebia; are longer and narrower than those of the others, and concur to render the verte- bral foramen proportionally larger, and of a triangular form, with the angles rounded. Their tipper circumference is formed by a sharp edge, and is smaller than the lower, which seems to embrace the vertebra situated beneath. The notches are anterior to the ar- ticular processes. 53. Characters of the Dorsal Vertebra; (Vertebra; DorsiJ. The dorsal vertebrae diminish in size from the last to the fourth or fifth, and then increase to the first, so that the fourth and fifth are always smaller than the rest. Their body has a greater diameter from before backwards than transversely, except in the two first, and two or three of the last, is thicker behind than before, and very convex at its middle and fore part: its upper and lower surfaces are flat, the former of which is narrower than the latter. On its sides it generally presents two demi-facets, covered with cartilage, the upper being the larger, to which the heads of the ribs are arti- culated. In the first nine dorsal vertebrae, the upper and lower surfaces of the body are heart-shaped; but in the rest they are rounded. The sjnnous jjrocesses are long, of the form of a trian- gular prism, tubercular at the summit, inclined downwards, and imbricated. The transverse processes, which are very long and thick, are directed a little backwards. Excepting in the two last, their summit presents a rough tubercle, surmounted by a concave and cartilaginous facet, to which is articulated the tuberosity of the ribs. This facet is placed sometimes higher, sometimes lower, ac- cording to the vertebrae ; but in the upper vertebr.ie, it is generally directed downwards, and in the lower upwards. The superior arti- cular processes are directed backwards, the J^z/b-ior forwards; they are situated vertically above one another. The notches are larger than in the cervical vertebrae, and situated anterior to the articular processes. The vertebral foramen is no longer triangular, but of an oval form from before backwards, and is smaller than in the neck. Lastly, the lamina; are broader and thicker.21 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 54. Characters of the Lumbar vertehrcB (oertebrce himborum). The lumbar vertebraj are remarkable for their great size. Their bodi/ has greater breadth than height, more extended in the trans- verse than in any other direction, the fourth and fifth thicker an- teriorly than posteriorly, flat above and below, without lateral fa- cets, concave from above downwards on its fore part, or rather bor- dered by two ridges, one above, the other below. The spinous pro- cess is very broad, nearly horizontal, transversely flattened, and quadrilateral, the lower margin thicker than the upper. The trans- verse processes, which are thin, long, and also horizontal, are placed on a plane anterior to the transverse processes of the dorsal verte- brae. The articular processes are very large and elongated ; the upper are much separated from each other, concave, oval, and turned inwards ; the loiver which are nearer each other, to be embraced be- tween the two upper ones of the vertebra beneath, are convex, oval, and directed outwards. The notches are very large, especially be- low ; the lamince thick and broad, but shorter than in the other regions; the fer^e&ra^/ommera broader than in the back, and of a triangular form. 55. Development of the Lumbar VertebrcB. The transverse processes of these vertebrae are pretty frequently substituted by an elongated and pointed epiphysis, which occasionally remains for a long time moveable upon the body of the bone, and thus bears more or less resemblance to a small rib.* The upper articular processes are all in like manner terminated by a lenticular epiphysis in children. PARTICULAU CHARACTRRS OF CERTAIN VERTEBRAE IN EACH REGION. A. In the cervical region, the following vertebrae are distin- guished by pecuUarities of form. 56. The Atlas or First Vertebra of the Neck, {Atlas sen prima colli vertebra,) has no resemblance to any other, for it has neither body nor spmous process, and merely presents the form of a ring Which is more or less thickened at the sides, and is formed ante- riorly by a small compressed arch, which does not occupy more tnan a hfth part of the circumference. It is convex and tubercu- lar anteriorly, concave in the opposite direction, where an oval ar- ticular surface IS observed, which connects it with the tooth-like process ot the second vertebra. This arch is thin above and be- rnm 1 . ^^u insertion to ligaments. Posteriorly, the ring is completed by a larger bony arch, which also gives attachment to S-*' fl^"" ^"^ ^elo^' and which is tubercular behind for the insertion of the posterior small recti muscles of the head. This arcn is rounded and thick behind, but anteriorly, where it joins • Morgagni. Beclard.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ■with the rest of the vertebra, it is depressed and marked above with a groove for the vertebral artery and suboccipital nerve, and below for the second cervical nerve. The atlas has moreover a large vertebral foramen, divided by a ligament into two portions ; of which the posterior alone contributes to the formation of the canal. Two irregular tubercles, on the inside of the upper articular pro- cesses give attachnient to this hgament. The notches are here situated behind the articular processes, which are nearly horizontal and very broad. The superior, which is concave, oval, and inclined inwards, is articvdatcd with the occipital bone; the inferior, which is nearly plain, is also inclined inwards, and is connected with the second vertebra. Lastly, the transverse processes are very long, terminate in a more or less obtuse point, and seem to rise by a double root, of which the anterior branch is more slender, the ]ios- terior longer and thicker. The hole in their base is larger than in the other cervical vertebrjB. 57. Tlie atlas, which in the adult is almost entirely formed of compact tissue, and is articulated with the occipital bone and the axis, is sometimes developed by five points of ossilication, one for the anterior arch, two for the posterior, and one for each of its la- teral parts. But more commonly this vertebra commences its development with three points only, one median or two lateral points for the anterior arch, and two for the lateral masses and the posterior arch. 58. The Axis or Second Vertebra, {Epistropheus, seu sectmda colli vertebra,) has a nearly triangular circumference. The body is much higher than it is broad, and is marked anteriorly with a central ridge and two hollows for the longi colli muscles. From its upper part arises a long, rounded, vertical projection, named the odontoid* or tooth-like process, which is articulated before with the anterior arch of the atlas, and is marked behind with a small con- vex surface for sliding on the transverse ligament. Its summit, which is rough and pointed, gives attachment to ligaments, which are connected with the occipital condyles. The spinous process is here very large, and is marked below with a broad and deep chan- nel. The upper notches are placed much farther back tlian the lower. The superior articular processes are nearly horizontal, inclined a little outwards, and convex : they are much broader than the inferior, which are turned forwards and downwards. The trans^ verse jnocesses are very short, and are neither bifurcated nor chan- nelled; they seem, as it were, to arise from the superior articular processes, and instead of a hole their base is perforated by a short canal, for the vertebral artery, which has an oblique direction out- wards. The la.mime are very thick and strong. Lastly, the ver- tebral/o/ame?^ is heart-shaped. In the fetus, the second vertebra has a point of ossiiication moreVERTEBRAL COLUMN. 23 than the others, for the tooth-like {)rocess. This point is some- times formed by two distinct germs.*' It is articulated with the first and third vertebrae, and also with the occipital bone through the medium of ligaments. 59. The Seventh Vertebra {vertebra prominens), differs from the rest only in being larger, and in having its spinous process more elono-ated, and commonly not bifurcated, as well as in the circum- stance of the hole in the base of its transverse processes being ge- nerally smaller than in the other vertebrte, or even altogether wanting. This vertebra has always a point of ossification more than the others, consisting of a small rib-like bone placed transversely be- fore the pedicle, which connects the processes to the body, and which is not united with it or the body of the vertebra until the age of five or six years. Sometimes its outer extremity extends beyond the summit of the transverse process a few lines, an inch, or even more, so as to form a rudimentary rib, analogous to the cervical ribs of certain animals, -f- B. In the dorsal region, there are distinguished: 60. The First Dorsal Vertebra, of which the body is more ex- tended transversely than from before backwards, and on the sides presents a complete costal impression above, and a half cavity of the same nature below, which, together with a similar half cavity in the second dorsal vertebra, forms a whole articular surface for the head of the second rib. The spinous process is thick and long, with a tubercular extremity, and is nearly horizontal in its direc- tion. The articular processes are oblique. 61. The Tenth Dorsal Vertebra, which generally has an entire articular surface on the upper part of either side of its body, for the tenth rib.+ 62. The Eleventh Dorsal Vertebra is very remarkable for its size. Its body, which is almost round, approaches much in its ge- neral appearance to the lumbar vertebrae, and presents on each side, towards the pedicle of the transverse and articular processes, a single entire depression for the eleventh rib. The spinous pro- cess is short, broad, and somewhat horizontal. The transverse processes have no articular surface at their extremity. 63. The Twelfth Dorsal Vertebra presents exactly the same characters as the eleventh, only its transverse processes are shorter than those of the latter, and the lower articular processes convex and turned outwards, like those of the lumbar vertebrne. C. In the Lumbar Region, there is only distinguished the fifth vertebra, which is much thicker before than behind, the lower sur- • When a longitudinal section of the body and odontoid process of the second ver- tebra IS made, the process sometimes appears to descend into the body as if it nad been inserted into it. t wi''"'^''' ^^^'""''^•^ """^ I'Osteose, Nouveau Journal de MkJecine, Janvier, 1819. + Wlien this is tile case, the ninth vertebra must also differ from tlie others in Jiaving a half articular surface only, on the side of its body, and tliat too on the upper part; tins surface \», however, pretty large.24 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIOiV. face of its body being cut obliquely upwards, as it were, to be ar- ticulated with the sacrum. Its transverse processes are short, but strong and rounded.* 64. The following are the distinctive characters of the different vertebrae: 1st, Cervical vertebra:. Spinous process bifurcated; base of the transverse processes perforated by a hole. 2d, Dorsal vertebrce. Articular surfaces on the sides of the body, and on the summit of the transverse processes. 3d, Ltcmbar vertehrce. Spinous processes quadrilateral, flat, horizontal, tubercular at the lower angle of the extremity ; superior articular processes concave ; inferior convex. 4th, Atlas. No spinous process or body ; an annular form. 5th, Axis. Body surmounted by a large rounded tooth-like process 6th, Prominent vertebra. Spinous process very prominent. 7th, First Dorsal vertebra. An entire articular surface above, a half surface only below, on the sides of the body. 8th, Tenth Dorsal vertebra. A single entire depression on each side of the body. 9th, Eleventh Dorsal vertebra. Only one articular surface on either side of the body; no articulating surface on the transverse processes. 10th, Twelfth Dorsal vertebra. The same characters; but the lower articular processes convex and turned outwards. OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN IN GENERAL. 65. Dimensions. We have already said that the twenty-four vertebrje united constitute the vertebral column, the length of which is nearly the same in aU individuals, unless when it happens to be distorted in consequence of some malformation. In general, it is about the third of the whole length of the body, and the more ordinary dimensions of its diflPerent regions are as follows : the cer- vical 5 inches, the dorsal 11, the lumbar about 7- It increases in thickness from above downwards, so as to repre- sent a pyramid with its base below. But this increase of thick- ness is not perfectly graduated; for the general pyramid which it represents seems to be composed of three subordinate pyramids, of which the lower has its base on the sacrum, and its summit at the fifth dorsal vertebra, which is also the summit of the middle pyramid, whose base corresponds to the first dorsal vertebra. The summit of the third pyramid occurs at the level of the axis, and is surmounted by the atlas, which is much broader than the other vertebra?. 66. Direction. Anteriorly, the vertebral column is convex • It not infrequently Iinjjpcns tliat the ossification of the lamina; and spinous processes of the foui th and fifth lumbar vertebra is imperfect. Vidt Losichjfe.VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 25 tilon<^ the neck, concave at the back, and again convex at the loins. Posreriorly, the opposite curvatures are observed. This arrange- ment obviously depends upon the various degrees of thickness which the bodies of the vertebra) present before and behind in each of the regions of the spine, and also on that of the interverte- bral cartilages. These three curvatures, moreover, are so disposed that a verti- cal hne passing through the centre of the summit and base of the vertebral column, would pass before the bodies of the dorsal ver- tebrfe, and behind those of the cervical and lumbar. There is commonly a lateral curvature observed in the dorsal reo-ion, the convexity of which is most frequently towards the right. It*has'been attributed to the presence of the aorta; but Bichat imao-ined it with more probability to arise from the circumstance, that^most exertions are performed with the right hand. Beclard confirmed this opinion by observing, that, in left-handed persons, the convexity of the lateral curvature of the spine is on the left side, and consequently in the opposite direction to what it is in most other individuals.* In the sound state, the vertebral column inclines to neither side, so that by a vertical section it might be divided into two equal la- teral portions. 67. General form. Considered as a whole, the vertebral co- lumn presents an anterior surface, a posterior, two lateral, a base and a summit. 68. The anterior surface, in the neck, is broad. It contracts in the dorsal region, and is again enlarged in the lumbar. Viewed in its longitudinal direction it is convex in the neck and loins, and concave in the back. A series of transverse hollows, more or less deep in the different regions, formed by the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, limited above and below by projecting mar- gins, and extending toward the lateral parts in the back and loins, occupies the whole length of this surface, which is covered by the anterior vertebral ligament from above downwards, and corresponds in the neck to the recti capitis antici majores and the longi colli muscles ; in the back to the last mentioned muscles at first, then to the vena azygos on the right side, and the thoracic aorta on the left; and in the lumbar region to the crura of the diaphragm, the abdominal aorta, the vena cava inferior, and the nervous ganglia of the loins. 69. The posterior surface presents in the median line the row of spinous processes, which are horizontal above, inclined and im- bricated in the middle part, and again horizontal in the loins. Their extremities are generally placed in the same line; not unfrcquent- ly, however, one is inclined to the left and another to the right. The intervals by which they are separated are larger in the neck, • See " Observations on the lateral curvature of the Human Spine, bv Dr. Knox." " •' 426 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and especially in the loins, than in the back. The spinous pro- cesses of the five last dorsal vertebrae gradually diminish in length, and become more and more horizontal; on which account the spine is more easily bent backwards at this place than at the upper part of the back. On the posterior part of the atlas, which forms the summit of the bony apparatus of which we are speaking, there oc- cur in the place of one of these spines two small tubercles, which give attachment to the recti capitis postici minores muscles. On the sides of the spinous processes are the vertebral grooves^ wide above, contracted in the middle, and very narrow below, formed by the series of vertebral laminae, and less deep in the cer- vical than in the dorsal and lumbar regions. They are filled by the longissimi dorsi, the sacro-lumbales, scmispinales dorsi and multilidi spinae muscles. Here there is seen a series of apertures between the laminae. Of these apertures that which is situated be- tween the head and the atlas is very large ; in the rest of the cer- vical region and the upper part of the dorsal, they are scarcely ap- parent ; but below this, and especially in the loins, they become very distinct. They are all in the fresh state, closed by ligaments of a yellow colour. On the outer side of these hollows, the posterior aspect of the vertebral column presents, in the neck and loins, the row of arti- cular processes, and in the back, that of the transverse processes. 70. The Lateral Surfaces are in general straight. There are observed upon them the transverse processes which have not all the same direction, for in the neck and loins they are placed in a plane anterior to those of the back. In the former of these re- gions, also, they are further distinguished by the small canal which is formed for the vertebral artery by the series of holes with which their base is perforated, and in the dorsal region by the articular surfaces for the ribs. The transverse processes of the second lum- bar vertebra are longer than those of the first and fourth, but shorter than those of the third. Along the whole extent of the spine these processes give attachment to a great number of muscles, and they present holes between them, resulting from the union of the vertebral notches, which are named intervertebral foramina. These holes, which give passage to the vertebral nerves, 'and which are proportionate in their diameter to the size of these nerves, are in the back and loins situated before the transverse processes, and not between them only, as in the neck. Their form is oval, and their course very short. They are larger in the lower part of the spine. In the dorsal region, there is remarked anterior to them the series of articular surfaces which receive the heads of the ribs. 71. The Base is cut obliquely to be joined to the sacrum. With that bone it forms a sort of angle, named the promontory by accoucheurs, but which may with more propriety be termed the sacro-vertehral angle. This angle projects anteriorly, and is straight on tlie sides. The S'ummif of the vertebral column, which is articulated withVERTEBRAL COLUMN. ^7 the occipital bone, forms laterally with it two right angles, and pre- sents a laro-ehole, which is the commencement of the vertebral canal. 72. Vertebral Canal (€onalis pro medulla spinali.) This canal extends along the whole length of the spine, following its various curvatures, and placed nearer its posterior' than its ante- rior part. Above, it is continuous with the cavity of the'skull; below, with the sacral canal. It is wide in the neck and in the upper part of the back, it then contracts to be again enlarged in the loins. It is triangular above and below, and rounded in the middle. Anteriorly, it is formed by the posterior part of the bodies of the vertebrfe, which are covered by the posterior vertebral ligament. Posteriorly, by the vertebral laminae, and the holes that occur be- tween them; and on the sides, the inner part of the transverse pro- cesses, and the intervertebral foramina, are the objects which it presents. 73. Uses. The spine, which combines lightness with solidity and flexibility, serves to support the head and chest. It is the seat of all the motions of the trunk, of which it transmits the weight to the pelvis. It lodges and protects the spinal marrow and the membranes which invest .it. It gives passage to the spinal nerves and to many vessels. It affords insertion to numerous muscles and ligaments, both anteriorly and posteriorly. OF THE CHEST OR THORAX. 74. The Chest, or Thorax, {Pectus,) is a large cavity of a coni- cal form, somewhat flattened anteriorly, placed before the dorsal region of the vertebral column, composed of bones and cartilages connected by ligaments, and containing the principal organs of respiration and circulation. It is formed in the middle and ante- teriorly by the sternum ; on either side by twelve ribs; and poste- riorly and mesially by the dorsal vertebrae already described. OF THE STEKNUM, Oil BREAST-BONE. (OSSA STERNI.) 75. The Sternum is composed of three bones placed one above another. These bones are in the adult most commonly joined to- gether and then they form a symmetrical, elongated, flattened bone, thicker and broader above than below, and undulated on its edges by a series of articular cavities for receiving the cartilages of the true ribs. Its direction is from above downwards, and it is inclin- ed forwards, so that its lower extremity is anterior to the upper. 7^)- Its anterior or outer surface, which is covered by the in- teguments, and more immediately by the aponeuroses of the large pectoral and sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles, is marked with four ^^^A^a- ^^^^ P^'ominent transverse lines, which indicate the limits of the different pieces of which this bone is formed in early age. The two upper lines are more distinctly marked than the others. It is sljghtly rounded.28 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 77- Its posterior, inner, or mediastinal surface, is porous, somewhat concave, and also presents the four Unes mentioned above. At its upper part it gives attachment to the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles ; on the sides, to the triangular muscles of the sternum; its middle part, especially to the left, corresponds to the mediastinum. 78. The upper bone of the sternum (manubrium) is thicker and broader, but shorter than the body to which it is'united by carti- lage especially in the young person, and is thus capable of moving slightly on it. Its upp^r extremity is very thick and has a semi- lunar notch in the middle where the interclavicular ligament is situated. On either side of this notch there is, for the articulation of the clavicles, a sigmoid cavity, which is encrusted with carti- lage, shallow, and inchned outwards and backwards. Below this the manubrium decreases in breadth, and there are successively re- marked on its border, the surface for the cartilage of the first rib, then a sharp edge, and lastly a half articular surface, which toge- ther with another half on the upper angle of the body, forms a com- plete cavity for the articulation of the anterior extremity of the cartilage of the second rib. The body is situated between the manubrium and the xiphoid appendix, is broader below than above, and has cavities on its sides for the articulation of a part of the cartilage of the second rib, for those of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth, and for a part of that of the seventh.* 79. The JCiphoid or ensiform aqipendix is a cartilaginous pro- longation, which is subject to great variation of form in different individuals, being simple or bifurcated, pointed or obtuse, curved or straight, long or short, thick or thin, not unfrequently perforated by a hole for the passage of vessels and nerves, &c. This appen- dage, which is seldom wanting, is sometimes ossified. Its sides give attachment to the transverse muscles and the aponeuroses of most of the abdominal muscles, and into its anterior surface is in- serted the costo-xiphoid ligament. The lower extremity of the sternum descends far beyond the ar- ticulation of the seventh costal cartilage. 80. In the sternum, viewed as a whole, the Meral edges are thick, and present each seven articular cavities which receive the cartilages of the true ribs. The uppermost of these cavities is ob- long and shallow. Its substance is evidently continuous with the first costal cartilage, over which the two compact laminfe of the sternum even project a little. The rest are angular, and corres- pond, at their bottom, to the lines of which we have spoken, which makes them appear deeper in the child than in the adult, because * There is sometimes at the inferior part of the liody a hole passing through its substance, tlie result of its mode of ossification, wiiicli is in most cases closed up by a cartilaginous membrane It was supposed by Du Laurens, Kiolan, and some other anatomists to occur more frequently in women than in men, an opinion which ex- perience does not confirm.STERNUM. 29 the bones of the sternum are not yet united. They are covered with articular cartilages, and separated from one another by notches, which are larger above than below, and which Hmit the intercostal spaces before. A portion of the seventh articular cavity commonly occurs in the ensiform appendage ; and this cavity is so close upon the sixth as to be nearly confounded with it. 81. Structure, Artimlations, and Development. The ster- num, which is covered with a thin layer of compact tissue, is spongy and cellular internally, and is suppUed with a great many blood-vessels. It is articulated to the clavicles and to the cartilages of the true ribs. It is developed by eight or nine centres of ossification, and sometimes more, and these constitute, therefore, the original number of germs or bones which compose the chain of bones called sternum in all vertebrate animals. In about one subject out of fifty, there is an aperture between the two primitive points of the fourth and the fifth of these sternal bones, or between these two bones themselves;* the sternum is pro- portionally longer and narrower in the female than in the male. OF THE EIBS. 82. The Rihs (Costce) are irregular, very elastic bones, bent in various chrections, raised at one of their extremities, flattenecL and rather thin before, rounded and thick behind. AU are articulated with the dorsal vertebrae, but some only with the sternum, from which circumstance they have been divided into two classes, viz. true or vertehro-sternal ribs, audi false or asternal. There are seven of the former and five of the latter on each side.-]: These are com- monly designated by their numerical name, counting from above downwards.^ 83. The length of the ribs gradually increases from the first to the eighth, and then diminishes to the twelfth. Their breadth diminishes insensibly from the first to the twelfth. * The first is nearly horizontal. The others are more inclined on the vertebral column the lower they are. In general, the posterior part of the ribs is curved according to a line belonging to a smaller diameter than the fore part. The first rib is also much nearer the axis of the chest than the others, which retire more and more from it as they descend. It re- presents a rather small and nearly regular semicircle. Those which * I have found tilis deficiency in the osseous part of the sternum to be owing to an original defect in the cartilage. t ^'o'l rara; autem sunt octo costae. ossibus sterni junctse et quatuor tantum spuria;, feoemm. De Corp. Hum. I-'ab. torn. i. p. 252. X It not unfrequcntly liappens that the number of ribs is found to vary. There are never, however, more tlian tliirtccn on each side, or less tlian eleven. Some- Omes this disposition exists on one side only. When tiie number of ribs is thus in. »«?aspd or diminished, the iaiiie phenomenon is observed witli renpeet to the dorsal vcrltbrae.so PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. follow, are less regularly curved, form a part of a larger circle, present a remarkable projection behind, and are twisted upon themselves, so that, when they are placed on a horizontal plane, one of their extremities always rises. 84. The body of the ribs, or their middle part, is flat, thin, con- vex externally, and concave within. Its outer surface presents posteriorly a tuberosity divided into two portions. The inner portion, which is convex and smooth, is articulated to the transverse process of the dorsal vertebras; while the outer gives attachment to the liga- mentum transversarium externum. More anteriorly, there is observ- ed a projecting line, which is named the angle of the ribs. It is ob- lique outwards and downwards, and in the lower ribs is more distant from the tuberosity than in the upper. It is into the angle of the ribs that the tendons of the sacro-lumbalis muscle are inserted. Between this angle and the tuberosity, there occurs a rounded, unequal surface, directed backwards, giving attachment to the lon- gissimus dorsi muscle, and enlarging from above downwards. Anteriorly to the angle, the outer s.urface of the ribs is smooth, and inclines a little upwards. It gives attachment to various mus^ cles, such as the pectoralis minor, the serrati muscles, the external oblique of the abdomen, &c. 85. The inner surface of the body of the ribs is contracted at its middle part and inclined a little downwards, excepting at the angle, where it looks upwards and forwards. It is covered by the pleura. 86. The upper edge is blunt, and gives attachment to the two planes of the intercostal muscles. The loiver edge, which is sharp and thin, and less inclined inwards than the other, is marked with a groove, deeji behind, where it commences near the tuberosity, becoming superficial and internal before, and ceasing about the an- terior third of the rib. It lodges, but not always very accurately, the intercostal vessels and nerves, and gives attachment by its two edges to the muscles of the same name. Close upon the vertebrae one of these edges forms a rather remarkable prominence, named costal. In the first ribs, there is also observed, at the upper edge a su- perficial vascular groove, which, like that in the lower edge, is ob- literated as it advances forward, and which is wanting in the lower ribs. 87. The posterior or vertebral extremity of the ribs, is articulat- ed to the spinal column, by means of a head, which is generally surmounted by two cartilaginous facets, separated by a prominent line to which is attached a ligament; these fiicets correspond to each of the half cavities in the body of the vertebrjE. This head is sup- ported upon a contracted and rounded neck, which rests upon the transverse process, and gives attachment behind to the middle cos- to-transverse ligament. 88. The anterior or sternal extremity, which is thinner but broader than the posterior, and elongated from above downwards,IIIBS. SI is terminated by an oval surface for the reception of the cartilage, with which it is intimately connected. It is also softer than the other extremity, and presents a great number of vascular porosities. 89. The ribs are firm, elastic, and very hard ; their centre and I head are formed of cellular tissue, but the compact tissue which covers them has this peculiarity, that it seems formed of small scales, laid over each other and placed in layers. 90. These bones are developed by three points of ossification, one for the body, another for the tuberosity, and the third for the . head The epiphysis which is destined to form the tuberosity, is , of a lenticular form ; that of the dorsal extremity is a small angu- I lar plate. Both are still isolated at the age of eighteen or twenty. OF SOME PAllTICULAE RIBS. 91. The first, second, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, present pecu- liar characters, and deserve a separate description. 1st, The First Rib is shorter, broader, and thicker than the rest, has a transverse position, and is a Uttle curved from without inwards in the direction of its breadth. This rib presents on its upper surface, two furrows, corresponding to the sub-clavian ar- tery and vein, which are separated, near the inner edge, by an, impression to which the scalenus anticus muscle is attached. Its lower surface, which incHnes a little outwards, is shghtly convex, smooth, and destitute of a groove. Its inner edge is concave, thin, and sharp. The outer, which inclines a little downwards, is con- vex, thicker, and rounder, and presents the tuberosity. This rib has no angle. It also touches, with its two extre- mities, the horizontal plane on which it is placed. Its head is round, and presents only one articulating surface. Its neck is very slender and elongated. Its anterior extremity, which is broader and thicker than in the other ribs, sometimes affords insertion above to the sub-clavius muscle. 2d, The Second Rib, although much longer than the first, has nearly the same direction. Its outer surface which is convex, and turnea a little upwards, presents a tuherositxj of which the uneven part is not very distinct, and a scabrous impression into which the ZfZ "^TT-''^'''^y Its inner Tn-nr:. r'l T"^*'' ^"'^ t^^n^d downwards, and com I f?" ^'W"" ^"'y '^^"'•^ behind. Its inner edge is The /I;, ll"' '"?'^f/P ' t'"cker, and rounded, o /'^.pf ^""^ '^^"ble articular surface. therc'foro ^"'^ a tuberosity ; it tTondin^v ^''^ l^^r^^y^..^ process of the cor- fXwai '^Th^ Its angle i. rather indistinct, and is placed surfaceTas no V i ^he' inner 4th T mf Tf' ^^'^ ^"^t^"^'^ extremity is thin, it^clf^; ""t '^^l is so short, th Jt it seems to lose m the flesh, whence it has been called the Jloatimj rib. 11 hasPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 32 neither tuberosity nor groove, and has but one articulating surface. It therefore differs from the preceding, only in being extremely short, in wanting the angle entirely, and in having its anterior extremity attenuated. OF THE COSTAL CAUTILAGES. 92. These cartilages correspond in number to the ribs, which they prolong anteriorly, retaining the same form and direction. They are the longest and thickest in the body, and their dimen- sions vary according to the rank which they hold. Their length increases from the first to the seventh, and then diminishes pro- gressively to the last two, which are extremely short. Their breadth diminishes in a uniform manner from the first to the last. In the two upper cartilages, the breadth is generally equal in their whole extent; the rest become narrower as they advance toward the ster- num. The sixth, seventh, and eighth form the only exceptions to i this rule, for they touch each other at one part of their edges, where they are obviously enlarged. 93. The first cartilage, which might be considered as a cartila- ginous, anterior or sternal rib, descends a little; the second is ho- rizontal ; the third is slightly inclined upwards ; the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh, have at first the same direction as the rib, but quickly incline upwards to reach the sternum, this inclination being greater in the seventh than in the sixth, and in the sixth than in the fifth, &c. The cartilages of the first, three false ribs present this disposition still more evidently; but, in the two last, the direction is the same as that of the ribs themselves. 94. The middle part, or body of these cartilages, is slightly convex anteriorly, where it is covered by the great pectoral muscles, the obliquus externus and rectus of the abdomen, and moreover, in the first only, by the subclavius muscle and the costo-claviculai ligament which are inserted into it. Posteriorly, the body is z little concave. In the upper cartilages, it corresponds to the pleura and the triangular muscle of the sternum ; in the rest, tcj the transversalis muscle and the diaphragm. The iij^per edge if: concave, the lower covex, both give insertion to the internal inter- costal muscles. The great pectoral muscle also is inserted into th< upper edge of the sixth. The edges by which the sixth, seventh ; and eighth cartilages unite, present an oblong smooth siu-face at thi points of articulation, where there is a general enlargement of thei I substance. 95. The outer e.vtremity of all the costal cartilages presents small convex uneven surface, intimately connected by union ci substance, like the synarthrodial cartilages, with the osseous poi! tion of the rib. The inner extremity, in the true ribs only, i furnished with a convex, angular, and projecting articular surfaci which is received into the retiring angle formed by the cavities oTHE THORAX. 83 the edge*? of the sternum. The first is evidently continuous with that bone; the six following are articuLitcd to it by contiguous diarthrosis. In the three first false ribs, this extremity is united to the cartilage which immediately precedes it. In the last two, it is isolated, pointed and tliin, and is lost in the intermuscular cellular tissue. The upper part of the sternal extremity of the cartilage of the first rib gives attachment to the lower portion of the fibro-cartUa- ginous ligament of the sterno-clavicular articulation. 96. These cartilages seem at first sight to be homogeneous. They are white, very compact, somewhat flexible, and highly elas- tic. They dissolve with difficulty into gelatin. They have a great tendency to become ossified; and when this ossification, which is announced by the opaque tint which their perichondrium assumes, takes place, they present the same organization as the ribs them- selves, only their substance is much more compact than that of the other bones of the skeleton. The cartilages of the asternal ribs ossify more slowly and less completely than the others. 97- By maceration during several months, they divide into oval laminfB or plates, separated by circular or spiral lines, and con- nected by a few oblique fibres which they send off to each other. These laminse subdivide into radiated fibrils, which are themselves ultimately separated into small fasciculi, which at length dissolve into mucus. They present neither cavities, canals, areola^, fibres, nor laminae, nothing in short indicative of an organic texture. They also ap- pear to be destitute of nerves and vessels. 98. They are everywhere, excepting at their two extremities, enveloped by a somewhat vascular fibrous membrane or perichon- drium, which is continuous with the periosteum of the ribs and sternum. OF THE THORAX IN GENERAL. 99. Ge7ieral Form. The figure of this part of the skeleton is that of a truncated cone, somewhat flattened before and behind, and havmg its base below.* This figure is very different from that which the thorax presents when covered with its soft parts and connected with the shoulders, the upper part having then the appearance of being the broadest. In general, the pectoral cavity is symmetrical, or, in other words, perfectly similar on both sides. 100. Outer Sicrface of the Thoraw. Anteriorly it is contracted, more or less flat or prominent in different individuals, and general- ly better developed in women. It is somewhat oblique from above to p5:ct"ia theSdJe"*^^ '° contract this part of the body, and to cause the thorax34. PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. downwards, and from behind forwards. In the middle, may be ob- served the anterior surface of the sternum and the xiphoid carti- lage ; on the sides are seen the sterno-costal cartilages, which become longer the lower they .are situated, and circumscribe spaces filled up by the intercostal muscles. The two first of these spaces are broad; the rest gradually contract; but the two last resume a certain degree of breadth. 101. Posteriorly^ this surface presents the two vertebral grooves, separated by the spinous processes, filled up by numerous mus- cles, and limited on the outside by the series of dorsal transverse processes, articulated with the tuberosities of the ribs. Still far- ther outwards, is a series of surfaces belonging to the ribs ; and, lastly, a line interrujjted from one rib to another by the intercos- tal spaces, having an inclination downwards and outwards, and formed by the angles of the ribs. The obliquity of this line is caused by the circumstance that the angles are more distant from the tuberosities in the lower ribs than in the upper. 102. On the sides,'t\\e outer surface of the chest is convex, es- pecially at the back part, and presents the intervals, by which the ribs are separated from each other. These intervals, from being short and broad above, diminish in breadth and increase in length, till we arrive at the one between the seventh and eighth ribs. Af- ter this they again diminish in length, to the last, which is very short. All these intercostal spaces are broader before than behind, and are occupied by muscles of the sanie name. 103. Inner Sur face of the Thorax. This surface, like the outer, presents anteriorly the posterior surface of the sternum in the middle, and the sterno-costal cartilages laterally. In this direc- tion, it corresponds to the anterior mediastinum, and a little on the left, to the heart. Behind, it presents the bodies of the dor- sal vertebrae, which by protruding seem to form a sort of imperfect partition, concave in the vertical direction, and contracting much the antero-posterior diameter of the cavity; on either side of the dorsal vertebrae, the ribs, by being much prolonged backwards, form a considerable elongated cavity, which is contracted above, broad beneath, and deeper in the middle. This excavation receives the posterior part of the lungs. Laterally, the inner surface of the thorax is concave, and formed by the ribs and intercostal spaces, as on the outside. Here it is contiguous with the lungs. In general, the pleurae line almost everywhere the internal sur- face of the thoracic cavity. 104. The upper circumference of the thorax, which is usually called its summit, is small, transversely oval, and oblique in a di- rection from above downwards, and from behind forwards. It is constituted posteriorly, by the vertebral column; anteriorly, by the sternum ; on the sides, by the inner edge of the first rib. It is traversed by the trachea, the oesophagus, the arteries, veins, and nerves, which go from the chest to tlie arms and head, or which35 THE THORAX. descend from these parts to the thorax. The stcrno-hyoidci and stcrno-thyvoidei muscles are inserted into it. 105. The lower circumference or base of the thorax, is very larf^e, especially in the transverse direction. It presents, anterior- ly a considerable notch, in the middle of which is the xiphoid car- tilage, and which is formed laterally by the union of the cartilages of the false ribs, which constitute a sort of convex border, inter- rupted between the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs on each side. Posteriorly, the base of the chest has also two small notches, which are owing to the inclination of the last rib upon the vertebral column. °In other respects it does not descend so low anteriorly as on the sides and posteriorly. It gives insertion to several of the abdominal muscles, especially to the transversales muscles and the diaphragm. 106. Direction of the Thorax. The axis of the cone represented by the thorax, or the ideal line which falls perpendicularly upon the middle of its base, is oblique from above downwards, and from behind forwards. But all the walls of the chest do not equally concur to produce the obliquity, which especially depends upon the circumstance that the anterior wall retires from the spine in proportion as it descends. There results from this, that a line as- cending vertically from the centre of the base of this cavity, woxild not pass through the middle of its summit, but would pierce the upper part of the sternum. 107- Dimensions of the Thorax. In the skeleton, the height of this cavity appears much greater than in the body invested with its soft parts, because, in the latter state, the diaphragm ascends pretty high in its interioi*. It is measured by means of certain ideal lines, named its diameters, which pass from the sternum to the vertebral column, or from one side to the other. All the dia- meters are greater below than above. It is also observed, that the concavity of the vertebral column augments the dimensions of the antero-posterior diameters in the middle. This is far, however, from compensating the loss which they experience from the pro- jection of the bodies of the vertebrae ; so that these diameters are much greater laterally than in the median line. The dimensions of the chest vary extremely in different indivi- duals. They also experience great variations according to age or sex. ^ The height of this part of the trunk is smaller, but its breadth is greater, in woman than in man. 108. Although, as wc have already said, the thoracic cavity is generally symmetrical, in other words perfectly similar on both sides, it yet sometimes happens that one of its sides is more capa- cious and stronger than the other, and even that it forms a re- markable projection, without this phenomenon being attributable to any original malibrmation, or to disease.36 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF THE HEAD. 109. The head (caput) is a spheroid, varying in size, more or less elongated and more or less flattened in diflerent individuals. It contains the brain and the principal organs of sense, and is arti- culated to the superior extremity of the vertebral column. It con- sists of two parts, which are manifestly distinct in their uses, their mode of development, and their mechanism. These parts are the Cranium and the Face. OF THE CRANIUM. 110. The Cranium* is a large egg-shaped cavity, with its nar- row end before, occupying the upper and posterior parts of the head, and of a rather irregular although symmetrical form. It con- tains and protects the brain, and is formed of several flat bones, the edges of which are irregidar. These bones are :—anteriorly, the Frontal; posteriorly, the Occipital; on the sides and above, the. two Parietal Bones; la- terally and below, the two Temporal; below and in the middle, the Sphenoid, anterior to which is the Ethmoid, separated from it by the Sphenoidal Turbinated Bones. Each of the temporal bones, moreover, contains four small bones : the Malleus, the Incus, the Os orhiculare, and the Stapes. Very frequently, also, there are observed between the principal bones of the skull, other bones, which are very irregular in every respect, and which are known by the name of Ossa Wormiana s. triquetra. 111. Four of the bones of the skull, the Frontal, Occipital, Sphenoid, and Ethmoid, are situated in the mesial line ; the others are lateral. The former are symmetrical, that is to say, capable of being divided into two perfectly similar parts, a character com- mon to them with all the organs by the agency of which we become acquainted with external objects. These four bones, it is also to be remarked, are single, while the rest are in pairs. All the bones of the skull do not belong to it so essentially as not to contribute also to the formation of the face ; and for this reason they were divided by the older anatomists into coinmon and proper bones. The latter belonged exclusively to the skull. The Frontal, Occipital, Parietal, and Temporal bones, were regarded as such; but this division is far from being correct, and we shall see, as we proceed, that several of these bones contribute as much to the formation of the face, as the Sphenoid or Ethmoid. 112. The anterior region of the cranium is named the Forehead • Kjav/** of the Greeks ; calvaria of the Latins.S7 THE SPHENOID BONE. or Synclput; the posterior, the Occiput; the upper part, the Top or Bregma ; tlie lateral parts, the Temples; and the lower region, the Base of the Cranium. OF THE SPHENOID BONE. 113. Form. The Sphenoid * is a single bone, and symmetri- cal in its conformation, occupying the middle part of the base of the cranium. Its form is singularly irregular ; the eminences aijd cavities with which it is marked are very numerous ; and its uses are manifold. For the convenience of study, it may be divided into the following parts : f 114. Guttural ox Lower Aspect. This aspect is very unequal, and presents on the median line a ridge, called the rostrum or axy- gous process, more prominent before than behind, which enters into the upper edge of the vomer, and is continuous above with the septum of the sphenoidal sinuses. On each side, and from within outwards, it presents, 1st, A small groove which receives a plate of the vomer, and at the bottom of which is the orifice of a canal, very distinct in young subjects, Avhich becomes obliterated with age, and which, passing obliquely through the wall of the sphenoi- dal sinuses, opens within the sphenoidal fissure ; it gives passage to vessels. 2dly, Another small groove, contributing to form the Pterygo-palati7ie canal, which also gives passage to vessels, and is completed by a process of the palate bones. 3dly, The Pteryr gold Process,^ an irregular projection, which is directed vertically downwards; it contributes, on the inside, to form the posterior aperture of the nasal fossjB by a straight and smooth surface, vv'hich is fined by the pituitary membrane; and on the outside it gives attachment to the external pterygoid muscle by a broader surface, which belongs to the zygomatic fossa: anteriorly and beneath, it presents irregularities, which join the palate bones, and are sur- mounted by a smooth triangular surface, forming part of the same zygomatic fossa: posteriorly, it is hollowed by the Pterygoid Fossa, broader below than above, into which is inserted the internal ptery- goid muscle, and which, in this direction, divides the process into two laminae, the internal of which gives attachment below to the supe- rior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and above, by a particular groove, called the Scaphoid Depression, to the external perista- phyline muscle. The pterygoid process is perforated above, from before backwards, by the Vidian or Pterygoid Canal, through which pass nerves and vessels of the same name. Liasthj, It is bifurcated ■ From the Greek word «ripS>, which signifies a wedge. ■\ A common division of tlie sphenoid is iiitoi^te viajorcs, or greater lehigs, and tlie cnrpun, or hodij. The former cornprelicnd all the parts of this bone situated to the outside of the cavernous grooves ; the latter is included between these two grooves, and IS nearly of a cubical form. \ U.T^ul,ala; i,ic:,Jbrma. rPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 38 below, to receive the tuberosity of the palate bones, and present* at the lower extremity of the inner branch of this bifurcation, which is narrower but longer than the outer, a small hook, called the Hw- mular Process, over which is reflected the tendon of the external peristaphyline muscle. Lastly, On the outer and back part of the pterygoid processes, the lower orifices of the foramina ovalia and the foramina spioiosa, of which we shall presently speak. 115. The Upper or Cerebral aspect, which is very uneven, is in connexion with the membranes of the brain, and presents the following peculiarities. On its middle part, and from behind forwards, there are observ- ed, \st, A thin quadrilateral lamina, inclined forwards, superficially notched on the sides for the passage of the external oculo-muscular nerves, forming part of the basilar groove, and presenting at its two upper angles, two processes of a somewhat variable form, named the Posterior Clinoid Processes, which afford attachment to a part of the tentorium cerebelli. 2d, The Pituitary Fossa or Sella Turcica, which lodges the pituitary body; this depression is of a square form, deep and perforated with a considerable num- ber of holes whic|i run towards the guttural surface of the bone, but whose use is not well known.* 3dly, Anteriorly to the sella turcica a tubercle called the olivary process, and then a transverse groove on which rests the commissure of the optic nerves, and which ends at the optic holes, after curving a little forwards, ^thly, A somewhat smooth surface over which the olfactory nerves pass in two slight longitudinal depressions, separated from one another by a very superficial projection. 116. Laterally, and from behind forwards, we observe, Ist, The foramen spinosum for the passage of the middle meningeal artery. 2dly, In most cases, two or three small vascular apertures for the emissary veins of Santorini. 3dly, The foramen cvale or in fe- rior maxillary hole, for the passage of the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves. It perforates the bone directly from above down- wards, and is sometimes double. Uhly, The foramen roiundum, or superior viaxillary hole, which is rather a canal, having a di- rection forwards, and giving exit to the second branch of the same nerve. 5tMy, On the outer side of the foramen rotundum, a large concave surface, irregularly quadrilateral, marked with arterial grooves and cerebral impressions. Qthly, On the inner side, a broad groove, which lodges the cavernous sinus and the internal carotid artery, together with several important nerves. Anteriorly, this groove is terminated by a small prominence, to which is at- tached an aponeurosis, common to the inferior, internal and exter- nal recti muscles of the eye. There is often observed in this gi-oove, on the sides of the pituitary fossa, a considerable hole, which descends to the upper part of the pterygoid fossa, and which • Vieiissens, Iiowevcr, snys, he lias been convinced by a great number of obser- vations, that they give passage to small veins which go from the coronary sinus of the dura muter to the pituitary membrane.39 THE SPHENOID BONE. also gives passage to an emissary vein of Santorini. At the fore- most part there occurs, 'Jtlily, The orbital process or small imn(j of In(jrassias, a triangular, depressed, transverse eminence, smooth above, where it corresponds to the anterior lobes of the brain; forming part of the orbit below ; terminated anteriorly by an un- even edge, which unites with the lower margin of the frontal bone ; posteriorly by a blunt free edge, which penetrates into a fissure of the brain; externally by a pointed summit; internally, by a thicker part, in which there is remarked, posteriorly, Sthly, The anterior vlinoid process, which is sometimes prolonged to the posterior, and also gives attachment to a fold of the tentorium cerebelli; and, an- teriorly, dthly, The optic foramen or rather canal for the passage of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery, directed forwards and out- wards towards the orbit, beneath the orbital process itself. Be- tween this hole and the anterior clinoid process, there is observed a semicircular notch, which receives the internal carotid artery, as it issues from the cavernous sinus; sometimes there is a par- ticidar hole for the ophthalmic artery. It is proper to observe also, that most commonly the base of the orbital process contains a sort of sinus, or small cavity, which opens towards the orbit by a narrow orifice, into which a slender branch of the ophtlialmic artery enters, as Bertin has observed. 117. Occipital or Posterior Aspect. This aspect is of very small extent, and presents, at its middle part, an uneven and rough quadrilateral surface covered with cartilage in the fresh state, and at an early age. This surface is destined to articulate with that which terminates the basilar process of the occipital bone ; and, in the adult, it unites with it in an intimate manner, so that the two bones then form but one. In individuals in which this union has not taken place, there is observed, at each of the upper angles of this surface, a small hook, which retains the basilar process. 118. On the sides, this aspect is constituted by an irregular, thickish edge, presenting, near the quadrilateral surface, the poste- rior orifice of the vidian canal, which, narrower than the anterior and surmounted by a small eminence, is continued inwards into a narrow groove, which is itself a continuation of the pterygo-pala- tme. A little more outwards there are some asperities which, in conjunction with the anterior edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, form the foramen laccrum medium. 119- Orhito-nasul or Anterior Aspect. This is of greater extent than the preceding, and is vertically intersected in its middle by a thin prominent ridge, which is articulated with the ethmoid bone, and which forms a partition between two cavities, of which we shall presently speak. This ridge is surmovinted by a small depressed and very thin process, which also joins the ethmoid bone; not unfrequently this eminence docs not exist, and there is, on the contrary, a notch in its place. • If^' either side of this ridge, there is observed an aperture, viih. irregular lacerated edges, varying in size in diilcrent sub-40 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. jccts. These two apertures, which are articulated by their circum- ference, with the turbinated bones of the sphenoid, lead to two cavities formed in the interior of the bone, named sphenoidal sinuses. These sinuses do not exist in young children, and are much larger in old people than in adults; for they then occupy all that part of the bone which is situated beneath the pituitary fossa, and the point of union of the processes of Ingrassias. The septum by which they are separated is sometimes incomplete, or perforated by a hole, and is frequently inclined to the right or left, so that a great difference in their respective capacity is produced. Nor is it rare to find some other osseous laminue, forming subor- dinate partitions, and thus dividing the sinuses. 121. Beyond the openings of the sinuses, there are found in- equalities of greater or less extent, which serve to articulate the bone with the ethmoid above, and with the palate bone below. More externally, there occurs, on each side, an irregular quadri- lateral surface, which is directed inwards and forwards. This sur- face is smooth and plain, and enters into the constitution of the or- bit, of which it forms the outer wall. It is surmounted by a rough triangular surface, which unites with the frontal bone. It is bound- ed inferiorly by a horizontal, free, blunt ridge, which contributes to the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure ; internally by a rounded edge, which belongs to the foramen lacerum anterius or sphenoidal fissure, and which presents at its upper part a notch, or liole, for the passage of a branch of the ophthalmic artery ; and externally by a very rough indented margin, which is articulated "with the malar bone. The anterior orifice of the foramen rotundum is observed beneath this surface and to the inside. 122. Two xygomato-temporal or eocternal aspects. They are in- clined outwards and downwards, irregularly elongated, and are di- vided into two portions by a transverse ridge to which are attached the deepest-seated fibres of the temporal muscle. Above this ridge is a concave quadrilateral surface, marked with some arterial im- pressions, and forming part of the temporal fossa. Beneath it there is an oblique surface, also concave, giving attachment to a portion of the external pterygoid muscle, &nd continued into the pterygoid process. It belongs to the zygomatic fossa. 123. The cerebral and orbito-nasal aspects of the sphenoid bone are separated from each other by an edge which may be named the frontal. It is directed outwards on each side, proceeding from the small process which surmounts the septum of the siomses. lliis edge is irregular, sloped, and at first pretty thick, but afterwards becomes narrower : it is articulated with the lower edge of the frontal bone, and is interrupted in its middle part, where it ceases to belong to the process of Ingrassias, by the very narrow entrance of a notch of considerable size and great depth, which is named the Sphenoidal Fissure, or Foramen Lacerum Jnterivs. This fis- sure is limited by these processes above, and inclines downwards and inwards, is broader in the latter direction than outwards, andTHE Sl'HENOlD BONE. 41 drives passage to the ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair of nerves, the third, fourth, and sixth pairs, the optic vein, a branch of the 1 lachrymal artery, or that artery itself in some cases, and, lastly, to : a prolongation of the dura mater. Beyond the sphenoidal fissure, ; the frontiil margin of the sphenoid bone becomes again rough and I uneven ; it becomes very broad, and is articulated to the frontal 1 bone by a triangular surface. 124!. The cerebral and zygomato-temporal aspects of the sphe- noid bone are likewise separated by a margin which is concave, al- 1 ternately sloped on its two lips, and presenting asperities which are : articulated with the temporal bone. At the union of this edge ■ -with the preceding, there is, at the expense of the inner plate, an irregular facet, which is articulated with the anterior and lower angle of the parietal bone, Beneath, it is confounded with the oc- . cipital aspect, and there gives rise to a pointed eminence, named i the Sphenoidal spine, which gives attachment to the internal la- teral ligament of the articulation of the jaw, and to the external mus^cle of the malleus. This process is received into a retirbg ; angle, formed by the anterior edge of the petrous portion, and by i the circumference of the squamous portion of the temporal bone. 125. Structure. In the centre, especially before the sinuses are developed, at the bases of the processes of Ingrassias and of the ; pterygoid processes, at the upper and outer part of what is named ; the Large Wings, the sphenoid bone is thick, and contains a great quantity of cellular tissue. In the rest of its extent, it is thinner, and formed of compact tissue. 126. Articulations. The sphenoid bone is articulated with the frontal, ethmoid, occipital, parietal, and temporal bones, with the : sphenoidal turbinated bones, the malar bones, the palate bones, and the vomer, by the different parts that have been already mentioned; sometimes, moreover, this bone is articulated with the superior maxillary bones by inequalities which occur towards the union of the pterygoid processes with the orbito-nasal aspect. 127. Development. The sphenoid bone is developed by seven points of ossification which commence: 1st, at the centre of the bone ; 2d and .3d, at the base of each of the processes of Ingras- sias ; 4th and 5th, at the place of the junction of the pterygoid processes with the rest of the bone ; 6th and 7th, in the inner plate of the same processes. The last-mentioned nucleus is the Omoid Bone of Herissant. 128. In the fetus, the sphenoid bone evidently forms two distinct principal pieces, the one anterior or spheno-orbital, the other pos- terior or spheno-temim-al; these might be named anterior and posterior sphenoid bones.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF THE ETHMOID* BOKE. 129. The Ethmoid (named also the Cribriform) Bone is placed at the anterior, lower, and middle part of the cranium, in a notch of the frontal bone. It is symmetrical, has a nearly cubical form, and seems composed of the assemblage of a multitude of thin, fra- gile and semitransparent laminjje, placed in all sorts of directions, and thus constituting walls of cellules, which vary in their form and size, and are more or less open externally, in different subjects. | The object of these cellules seems to be the enlargement of the surfaces without increasing the bulk. This bone also, although of pretty considerable size, is very light. It is generally divided into a middle and two lateral parts, but •we shall adopt IBichat's divisions, which are the following. 130. Cerebral or superior aspect. This is broad, very uneven, and covered by the dura mater ; in the middle part, and posterior- ly, there is a small notch, sometimes a process horizontally flat- tened, which is articulated with a corresponding part belonging to the orbito-nasal aspect of the sphenoid bone, (119). A little more forwards, there rises, in a graduated manner, a crest, having the form of a triangular pyramid, varying much in size, being some- times very large and bulging, sometimes depressed and thin ; its direction may be vertical or inclined to either side. In general it is composed of cellular structure internally, but there is sometimes a small cavity, or sinus, which communicates with those of the I frontal bone : this pyramidal process is the Crista Galli or Eth- moid Crest. By its base it is continuous with the rest of the bone; its summit gives attachment to the greater falx of the dura mater; its posterior edge is elongated and oblique behind; its anterior edge short and vertical: it ends before in two small depressed eminences, which articulate with the frontal bone, and generally contribute to the formation of the foramen coecum, of which we shall speak as we proceed. Its two lateral surfaces are plain and|| smooth. On either side of the crista galli, there is observed a wide but not very deep channel, corresponding to the olfactory nerves, much more distinct anteriorly than posteriorly, and perforated in its whole extent, but especially at the fore part, by round and irregularly distributed holes, named the Olfactory Foramina, on account of their giving passage to the filaments of the olfactory nerves, enve- loped in small meningeal sheaths. i 131. These holes are of two kinds. Some are large and distinct,' and are situated on the lateral parts of the channel, to the number of ten or twelve ; the rest, which are very small and less numerous. 1 1 occupy the middle region. Each of them forms the superior ori- fice of a small canal, which subdivides in its descent in the intcrioi • crih um ; tlSct, forma.THE ETHMOID BONE. 43 of the bone, 'with the exception of most of those of the second or- der, which are tifue Jbr^mina, with a vertical or oblique direction. Anteriorly to each of the olfactory channels, at the very base of tlic process, is a small longitudinal fissure, which is traversed by the internal branch of the nasal nerve. 132. More externally, there is observed on either side a qua- drilateral tortuous surface, hollowed with several half cellules, which are completed by corresponding portions of cellules, formed on the edges of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone, or by thin la- mina, belonging to the ethmoid bone itself. In the latter case, however, there is always one before, w^hich remains open to meet the frontal sinuses. In the spaces between the cellules, are seen, two narrow transverse grooves, which are converted by the frontal bone into canals, the external orifices of which have received the name internal orbital holes {foramina orhitaria interna). 133. Naml or Infei-ior Aspect. I'his is covered throughout its whole extent by the pituitary membrane, and is so disposed that it can only be entirely seen after dividing the bone into two longitudinal portions. This aspect, the circumference of which is quadrilateral, is broader behind than before. In its middle part, it presents a vertical plate, having a longitu- dinal direction, frequently deflected to one side, irreguhirly qua- drilateral, and varying in extent: this is the Perpendicular Plate of the Ethmoid Bone, {Lamina Perpendicularis). It forms part of the septum of the nasal fossfe, and is placed at right angles to the cribriform plate. On its lateral surfaces, which are covered by the pituitary membrane, it is marked by vascular and nervous impres- sions. Below, it is terminated by a blunt edge, which is articu- lated with the vomer and the triangular cartilage of the nose ; an- teriorly, by a margin thicker above than below, which in the former direction is connected with the nasal spine of the frontal bone, and in the latter, with the nasal bones ; posteriorly, by another margin, which is thin and sharp, and is articulated with the septum of the sphenoidal sinuses (119) ; above, it is confounded with the cribri- form plate. In its upper part, the perpendicular plate is traversed by the internal olfactory canals (131), which are short and oblique before, vertical and elongated in the middle, very long, and inclined backwards posteriorly ; they at last degenerate into mere grooves, and never descend lower than half the height of the plate. They are seen terminating by numerous apertures, having an oblique form. 134. On each side of the perpendicular plate, a deep narrow groove, more contracted before than behind, and frequently larger on one side than the other, leads to beneath the olfactory canals, (131), and is limited externally by a very uneven surface, which presents various objects for examination. On the posterior and Jippcr part of this surface, there is observed a small thin plate, bent upon itself from above downwards, and most commonly from within outwards. This is the siqjerior turbinated hone {ConchaPASSIVE OKGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 44 Superior), anteriorly to which is a square rough surface, and beneath it a horizontal channel, which forms part of the tmyerior maatKH of the iiaml fosaoi. 'J his channel occupies about the posterior half of the whole length of the ethmoid bone, and presents anteriorly an aperture Avhich leads into the posterior cells of the bone, the number of which varies from three or four to ten; these cells all communi- cate with each other, and are sometimes closed behind by a bony plate, and sometimes end, in this direction, either in the turbinated Ijones of the sphenoid, or in the sinuses of the same name ; they are lined by a prolongation of the pituitary membrane. Inferiorly, these parts are bounded by another bony plate, rough at its sur- face, which is larger and more curved than the upper, thin and continuous above with the rest of the bone, free and thick beneath, especially at the fore part, convex internally, concave externally, and terminated behind by free inequahties. This plate is the middle turbitiated hone {concha medio.) Its lower edge is mark- ed by a vascular groove, and contributes, by its outer surface, to form a portion of the middle meatus, under the appearance of a longitudinal channel, anteriorly to which is a lacerated aperture, which leads to the anterior ethmoid cells. These cells are much larger and more numerous than the posterior, with which they have no communication whatever. One of them, named infundibidum, situated behind the others, represents a sort of flexuous canal, direct- ed forwards and upwards, wide below, where it corresponds to the fiperture mentioned, and opening above into one of the half-cells, which are completed by those of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone, and which communicate with the frontal sinuses. The ethmoid cells, anterior as well as posterior, are therefore completed above by the frontal bone, anteriorly by the superior maxillary and lachrymal bones, behind by the palate bone. 135. The external olfactory canals, in general shorter than the internal, occupy the greater part of the surface which we have just described, especially the superior turbinated bone, and the square surface which is anterior to it. Some of them are prolonged upon the middle turbinated bone, but do not penetrate into the meatuses, nor the ethmoid cells. The numerous apertures of these canals, together with several vascular grooves, render the inner surface of the turbinated bones very rough ; but their outer surface, and the interior of the cells, are smooth and pohshed. 136. Lastly, the nasal aspect of the ethmoid bone presents, at its lowest part, several thin, fragile, and frequently unciform lami- nae, curved in various directions, Avhich join in with the opening of .the maxillary sinus, and with some portions of cells formed above it, also with the inferior turbinated bone of the nose. These laminae generally break when the bones are disarticulated. I87. Sphenoidal or Posterior aspect. This presents, in the middle, the posterior edge of the perpendicular plate (133), and, on each side, externally of the posterior extremity of the ethmoid grooves, a convex irregular surftice, corresponding to the posterior45 THIS ISTHMOID BONE. ethmoid cells, articulated above with the sphenoid bone, below with the palate bone, and between the two, with the sphenoidal turbin- ated bone. 138. Nnso-Mnxillarij or Anterior aspect. This is of very small extent, and presents, in the middle, the anterior margin of the per- pendicular plate, and laterally to the outside of the anterior extre- mity of the ethmoid grooves, portions of cells covered by the as- cending process of the superior maxillary bone. 139. Two Orbital or Lateral aspects. These are quadrilateral, plain in the greater part of their extent, and cut obliquely at their anterior and posterior extremities. The latter presents several por- tions of cells which are completed by the sphenoidal turbinated bones and the palate bones ; the other leaves exposed the greater part of the anterior cells, which are closed by the lachrymal bone. At the middle part of each of these surfaces there is observed a square plate, {os planum, of the older writers,) which forms a large portion of the inner wall of the orbit. It is smooth and polished, and is articulated above, with the frontal bone; below, with the pa- late and superior maxillary bones ; behind, with the sphenoid, and anteriorly with the lachrymal bone. The upper edge of this bony plate often presents small notches, which concur in forming the internal orbitary holes (132.) 140. Structure. The ethmoid bone is almost entirely formed of compact tissue, presenting no appearance of cellular tissue, ex- cepting in the turbinated bones, the crista galli and the perpendi- cular plate. 141. Articiclations. It is articulated with the frontal and sphen- oid bones, the sphenoidal turbinated bones, the upper maxillary bones, the palate bones, the lower turbinated bones of the nose, the vomer, the nasal and lachrymal bones by the different points which have been successively described. 142. This bone contributes at once to form the base of the cra- nium, the orbits and the nasal fossag. 143. Developynent. It presents three centres of ossification, one for its middle part, and two for the lateral regions, the latter ap- pearing at an earlier period than the first. The cells are deve- loped as age advances, the bone in young subjects being solid, and entirely cartilaginous. The turbinated bones make their ap- pearance about the age of seven years. OF THE SPHENOIDAL TUHBINATED BONES. 144. Form. The Sphenoidal Turbinated Bones (Cornua Sphenoidal in,) are two small thin bones, curved upon themselves. They have the form of a hollow pyramid, with its apex behind, and are situated at the base of the cranium, between the sphenoid and ethmoid bones ; they never remain distinct, but become incorpor- ated as age advances, in general, with the sphenoid, rarely with46 PASSIVK ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the etlimoid or palate bones ; on this account they are not com- monly described as distinct bones. 145. The base of each of these bones is adapted to the posterior part of the lateral masses of the ethmoid in such a way as to close the corresponding cells, permitting them, however, by means of a notch or rounded aperture, to commvmicate with the sphenoidal sinuses. The apex, wliich is pointed and hard, is situated in a groove near the base of the pterygoid process, and is in part con- cealed by the posterior process of the palate bone. The lower as- pect forms part of the nasal fossa?; most commonly it furnishes an irregular papyraceous prolongation, which passes under the sphe- noid bone, and proceeds towards the rostrum,* directing itself to- ward that of the opposite side, to be united with the upper edge of the vomer. The outer aspect is open above, to correspond to the entrance of the sphenoidal sinuses. Below, it concurs with the palate bone, in forming the spheno-jmlatine foramen, which, in young subjects, does not in any way belong to the sphenoid bone. This aspect, moreover, frequently sends a thin lamina into the in- terior of the sinuses, and seems, as it were, to line its walls. Fre- quently also the floor of these cavities is entirely formed of the bones in question. 146. Structure, Articulations, Development. The sphenoidal turbinated bones, which, I believe, were first described by Bertin, are entirely compact and hollow, with the exception of the summit alone, which contains a little cellular tissue. They articulate with the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, the pa- late bone and the vomer ; and are developed by a single point of ossification, generally after birth, although sometimes their rudi- ments are met with in fetuses of the seventh or eighth month. At the age of from twelve to fifteen, they unite first with the sphenoid bone, at a later period with the ethmoid. OF THE FRONTAL BONE. {Os Frontis). 147. F(mn. This bone is symmetrical, of a more than semi- circular form, convex and smooth anteriorly, concave posteriorly, and very unequal below. It is divided into the following parts : 148. Orbito-ethmoidal Aspect. This aspect, which is uneven and turned downwards, presents in the middle a broad quadrilateral notch, which receives the ethmoid bone, and is accordingly named the ethmoid notch (incisura ethmoidolis). Around this notch there are observed, anteriorly the nasal spine (spina nasalis) and * Ba.ii.1 (partli sphenoidaUs o.isis spJictio-occipitalis) pi iora ct inferiora versus laminam anilum, sivc rostrum cmittit, quod iiitcrdum c juiictis cornubtis sjihcnoidalibin oritur, &.C. Socmin. Dc Corp. Hum. fub. torn. i. p. 107.FRONTAL BONE. 47 the orifices of the frontal smuses ; on the sides, portions of cellules, which unite with similar portions belonging to the ethmoid bone: there are two or three small transverse grooves formed between these cellules, which contribute to form the internal orbitar canals. 149. On each side of the ethmoidal notch, there is observed a triangular concave surface, which forms the vault of the orbit (or- bitar processes), and which presents, anteriorly and to the outside, a small cavity which receives the lachrymal gland; in the same direction, and to the inside, a shght inequahty to which is attached a cartilaginous pulley through which the tendon of the superior oblique muscle of the eye is reflected. 150. Frontal, Anterior, or Pericranial Aspect. This is marked in the middle with a longitudinal line, commonly not very distinct, occupying the place where the two portions, of which the bone consisted at an early age, are vinited; before this union, a suture is always observed, which is sometimes found even at the most ad- vanced age. * At the lower part of this line is the nasal protu- berance, which is much larger in old than in young persons, and is generally perforated by a great number of small holes. Farther down there is seen a notch of the same name, which is articulated with the nasal bones in the middle, and on the sides with the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones. This notch itself sur- mounts the nasal spine, on the sides of which are two small lon- gitudinal grooves, forming part of the roof of the nasal fossae. The nasal spine is articulated anteriorly to the nasal bones, and behind to the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone. 151. On either side, and proceeding from above downwards, there are: a broad and smootli surface, which is covered by the fron- talis muscle ; the frontal protuberance {tuber frontale), which is very distinct in children; a slight depression; a transverse emi- nence, slightly curved, more prominent internally than outwards, named the sicperciliary arch (arcus superciliaris),-^ from its cor- responding to the eye-brow, and giving attachment to its muscle ; another prominent line, also curved, which proceeds from both sides of the nasal groove, and is named the orbital arch or margin (jnaryo orbitalis s. supra-or-bitalis.) It is terminated by two pro- cesses, the outer of which, thick and prcininent, joins the malar bone; while the inner, which is thin and broad, is articulated with the lachrymal bone: these processes are called the external and in- ternal orbitar or angular processes. At the inner third of this arch, there is observed a hole, or a notch converted into a hole by a ligament, which is called the sujjra-orbital foramen, and which • It was formerly supposed tliat tliis suture was more frequently fotmd in wo- men than in men; this, however, is erroneous, for it is as frequently met with in the adults ot one sex as of the other. « ,t I'^i'? triangular space, situated in the middle line between these two arches, is called Glabella.48 PASSIVK ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. gives passage to the frontal vessels and nerves. On the margin of this hole, there is another mucli smaller, forming a mere pore which allows an arterial branch to penetrate into the frontal sinus 152. On the outside of this aspect, above the external orbitar process, there is a prominent line, which is curved, and runs in direction upwards and backwards. It forms the limit of a small surface which constitutes part of the temporal fossa, and gives at- tachment to the temporal muscle. 153. Cerebral, posterior, or internal aspect. This is concave in contact with the dura mater, and is marked in the middle with a groove (sulcus longitudinalis) in which is lodged the com mencement of the superior longitudinal sinus of that membrane The margins of this groove unite below, forming a ridge (crist frontalis) to which the summit of the falx is in part attached, an which terminates at a hole called the foramen caecum. The uses of this aperture are not yet well known ; sometimes it is completed by the ethmoid bone. 154. This surface of the bone also presents on each side a great number of inequalities, which correspond to the convolutions of the brain, at least in part; for, as Bichat has remarked, it is often a prominent portion of the brain that corresponds to an eminence on the bone, and vice versa. These inequalities are commonly nam- ed mamillary eminences and digital impressions. There are also observed upon it several arterial furrows, and the frontal fossa;, which correspond to the protuberances of the same name. 155. The Upjjer 7na.rgin is thick, uneven, more than semicir- cular, cut obliquely at the expense of its inner plate above, and of the outer below. It is articulated with the parietal bones in such a manner, that, with the aid of this obliquity of its edge, it rests upon them above, and supports them below. It terminates on each side by a broad rough triangular surface, which joins the great wings of the sphenoid bone. 156. The Lower margin is straight, thin, interrupted in its middle part by the ethmoidal notch, and cut obliquely so as to sus- tain the transverse orbitar processes of the sphenoid bone. 157. Structure. The frontal bone is pretty thick towards the nasal protuberance and the external orbital processes, but very thin and even transparent in its orbital region. It is formed of diploe contained between two compact lamina?, and presents in its substance two cavities, which bear the name frontal sinuses. These sinuses, which vary in size in different subjects, do not exist in children, while they are generally very large in old people; they have their orifice anterior to the ethmoidal notch, and from thence extend into the frontal region of the bone, sometimes even as far as the external orbital processes. They are separated fron- each other by a septum, which, however, is sometimes wanting It is seldom that they are wanting altogether. They communicate with the anterior cellules of the ethmoid bone. 158. Articulations. Tlie frontal bone is articulated with th(49 OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE. foUo-R'ing bones; the parietal, the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the na- sal, the upper maxillary, the lachrymal, and the malar bones. 159. Development. Its development takes place by two points of ossification, which begin, about the forty-second day of gestation, to make their appearance on the frontal protuberances, or rather in the orbital arches,* and from thence send out radii towards the cir- cumference of the bone. The suture (sutura frontalis J, by which the two lateral halves are at first united, generally disappears a few years after birth, although not at any very regular period. OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE, "f 160. Form. The Occipital Bone (os occipitis) is flat, symmetri- cal, of a rhomboidal form, and curved upon itself It is situated at the posterior, middle, and inferior part of the skull, and is divided into the following parts. 161. Occipital or Posterior Aspect. This aspect is convex; there are observed upon it, in the median line, proceeding from be- low tipwards; Imo, A rough surface, nearly horizontal, in the middle of which there is a projection to which the pharynx is connected (spina pharyngea), and on the sides elevations for the attachment of the large and small anterior recti muscles of the head. It is called the Basilar Surface. 2do, The Great Occipital Hole, which is of an elliptical form, with its greatest diameter placed from behind forwards; it gives passage to the spinal marrow and its envelopes, the vertebral arteries and spinal accessory nerves. 3/t<o, The External occipital crest (crista occipitalis externa), into which is fixed the posterior cervical ligament, ^to, Above the latter part, the External Occipital Protuberance (protuberantia occipitalis externa), more or less prominent and uneven, and situr ated nearly in the middle of the space which separates the.oc<jipi-,^ tal hole from the upper angle of the bone. Between this angle andj^ the protuberance there is a convex surface, which is covered by the"* epicranial aponeurosis: ^ 162. On either side, and in the same direction, there is the Condi/le of the occipital bone, a convex eminence covered with cartilage, which is articulated with the atlas ; it is of an oval form, elongated from behind forwards, and from without inwards, uneven on the inner side for the attachment of a ligament which comes trom the odontoid process, limited externally by a surface into which IS inserted the rectus capitis lateralis, and marked behind and bdtore with two cavities which are named the Condyloid Fos- s^- 1 hcse fossae are perforated at their bottom with holes which Dear the same name. The first of these two holes (foramen con- • Juysch ami Rcclard describe these latter centres as t'onstant. spLnoid anK^irf' of Soemmering, because he considers the pncncd and occipital as but one bone, they being never found sepanile in the £PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 50 dylokleum anteriusJ, wliich is sometimes double, gives exit to the hypoglossal nerve ; the other (foramen coHdylmdeuinposterius) is traversed by arteries and veins, and is sometimes wanting, a cir- cumstance never observed with respect to the first. Beyond the condyle are impressions, for the attachment of the great and small posterior recti and superior oblique muscles of the head, which are situated under a curved line called the inferior (linea semilunaris inferior), pretty distinct, and surmounted by other impressions, into which are inserted internally, the complexus, externally the splenius, and by a second curved line called the superior (linea semilunaris superior), to which are attached the occipitalis muscle, above ; internally and below, the trapezius; externally and below, the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, above the point of insertion of which is a smooth triangular surface, on which the occipitalis muscle hes. 163. Cerebral or anterior aspect. This is concave, unequal, and immediately connected with the dura mater. It presents in the middle, and from below upwards : 1°, a broad groove, called Ba- silar, inclined backwards, which sustains the annular protuberance ; 2°, the internal orifice of the great occipital hole, wider than the outer ; 3°, the Inner occipital Crest {crista occipitalis interna), bifurcated below, and giving attachment to the falx cerebelli; 4", the Internal occipital protuberance (protuberantia occipitalis in- terna), sometimes substituted by a depression, and in which ter- minates, 5°, a channel which descends on one side or the other, more commonly on the right, in which is lodged the termination of the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. 164. On either side, and in the same direction, there occurs a small channel on the edge of the basilar groove, which, together with a corresponding one on the posterior and lower surface of the inter- nal half of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, lodges the in- ferior petrous sinus of the dura mater. In the very margin of the I great occipital hole are the internal orifices of the anterior condy- loid foramina, covered by a bony eminence, on the outside of which is a portion of a canal directed inwards and backwards, which lodges the end of the lateral sinus of the dura mater, and contains the internal orifice of the posterior condyloid foramen. This por- tion of canal is surmounted by, 6°, the Inferior occipital Fossa, ( fossa cerebelli), which lodges the corresponding lobe of the cere- bellum, and which is itself surmounted, 7°, by the Lateral Trans- verse Groove {sulcus lateralis), which, proceeding from the inter- nal occipital protuberance, is continuous with the median groove, sometimes on both sides at once, but more commonly on the right side only, although the reverse has also been observed. It receives the commencement of the lateral sinus of the dura mater. Above it, is observed, 8°, the Superior Occipital Fossa, {fossa cercbralijs)^ smaller than the inferior, which receives the posterior lobes of the brain, and whose surface is marked with distmct mamillary emi- nences and digital impressions. 165. The Edges o£ the occipital bone form, by their junction,OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE. 51 angles more or less acute. Two of these edges are inferior, and present anteriorly an elongated surfixce, not very well defined, which belongs to the side of the basilar process, unites with the inferior edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and is limited behind by a deep notch which concurs to form the foramen lacerum posterius ; sometimes this notch is divided into two por- tions by a small bony process which the temporal bone also occa- sionally suppUes. Behind this, is a square eminence, covered with cartilage, which is articulated to the temporal bone, and is named the Jugular process. It seems to divide this edge into two nearly equjil parts, of which one has just been described, the other, which is situated higher, is concave, and indented, and articulates with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. 166. The Superior Edges, which are articulated with the pa- rietal bones, are very much notched and serrated. They frequent- ly present ossa Wormii entangled in their serratures. The angle which these two edges form by their junction is generally acute ; it is often, however, truncated, and in that case a wormian bone of considerable size occupies its place. The two lateral angles re- sulting from their union with the lower edges are much more ob- tuse, and are articulated with the mastoid portions of the temporal bones. 167. The two inferior edges do not meet anteriorly, but are se- parated by a square rough surface, covered with cartilage, which terminates the basilar process anteriorly for the purpose of its arti- culation to the posterior surface of the sphenoid bone. 168. Structure. The occipital bone is rather thin except at the condyles, the basilar process, and toward the ridges and protube- rances, in which places there is much cellular tissue interspersed between the compact tables, whereas in the middle of its fossas, it is entirely composed of compact tissue, and is there so thin as to be semitransparent. 169. Articulations. The occipital bone is articulated to the sphenoid, the temporal and parietal bones, and the atlas, by the various points already mentioned. 170.^ Development. At birth the occipital bone, whose ossifica- tion is of the most complex nature, appears to be formed by four centres, which commence at the basilar surface, at each condyle, and at the external protuberance. These four pieces form at that period so many distinct bones, which have been described as such under the names of the proral or squamous, condyloid and basilar bones. From these different points the fibres radiate in all directions, and meet, on the one hand, behind the great occipital hole, and on the other, at the middle part of the condyles. But if the bone be examined long before birth, it is discovered that the occipital portion properly so called, or that situated above the con- owes its development to four osseous nuclei which unite at the protuberance, and which are but a short time distinct from each other, especially the two upper. At that period also, but only inPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 59r some subjects, there occurs between the posterior extremities of the condyloid points, in tlie inferior notch of the occipital portion, a particular nucleus which completes the vertebral ring behind. OF THE TEMPORAL BONE.* 171- Form. The Temporal Bones (ossa temporicm) contain in their interior the organs of hearing, and occupy the lateral and in-' ferior parts of the cranium. Each of them is commonly divided into three portions, viz. the squamuus portiooi externally, the ?nas- toid portion posteriorly, and the petrous portion inferiorly and internally. These portions are separate in the young subject, but they form a single piece only in the adult. We distinguish in the temporal bone the following parts. 172. An auricular or ewternal aspect. It is slightly convex, smooth, and entirely situated at the outside of the cranium. At its anterior and upper part, it presents a pretty broad surface, marked by several grooves in which branches of the deep temporal arteries are lodged; it gives attachment, nearly over its whole extent, to the temporal muscle, and forms part of the temporal fossa. Be- low, there is observed a strong process, which is broad at its com- mencement, but gradually becomes narrower; it is at first direct- ed horizontally outwards and forwards, but afterwards retains the latter direction only, and becomes twisted upon itself as it removes from the rest of the bone, so that its surfaces, from being horizontal, become vertical. This is the Zygomatic Process, the upper edge of which is thin and straight, and gives attachment to the tempo- ral aponeurosis ; while the lower edge, which is thick, concave, and much shorter than the other, serves, together with the inner sur- face, for the insertion of the masseter muscle; its outer surface is convex, and lies immediately under the skin; its extremity is cut obliquely downwards and backwards, and is denticulated for its ar- ticulation with the malar bone. Its base, which is turned back- wards, and hollowed above by a superficial groove, in which a great part of the fibres of the temporal muscle slide, gives rise to two prolongations named the Roots of the Zygomatic Process. One of these roots (tuber articulare) which is inferior, transverse, con- cave fi'om within ovitAvai'ds, and convex from before backwards, is covered with cartilage, and serves for the articulation of the lower jaw; where this root joins with the base of the process, there is a rough surface, to which the external lateral ligament of this articulation is attached ; the other, which is superior and longitu- dinal, is directed backwards, and divides into two. Its upper sub- division, by describing a curve, gains the circumference of the bone ; the lower descends a little inwards, and terminates at the " Tlie Temporal Bones have been so named, on account of their occupying the region of the head on which the hair generally first begins to turn grey, thus indi- dic-aling the various periods of age {Umjiora-)THE TEMPORAL BONE. 53 outer extremity of a very narrow fissure which opens into the ca- vity of the tympanum (Scisswa Glaseri) ; through this fissure there pass, the tendon of the external muscle of the malleus, some vessels, and a nerve called Corda Tympani. 173. This fissure, whose direction is inwards and a little down- wards, divides the Glenoid Cavity of the temporal bone into two portions; this cavity is turned downwards, outwards, and forwards, is of an irregularly oval form, and circumscribed externally by the superior root, and anteriorly by the transverse root of the zygoma- tic process, so that it seems to occupy the interval which exists be- tween them. The anterior portion of this cavity is covered with cartilage in the recent state, and is articulated with the condyle of the inferior maxillary bone; its posterior portion, which is less re- gularly limited, and neither so smooth nor so concave, is covered with periosteum, and does not form part of the joint. 174). Behind and to the ovitside of the glenoid cavity, between the two divisions of the upper root of the process, is the orifice of the external auditory canal {meatus auditorius eooternus). This canal seems formed of an osseous plate rolled upon itself, blending above with the rest of the bone, and forming below an unequal rugged edge, more or less prominent, which gives attachment to the carti- lage of the ear. The canal itself has a direction from behind for- wards, and from without inwards, is a little curved downwards, and is narrower in the middle than at either extremity; it opens into the cavity of the tympanum, is lined with a prolongation of the skin, and is about nine or ten lines in extent. Above and behind, it terminates sooner than below and before. In the foetus it was merely an osseous ring, distinct from the rest of the bone, and in- terrupted above. 175. Beyond the meatus auditorius there is observed a conical eminence, named the Mastoid* Process (processus mastoideus). It is much more prominent in old, than in young subjects, is rough, and presents many different appearances.-f It gives attachment to the stcrno-mastoideus, and is surmounted by a rough surface, mto which that muscle is inserted, together with the splcnius and trachelo-mastoideus. It is here that the Foramen Mastoideum commonly occurs, although it varies much in its position, being sometimes met with in the occipital bone, and not unfrequently in the suture by which that bone is joined to the temporal; it gives passage to an artery, and an emissary vein of Santorini; sometimes It is wanting on one side, and occasionally there are three or four m each bone. On the inside of, and behind, the mastoid process, is a longitudinal depression named the Digastric Groove, on account of Its giving attachment to the muscle of that name ; and farther back another groove, less deep, for the trachelo-mastoideus muscle. , • Ma/lif mamma ; il^o;, fnrma. J- J" ■ ^^I'Wfcssuiii mastoideum, modo teretem, modo ciirvum, morlo acumina- uoiem, modoobtiisioruni, modo gibMounn, modo planiorcm, modo mngis liimclla- lum, modo magis srjuamo.stun, modo craSHioro, modo tciiuiorc testa fortuatuu), Sjoeinm. Uc Corp. Hum. Fub. Tom. i. p. IIC. '54 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 176. A Cerebral or Internal Aspect. This aepect presents at its upper part, a surface which is cut obliquely, and deeply striated, by which this bone is articulated with the lower edge of the parie- tal. This surface is much broader in its middle part than behind, and especially than before, where it runs into the circumference oi the bone. Under it, there is observed a concave uneven space, marked with several arterial furrows, and cerebral impressions. 177- A pyramidal, triangular process, having its summit direct- ed forwards and inwards towards the sphenoid bone, and slightly inclined in that direction, rises from the middle of the cerebral aspect of the temporal bone: this is the Petrous Process {pars jie- trosa), in which, on account of its form, there are distinguished: 1°, An upper and anterior surface, which presents in its middle a small irregular aperture, named Hiatus Fallopii, through whicli a nervous filament from the spheno-palatine ganglion, and a small artery, are transmitted to the acqueduct of Fallopius. Ante- riorly to this hole, there is observed a smaU single or double groove, "which is straight and shallow, and lodges the nerve and artery just mentioned; behind it, is a prominence, which indicates the position of the superior semicircular canal. The whole surface, moreover, is covered with cerebral impressions. 2°, A posterior surface, covered like the preceding, by the dura mater, on which there is seen, at its upper and fore part, a wide oblique aperture, with rovmded edges, which is the orifice of a canal named the i7i- ternal auditory {meatus auditorius internus.) This canal has a di- rection forwards and outwards, and is abruptly terminated by a vertical bony plate, in the upper part of which there is a small opening, leading into the aqueduct of Fallopius, for the passage of the facial nerve: beneath this opening is a sort of crest, which svirmounts a number of pores, through which pass the filaments of the portio mollis to the labyrinth. Behind the aperture of the meatus auditorius internus, there is observed an irregular cavity, widest in young bones, into which is fixed a prolongation of the dura mater; behind this is a narrow, triangular, and very short sHt, in which the aqueduct of the vestibule {aquccductus vestibidi) terminates ; a pretty distinct groove descends from this slit toward the jugular fossa, of which we shall presently speak. This sur- face is marked with impressions similar to those which we have ob- served on the upper, from which it is separated by a blunt edge, presenting internally a semilunar depression, on which rests the tri- facial nerve, aiid marked in its whole length with a superficial channel, in which is lodged the superior petrosal sinus of the du- ra mater. 3°, A very complex inferior surface, placed on the outA side of the cranium : internally, it presents a very rough space, into which are inserted the fibres of the levator palati and tensor tym- pani muscles, and which is bounded externally by the orifice of the carotid canal, and by a cavity which occurs behind it: this cavity, which is named the jugular fossa {fossa hulhi vena jugidaris)^ lodges the commencement of the jugular vein, it is limited posteTHE TEMPORAL BONE. 5.5 riorly by a small quadrilateral surface, covered with cartilage in the recent state for its articulation with the jugular process of the oc- cipital bone (165) ; between this facet and mastoid process, there is a hole, named stylo-mastoid {fbramen stylo-mastoidewn), which terminates the Fallopian aqueduct, and transmits the facial nerve from the interior of the cranium. Before this aperture, and a little to the inside, there is observed a slender, elongated and pointed process, descending obliquely forwards : this is the styloid process* (processus styliformis) ; it gives attachment to the stylo-hyoideus, stylo-glossus, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and to the stylo-max- illary and stylo-hyoid ligaments. This process, in early age is not imited to the rest of the bone, but is then articulated to the pe- trous process by the intervention of a cartilage; its base is em- braced by a bony lamina, called the vaginal process (vagina pro- cessus styliformis), which forms the posterior limit of the glenoid cavity ; this process is deficient internally. 178. Such are the various objects presented by the lower sur- face of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is separated, from the upper surface by a very short edge, which is articulated with the sphenoid bone (118), and is not very distinct on account of its irregularity ; from the posterior, by an unequal edge, in which there is posteriorly a notch, frequently divided into two portions by a small bony plate (165), concurring with the occipital bone to form the foramen lacerum posterius. At the middle of this edge is a triangular aperture, which is the external opening of the aque- duct of the cochlea; internally this edge is connected with the oc- cipital bone. 179. The summit of the petrous process is very uneven, ob- liquely truncated, and sometimes partly formed by a wormian bone; a portion of the circumference of the foramen lacerum me- dium belongs to it; lastly, it presents the internal orifice of the carotid canal, (canalis caroticus), which is stUl more uneven ih its margin than the outer, and varies much as to its form in different subjects. This canal gives passage to the internal carotid artery, with several small nerves. At its commencement, it is directed vertically upwards, then bends, and proceeds horizontally inwards and forwards toward the internal orifice. 180. The Aqueduct of Fallopius, whose commencement we have already pointed out in the bottom of the internal auditory ca- nal, and which we have seen terminating in the stylo-mastoid fora- men, is a narrow canal, remarkable for its length, which transmits the portio dura of the seventh pair of nerves. Immediately after Its commencement, it ascends outwards and backwards, to the up- per part of the petrous process, where it is perforated by the hia- tus Fallopii; it then proceeds directly backward over the cavity of ■ This process varies ranch in appearance; Soemmering describes it as being " nnnc orevior, nimc pollice longior, nunc procerior, nunc curvatior, nunc plus, nunc mi. nus tortus vel nodosus, nunc acutior, nunc obtusior "56 PASSIVfi ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the tympanum, and descends first obliquely, then vertically, in the inner wall of that cavity, to end in the stylo-mastoid hole. This canal is lined by a very thin hbrous prolongation, and is per- forated in its passage by several apertures, independently of that of the hiatus Fallopii,* the principal of which is a canal which trans- mits the corda tympani; there are also some small canals for ner- vous filaments which are distributed to the muscles of the small bones of the ear. 181. Behind the petrous process, and on the cerebral aspect of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, there is a deep channel which presents the internal orifice of the mastoid hole (175), and lodges a portion of the lateral sinus of the dura mater. 182. Circumference. It commences by a retiring angle, at the place where the anterior edge of the petrous process unites with the rest of the bone. This angle, which receives the spine of the sphenoid bone (124), presents at its bottom two apertures, separated by a bony lamina, and placed one above the other. The upper, which is less marked, gives entrance to the inner muscle of the malleus ; the lower is the orifice of the bony portion of the Eustachian Tube {Tuba Eustachiana ossea). The circumfe- rence is now cut obliquely at the expense of its outer surface, and becomes thick and denticulated to be joined with the sphenoid bone, directing itself forwards and upwards. It then becomes thin and sharp, and proceeds backwards, describing a semicircle; here it is articulated with the parietal bone, forming what is called the Squamous Suture. Above the mastoid process it is again marked with a retiring angle, becomes thickened, and unites with the inferior and posterior angle of the parietal bone. Lastly, it descends forward, still thick and denticulated beneath the mas- toid process, and terminates at the petrous portion near the stylo- mastoid hole. This part of the circumference is articulated with the upper portion of the lower edge of the occipital bone. 183. Structure. The petrous process is formed of a very dense and white compact tissue; next to the teeth, it is the hardest part of the skeleton ; and from this circumstance it has derived its name. The mastoid process is filled with large cells. The rest of the bone presents the same structure as the other bones of the cranium. 184. Articulations. The temporal bone is articulated to the sphenoid, occipital and parietal bones, the malar bone, and the lower jaw, by the various points mentioned above. 185. Development. Its development takes place by six points of ossification, one for the petrous process, one for the circumfe- * Bertin {Traite. (fOstcologir., t. ii. p. 52.) lias mentioned one at the level of the hiatus Falopii, but much sm.-illor than it, opening into one of tlie semicircular canals. M. Jucobson has lately described another which leads into a groove, or according to Boclard, into a canal formed on tiie promontory of the tympainmi. It contains an anastomosis of| the glosso-idiaryngeal nerve, with a filament of the sphc. iio-palatine ganglion and of the carotid plexus..OF THE PAUIliTAL BONE. 57 rcnce of tJie external auditory canal, one for the squamous por- tion, one for the mastoid process, one for the zygomatic, and one for the styloid process. The fourth and sixth make their appear- ance long after the rest. In certain cases, there are two osseous nuclei for the squamous portion. OF THE PARIETAL BONE.* 186. Form. The Parietal Bone (Os Parietale: os BregmatLi): like the temporal, is double and unsymmetrical. It is of an irre- gularly quadrilateral form, concave internally, convex externally, and occupies the lateral, upper and middle parts of the cranium. It presents the following parts. 187. An Outer Aspect, convex, smooth, and covered by the epicranial aponeurosis in its upper half, somewhat uneven in its lower half, where the temporal muscle is inserted, and where there are sometimes observed slight furrows for the deep temporal ar- teries. This surface is perforated, above and behind, by the pa- rietal Jin'amen, which varies much as to its size and position, and' even its existence ; it gives passage to small vessels which establish a communication between those of the dura mater and pericra- nium ; it is sometimes found in the occipital bone, and sometimes stops short in the diploe, without passing through the bone. In the middle of this aspect there is observed an eminence, which is much more prominent in children than in adults, named the Pa- rietal Protuberance {tuber parietale) ; it surmounts a curved line, which is continuous with the ridge observed on the frontal bone (152), and with the upper root of the zygomatic process. This line gives attachment to the temporal aponeurosis. 188. An Inner or Cerebral Aspect, concave, covered by the dura mater, and marked over its whole extent with a great number of deep furrows {sulci meningei), which lodge the divisions of the middle meningeal artery. It also presents cerebral impres- sions, but they are rather indistinct, especially above. In the middle is a depression called thie Parietal fossa, which corresponds to the protuberance of the same name. At the upper part, near the edge of the bone, there is observed a half groove running in a longitudinal direction, which, united to a similar half groove in the other parietal bone, is continued into the groove qn the inner sur- face of the frontal bone (153). Near this, there are observed small irregular cavities, varying much in number and arrangement, which receive the bodies called glands of Pacchioni. 189. Four Edges. The upper or sagittal (margo sagittalis) is the longest; it is straight and denticulated, and joins that of the op- posite bone, with which it forms the sagittal suture. The lower or temporal edge {margo temporalis) is the shortest; it is concave, these^boiTer""' " ^^'^^^^^ ^'^^^^ °^ ^^^^ '"'c principally formed of58 OF THE OSSA WORMIANA. and surmounted externally by an oblique surface, marked with pro- minent radiating striae, which is connected with the upper edge of the temporal bone, forming the squamous suture. The anterior or coronal edge {margo corona/is) is denticulated, and is cut oblique- ly at the expense of its inner table, except to a small extent supe- riorly, where it is at the expense of the outer; it joins the frontal bone (155). The angle which it forms above with the upper edge (angulus frontalis) is truncated in children, and substituted by a membranous part belonging to what is named the Upper Fonta- nelle. The angle formed below by its junction with the lower edge (angulus sphenoideus) is much prolonged downwards and forwards; it is obliquely curved at its summit, and is articulated with the sphenoid bone (124) ; at its internal part, it presents a deep groove, or even a canal, which lodges the middle meningeal artery, and from which proceed almost all the branches by which the inner surface of the bone is marked. At the bottom of this groove, there frequently occur two small holes through which vessels pass into the diploe. Lastly, the posterior or occipital edge {inaryo occipi~ talis) is extremely unequal; its indentations are very irregularly disposed, and retain among them many of the small bones called os- sa Wormii; it is articulated with the upper edge of the occipital bone. The angle which it forms below with the lower edge (an- gulus mastoideus) is truncated, and is articulated to the mastoid portion of the temporal bone; the angle which it forms with the upper edge (angulus occipitalis) is the most obtuse. Internally the angulus mastoideus is hollowed by a portion of a canal which is continuous with that existing on the occipital and temporal bones, for the lodgement of the lateral sinus of the dura mater. 190. Structure and Development. The parietal bone is in ge- neral thin, although somewhat thicker at its upper and back parts, and consists of diploe contained between two compact plates. It is developed by a single point of ossification, which makes its appear-, ance at the parietal protuberance, over a pretty wide extent, and under an areolar form. 191. Articulations. The parietal bone is articulated to that of the opposite side, and to the frontal, occipital, temporal and sphe- noid bones. OF THE OSSA WORMIANA. 192. The Ossa Wormiana (ossa triquetra), yvhich. are extreme-' ly variable as to size, situation, form, number, and other circum- stances, are found interposed between the bones of the cranium ■which have been described. Roundheads scarcely ever present any of them, frequently none at all, whilst, in such as are elongated from before backwards, they occur in great numbers. It is in the sutvu-e between the occipital and parietal bones that they are most commonly met with; some-59 OF THE FACE. times the upper angle of the occipital bone is substituted by one of them ;* they also occasionally occur between the two parietal bones, particularly at the union of their upper and anterior angle, where one is then met with of a quadrilateral form and of large size. The lower and anterior angle of these bones is also sometimes substitut- ed by a wormian bone, which varies in size, and is frequently of an oval form. It is seldom that any are observed in the sutures be- tween the temporal and parietal bones, and still more seldom in the base of the skull; we have, however, mentioned one as in many cases occupying the summit of the petrous portion of the temporal bone (179). 193. In general these bones are of the same thickness as the other bones of the cranium; but it may happen that they are merely formed in their outer or inner table. 194. They vary much as to extent, and are very irregular in their form. In general their two surfaces are smooth ; their cir- cumference is denticulated, for their union with the other bones of the skull, or even with each other. Sometimes, however, they are so small as to rise in scales, and this is particularly the case when they occupy the inner surface of the sutures, as Hunauld has ob- served. Sometimes, on the contrary, they rise above the other bones, and form a prominence which might be taken for an exosto- sis. Their structure and development are similar to those of the other bones of the skull; in other words, they are formed of two tables of compact substance, separated by diploe.j- OF THE FACE. 195. The Face is all that part of the head which is situated at the lower and fore part of the cranium. It is limited above by that cavity, laterally by the zygomatic arches, behind by an empty space, in which is lodged the upper part of the pharynx. Its form IS symmetrical, its vertical section triangular, and its structure very complex. We have already pointed out its principal divisions (44), and mentioned the names of the bones which enter into its composition : these bones are much more numerous than those of the cranium. ♦ This hone has been named the Epactal by some authors. It is only developed afterbirth, and is met witli in one subject out of about fifteen or twenty. t These bones are very numerous in hydrocephalic heads—this is consonant with the observation of Hunauld, who says, that there are many supernumerary bones in tne cranuim when tlie Ijraiii grows faster than usual, and there arc none ut all when Ills viscus grows more slowly.60 PASSIVE OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 01" THE BONES WHICH COMPOSE THE UPPER JAW- OF THE SBPKIIIOK MAXILLARY BONE. 196. The Superior Matvillary Bones {mawillcB mperiores) are to the face, what the sphenoid bone is to the cranium, for they ar- ticulate with all the pieces of which it is composed; they are those which principally determine its figure, and insure its solidity. These bones, which are large, and of a very irregular form, occupy the middle and anterior part of the upper jaw, enter into the com- position of the orbit, nasal fossjc, and mouth, give passage to va- rious nerves and vessels, and aflbrd insertion to numerous muscles. We shall distinguish in these bones two aspects, and a circumfer- ence. 197- Outer or Orhito-facial Aspect. The whole of this aspect may be seen, without separating the bone from those in its vicinity. It is surmounted internally by a flat oblong process, called nasal {processus nasalis) which is smooth and concave from above down- wards externally, where it presents several vascular apertures, and gives attachment to the levator labii superioris and the levator la- bii superioris alajque nasi. This process, which forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fosscE, presents, internally, at its upper part, irregularities which are connected with the lateral masses of the ethmoid bone, below which is a channel belonffins to the middle meatus of the nostrils, and farther down, a horizontal crest, unit- ed to the inferior turbinated bone, also some arterial furrows. The nasal process terminates above in a truncated summit, furnished with denticulations, to be articulated to the nasal notch of the frontal bone; anteriorly, in a thin oblique edge, which rests upon the nasal bones; behind, in a groove which is broader and deeper below than above ; the posterior edge of which is articulated with the lachrymal bone, and the anterior, which is free, and continu- ous with the lower margin of the orbit, gives attachment to the tendon and some fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle : this channel forms part of the lachrymal groove. 198. On the outer and back part of the nasal process is a smooth triangular surface (fades orbitalis) inclined downwards, forwards, and outwards, forming part of the floor of the orbit. About its middle and back part, it presents a channel which soori' changes into a canal, named the infra-orbitar, which lodges the ves- eels and nerves of the same name ; this canal, as it proceeds forwards and inwards, divides into two subordinate ones; the posterior of which is the smaller, and descends, under the name of the superior and anterior dentar canal, in the anterior wall of the maxillary sinus, where it sometimes opens; it affords a passage to nerves and vessels which bear the same name. The other, or anterior61 OF THE SUPERIOU MAXILLAUY BONE. division, which is wider and shorter, follows the original direction of" the canal, and terminates at the infra-orbitar hole. 199. This surface, the inner and fore part of which gives at- tachment to the inferior oblique muscle of the eye, is limited: be- hind by a rounded edge, which concurs to form the spheno-maxil- Liry fissure ; internally, by a thin and uneven edge, which is notch- ed before, to be articulated, with the lachrymal, and behind, with the palate bones, whilst in the middle it is connected with the eth- moid ; anteriorly, by a third edge, which is rounded, and of small extent; it forms part of the contour of the orbit, and gives attach- ment to some fibres of the levator labii superioris. Between this edge and the posterior, there is a triangular and very rough emi- nence, named malar (processus malaris), which is articulated to the check-bone. 200. From the outer angle of this process, there descends ver- tically a blunt prominent edge, concave from above downwards, behind which is a portion of the bone belonging to the zygomatic fossa, while before it is a pretty distinct depression, called the infra- whitar fussa, perforated above by the infra-orbitar foramen, which gives passage to the infra-orbitar vessels and nerves, and affording attachment below to the levator anguli oris muscle. ♦ Anteriorly, this fossa is bounded by the myrtiform. fossa, an indistinct depres- sion, into which is inserted the depressor of the wing of the nose. 201. Inner or Naso-palatine aspect. This can only be well seen when the bones have been separated. Above, where it is invested by the pituitary membrane, it is concealed in the nasal fossae; while below, where it is covered by the palatine membrane, it forms part of the arch of the palate. It is divided into two portions of different extent, by a broad flat horizontal eminence, very thick before, which is named the palatine process (processus palatmtif). This process corresponds below to the movith, and above to the nose : in the latter direction, where it presents at its fore-part one of the superior apertures of the anterior palatine canal, it is con- cave, and smooth; in the former direction, on the contrary, it is rough, uneven, and marked with a great many small apertures and several furrows; the latter of which are sometimes converted poste- riorly into small bony arches, more or less complete, under which the palatine nerves and vessels pass. Posteriorly, it is bounded by a sloped and denticulated margin, which sustains the palate bones; internally, it unites with the opposite bone by a thick striated edge, presenting anteriorly a channel which occupies only the lower half of its thickness, and is tlirected obliquely downwards and forwards : by uniting with a similar channel in the other bone, It forms the anterior palatine or incisive canal (canalis palatinus 8- mcisivus). This edge is also surmounted by a ridge, de- ^ outwards, more prominent before than behind, >vnich constitutes the half of a groove, into which the vomer is received. 202. Beneath the palatine process, there is observed a concaveG2 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. surface of email extent, uneven, and covered with furrows. Above it, on the contrary, is seen a broad vertical surface, in the middle of which is a large and very irregular opening, with thin and rag- ged edges : this opening leads into a large cavity in the substance ' of the bone, which is named the maxillary sinus {sinus maxilla- ris, s. a.ntrnm Highmorianum). This sinus, which is the largest of those of the head, and which is sometimes divided by septa, has nearly the form of a triangular pyramid, with the base turned in- wards. It corresponds, above, to the floor of the orbit, and contains in its vipper wall the infra-orbitar canal; before, to the canine fossa and the upper and anterior dentar canal, which frequently forms a re- markable prominence in its interior; behind, where it presents the mark of the posterior dentary canals, to the maxillary tuberosity; below, by a surface less broad than in the other directions, to the alveoli of the molar, and sometimes of the canine teeth ; the roots of these teeth sometimes raise up the thin bony plate which forms the floor of the sinus, and have even been seen to perforate it. Entirely to the outside, the summit of this cavity is formed in the malar process, and the bony plate, by which it is separated from the cheek-bone, is so thin as to be frequently broken when that bone is separated. The orifice of the sinus, which is sometimes double, is articulated, above, with the ethmoid bone ; below and before, with the inferior turbinated bone ; behind, with the palate bone, by all of which it is very much contracted: this cavity is lined by a prolongation of the pituitary membrane. 203. At the lower part of the aperture of the sinus, there occurs an oblique slit, chrected forwards and outwards, which receives a plate of the palate bone ; the posterior lip of this slit is inclined into the sinus, and the anterior toward the nasal fossa?. At the upper part of the same aperture, there are portions of cells which unite with those of the ethmoid bone : before it, is a deep channel, narrower at the middle than at its extremities, directed obliquely downwards, backwards and inwards, continuous with the lachrymal groove, and forming the greater part, sometimes even the whole, of the Lachrymal Canal (Canalis Lachrymalis). Behind the orifice of the sinus, there are observed an uneven surface, which is united to the palate bone, and a superficial groove which pro- ceeds downwards and forwards, and contributes to form the Poste^ rior Palatine Canal. 204. Circum ference. At the back part, the two aspects of the upper maxillary bone are separated by an uneven eminence, which is called the Maxillary Tuberosity. It is much more prominent in young than in old subjects, because it contains the last molar tooth, and diminishes considerably after this is gone. It is perfo- rated by the Posterior Dentar Canals, which open externally in the form of two or three small holes, and which, as well as the an- terior, chsappear as they approach the alveoli, and leave the nerves and vessels to descend from one cellule to another, in the diploe of the bone.63 UPPKR MAXILLARY LONE. 205. Anteriorly, between the two aspects of the bono, there is ^observed a free edge deeply concave at its upper part, which forms a portion of the anterior aperture of the nasal fossai. At its lower part it is prominent, and articulates with the bone of the opposite . side, and in its middle presents an eminence which forms the half of the Anterior Nasal Spine. This edge unites above with that which terminates anteriorly the nasal process, forming a more or iless projecting angle with it. 206. Lastly, at the lower part, the two aspects of the bone are - separated from each other by the Alveolar Process (Processus Alveolaris). This is thick, less so however before than behind, . where the Buccinator muscle is inserted; it describes in its course a portion of a parabola, and is hollowed by deep conical cavities : for the teeth, named Alveoli or Sockets: the form and dimensions of these alveoli Vary according to the kind of teeth which they lodge; and when the teeth have several roots, they are divided I into a similar number of subordinate cavities by particular septa. 1 The alveolus of the first incisor is deeper and broader than that of ! the second, but much less so than that of the canine tooth, which ■is generally flattened, and ends in a very sharp point. Those of the small molares are not so deep ; the most variable is the last, which is commonly divided into three cavities, sometimes into two, and in some cases presents only one. * Each maxillary bone has generally eight of these alveoli, the partitions of which are formed of a cellular tissue, which is found to be less and less compact pos- teriorly. Externally, the alveolar process presents prominences and depressions corresponding to the alveoK and their partitions : on the inside, it is perforated with a great number of small holes which transmit vessels to the walls of these cavities. 207. Structure. The upper maxillary bone is cellular only to- ward its different processes, and in the alveolar margin. It is hol- low, and as it were inflated in nearly its whole extent, on account of the presence of the sinus which is in its interior. 208. Articulations. The upper maxillary bone is articulated to the ethmoid, the frontal, the nasal, the lachrymal, and the pa- late, the inferior turbinated bones, the vomer, the opposite maxil- l;iry bone, the teeth of the upper jaw, and sometimes the sphenoid bone, by the different points mentioned above. 209. Development. The development of this bone takes place m a very complicated manner. At first there appear some osseous nuclei, which commence the formation of the upper alveolar arch, ihen the body of the bone is formed by one or two points of ossi- ncation; in the latter case, there occurs in the foetus a small dis- tinct osseous piece, which seems analogous to the inter-maxillary Done of quadrupeds. The sinus is only developed with age, and sometimes, though rarely, is not formed at all. f I'hc palatine * Interdum deficit. Socmm. Dc Corp. Hum. Fah. torn. i. p. H,7. T Auoigagui (Adv. Anat. i. p. 38. Adv. vi. p. IIG) metitious an cxfimplo of this.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 61, process also arises from a separate germ, which forms the innt "wall of the alveoli, excepting those of the incisors. The malai i and orbitar processes are also each produced by a separate point. J In many cases also an isolated small bone forms the upper part of the nasal canal. * OF THE PALATE BONE. 210. Form. The Palate Bones (Ossa Palati), which are of a very irregular figure, and were long confounded by anatomists with the upper maxillary bone, are situated behind the latter, and below the middle region of the base of the cranium. Each of them seems formed by the union of two plates joined at a right angle, so that one of them is horizontal and inferior, the other vertical and supe- rior : each of these portions is commonly described separately in order to facilitate the examination of this bone, which is very com- plicated. 211. Horizontal ov Palatine Portion. It is quadrilateral, and seems to be the continuation of the palatine process of the upper maxillary bone. Its Upper Surface is smooth, and forms part of the floor of the nasal fossoc; it is concave from within outwards, and straight in the other direction. The Lower Surface, which it rough and uneven, although less so than the corresponding sur- face of the maxillary bone, presents posteriorly a transverse ridgt for the insertion of the circumflexus palati, and forms part of the arch of the palate : there is also observed upon it, in the same di- rection, and a little outwards, an oval hole, sometimes double, which is the inferior orifice of the posterior palatine canal. Ante- riorly, this portion of the bone rests upon the palatine process of the upper maxillary bone, by means of an oblique edge (201) ; poste- riorly, it is terminated by a second edge, named the Guttural. which is free, sharp, and notched, and gives attachment to the velum palati; this edge, by its union with the inner one, forms j projecting angle, which, on being united with that of the opposit( side, constitutes the Posterior Nasal Spine. Internally, it present an uneven edge, much thicker than the others, articulated to th( corresponding bone, and surmounted by a thin crest, which contri butes to the formation of a groove into which the vomer is receiv cd: externally, it is confounded with the vertical portion. Thi centre of the horizontal portion of the palate bone is much thinne than its edges. 212. Vertical ox Ascending Portion. This portion is of an ol long form, slightly inclined inwards, broader and thinner than th horizontal, and rests upon the upper maxillary bone. Its Inne Surface, which enters into the composition of the nasal fossfe, pre sents below a broad and superficial depression, belonging to thei * BECtAflD, Nouvcau Journal dc Mcdccinc, April, 1819, p. 332.65 OV THIi PALATE liONK. inferior meatus, which is separated from another depression situat- ed above, and forming part of the middle meatus, by a rough hori- aontal ridge (crisia turbinalis inferior), united to the inferior tur- binated bone. Its Outer Surface is in general uneven, and is ar- ticulated with the inner surfxce of the maxillary bone ; it presents, posteriorly, a groove more or less deep, which contributes to the formation of the posterior palatine canal, and above, a small smooth triangular surface which is seen in the zygomatic fossa. 213. The Anterior Edge of this portion of the bone is very un- even and thin, and is prolonged inferiorly into a very brittle bony plate, which contracts the entrance of the maxillary sinus, and is received into the slit of which we have made mention (203) in de- scribiu"- that orifice. 214. The Posterior Edge, which is equally uneven with the last, rests in a great measure upon the inner side of the pterygoid pro- cess ; in order to be articulated to it, it is even frequently hollow- ed, in nearly its whole length, by a narrow groove, broader below than above. At its union with the guttural edge of the horizontal portion, there is observed a very prominent pyramidal eminence, inclined outwards and downwards, (processus pyraniidalis) which fills up the bifurcation of the two wings of the pterygoid process. Superiorly and internally, this process is hollowed by three channels, the two lateral of which uneven, and furnished with slight asperities, receive the summit of these wings, while the middle one, which is smooth and polished, completes the pterygoid fossa: the inner gi-oove is the deepest. Below, it presents a narrow surface belong- ing to the palatine arch, in which are seen the orifices of accessory posterior palatine canals. Externally, it forms part of the zygo- matic fossa, and gives attachment to the external pterygoid muscle, also presents some inequalities for the purpose of uniting with the upper maxillary bone. In the latter place, the posterior palatine canal, ceasing to be in'part formed in the maxillary bone, is entire- ly formed in its substance. 215. Its Upper Edge is surmounted by two eminences, the anteri- or of which is larger than the other, a little incUned outwards, and is named the Orbitar Process; it is supported by a contracted portion, formmg a sort of neck or pedicle, on the inner side of which there are observed a slight ridge (crista ttcrhinalis superior) which is articulated with the ethmoidal turbinated bone, and a small chan- nel belonging to the superior meatus of the nasal fossae ; the form ot this process is such as to present five distinct surfaces : 1° An anterior, uneven, inchned downwards and outwards, which is arti- culated to the maxillary bone; 2° A posterior, deHected inwards ana upwards, united to the sphenoid bone by means of some rn^o- sities surrounding a cellule, in the substance of the process, whTch IS continuous with the sphenoidal sinuses; 3° An outer, smooth, inclined backwards, forming part of the zygomatic fossa; 4° An «wier, inclined downwards, concave, frequently hollowed by a cell,PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 66 and united to the etlimoid bone ; 5° An upper, smooth and plam, forming tlie innermost part of the floor of the orbit, separated from tlic outer by a small blunt edge, •which contributes to the formation of tlie sphono-maxillary fissure. , 216. The other eminence of this edge, wliich is smaller, less ele- vated, broader, and laterally flattened, has received the name of Sphenoidal Proccsn. Internally, it is smooth and concave, and forms part of the nasal fossiu ; externally, it enters into the com- position of the zygomatic fossa; at the upper part, where it is very narrow, it imites with the sphenoid bone, and presents a groove which forms the pterygo-palatine canal: in this dii-ectiou also, it is articulated with the turbinated bone of the sphenoid. 217. These two processes are separated from each other by an almost circular notch, converted by the sphenoid bone into a hole, named the Spheno-palathie, which corresponds to the nervous ganglion of the same name, and gives passage to nerves and ves- sels which penetrate into the nasal fossae. Sometimes the sphe- noid bone does not in any degree contribute to the formation of this hole, which is entirely formed in the palate bone, a bony plate then stretching horizontally from one process to the other; very generally also the sphenoidal turbinated bone closes its sum- mit. 218. Structure and Development. The palate bones are very thin, and almost entirely formed of compact tissue, presenting cel- lular tissue only in the processes and horizontal portion. Their development, which is yet but little known, appears to take place by a single point of ossification, situated at the union of the verti- cal, horizontal, and pyramidal portions. 219- Articulations. This bone is articulated with the sphenoid and ethmoid, the sphenoidal turbinated bones, the upper max- illary bone, the lower turbinated bone, the vomer, and the opposite palate bone. OF THE VOMER.* 220. The Vomer is an azygous bone, situated in the median line, and consequently symmetrical,! forming the posterior part of the septum of the nasal fossae. It is thin, flat, quadrilateral, and smooth on its lateral surfaces, which only present vascular fur- rows, and a narrow groove at the lower part which marks the pas- sage of the naso-palatine nerve. It is always covered by the pi- • Vomer, a plougli-sliiire. It must not liowL'ver be imngincd that the bones situated in the median line are tlie only ones capiible of bi'ing divided into two (Hiiial parts. Ulany others arc ccpially symmetrical, as l)umc-ril has remarked. Of this kind, for example, are the phalanges of the fingers and toes.67 OF THE INFERIOll TURBINATED BONRS. tuitary membrane, and is frequently inclined to the right or left, or even perforated in the middle. 221. This bone has four edges. The first, or Sphenoidal Edge, which is the uppermost, is the thickest part of the bone, and is cUvided into two laminte, {alee vomeria), which enter into the grooves on the guttural aspect of the sphenoid bone, (114), and which receive into the cavity formed by their separation, the ros- trum situated between these grooves. The surfaces of this articu- lation never unite in substance, because there exists between them, under the sphenoid bone itself, and under its turbinated bones, to which the vomer here forms some attachment, a smaU canal which always transmits vessels and nervous filaments to the substance of the ethmoid bone. 222. The Supra-palatine edge of the vomer is inferior, and is the longest. Broad, obtuse, and uneven anteriorly, "thin and sharp posteriorly, it is received into the groove which exists between the united maxiUary and palate bones, as we have already said, (201 and 211.) 223. Its guttural or posterior edge, which is free, thin below, thick and bifurcated above, is either straight or notched; it sepa- rates the two posterior apertures of the nasal fossae. 224). The ethrroidal or anterior edge, is marked in its whole extent, or at least in its upper half, by a deep irregular channel, which receives the lower edge of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone above, and the cartilage of the septum naris below. This channel is continued into that of the sphenoidal edge. Some- times it is wanting, and then the cartilage slightly overlaps the vomer on each side. 225. Structure, Development, and Articulations. The vomer IS thin, compact, and transparent in almost its whole extent, and presents some traces of cellules at its upper part only. It origi- nates by a single centre of ossification, which is composed of two laminae. It is articulated to the maxillary and palate bones, to the ethmoid and sphenoid, also to the turbinated bones of the latter. OF THE INFEllIOR TURBINATED BONES. 226. Form. The Inferior Turbinated Bones, (ossa spon- gwsa, sen ossa turbinata inferiora, seu conchas inferiores), are of a very irregular form, elongated from behind forwards, rolled up upon themselves, wrinkled at their surface, and differently formed m different individuals. Each bone is suspended over the inner surface of the upper maxillary and palate bcines of each side, in the nasal fossae, where it determines the limits of the middle and interior meatus. Its inner or nasal aspect is convex and pro- minent, especially in the middle : it is covered by the pituitary membrane, reticulated and traversed in its whole length by two arterial furrows. Its outer or tnaxillary aspect, which is smoother68 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. than the other, and free like it, is concave, and belongs to the in- ferior meatus ol' tlie nasal fossa?. 227. The lower edge is free, spongy, rolled on itself from beneath upwards, and thicker at the middle than at the extremi- ties. The upper edge, which is articular and uneven, presents be- hind a sort of spinous crest, which unites with a similar part of the palate bone, and before, a small and very thin margin, furnish- ed with minute asperities, which are articulated to the crest on the base of the nasal process of the upper maxdlary bone; in tlie middle, it is surmounted by a small pyramidal eminence, (procensics lachrymalts), which ascends toward the lachrymal bone, and which completes with it the nasal canal, by some papyraceous laminae, (processus ethmoidales), which unite with the ethmoid bone, and by a kind of scale curved downwards in the form of a hook, (pro- cessus maxillaris), which partly contracts the orifice of the max- illary sinus in which it is engaged. I'he two edges of this bone unite so as to form two angles^ a posterior and an anterior. The former of these angles is the sharper and more elongated; both are joined to the ridges, which the corresponding superior maxillary and palate bones pre- sent. 228. Structure and Development. The inferior turbinated bone is in general thin. Its surface, which is covered with vermi- cular marks, porous and spongy, has been for this reason considered by most anatomists as consisting of cellular tissue; this opinion, however, I believe to be erroneous: for portions of cellules, such as these, which are frequently mere inequalities or small spines, which sometimes pass through the bone from one side to the other, and which are neither lined by a medullary membrane, nor moisten- ed by a fatty juice, cannot be likened to the diploe of the bones of the cranium, or to the areolaa of the short bones (25). It is developed by a single point of ossification, which makes its appearance at the fifth month. 229. Articulatio7is. The inferior turbinated bone is articulated to the upper maxillary, palate, lachrymal, and ethmoid bones, by the various points already mentioned. Frequently, even in chil- dren, it occurs united with the latter bone, so that in many sub- jects, the lower turbinated bone seems to constitute an appen- dage of the ethmoid, as Bertin has remarked. Sometimes, it is in- timately united to the aperture of the sinus ; but it is always slight- ly attached to the horizontal crests of the palate and maxillary bones. OF THE NASAT, BONES. 230. Form. The Nasal Bones (Ossa Nasi), are of small size, and occupy the interval existing between the two ascending pro- cesses of the maxillary bones; they are thick at the u])pcr part,.69 OF THE NASAL AND LACIIUYMAL BONES. thin below. Their form, although in general quadrilateral, is ex- cessively variable; and it is seldom that they are exactly the same on both sides. 231. Their anterior aspect, which is covered by the pyramidalis muscle and the skin, is traversed by a few small vascular fur- rows ; it is concave from above downwards, convex transversely : at its middle part it presents the orifice of a hole which passes through the bone, and transmits a small vein to the pituitary mem- brane ; this hole is frequently accompanied by several smaller ones, It is sometimes wanting in one of the bones. 232. Their posterior ox nasal aspect, which is concave, uneven, especially at the upper part, and narrower than the anterior, pre- sents more distinct furrows, and is lined by the pituitary mem- brane. The orifice of the vascular hole just mentioned is seen upon it. 233. The upper edge is denticulated, short, inclined backwards, thick, and united to the nasal notch of the frontal bone. The loiver edge is longer, thin, sharp, and inclined obliquely backwards and downwards. It joins the lateral cartilage of the nose, and presents in its middle a narrow notch for the passage of the terminating branch of the internal nasal nerve. The outer edge, which is very long, uneven, and sloped, sup- ports the ascending process of the maxillary bone, and is often fur- nislied below with two or three small prominences in the form of teeth, which are received into holes formed on that process.* The inner edge, which is broad above, and narrow below, is ar- ticulated with the bone of the opposite side, forming a ridge with it behind, in which there is a groove for receiving the anterior ex- tremity of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and the nasal spine of the frontal. 234. Structure, Development, Articulations. The nasal bones present cellular tissue in almost their whole extent, but especially at their upper and inner edges. They are developed by a single point of ossification. It is unnecessary to mention their articula- tions again. OF THE LACHRYMAL BONE. 235. Form. The Lachrymal Bones, (ossa laclmjmalia, seu Ossa Uruptis), which arc the smallest belonging to the face, arc placed at the inner and fore part of the orbit, occupying a qviadrila- teral irregular space situated between the frontal, ethmoid and supe- rior maxillary bones : their form corresponds to that of the vacuity in which they are placed. They present the following parts.) 236. An orhitar aspect, which is external, smooth, divided Ion. * It soinctiincs Imppcns, that thcsn prominences ni'c on tlic iuseetuling^pioccss of the maxillary boiiu, a>ud thu conchponding holes on this edju of the nawal.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. gitudinally and in the middle, into two portions, by a thin and prominent ridge, forming a sort of hook at its lower extremity. Be- fore this ridge, which is sometimes wanting, there is a channel perforated with numerous small holes, and entering into the com- position of the Lachrymal Groove ; it is covered by the walls of the lachrymal sac. Posteriorly, there is observed a plain surface, broader but shorter, and not cribriform. 237. A nasal aspect: this is internal, and presents in its mid- dle a groove, which corresponds to the ridge of the outer aspect. Anteriorly to this groove, there is observed an uneven surface, which belongs to the middle meatus of the nasal fossae; and be- hind it, there are rugosities which correspond to the anterior cells of the ethmoid bone, and which cover them : pretty frequently al- so, some of these inequalities communicate above with those of the orifice of the frontal sinuses. 238. Four edges, an upper, a lower, a posterior, and an ante- rior. The upper edge is short, uneven, and articulated to the in- ternal obitar process of the frontal bone. The lower, is divided into two portions by the extremity of the external ridge : it unites anteriorly with the lower turbinated bone, by a thin plate, curved inwards, and elongated downwards, which contributes to form the nasal canal; and behind, with the inner edge of the orbitar surface of the upper maxillary bone ; sometimes, the middle hook of this edge is wanting, and in that case, it is substituted by a small unci- form supernumerary bone, which unites with the upper maxillary bone, on the outside of the superior orifice of the nasal canal. The third edge, which is posterior and very thin, joins the anterior edge of the orbitar surface of the ethmoid bone. The fourth, Avhich is anterior, is marked with a small groove, into which is received one of the portions of the posterior edge of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone. 239. Structure, Development, Articulations. The lachrymal bone is entirely compact, extremely thin, and even transparent. It is developed by a single point of ossification; and is articulated to the frontal, the ethmoid, the upper maxillary, and the inferior turbinated bones. OF THE MALAH HONE. 240. Form. The Molar or Cheek Bone (os Malae) is of an irregular square form, and is situated on the upper and lateral parts of the face, forming the orbit externally, and constituting the region of the cheek. 241. Its outer aspect, which is convex anteriorly, flat poste- riorly, is smooth, quadrilateral, and covered in a great part of its extent by the skin, and the orbicularis palpebrarum ; it gives at- taclimcnt below to the two zygomatic muscles, and presents in its centre one or more small holes, named malar, for the passage ofOF THE MALAR AND INFEIUOK MAXILLAIIY BONES. 7^ csscls aiid nerves. These holes arc the orihces of canals, whose course is very vague, and httle known. 242. Its upper aspect is smaller, concave, and smooth, and constitutes part of the orbit; it forms a right angle with the outer aspect, behind and above which it is situated; the posterior orifice of one'of the malar holes is observed upon it. It is circumscribed posteriorly, by an edge which is ragged above, where it is articu- lated to the frontal and sphenoid bones, and below, where it miites with the upper maxillary bone, but smooth in an angle formed at its middle part, which enters into the formation of the spheno- maxillary fissure. This edge is inclined backwards at its upper part, forwards and inwards at the lower, and is vertical in the middle. 243. The posterior aspect, which is also concave, is smooth be- hind, where it forms part of the temporal fossa; but anteriorly it presents a rough triangular surface, by which it is articulated to the malar tuberosity of the upper maxillary bone. In its posterior half, there is observed the orifice of a small malar canal. 244. Of its four edges, two are anterior and two posterior. Of the two anterior, the upper is smooth, concave, rounded, and forms part of the circumference of the orbit; while the lower is uneven, rough, and connected with the maxillary bone. Of the two posterior, the upper is thin over the greater part of its extent, more or less twisted in the form of the letter S, and gives attach- ment to the temporal aponeurosis; the lower, thick, especially at its fore part, uneven, and nearly straight, affords insertion to the masseter muscle. 245. These four edges form an equal number of angles by their junction. The upper angle is very prominent, thick, and denti- culate, and joins the external orbitar process of the frontal bone. The lower angle, which is much shorter, is articulated to the malar tuberosity of the upper maxillary bone. The anterior angle, which is very thin and sloped, forms the same connexion on the edge of the orbit; and the posterior, which is longer and more acute than the others, supports the summit of the zygomatic pro- cess of the temporal bone, with which it forms the zygomatic arch. 246. Structure, Development, and Articulations. The malar bone is in general thick and cellular; its development commences by a single centre of ossification ; and it is articulated to the fron- tal, temporal, sphenoid, and upper maxillary bones. INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 247. The Inferior Maxillnry Bone (Mandibuln, s. Ma.villa Inferior) is the largest and strongest bone of the face, of which it occupies the lower part before, while behind it ascends into the middle and posterior region. It is symmetrical, and of a parabo- lical form; but the extremities of the curve which it describes arcPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 72 raised at a riglit angle to the rest of the bone. The middle and horizontal portion is named the Body, and the parts -which are vertical and situated behind are termed BrcincJws {Rami). The lower jaw-bone may be divided into the following parts : 248. Older or Cutfmeons Atipect. This is placed almost im- mediately under the skin at the fore part, but is more deeply seated behind. It is convex, and presents, in the median line, the sym- physis of the chin, a sort of vertical line which indicates the point of union of the two pieces of which the bone consists in childhood; below this, there is a projecting surface, more or less distinct in different subjects, rough, and of a triangular form, with the sum- mit turned upwards : this prominence is termed the Mental Pro- cess. Above it, on each side, there is a superficial cavity, into which is inserted the levator menti muscle, and more outwardly, imme- diately beneath the second email grinder, or the first, the external orifice of the lower dentar canal, named the Mental Hole, {fora- men me7iti), which gives passage to the vessels and nerves of the same name : it is oval, and directed obliquely backwards. From th.e two inferior angles of the mental process, there arises, on either side, a slightly prominent line, which at first follows a horizontal direction, and afterwards rises obliquely backwards, to be continued into the anterior edge of the coronoid process ; this line, which is rather indistinct in the middle, is the external ob- lique line, (Uvea ohliqua ewterna J, into which are inserted the de- pressor labii inferioris, depressor anguli oris, andplatysmamyoides. Along the upper margin of this prominent line, by the side of the alveoli, there runs a channel, which terminates at the inner side of the coronoid process, and gives attachment in its posterior half to the buccinator muscle. Lastly, at the back part, is the external surface of the ramus of the jaw, which is qviadi-ilateral, somewhat uneven, and covered by the masseter muscle which is attached to it. 249. Inner or Linyual aspect. This is concave, directed to- ■wards the cavity of the mouth, invested at its upper part by the mucous membrane of that cavity, furrowed in the middle by the symphysis of the chin, beneath which are observed four eminences named the Genial Processes.* They are placed in pairs above each other, the two upper giving attachment to the genio-glossi muscles, the two lower to the gcnio-hyoidei. These tubercles arc often spinous; sometimes there are only two that are distinct. Above, and on each side of the genial processes, are two cavities, which lodge the sublingual glands, and under them, two rough de- pressions for the insertion of the digastric muscles ; while, just at their level arise the internal ohliqve lines, (linece obliquce inter- nee ) which are more prominent than the outer, especially at the back part, where they form a sort of rounded prominence. They ascend toward the coronoid processes, and give insertion anteriorly ' Yi tlov, mcntuin.73 THE LOWEIl MAXILLARY BONE. to the mylo-hyoidei muscles, and posteriorly to the superior con- strictors of the pharynx. , , • 1 j Beneath the inner oblique line, and posteriorly, there is observed an oblong superficial cavity, in which the submaxillary gland is placed. In this cavity is also seen a fiurrow, which ascends to- wards a pretty large irregular hole, (foramen maaillare posterius), which forms the entrance of the Maxillary or Inferior Dentar Canal, {canalis mawillaris) ; this hole presents a very distinct spme above, and in the rest of its circumference, several inequalities for the insertion of the internal lateral ligament of the jaw; it gives passage to the vessels and nerve of the same name, a branch of which runs along the furrow situated under it. This orifice occu- pies the centre of the inner surface of the rami of the jaw, which is marked at its lowest part with inequalities, to which are attached the fibres of the pterygoideus internus. 250. The Lower Edge, which is also named the base of the jaiv, is horizontal, rounded, obtuse before, contracted behind, and traversed at the distance of two-thirds of its length from the chin, and opposite the second large molar tooth, by an ascending chan- nel, which corresponds to the facial artery. It presents a re- markable bulging in the middle of its course, and gives attach- ment to the platysma myoides. 251. The Upper or Alveolar Edge is of considerable breadth, more so, however, behind, where it is a little deflected inwards, than before, where it retains its straightness. In its substance there are formed most commonly sixteen alveoli, sometimes only fourteen or fifteen, and in a few rare cases eighteen, which are in- tended for the reception of the inferior teeth, and constitute to- gether the Lower Alveolar Arch. AlS in the upper jaw, the alveoli here vary in their form accord- ing to the kind of teeth which they receive : the two middle are the smallest and narrowest; those which succeed them are a little larger ; but the third on each side, which contains the canine tooth, is evidently the deepest; those of the small grinders, which come next, are shorter, and are commonly single ; the sixth on each side, which is square and generally divided into two, is the widest; the seventh has nearly the same dimensions and form; but the eighth is smaller, somewhat triangular, and in general presents two or three cavities, and sometimes only one ; its inner wall forms a remarkable prominence above the oblique line, and is much thinner than the outer. All these cavities are perforated, at their summit, by small apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves which are distributed to the teeth. The alveoli, and the partitions which separate them, form prominences and depressions of various sizes on both sides of the dentary arch, which are always most distinct in the middle and anteriorly, than on the sides and posteriorly, where they are some- times not seen at all. These i)arts are covered by the gums. -0% The alveolar arch is surmounted posteriorly by the coro- 4PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION; noid process,* (processus coronoideus), a triangular eminence, slightly inclined outwards at its .summit, varying as to size, acutc- noss, and general direction in different individuals. It seems to arise anteriorly from the union of the outer and inner oblique lines, which approach each other as they ascend, leaving in their inter- val a groove into which the buccinator muscle is inserted. The internal oblique line is prolonged on its inner surface, and forms there a pretty considerable projection. The summit of this pro- cess is embraced by the tendon of the temporal muscle. Its outer surface corresponds to the masseter muscle, the inner to tlie ptery- goidcus internus. 253. Posterior or Parotideal Edge. This edge is free, blunt, nearly vertical, and forms, with the lower edge, the angle of the jaw, (angulus ma;vUlaris), which is more or less obtuse, seldom right, and freqviently deflected outwards. Externally the angle gives insertion to the masseter, internally to the pterygoideus in- ternus, posteriorly and between these muscles to the sfiylo-maxillary ligament. The posterior edge, which corresponds nearly in its whole ex- tent to the parotid gland, becomes gradually broader toward its upper part, and is terminated above by an oblong convex eminence, higher within than without, bent forwards, and directed obliquely inwards and backwards, so that its axis, if prolonged, would form an angle of from 110° to 146° with that of the opposite side: this eminence is the condyle, (processus candyloideus), which serves to articulate the lower jaw with the temporal bone, being for that purpose covered "with cartilage. At the back part, it gradually loses its convex form; anteriorly it is somewhat curved, and pre- sents an uneven ridge at the place where the cartilage ceases; ex- ternally, it presents a small tubercle, which gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the joint. The condyle is supported upon a sort of pedicle, named its Neck, which is marked anteriorly by a depression into which the pterygoideus externus is inserted, and also gives attachment, externally and above, to the external lateral ligament. The condyle is separated from the coronoid pro- cess by the sigmoid notch, (incisura signioidea), which is traversed by the masseteric nerve and vessels. 254. Structure. The lower maxillary bone is formed of a thick plate, bent upon itself, compact externally, cellular within, and traversed in the greater part of its extent, by the inferior dentar canal. This canal, whose position varies at different periods of life, passes obliquely through the substance of the bone, gradually di- minishing in size as it proceeds, at the base of the coronoid pro- cess and under the summits of the alveoli, from the middle of the inner surface of the rami of the jaw to the incisive teeth; after which it turns back upon itself, forming an angle, and terminates ■ So named from its lescmbUirux to the beuk of u crow, in Greek »o;utn.OF THE TEETH. 15 at the mental hole. From the angle formed by its reflection there arise two small subordinate canals, one inferior, the other superior, which lose themselves in the cellular tissue of the jaw * It is lined in its whole extent by a plate of compact tissue, which is especially appiirent near its orifices, for in the middle part it is so perforated with holes as to appear cellular; of these holes, some which are laro-er penetrate into the alveoli so as to perforate their summit; the"others transmit vessels into the areolar tissue of the bone which is very abundant. Sometimes the partition, which separates the canal from the alveoli, happens to be wanting, in which case, the canal is exposed when the teeth are taken out. The walls of the alveoh and their partitions are very spongy. It ought also to be remarked, that the dentar canal is nearer the uiner surface of the jaw in the two posterior thirds of its course, and approaches the outer surface in the remaining third. 255. Development and Articulations. The lower jaw-bone originates by two centres of ossification, which unite at the sym- physis of the chin. In very young foetuses, there is observed moreover, a bony plate which forms the lower edge of the bone, and a separate nucleus for the coronoid process. It is articulated to the temporal bones by the condyles, and to the sixteen lower teeth. OF THE TEETH. 256. The Teeth, {Denies ; Obovng), are small bones extremely hard and compact, implanted in the alveoli of both jaws, which, in their mode of connexion and formation, present a certain analogy to horns, and thus differ in many respects from the other bones of the body. The teeth, in fact, are exposed in a great part of their sur- face to the contact of the air, while the other bones of the body are completely shielded from it. Their number varies at '^the different periods of life, while that of the other bones, in general, is always the same. The other bones continue without being replaced until death ; when death is the effect of old age, the teeth, on the con- trary, fall out before it happens, and even then, they are not the same that existed during childhood. Their colour is commonly of the purest white ; their hardness is even greater than that of the petrous process of the temporal bone; they have no periosteum; lastly, their mode of development and nutrition is peculiar to themselves, and they are formed of two different substances, and not merely of two tissues of the same nature. 257. The teeth have in general the form of a very irregular co- noid, of which the base is directed toward the cavity of the mouth, while the apex, which is single or divided, and always perforated, corresponds to the bottom of the alveoli. " Kx Jaiickii Scnlcnlia, Diss. ii. § 12. Vid. Soemm. Dc Corp. Hum. Fah. torn. i.76 PASSIVE .OIIGANS OF LOCO.MOTION. In each of them there is distinguished a part situated external to the alveolus, covered by a vitriform substance, which is named the Crown (corona). It is bounded by a contraction termed the Neck, (collum) which separates it from another portion entirely concealed in the substance of the jaws, and which is the Rooty (radio;). ; We shall now examine the particular characters which these two parts present in the adult, in the diffei-ent kinds of teeth, of which there are generally thirty-two, sixteen in each jaw, and which are divided into three classes,—Incisors, Canine Teeth, and molar teeth or Grinders. We would also observe, that they are all articulated with the alveoli by gomphosis, and in such a manner as to be al- most absolutely immoveable, and that, in the recent state, their root is surrounded by a prolongation of the mucous membrane of the mouth, which is named the Alveolo-dentar Periosteum. OF THE INCISORS. 258. The Incisors, (^Denies Incisores, seu tomici, s. primores), are eight in number, four in each jaw, of which they occupy the middle and fore part. Their Crown is of the form of a wedge; it is quadrilateral, flattened from before backwards, broad and thin towards the free edge, contracting and becoming thicker towards the root; slightly convex, smooth and polished anteriorly, con- cave, and of somewhat less extent behind, where it frequently pre- sents small longitudinal furrows ; it is limited on each side by a triangular narrow plain surface, the base of which is turned to- wards the root, and which is contiguous to the neighbouring tooth. The layer of enamel which covers the crown externally, is thin- ner behind, and especially at the sides, than before, and is circumscribed towards the neck, anteriorly and posteriorly, by a parabolic margin. The Root of these teeth is always single, very long, of a conical form, transversely flattened, slightly furrowed on each side in the longitudinal direction, pointed, and a little thicker before than behind. 259. The Incisors of the upper jaw are stronger and larger than those of the lower jaw ; they are also thicker and broader; their axis, which is directed downwards and forwards, is a little inclined toward that of the neighbouring tooth, in such a manner that they tend toward each other, and each pair is separated by a triangular space having its base directed upwards. Those which are situated in the middle, are larger and more solid than the others ; their root is also more rounded; their free edge is sloped in the form of a chisel, at the expense of the posterior surface, and is perfectly straight. The lateral incisors, Avliich are smaller, have their free edge oblique, with their more prominent angles toward the corresponding middle incisor. 2G0. The Lower Incisors are smaller than the upper; thoseOF THE INCISORS. 77 which form the midtUc pair, are surpassed in size and extent by the lateral, and have their axis vertical, while in the latter it is in- cUned upwards and outwards. The free edge of their crown is cut obUquely on the posterior surface : it is straight and horizon- tal in the middle ones, a little oblique in the lateral, but in such a manner that the more prominent angle is next the canine tooth. Their root is much more compressed and more deeply furrowed than that of the upper, and it is also longer. OF THE CANINE TEETH. 261. The Canine Teeth, {Denies Canini, Cuspidati, Lani- arii), are four in number, two in each jaw; they are situated la- terally of the incisors, and present fewer differences among them- selves than they. Their Croum is conical, very convex anteriorly, a little concave and uneven posteriorly, terminated by a blunt sum- mit, which is pretty frequently surmounted by a sort of small py- ramidal tubercle rising above the level of the other teeth. Their Root is single like that of the incisors, but much longer and thick- er ; it is also, like theirs, compressed and furrowed on the sides. Not unfrequently it projects before the alveolus, beyond the para- bohc curve of the dentar arch, especially in the lower jaw, where it sometimes appears partly bifurcated. The layer of vitreous mat- ter which invests its crown is thicker than in the incisors, and in the same manner describes two slight curves, before and behind, to- ward the neck. The Upper Canine Teeth are the longest in the jaws, and for this reason, are vulgarly denominated Eye-teetli {Occulani Denies). The Lower Canine Teeth are situated a little more anteriorly, so that their summit corresponds to the space between the upper canine tooth and the neighbouring incisor. OF THE MOLAU TEETH. 262. The Molar Teeth, (Dentes Molares), are in number twen- ty, tliere being ten in each jaw ; very frequently, however, there are only sixteen or eighteen, and in some very rare cases twenty- two or twenty-four are observed. They occupy the farther part of each alveolar arch, and present a Crown which is broader than It is high, uneven and tuberculated, and a Root more or less divided. 2G3. The Superior molar teeth are generally stronger than the lower; their axis is incUned outwards, and is sometimes vertical. In those of the lower jaw, it is directed inwards. 264. The first two pairs of molar teeth in each jaw (Bicuspides), are smaller than the canine tooth which they f()lli)w. Their crown IS irregularly cylindrical, llattcncd before and l)chind, where it is78 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, contiguous with the neighbouring teeth, and surmounted by two conical tubercles separated by a groove, which follows tlie direction of the alveolar arch : the outer of these tubercles is more promi- nent and larger than the inner. They are more distinct in the upper small molares than in the lower, in which they are so dis- posed, as to leave two small depressions between them. The outer presents, on the side opposite the other, irregular depressions and small points, which render its surface very uneven in that direc- tion. The root is generally simple, sometimes bifurcated at the summit, especially in the upper jaw, but seldom entirely double. It presents on each of its surfaces a very deep groove, and is sepa- rated from the crown by a nearly circular neck; its summit is pierced by two holes. 265. Tlie next three on each side, called the Large Molar teeth^ (Multiczcspidati), are in general remarkable for their great size. Their crown, which is nearly cubical, slightly rounded externally and within, and flattened in the other directions, manifestly ex- ceeds the level of the small grinders on the outside of the arch. On the upper surface of each, there are observed four or five pyra- midal tubercles, separated by very distinct grooves. Their root, which is shorter than that of the small grinders, is divided into two, three, four, or five branches, which all present an aperture at their summit; they vary as to their degree of divergence, direction and inclination, as well as to their length, and the smoothness or rough- ness of their surface. The enamel descends a little lower upon the free surfaces of these teeth, than tipon the sides by which they touch each other. Their neck is very distinct. 266. The Jirst of the large molar teeth is the broadest and largest of all; its crown has commonly three outer and two inner tubercles. In the upper jaw, its root is triple or sometimes quad- ruple ; in the lower, it is only double. 267- The second large molar is a little smaller. In the lower jaw, its tubercles, which are four, are separated by a crucial groove; but this arrangement is much less regular in the upper, where the crown has a rhomboidal form ; the two external branches of the root of the tooth of the upper jaw have a vertical direction, are placed close together, and arc smaller than the third, which is in- ternal, and diverges much from the others. The latter character is common to it with the preceding tooth. 268. The third large molar tooth does not make its appear- ance until long after the others, on which account it is called the Wisdom Tooth, (Dens sapientice seu tardivus). It is smaller than the second, and its axis is still more evidently directed inwards. Its crown is rounded, and furnished with three or four tubercles. Its root is generally simple, short and conical; but in the upper jaw it is sometimes quadrifid. 269. The crown of the teeth increases in breadth from the in- cisors to the first large molar, and then diminishes to the last. Their roots diminish in length from the canine tooth to the wis-79 STRUCTURE OF THC TEETH. dora tooth. Lastly, from the first tootli to tlie last on each side the part exposed beyond the alveoli and gums, diminishes also. STRUCTUIIE OF THE TEETH. 270. The teeth appear to be formed of a harder, and more com- pact bony tissue, than any that enters into the composition of the other parts of the skeleton. The part of them which rises above the alveoU is covered with a still harder layer, having a vi- treous aspect, to which the name of Enamel is given. The bony •portion of the teeth, or the Ivory, forms a v£ry dense mass, which constitutes the whole of the root and the centre of the crown, and which is less brittle and more tenacious than the ena- mel. By chemical analysis, it gives nearly the same results as the other bones, with the exception of some traces of fluate of Hme ; yet its tissue never contains areolae or medullary cellules, and whatever may be the size of the tooth, neither vessels nor injec- tions can penetrate into it. Its fractured surface is commonly silky or lustrous like satin; there are perceived in it, although with difficulty, concentric fibres, which seem parallel to the surface of the tooth ; it strongly resists the action of the air, and it is well known that in sepulchres which are discovered after a long series of ages, the teeth are found untouched in the midst of the skeleton now converted into dust. Once formed, this substance is perfect, and undergoes no sensible change. The enamel of the teeth is of a milk-white colour, and is hard enough to strike fire with steel; its surface is extremely smooth, and polished; if it be separated from the bony portion, it loses part of its lustre, becomes semitransparent, and seems to present a fibrous texture. The layer which it forms is thicker in the places where the teeth rub upon each other, and much thinner toward the alveoli; seeming to terminate gradually toward the neck, as may be especially seen in the incisors. Hunter observed that its fibres are straight and radiated toward the summit of the crown, where they seem to converge towards the axis of the tooth, while toward its base they become more and more curved, and sometimes even cross each other's direction. The fibres of the enamel are perpen- dicular to the surface of the tooth, and consequently have a direc- tion the reverse of that of the fibres of the bony portion ; for which reason, when seen with the microscope, they have the appearance of velvet. They are also laid very close together, and are con- nected by one of their extremities to the bony portion, from the surface of which they seem to rise. By the action of caloric, the enamel blackens, on account of its containing a small quantity of gelatine, but more slowly than the bony portion; it then cracks and at length melts, if the tempera- ture IS elevated to a high degree. It dissolves in nitric acid.80 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCO M0TI0N\ where it leaves light flakes of a whitish colour, but never a paren- chyma retaining its form. According to Berzelius, it is composed of phosphate of lime and magnesia, carbonate of lime, membranes, soda and water. Like most calcareous substances, it may be artificially made to assume various colours. The natives of the Pelew Islands stain their teeth black with the juice of certain plants. It is well known that they become livid for some time when mulberries are eaten, and Loeseke* asserts that the use of madder reddens them in a very permanent manner, but this is doubtful. The enamel contains no vessels, and is not renewed when de-. stroyed; the opinion advanced by the celebrated Mascagni, that it is entirely formed of absorbent vessels, cannot be admitted. 271. The summit of each root or of its divisions is perforated by the orifice of a canal, which enlarges at the same time with the root, and penetrates into a considerable cavity formed in the crown, and like the hole at the summit of the root, developed in the inverse ratio of age. The walls of this cavity are smooth, and it is filled with a sou gelatinous-looking substance, which is named the nu- cleus or p%d}) of the tooth, and in which there occur many nervous and vascular ramifications, to which the name of dentar or alveolar is given. 272. The teeth, which present no particular differences in the sexes, but which vary much according to age, as well as in different races and even individuals, present a multitude of anomalies and ■ varieties in their number, form, position, consistence, and structure. Many authors have collected examples of these variations, which it is more curious than useful to know. I shall mention a few of the most remarkable. 1°. Varieties of number. The cases in which more than six- teen teeth occur in each jaw, are extremely rare, it being more fre- quent to find the number incomplete, although this is almost always owing to the last tooth remaining concealed in the alveolus. Borelli-}* saw a woman, however, who lived to the age of sixty without ever having teeth. Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, according to Plutarch's account, had all the crowns of the teeth united. Pliny relates the same of the son of Prusias, king of Bithynia. Soemmering^ has in his museum two teeth united in this manner. The lateral in- cisors have been seen wanting, in which case the middle pair were so enlarged as to occupy their place; it is much rarer to see a supernumerary incisor; yet Plouquet§ mentions his having himself had five in the lower jaw, &c. ** 2d, Varieties of form. The upper incisors have been seen curved upwards in the form of a hook.||, Cheselden speaks of a " Obs. xlvl. and xlvii. f Obs. cent. ii. p. 41. * Dc Fahr. corp. hum. t. i. p. 204. § Dissert, cctaf. hum. cuTUviquc jura iistcns, Ttib. 1778, p. 8. II Soemmering, 1. c. p. 204.STRUCtUUE OF TWE tEEtH. 81 molar tooth which seemed to penetrate another.* There nre ex- amples of roots of hicisors that were double or triple. Those of molars are often undulated or convergent. Bertin says, that sometimes the root of the canine tooth enters the maxillary sinus, where it appears exposed.-f- Sometimes, on the contrary, the up- per incisors are destitute of roots and alveoli, &c. 3d, Varieties of Position. The teeth which iu this respect de- viate least from the normal state are the supernumerary teeth, which are formed in the natural row, or not far from it. But they may be developed in many other places. Thus teeth have some- times been met with on the palate,J and even in the pharynx.§ Albiuus mentions the case of two canine teeth of considerable length and size, which were concealed in the substance of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bones, and of which the body was directed upwards and the root downwards. Barnes found one in the orbit. II Those which have been observed in the ovaries were more probably the remains of extra-uterine conception.^ 4th, Varieties of stmcture aitd consiste7ice. These varieties are in general few in number, and are almost all dependent upon morbid causes. In the Ephemerides of the Academia Curiosorum Naturae, mention is made of cartilaginous teeth. 273. The teeth, whose direction is in general vertical or nearly so, are articulated with the alveoU of the two jaws. Their develop- ment presents very remarkable phenomena, respecting which we cannot here speak at length. Let it suffice to say, that the bony substance is deposited not in but rather ttpon the germ of the tooth, and that its outer laminas are first formed. The incisors and canine teeth are produced from a single centre of ossification. The grinders have one for each tubercle. 274. By their continuous series, the teeth form in the alveola* arches, two parabolic curved lines which are named the dentar arches. These arches, which are unequal, form together an oval, whose large extremity is represented by the upper arch, and the smaller by the lower. Their free edge in both is thin and simple anteriorly, thick and double on the sides. • Osteogr. t. ix. p. 7. f Osteol. t. ii. p. 241 ; Winslow, No, 372. t I l"'y. I'lj- ii. c. 13»; Eustach. lib. dc dcntihus, c. xxix; Sabaticr Anatoin. t. i. § Schenck de Giafonberg. lib. i. p. 18fl. II iVIedical and Chirurg 'fransact. vol. iv. No, 18. p, 316. delo M /T' f^"'"^'^;""' Blumenbach, Dumas, Bau- <ieio<iue, &.C. liave observed this phenomenon.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCO^JOTION. OF THE HYOID BONE* f 275. ''J^'lie name of Uyoid Bo7ie (os Hyoides; ossa Linyualia) is given to a bony arch, of a parabolical form, convex anteriorly, suspended horizontally in the midst of the soft parts of the neck, between the base of the tongue and the larynx, entirely separated from tlie rest of the skeleton, and composed of five distinct bones, capable of moving on each other, and connected by ligaments. 270. The piece which occupies the centre of the arch (medium on linguule^) is the largest and broadest; it is flattened from before backwards, and is of a quadrilateral form. Its anterior aspect is uneven and convex in the middle; it is divided by a prominent horizontal line, I'ather indistinct on the lateral parts, into two por- tions, which are each divided into two small cavities by a ridge cutting the horizontal line at right angles : this aspect gives at- tachment, from below upwards, to the digastric, stylo-hyoidei, mylo- hyoidei, genio-hyoidei, and hyoglossi muscles. The posterior aspect of the body is concave and smooth ; and is filled by a yel- lowish cellular tissue which separates it from the epiglottis. Its loiver edge is longer and more unequal than the upper; it gives attachment externally to the sterno-hyoidei, onio-hyoidei, and thyro- hyoidei muscles, and at the middle to the thyro-hyoid membrane. The upper edge gives insertion to the fibres of the hyo-glossus. On each of the lateral edges, which are less sharp than the upper and lower, there is placed a slightly convex cartilaginous facet which is joined to the lateral pieces. 277- The two lateral pieces, (Lateralta ossa lingualia, seu cmmua inferiora s. laryoigea), are longer but much narrower tlian the body. They are broader and stronger before than behind, contract in the middle, and terminate posteriorly in a small round- ed head, covered in the recent state, by a cartilaginous substance. Anteriorly, they present a plain surface which corresponds to that of the lateral edges of the middle bone. At the upper part they are limited by a smooth and sharp falciform edge, into which are inserted the hyoglossus and constrictor pharyngis medius. Below, they give insertion to the thyro-hyoid membrane. To their outer surface are attached the digastric and thyro-hyoid muscles. The inner is lined by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. In the same subject, they frequently present great diflerences in their form and size, on the different sides. 278. The two upper pieces, (Superior a pisiformia ossicula lingualia, seu cornua superiora s. styloidea), are short, pyra- midal, inclined backwards and upwards, and terminated by a more or less prolonged point; they give attachment below to some » 'T and tiSos^ forma, it being supposed to resemblo the (ireek Kntor Upsilon. ■f Errant, qui ossa lingualia unum continuum os esse, purhibent, quuin non solum sine ri illata, sola putredine, in quinque ossa abscedunt, sed etiam medium os utriquu laterali piano ossi ligamenta capsularm junguut.;—Soemm. De Corp. Hum, lab. Tom. i. p. 208.THE CRANIUM IN GENERAL. 83 fibres of the genio-glossus muscle, and above to the stylo-hyoid li- gament. It is not rare to find one of these pieces twice as long on one side as on the other, and this side is almost always the left, as Duver- noy and J. F. Meckel have remarked. 279. Structure, Development, and Variatiotts. The hyoid bone contains much cellular tissue in its middle piece; its cornua are much more compact. It commences its development toward the conclusion of the fcetal hfe by five centres of ossification, one for each of its portions. Sometimes, in advanced age, all these portions unite into a single piece. The stylo-hyoid ligament is sometimes more or less ossified, so that the styloid process has been found continuous with the small horns. It also pretty frequently happens that one of the cornua is longer and more ciuved than the other. OF THE CRANIUM IN GENERAL. OF THE CONFOllMATION OF THE CRANIUM. Outer Surface of the Cranium. 280. Viewed from without, the cranium, in general, presents the form of a pretty regular ovoid, of which the small extremity is anterior, and in the adult commonly bears the same proportion to the large extremity as thirty to thh-ty-one: it is flattened on the sides in the region of the temples, and below towards its base: over the rest of its extent it is convex. Its whole outer surface is pretty smooth at the upper part; but below it is uneven and per- forated with a great number of holes. It is also observed that on the outside the skull is always more symmetrical than on the inside. 281. It is more particularly on the outside that the mode of junction of the bones of the cranium may be observed, where they form fines, more or less irregular, to which the name of mtures is given: these lines being much less distinct on the inside of the skull, where they merely present the form of superficial marks without indentations, at least in adults. When they exist between bones of no great thickness, they penetrate directly into the cra- nium ; but when the contrary is the case, they follow an obfique direction, the edges of the bones being there shaped in such a manner as to overlap each other. All these sutures seem to pro- ceed from various points of the circumference of the sphenoid bone. ^82. Thus, from the anterior aspect of that bone, there is seen proceedmg to the right and to the left a curved line, concave an- teriorly, which results internally from the junction of the sphenoid bone with the ethmoid and with the sphenoidal turbinated bones, and externally from the articulation of the first of these bones with tne trontal. It traverses the upper wall of the orbit, and when it nas arrived at the external orbital process of the frontal bone, itPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 84 directs itself backwards, towards the anterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone : it then presents more distinct dentations, and a greater thickness than in the rest of its extent, where the edges of the bones of which it is formed are extremely thin, and are merely placed together without interlocking by means of denticulations. This is the Sphenoidal suture (Sutura tsplienoidalis). 283. Behind the sphenoid bone there is another transverse su- ture, which is short, and disappears with age ; it is i'ormed by that bone itself and the basilar process of the occipital bone : it is named the Basilar suture (Sutura basilaris). So long as it exists, it is filled up by a cartilaginous plate lying between the bones. 284. On its lateral parts, the sphenoid bone is limited by a curved line, concave posteriorly, arising from the junction of that bone with the squamous portion of the temporal: this is the Sphe- no-temporal suture (Sutura sphenn-temporalis). It presents den- ticulations, although the surfaces of which it is formed are cut very obliquely ; it terminates below toward the glenoid iissure, forming an acute angle with another suture named the Petro-sphenoidal (Sutura. Petro-sphenoidalis), which is produced by the anterior edge of the ])etrous process and the posterior edge of the sphenoid bone; and it unites above with the sphenoidal suture by a short longitudinal line, slightly curved, which results from the junction of the extremity of the great wings of the sphenoid bone with the anterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone ; this may be named the Spheno-parietal suture (^Sutura spheno-parietalis). 285. From the anterior angle of the latter proceeds the Fronto- parietal or Coronal suture {Sutura coronalis), which cuts the upper part of the cranium almost vertically, and terminates at the corresponding point of the other side. It points out the separa- tion of the frontal and two parietal bones, and is so disposed that the former of these bones i-ests upon each parietal bone superiorly, while it supports them below. It presents denticulations at its upper part, which however are not very distinct, and it is but rare that wormian bones occur in it, which is also the case with the su- tures already mentioned. 28G. From the opposite angle there arises the Squamous suture (^Sutura squamosa), which describes about a third of the circum- ference of a circle, proceeding backwards and downwards. It se- parates the temporal bone from the lower edge of the parietal, and is formed by an overlapping of these bones, the latter sustaining the other, which frequently projects outwards. A little before it terminates, it changes its direction, forming an obtuse and retiring- angle, and proceeds backwards to meet the occipital bone. The last mentioned part of the suture is not squamous : it results from the junction of the posterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone with the mastoid portion of the temporal. It is always formed by- very irregular and very distinct indentations, and almost always contains supernumerary bones, which are not often met with in the squamous portion properly so called.THE CRANIUM IN GENKllAL. 287- From each extremity of the basihir suture there is seen arising a line which separates the petrous process of the temporal bone, and the sides of the basilar process of the occipital, and af- terwards the latter bone from the temporal. From being at first concave, and directed outwards and forwards, this hne becomes afterwards straight, and proceeds directly backwards when it has arrived at the middle part of each condyle of the occipital bone. The first part of this line is named the Petro-occipital suture {Sutura petro-occipitaUs), while the name of Mastoid suture (Su- tura mastoidea) is applied to the second portion, which slightly arises to meet the extremity of the squamous suture, and which in general presents neither distinct indentations nor supernumerary bones. The petro-occipital suture is a true groove, deep and pretty wide, in which the bones are not in immediate contact, but present an intervening thin layer of cartilage. 288. From the angle formed by the union of the mastoid and squamous sutures, there arises another suture, with very distinct denticulations, which separates the occipital from the parietal bones, and which is named the Occipito-parietal, or Lambdoid su- ture {Sutura lamdoidalis). It ends at the corresponding point of the opposite side, and gives rise, in its middle part, to an acute angle projecting forwards, so as to form the two sides of a triangle, having its base directed downwards. In general there are nume- rous wormian bones in this suture; and of all the sutures of the cranium, this has its denticulations most distinctly marked. 289- Another longitudinal suture, which separates the two pa- rietal bones, and is named the Sagittal {Sutura sagittalis), arises from the angle formed by the last described. It presents distinct indentations, and is sometimes traversed posteriorly by the parietal hole. It falls upon the middle of the coronal suture, and is then continued, sometimes in adults, and always in children, into an- other longitudinal suture, which divides the frontal bone into two equal parts. A large wormian bone of a quadrilateral form fre- quently occupies the place of this union. 290. The last-mentioned suture, designated by the name of the Median or Frotital, {Sutura frontalis), is generally indistinct, and occurs much more frequently in children than in adults; it ends at the nasal spine of the frontal bone, where it is continued on each side into a line formed by the ethmoidal notch of that bone, as it joins the ethmoid, and which afterwards terminates at a right angle in the sphenoidal suture, under the name of Ethmoidal Suture, {Sutura etiimoidalis). It is in it that the internal orbitar forami- na occur. 291. The sutures which, as we have said, are formed by the mutual connexion of the bones of the cranium, are not so lixed and determinate as not to present considerable variations. It is not the case, however, that their number is greater in females than in males, as has been asserted by some of the older anatomists. InPASSIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 86 certain individuals, they are partly effaced; and skulls have even been alleged to have been seen, in which there were no sutures at all, of which Bartholin* mentions several examples. Some years ago, I presented to the medical faculty of Paris a skull in which the coronal suture was obliterated on one side. The wor- mian bones are sometimes so numerous in the lambdoid suture, as to produce the appearance of a double suture in that place. Vesahus and Eustachius saw the sagittal suture separating the occipital bone into two portions ; and Ruysch observed a subject in which it extended over the occipital and frontal bones. Van Swieten-|- had a skull in which the same suture was an inch broad at the top of the head, and contracted before and behind. 292. Tlie outer surface of the cranium is divided into four re- gions, as follows : 293. Upper Region. This region is of an oval form, and is limited anteriorly by the nasal protuberance, posteriorly by the outer occipital pi'otuberance, and laterally by a curved line which extends over the frontal and parietal bones. There is observed upon it, anteriorly and in the middle line, the suture which unites the two pieces of the frontal bone, or merely the remains of it. On the sides of the latter, are the frontal protuberances, "which surmount the superciliary arches, and are situated beneath the fronto-parietal suture. In the middle part of the latter is seen the termination of the sagittal suture; on the lateral parts, on which are observed the parietal holes behind, and more to the outside, a broad smooth surface, from which rises the parietal pro- tuberance. This suture terminates at the angle formed by the union of the two branches of the lambdoid suture, which proceeds downwards and backwards toward the temporal bone, and presents in the interval, above, a slight depression corresponding to the upper angle of the occipital bone, and below, the external protu- berance of that bone. This region of the skull is almost entirely covered by the occipital and frontal muscles, and by the tendinous expansion by which they are united. It is in general smooth and even, and presents no other apertures than the parietal holes. 294. Inferior Region. This region is free in its posterior half; in the anterior, it is articvdated with the bones of the face. It extends longitudinally backwards from the nasal notch to the ex- ternal occipital protuberance, and is limited on the sides by an ir- regular undulated line, which proceeds from that eminence to the mastoid process, from tlience directing itself between the glenoid cavity and the meatus auditorius externus, toward the base of the Zygomatic process, to be continued into the ridge, which sepa- rates the temporal region of the sphenoid bone into two parts, and to terminate at the external orbitar process. The objects compre- * Aiiutnmc qvartum renomla, p. 701. Lugdmi, 1C77. f Coiimcut. T. I. p. 377.THE SJCU^L IN GENERAL. 87 hcnded in this region, which does not present any convexity simi- lar to those which the vault forms behind, are very numerous. 295. From the occipital protuberance, there proceeds, on eitlier side, the upper curved hne, and downwards the external occipital crest, from the middle of which the lower curved lines seem to arise. Between the latter and the upper, are observed impressions into which are inserted the complexus and splenius muscles. An- teriorly to the external occipital crest, is the occipital hole, on the lateral and posterior parts of which are the marks of the insertions of the small and great posterior recti and superior oblique muscles of the head, and which presents anteriorly the occipital condyles with the attachments of the odontoid ligaments, the posterior and anterior condyloid fossae, and their corresponding holes. To the outside of the condyles, there are observed the insertions of the recti capitis laterales, the jugular process of the occipital bone, the mastoid suture, the groove of the same name into which is in- serted the digastric muscle, the foramen stylo-mastoideum, and a small aperture for the passage of the nervous filament called the chorda tympani. 296. ]3eyond the occipital hole is the basilar surface, with ine- qualities for the recti capitis antici majores et minores, which arise from them. It is limited anteriorly by the basilar suture. On each of its sides it presents the petro-occipital suture, terminated behind by a pretty deep cavity, commonly more distinct on the right side, rarely wider on the left, and sometimes of equal size on both sides; this is the Jugular Fossa, which is formed by the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone and the occipital bone, and which lodges the commencement of the internal jugular vein. It is also in the bottom of this fossa that the Foramen laeerum posteriv^ is ob- served, which communicates with the cavity of the cranium, and whose margin is very unequal. A small bony plate, frequently completed by a cartilage, rising from the occipital or temporal bone, divides it into two parts, of which the anterior is smaller than the posterior; the former gives passage to the glosso-pharyngeal, pneu- rao-gastric, and spinal accessory nerves, as well as to some vessels; the latter is traversed by the internal jugular vein. I'he anterior I extremity of the petro-occipital suture opens into the Foramen la- eerum medium, the margin of which is still more irregular than that of the posterior, and which is formed by the meeting of the sphenoid and occipital bones and the petrous portion of the tempo- ral : it is entirely closed by a cartilaginous substance in the recent state, and does not give passage to any organ. 297- On the outside of the petro-occipital suture, there are ob- Bcrved : an imeven surface belonging to the petrous process of the temporal bone, and giving insertion to the levator palati and ten- sor tympani muscles; the lower orifice of the carotid calial; the styloid and vaginal processes ; the pctro-sphenoidal suture, which seems continuous with the glenoid fissure, and presents at its outer extremity the orifices of the bony portion of the Eustachian tubePASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 88 and of the canal of the tensor tympani muscle; the sphenoidal spine ; the two portions of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone, in one of which there is frequently noticed a small canal for the chorda tympani; the transverse root of the zygomatic process ; the spheno-temporal suture ; and lastly, the foramen spheno-spinosum and foramen ovale. 298. Anteriorly to the basilar suture, there is seen the sphenoi- dal crest which enters into the upper edge of the vomer; on the sides of the latter are two small grooves which receive the wings of this edge, and which are perforated at their bottom, but only in young subjects, by the lower orifice of a narrow canal which occurs in the outer wall of the sphenoidal sinuses ; there are also seen in it two narrow and not very deep channels, which concur to form the pterygo-palatine canals. Still more outwards, we find the pterygoid process; the posterior orifice of the vidian canal, which occupies its base ; the scaphoid depression situated on the upper and outer part of the inner wing of the pterygoid process, perfo- rated by vascular apertures which terminate on the other hand on the sides of the sella turcica, and giving attachment to the circum- ilexus palati muscle ; the pterygoid fossa, into which is inserted the pterygoideus internus ; the bifurcation which receives the tu- berosity of the palate bone ; and ihe hook over which is reflected the tendon of the circumflexus palati muscle. 299- Before the pterygoid process, which descends vertically, and which forms the most prominent part of this region of the cranium, is observed the anterior orifice of the vidian canal, which is wider than the posterior; beside it, and a little to the outside, is the external orifice of the foramen rotundum ; and, anteriorly and inwards, the entrance of the sphenoidal sinuses and the junction of the sphenoid bone with the sphenoidal turbinated bones and the ethmoid bone. The perpendicular plate of the latter bone is situ- ated between the orifices of the sinuses, and presents, on either side, two deep and narrow channels which form part of the nasal fossas, and at the bottom of which are found the olfactory foramina, and the small slit which gives passage to the internal nasal nerve. Anteriorly, is the point of contact of this plate with the nasal spine of the frontal bone, and the nasal notch of the same bone, which is continuous laterally with the orbitar arches, interrupted by the superciliary hole, which is generally but a superficial notch, and which is sometimes double : these arches terminate at the union of the frontal with the malar bone. 300. Between them and the pterygoid processes, are the two or- bitar vaults of the frontal bone, concave, triangular surfaces, hav- ing their base forwards, and in which there are seen, posteriorly, the sphenoidal fissure, or foramen lacerum anterius, the foramen opticum ; the lower surface of the process of Ingrassias ; the sphen- oidal suture; the external orbitar holes, small apertures most com- monly formed in a portion of the great wing of the sphenoid bone; and the internal orbitar holes, which are directed obliquely from89 INNEU SUUFACE OF THE CRANIUM. below upwards, and from behind forwards ; on the outside and an- teriorly, the small fossa of the lachrymal gland ; and on the inside, the attachment of the pulley of the obliquus superior muscle of the eye. Externally the orbitar vault is limited by an uneven line, where the frontal and sphenoid bones unite with the cheek bone, and on the Inside by the lateral masses of the ethmoid bone, which form a considerable projection on each side of the median line, and at the lower part of which are seen the ethmoidal turbinated bone, a portion of the middle meatus of the nasal fossae, the infundibnlum, and some papyraceous laminae which articulate with the upper maxillary bone, while above, by uniting with the frontal bone, they form the ethmoidal suture. 301. It is observed that most of the eminences of the free por- tion of the lower aspect of the cranium, such as the mastoid, jugu- lar, styloid, vaginal, and pterygoid processes, are intended for the insertion of parts. 302. Lateral Regions. Each of the lateral regions is of an ir- regular elliptical form, and extends horizontally from the external orbitar process to the lambdoidal suture, and vertically from the elevated curved line on the parietal bone to the base of the zygo- matic process. They are divided into two portions. 303. Of these, the upper, which is of great extent, has received the name of Temporal Fossa, although it merits this appellation only at its fore part, where it is concave, for behind it is plain and even convex. It is filled by the temporal muscle, and is formed by the temporal and sphenoid bones below, and by the parietal and frontal above. It is traversed by various sutures, the coronal, the sphenoidal, the spheno-temporal, the spheno-parietal, and the squamous; a small portion only of the two first appearing upon it. It also presents a considerable number of furrows for the deep temporal arteries. 304. This temporal fossa, at the lower part of which is seen the zygomatic process, is circumscribed by a low ridge, which gives at- tachment in the greater part of its extent to the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle. This line, which commences at the external or- bitar process, ascends backwards upon the frontal bone, and then descends on the parietal, to proceed forwards over the temporal bone to the base of the zygomatic process, and to be continued ho- rizontally, into that process, as far as its union with the check bone. 305. The other ])ortion of the lateral regions of the cranium, which IS the posterior and smaller, presents at its back part the mastoid process, surmounted by the mastoid hole, and limited be- tore by the meatus auditorius cxternus, and behind by the mastoi- dal suture. Inner Surface of the Cranium. 306. This surface forms the boundary of a hr^e cavity, of an ovdl torm, with the small extremity turned forwards. Its transversePASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 90 diameter is somewhat greater than the perpendicular. In general, it is symmetrical, unless in some rather rare cases, in which, with- out the existence of any morbid cause, one side is larger than the other, of which we have seen a very remarkable example in the skull of the celebrated Bichat. This cavity is continued behind and below into the vertebral canal, and comprehends two very distinct regions, the vault and the base, which are both lined by the dura mater. The surface of the bones which constitute them is very smooth, brittle and thin, and is named by most anatomists the Vi- treous Table. 307. The Vault of the Cranium, which is rounded and pretty regularly curved, is separated from the base by a circular line car- ried from the root of the nose to the occipital protuberance. Over its whole extent there are observed cerebral impressions and arte- rial furrows ; a channel, narrower before than behind, passes over it in a longitudinal direction, from the frontal crest which is ob- served at the fore part, and which has frequently a small groove formed along its whole extent for the attachment of the falx major, tor the internal occipital protuberance, where it terminates posteri- orly. This channel, which lodges the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater, presents in its middle part the sagittal suture, the serratures of which are much less distinct than on the outer surface of the cranium, as is indeed the case with all the sutures. On its sides it presents many small irregular cavities, which lodge the bodies called glands of Pacchioni, and the internal orifices of the parietal holes, when they exist. We also observe in the vault of the cranium laterally, the coronal fossre, the fronto-parietal su- ture, and the parietal fossae, separated from the superior occipital by the lambdoid suture, and formed opposite the protuberances of the same name. 308. The Base of the Cranium, which is flat and very uneven, is formed by three planes placed successively the one above the other from the posterior to the anterior part, and representing by their union a sort of inclined surface, much lower behind and ex- tremely uneven. The upper edges of the processes of Ingrassias and the upper edges of the petrous processes constitute the respec- tive limits of these three planes, and allow each of them to be exa- mined separately. 309. The Jirst plane presents, immediately before and in the " middle line, the foramen ccecum. This hole, which exists at the lower part of the frontal crest, is narrow, not very deep, and ap- pears to have but doubtful communications with the outside. Ber- tin* says he has frequently seen its bottom perforated by another canal which penetrated into the anterior cells of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone, and I have made the same observation ; which would seem to demonstrate that this hole penetrates into the cavities of the nostrils. Petit, of the Avademie des Scicncesy asserts " l.w. cit. vol. ii. p. 07.91 INNER SURFACE OF THE CRANIUM. that it gives passage to a small vein, which passes from the nose into the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. This much is certain, that a bristle or stylet cannot be passed through it, and that it is frequently formed at the expense of the frontal and eth- moid bones. 310. Behind the foramen ccecum, are observed the mark of the union of the frontal and ethmoid bones, the crista galli, the olfac- tory grooves with the holes and fissure which they present, a su- ture limiting them posteriorly, which results from the junction of the sphenoid with the ethmoid bone, and is continued laterally in- to that formed by the frontal bone and the processes of Ingrassias ; this suture is intersected at right angles by two others, formed by the junction of the ethmoid bone with the frontal, and presenting in their course two or three apertures, which are the cranial orifices of the internal orbitar foramina. 311. This first plane, which is limited posteriorly by the surface on which the olfactory nerves rest, and by the transverse channel which corresponds to the commissure of the optic nerves, presents in the same direction the two optic holes and the anterior clinoid processes, which are continuous with the posterior edge of the small wings of the sphenoid bone. Anteriorly to this edge is a convex uneven surface, presenting numerous cerebral impressions, formed by the fi-ontal bone and the sphenoid, and supporting on each side the anterior lobe of the brain. 312. The second plane is occupied in its centre by the sella tur- cica, in which several apertures are remarked. This fossa, which corresponds to the sphenoidal sinuses, presents posteriorly a square plate, the angles of which form the posterior clinoid processes, and on its sides, the cavernous grooves, together with the cranial ori- fices of the two small canals formed in the outer wall of the sphe- noidal sinuses. 313. Laterally, there is observed to the right and left a large fossa, wide externally, narrow within, of the form of a curvilinear triangle, extended from the sphenoidal fissure to the upper edge of the petrous process. In this fossa are remarked the spheno-tem- poral, squamous, spheno-parietal and petro-sphendidal sutures, to- gether with the sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum anterius, the foramen rotundum, the foramen ovale, the foramen spinosum, and the hiatus of Fallopius. There are also observed in it several pretty distinct mammillary eminences, the foramen lacerum medium, m the margin of which is the opening of the carotid canal, and which pretty frequently even seems to be distinguished from it by a small projecting lamina of the sphenoid bone ; two arterial fur- rows, which arise from the spheno-spinous hole, and of which the largest, forming occasionally a canal at its commencement, goes to V ^T"^^ anterior angle of the parietal bone; the channel which lodges the superior petrous sinus ? the depression corres- ponding to the trunk of the trifacial nerve; and, lastly, an indis- tmct hole, sometimes wanting in adult age, frequently occurring92 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. only on one side, and situated between the fovainen rotundum and foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone , it gives passage to an emis- sary vein of Santorini, and has been particularly pointed out by Vesalius, on whieh account it is named by some anatomists the Foramen Vesalii. 314. The third plane is perforated in its middle part by the occipital hole, whose orifice is wider here than on the outside of the cranium ; before it are observed the /lasilar (jrnove, formed by the occipital and sphenoid bones, and the basilar suture, which sepa- rates it transversely into two portions, 'i'his groove has on its sides two longitudinal depressions which lodge the inferior petrous sinuses; it corresponds to the annular protuberance of the brain and the transverse sinuses of the dura mater. It is terminated above by the quadrilateral plate which limits the sella turcica, and ])resents, before terminating, and on each side, a small notch for the ])assage of the external oculo-muscular nerve. Behind the occipital hole is the internal occipital ridge, bifurcated at its lower j)art; on its sides, are observed the anterior condyloid foramina, the inner orifice of which is less raised than the outer^ which are ])crforated in their course by several small canals which transmit vessels to the diploe of the occipital bone, and surmounted by a slightly projecting bony arch ; and two very deep fossa;, formed by a large portion of the sphenoid bone, the posterior surface of the petrous process, and the posterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone. In the bottom of these fossae, is seen the mark of the mas- toideal and petro-occipital sutures, which would be continued in the same direction were they not separated on each side by the foramen lacerum posterius; this hole is smaller on the inside of the cranium than on the outside, and presents at its upper part the triangular orifice of the aqueduct of the cochlea, which is closed by the dura mater in the recent state. It is frequently observed, that on the right side the foramen lacerum posterius is much larger than on the left; the reverse takes place, though rarely; and some- times their diameters are equal. 315. A channel which lodges the lateral sinus of the dura mater arises from the foramen lacerum posterius behind, and proceeds to the inner occipital protuberance. Descending slightly at first, it mounts behind the base of the petrous process, and then proceeds in a horizontal direction to the point where it terminates; it is formed above by the occipital and parietal bones, in the middle by the temporal, and below by the occipital again. The posterior condyloid foramen, which present many variations as to number, size, and direction, opens upon it near the jugular fossa, and the mastoid hole perforates it behind the petrous process. The latter liole is frequently nothing but the orifice of a canal which passes in a very oblique manner through the substance of the temporal hone, and is wider on the inside of the cranium than on the outside. It is also frequently more distinct on the one side than on theDIMENSIONS OF THK ClJANltJAr* 03 Other, or is even entirely wanting; nor is it rare to find it in tlie liimbdoicl suture. The cliainiel of which we speak is commonly larger on the right side, which is the cause of the variations which we have pointed out in the size of the foramina lacera posteriora. It circumscribes the lower occipital fossai, which receives the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and is surmounted at its origin by the internal auditory canal and the oritice of the aqueduct of the vestibule.* 316. It is only in man that the direction of the occipital hole is horizontal, and that it is situated nearly in the middle of the base of the cranium. In all other animals it is oblique, and situated behind; sometimes it is even vertical. We shall presently see what influence this circumstance has upon the position of the centre of gravity of the head, and upon the general attitude. DIMENSIONS OF THE CRANIUM* 317- The slightest inspection of a cranium that has been sawn horizontally is sufficient to show, that the part of it which has re- ceived the greatest development is situated at the level of the oc- cipital hole and basilar groove, the place where the cerebrum, the cerebellum, and the medulla oblongata vmite. But if it be desired to determine the dimensions of this cavity in a rigorous manner, the measurements must not be made on the external surface, be- cause very frequently it does not correspond with the internal, either in form or extent, on account of the variations that occur in the development of the diiferent sinuses existing in the bones, as well as in the thickness of the bones themselves, which is sometimes such that a person whose head appears very large may yet have a small brain. Facts like these are well adapted to fortify the young anatomist against the enthusiasm which might be inspired by sys- tems purely hypothetical. It is by measuring in the inside of the skull only that Ave can determine its diameters, of which there are three more important than the others. The first or longitudinal diameter extends from the foramen ccecum to the internal occipital protuberance; it is the largest, and measures somewhat more than five inches. The second or transverse diameter passes from the base of one petrous process to that of the other. It is about five inches. The third or vertical diameter, which is comprised between the anterior extremity of the occipital hole and the middle of the sa- gittal suture, is a few lines less than the transverse. * ^""tomists divide each of tlie planes above described into three, vvliich maifes the number of fossa: in the base of the craniiim nine, thnie middle and six lateral, or rather three anterior, tlirce middle, and three posterior, llie sella tur- cica IS the one which in all cases oceui)ies tlie centre.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. These diameters must be measured in adult heads, and from the points mentioned, for the lines that are drawn parallel to them diminish in length in proportion as they recede from them, in what- ever direction. 318. The dimensions of the cranium, which are always much greater than those of the face, vary considerably in different indi- viduals, and we only give them here as something about the me- dium ; for any one of the three diameters may predominate over the others, always, however, by gaining at their expense, which gives rise to many varieties in the form of different heads, although the general capacity of the cavity remains always pretty much the same. Thus we see broad heads, flattened before and behind; liigh heads, in the form of a sugar loaf; long heads, compressed laterally ; ac- cording as the transverse, vertical or longitudinal diameter is largest. The seat of these differences is always in the arch of the cranium, for the base remains constantly the same. 319. The different regions of the cranium vary with respect to their thickness, which is pretty uniform over the vault, of which, however, the upper part is one of the places in which it is most marked, it is much diminished in the temporal and orbital regions, as well as in the lower part of the occiput. The base of the cra- nium, which is very thick opposite the petrous process, the body of the sphenoid bone, the basilar process, and the ridges and pro- tuberances of the occipital bone, is generally very thin in the cere- bellar fossae, the bottom of the grooves of the cribriform plate, the part which corresponds to the orbits, in all which places there is observed very little spongy tissue. The cranium is commonly thinner in children and young people than in adults and aged persons, in whom it generally becomes thicker and more spongy, although it also frequently becomes thinner, either over its whole extent, or only in certain parts. It would also appear that it is harder and thicker in persons affected with mania. In the collection of the Faculty of Paris there is a skull of enormous thickness in this respect. In 1742, Morand pre- sented one to the French Academy, the walls of which were nine lines thick, without any diploe, and uniformly compact. Thomas Bartholin* mentions one of which the walls were also formed of a single layer. M. Jadelot some years ago described a very thick and solidified cranium, in which all the holes which commonly give passage to nerves were obUterated. Various authors f also men- tion that excrescences, resembhng horns of greater or less size, sometimes rise from the surface of the cranium. USES OF THE CIIANIUM. 320. The uses of the cranium are numerous and varied. We have ♦ Anatome, p- 700. . t Ambrose Pair, Fabricius of Hilden, Scverino, Th. Bartholin, &c.OV THE FACE IN GRNKUAL. 95 already pointed tliem out in describing tliat cavity ; it will, thero- ibre be sufficient here to say in a general manner, that the cranium lodges the brain and most of its dependencies ; that it guards them agamst external injuries, and sustains all their parts, either by it- self or by the points of attachment which it furnishes to the folds of the dura mater ; that it serves for the articulation of the head with the trunk properly so called; affords a fulcrum for the motions which the lower jaAv performs on the upper ; transmits ex- ternally nerves and vessels; allows others to enter into its interior ; o-ives attachment to a great number of muscles ; contains the or- gans of hearmg, &c. OF THE FACE IN GENERAL. CONFORMATION. 321. Without reckoning the hyoid bone, which belongs to the face only as a very remote appendage, and which does not really enter into its composition, we shall distinguish in this part of the head, which is very symmetrical, several very unequal regions, which we shall describe in succession, with the exception of that which occupies the upper part, and which is confounded with the cranium. Nor shall we here treat particularly of the sutures, as we did with respect to the cranium (282), for they have no longer the same mutual relations. 322. Anterior Region. This is what constitutes the Face, pro- perly speaking. It extends vertically from the upper edge of the nasal bones to the chin; its external limits are formed by the cheek bones, the projecting ridge which descends under the malar tuberosity, and the external oblique line of the lower jaw. It is very broad at its upper part, and especially between the two cheek bones; but the breadth gradually diminishes from the upper third downwards. 423. At the middle and upper part of this region, there are ob- served marked inequaUties which connect the nasal bones with the frontal, and form a suture which surmounts the Nose itself, a pyra- midal eminence, more or less prominent in different subjects, which forms a sort of vault inclined forwards, narrow above, broad below, longitudinally concave in the former direction, convex in the latter, and much prolonged below by its lateral parts, which are directed outwards. This vault is formed by the nasal bones and the nasal processes of the maxillary bones ; it is intersected in the middle by a longitudinal suture, sometimes inclined on one or other side, or even presenting sinuous curves, which results from the union of the nasal bones by mere juxta-position without denticulations. On the sides of this suture are the insertions of the pyramidal muscles the nose, and one or more small vascular apertures, as well as another longitudinal suture formed by the nasal bones and the na-PASSIVl-: ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. sal process of the maxillary bones, which is also commonly the re- sult of a mere apposition of surface, although in many cases one of the surfaces presents small straight projections, which are received into cavities formed in the other (233). 324. The denticulations at the top of the nose are continued la- terally over the summit of the nasal processes of the upper maxil- lary bones, and seem intersected by the lower and lateral parts of the margin of the orbits, which present below, the articulation of the malar tuberosity with the cheek bone, and outwards and a Ht- tle upwards, inequaUties which occupy the upper angle of the lat- ter bone. Behind, and a little below these margins on each side, are the malar holes and the insertions of the large and small zygo- matic muscles into the cheek bone, which, a little to the inside, forms a suture with the maxillary bone. This suture limits the canine fossa above, and terminates at the concave ridae which de- scends from the malar tuberosity, and which limits that fossa be- hind. Above the canine fossa is the infra-orbitar hole, and below, the insertion of the canine muscle. 325. Between the two canine fossae and under the nose, is ob- served the anterior orifice of tJie nam/, fosnce, (apertura iiarium anterior) which is heartshaped, broader below than above, and formed by the nasal and upper maxillary bones. It is sharp and uneven in its upper part, and rounded below; above and in the middle, it presents a prominence formed by the union of the nasal bones, and limited laterally by the small notches which gives pass- age to the branches of the internal nasal nerve. Below, it presents the anterior oiasal spine, which surmounts a vertical suture, with- out denticulations, on the sides of which are the myrtiform fossae, which is produced by the articulation of the upper maxillary bones with each other. This suture forms a right angle with the upper alveolar border, under which are seen the aperture of the mouth and the two dentar arches. 326. These two arches, which are formed by the teeth arranged in continuous series, are, as has already been said (274) most com- monly of a parabolic form; sometimes their curve belongs to the half of an ellipse or oval; and occasionally they form angles at the part where the incisors meet the canine teeth. The upper arch is a little wider than the under, on which account, the latter appears embraced by it, when the jaws are brought together. 327. The free edge of these arches is undulated in such a man- ner, that in the upper jaw it descends slightly from the first inci- sor to the second molar on each side, and again ascends, which renders it necessary for the last teeth of the lower jaw to be situ- ated higher in order to reach the corresponding teeth in the upper jaw. This arrangement is particularly evident in the heads of women. This edge is simple at its fore part, but posteriorly pre- ; sents two lips, on account of the greater breadth of the molar teeth. ' The outer lip is sharper in the upper jaw than the inner; but the i reverse is observed in the lower jaw. ;97 OF THE FACE IN GENERAL. 328. From the first incisor to the first large molar, the teeth gradually increase in size, and afterwards diminish ; their length, however, is in general uniform, otherwise mastication would be hampered; the intervals by which they are separated are very small; but they are always more extensive towards the roots, which gives them a triangular form (207). 329. If we are to give credit to observers, the dentar arches have sometimes been seen double or even triple. One of the sons of Columbus furnished that anatomist with an example. Accord- ing to Thomas Bartolin, Louis XIII. of France presented the same anomaly. This arrangement, however, is of rare occurrence ; but it not unfrequently happens, in consequence of some disorder in the second dentition, that some of the teeth are double. 330. Below the inferior dentar arch, there are observed, in the middle line, the symphysis and eminence of the chin, and on each side, the mental hole, the external oblique line, and the insertion of the levator menti, the depressor labii inferioris, depressor anguli oris, and the platysma myoides. 331. Posterior or Guttural Region. This region is much broader than high, and extends transversely from one of the paro- tideal edges of the lower maxillary bone to the other, and vertical- ly from the posterior nasal spine to the upper edge of the vomer. In the middle, it presents the posterior edge of this bone, and its articulation with the palate bones. On the sides, there is first ob- served tlie posterior aperture of the nasal fossce (apertura nari- um posterior), which is higher than broad, and of an elliptical form. At the upper part of this orifice, is the portion of the ptery- go-palatine canal, which is formed in the palate bone; at its out- er part, is seen the tuberosity of the palate bone ; and externally of the latter, between it and the rami of the jaw, there occurs an empty space, filled in the recent state by the outer pterygoid muscle, Lastly, the parotideal edge of the lower jaw Umits this region later- ally. 332. Inferior or Palatine Region. This region is naturally di- vided mto two portions, one superior and horizontal, named the vault of the palate; the other vertical and inferior; the latter is tormed by the mner surface of the dentar and alveolar arches, and by the lower maxillary bone; the former, by the upper maxillary and palate bones united. ^ ii j 333. The palatine vault, which is invested with the membrane pt the same name, is of a parabolical form, and intersected longi- tudinally by a suture, formed by the union of the palate and su- pmor maxillary bones with their fellows of the opposite side ; this buturc, which IS destitute of indentations, is terminated posteriorly oy the posterior nasal spine, to wliich is attached the levator r' . anteriorly at the lower orifice of the anterior paia me canal This orifice, which is at first very wide, soon con- t,mo;. !j P^''"^^^^^ apertures; two smaller lateral, si- tuated the one to the left and behind, the other to the right and u98 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. before, and a larger, middle and posterior, which is the termination of the canal itself; the two smaller orifices give passage to the naso-palatine nerves, while the canal which contains a nervous ganglion of a peculiar structure, bifurcates as it ascends in such a manner as to open into each of the two nasal fossae separately. On each side of the inferior orifice of the palatine canal, there are also seen the foramina incisiva, which are formed in the poste- rior lip of the anterior part of the alveolar margin, and are much more distinct in young subjects than in adults. A probe intro- duced at the aperttire, penetrates into the alveoli of the incisors. 334. The longitudinal suture, which we have just described, is intersected posteriorly at right angles by another transverse su- ture, which is formed by the junction of the palate and maxiUary bones. It is limited on each side by a very uneven and slightly concave surface, which presents posteriorly the small ridge, to which the circumflexus palati muscle is attached, and the orifice of the posterior palatine canal^ which ascends between these two bones, and gives rise, in its course, to two or three small accessory palati7ie canals, which open upon the tuberosity of the palate bone. It transmits the vessels and nerves which bear its name. 335. The vertical portion of this palatine region presents the posterior surface of the two alveolar and dentar arches, separated by the aperture of the mouth ; the posterior part of the symphysis of the chin ; the genial processes ; the two internal obhque lines ; the fossfE, in which are contained the subhngual and submaxillary glands ; the insertions of various muscles already mentioned, and the base of the jaw. 336. Lateral or Zygomatic Regions. Each of these regions is composed of two distinct parts, between which is observed the empty space, which we have already pointed out in describing the guttural region. One of these portions, which is external, is form- ed by the ramus of the lower jaw, which must be removed to see the other portion, which is internal, and limited anteriorly by the ridge, which separates the canine fossa from the maxillary tubero- sity. This tuberosity, on which are observed the orifices of the posterior dentar canals, seems to form the greater part of this re- gion ; inferiorly, it is articulated to the palate bone by means of a small vertical suture, behind which there occurs an excessively narrow triangular surface, belonging to the palate bone, and arti- culating posteriorly to the pterygoid process. At its upper part, above the tuberosity, is a portion of the upper maxillary bone, which contributes to tlie formation of the Pterygo-mawillary Fis- sure ; and behind it, there is observed a vertical suture, formed by the meeting of that bone and the palate bone. It is in this suture that the upper orifice of the posterior palatine canal is formed. All this region is surmounted by a large obUque surface, which forms part of the orbit. 337. Among the canals formed upon the maxillary tuberosity imder the name of posterior dentar, there is one which penetratesOF THE HEAD IN GENERAL. 99 almost directly into the alveolus of the wisdom tooth; another opens into the cavity of tdbe maxillary sinus; a third, which is lodo-ed in the substance of the wall of that sinus, divides into seve- ral branches as it passes above the roots of the molar teeth. DIMENSIONS OF THE FACE. 338. The face is of much less extent than the cranium, and does not form more than a third of the head in the adult. Its middle vertical diameter is much longer before than behind, where it is represented by the guttural edge of the vomer, while in the former direction, it extends from the chin to the upper part of the nose. The breadth of the face is nearly the same before and be- hind, where it is limited on each side by the parotideal edge of the inferior maxillary bone; but anteriorly it is greater above than below, as we have already said (322). The place where the transverse diameter is shortest, is between the two maxillary tuberosities. The longitudinal diameter has also nearly equal dimensions above, where it extends from the root of the nose to the sphenoidal pro- cess of the palate bone, and below, where it is carried from the chin to the middiie of a line drawn from one angle of the lower jaw to the other; but at the middle part it is much diminished, and is li- mited by the two nasal spines. OF THE HEAD IN GENERAL. 339. We mentioned that the head is the upper extremity of the trunk, and that therefore it is properly speaking an appendage of it. This we hope to render evident by showing, with M. Dume- ril,* that the head is merely a vertebra of which the different parts are excessively enlarged and form separate pieces. In fact, the occi- pital hole may be considered as being the commencement of the spinal canal; the basilar process and the body of the sphenoid bone correspond, in their structure and uses, to the bodies of the vertebra?, whose articidar processes are represented by the occipital condyles, wliile the external occipital protuberance, and the bony spaces comprised beneath it, are analogous to their spinous pro- cesses and laminae, and, lastly, the transvere processes are repre- sented by the mastoid processes of the temporal bone. This strik- ing analogy is further strengthened by a comparison of the muscles which serve to move the spine and the head, and by the examina- tion of the various modifications which these two parts present in the difiercnt classes of animals. It is, moreover, somewhat re- markable, that this analogy shovdd be more especially evident in, the part of the skull in which the commencement of the spinal mar- row is lodged. • Memoir mid to the Institute, tlie ISlli and 22d February 1808.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 100 340. The head, when placed on a horizontal plane, rests upon the incisors and occipital condyles ; the latter are so disposed as to be opposite the middle of a line drawn from these teeth to the most prominent point of the occiput: it is here, therefore, that the centre of gravity of the head is placed, and this is the reason why it is so well kept in equilibrium upon the spine. The plane of the occipital hole is also parallel to the plane of the palate, and it is for this reason that we have the mouth turned forwards. It is, however, in the European only that we find these disposi- tions exactly such as we have represented them. In the negro, the anterior portion of the line mentioned is longer than the posterior, on account of the protrusion of the jaws ; and in proportion as we descend toward the lower orders of vertebrate animals, we find this peculiarity more distinctly marked, as Daubenton has observed; for in them not only are the jaws elongated, but the condyles are also removed backwards. 341. Although formed of the cranium and face, which we have already fully described, the head still presents to our observation several circumstances resulting from the union of these two parts. Thus, in the first place, four large cavities are formed in the head at the expense of the skull and face together. These are the Or- hitar Fosscb, which contain the organs of vision, and the Nasal FosscB, in which are placed the organs of smell. There are also two cavities which occupy its lateral regions, and which are named the Zygomatic Fossce. Lastly, the Temporal Fossce, which we have seen formed in a great measure by the cranium are complet- ed by the face. OF THE ORBITS. 342. The Orbits (Orbitce), which are situated on each side, and in the upper part of the anterior region of the head, and are per- fectly similar to each other, have the form of a pyramid with the base turned forwards, but whose axis, being directed obhquely in- wards, causes the summit to incline in that direction. Their walls represent four triangular surfaces, which unite so as to form laterally retiring angles. 343. The upper wall or vault (lacunar orbitce), is shghtly in- clined backwards ; it is concave and formed, anteriorly by the frontal bone, posteriorly by the process of Ingrassias; near its sum- mit, and to the inside it presents the optic hole, which is directed obliquely backwards and inwards, so that were its axis prolonged, it would intersect the one on the other side at the pituitary fossa. Before it, is a portion of the sphenoidal suture of the cranium, (282) ; and altogether anteriorly there are observed, to the out- side, the small fossa which lodges the lachrymal gland, and inter- nally the inequalities to which the cartilaginous pulley of the ob- liquus superior muscle of the eye is attached.101 OF THE ORBITS. 3i4. The Lower Wall or the Floor of the Orbit is nearly plain, and inchned outwards and downwards. It is formed at its fore part by the cheek bone; in the middle by the orbitar surface of the upper maxillary bone ; posteriorly and inwards, by one of the small surfaces of the anterior process of the upper edge of the palate bone (215) ; and it is intersected at the point where these three bones meet, by two sutures whose denticulations are not very distinct, and of which the posterior is of very small extent. At its posterior and external part, is seen the infra-orbitar groove, to which succeeds the canal of the same name. 345. The Outer Wall is plain, and is formed in two posterior thirds, by the sphenoid bone, and in the anterior third by the malar. A vertical suture, with large serratures, marks the place where these two bones unite, and at its fore part are observed the internal orifices of the malar holes. 346. The Inner Wall is of much smaller extent than the others. It is smooth and perfectly plain; three bones enter into its com- position ; the lachrymal before, the ethmoid in the middle, and the sphenoid behind. Two vertical sutures result from the juxtaposi- tion of these bones, and present themselves under the appearance of two slightly uneven and very narrow slits. 347. The Upper Wall in uniting with the inner and outer, forms two retiring angles. The first of these angles contains, anteriorly, the suture which results from the articulation of the frontal and lachrymal bones, and a little behind this, the ethmoidal suture of the cranium, (290), in which are seen the internal orbitar foramina, to the number of two or three. The second presents pos- teriorly the sphenoidal fissure; in the middle, a part of the sphenoidal suture of the cranium (282), and anteriorly the articulation of the frontal to the malar bone. 348. The Lower Wall also forms two retiring angles where it joins the inner and outer walls. The first presents the suture which results from the articulation of the upper maxillary and pa- late bones to the lachrymal and ethmoid. The second is perforat- ed posteriorly by the Spheno-maccillary or Inferior Orbitar Fis- sure. This fissure is formed at its upper part by the sphenoid bone, below by the upper maxillary bone, anteriorly by the malar bone, and posteriorly by the palate bone. It is less wide in the middle than at its extremities, is closed up by fat in the recent state, and gives passage merely to a few vascular and nervous rami- fications. 349. The Circumference of the orbit, or its base, is irregularly quadrilateral, wider externally than internally, directed obliquely downwards and outwards, and presents, at its upper part, the or- bitar arch and superciliary hole, and at its lower, the articulation of the malar tuberosity with the cheek bone. It presents exter- nally a short, denticulated suture formed by the check bone and the external orbitar process of the frontal bone ; and internally the Lachrymal Groove, formed by the os unguis and the nasal process102 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. of the upper maxillary bone, and consequently divided into two portions by a longitudinal suture. This groove, which lodges the lachrymal sac, terminates below in the Nasal Canal. The circum- ference of the orbit gives attachment particularly to the orbicularis palpebrarum. 350. The Axis of the orbit, which forms a slight angle with that of the optic hole, is however, like it, placed so obliquely that it would meet posteriorly that of the opposite side, but at a point be- hind the intersection of the axes of the optic holes. The inner wall alone proceeds directly backwards, parallel to that of the other orbit. The three others are inclined. 351. From what has been said, it is seen that the bones which enter into the composition of the orbit, are the sphenoid, ethmoid, frontal, upper maxillary, palatine, lachrymal and malar bones. OF THE NASAL FOSS^. (Cavum nasi; nares iniernce.) 352. These cavities are of an irregular form, which however is nearly that of a parallelopiped ; they are broader below than above, but longer in the latter direction, higher in the middle than before and behind, and present several appendages, which are formed by the different sinuses that exist in the bones of the head, and of which we have already spoken. They are not exactly similar, the right to the left; they are separated from each other by an inter- mediate septum {septum ^^ar^Mw), formed by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone above, and the vomer below and at the back part; and occupy the space situated beneath the anterior part of the base of the cranium, above the mouth, between the orbits, the canine, temporal and zygomatic fossae, and before the guttural ca- vity. Their walls, which are four in number, terminate anteriorly at the nose, and posteriorly at the throat. 353. The Upper Wall or Vault of the nasal fossas is disposed in three different directions; anteriorly, where it is formed by the bones of the nose, it looks backwards and downwards ; in the mid- dle, where there is seen the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, it is horizontal; posteriorly, where it belongs to the body of the sphenoid bone, it is turned forwards and downwards. In the first portion, is observed the inner surface of the nose, much narrower than the outer, surmounted by a crest towards the imiddle line, concave transversely, straight from above downwards, marked with a furrow for the internal nasal nerve, and perforated with one or two small vascular apertures. It presents externally the suture, which joins the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone to the nasal. At the union of the anterior with the middle portion, there is observed a somewhat indistinct suture, formed by the nasal notch103 OF THE NASAL FOSSiE. of the frontal bone and the bones of the nose; then a small con- cave longitudinal surface, marked on the sides of the nasal spine of the frontal bone, and applied posteriorly upon the cribriform plate, the holes and small fissures of which are perceived farther back. This part of the vault is very thin and narrow. Posteriorly, the cribriform plate forms a suture with the sphe- noid bone and its turbinated bone. It is there that the third por- tion commences, in which are observed the lower and inner surfaces of the sphenoidal turbinated bone, and the orifice of the sphenoidal sinuses, which they concur to form, and which is sometimes want- ing, as has been observed by Ingrassias, Reininger, Schneider, and some others. Very different from what it appears in a sphenoid bone separated from the others, here this aperture is narrow and regularly rounded, and it always occupies the upper region of the sinus. Lastly, beneath this latter, is the articvdation of the vomer with the sphenoid bone. This region of the nasal tossos is extreme- ly thick, and of much greater extent than it seems at first sight to be, on account of the existence of the sinus, which prolongs it be- hind, and thvis augments its surface. 354. The Lower Wall or Flooi- of the nasal fossae is rectilinear, and does not vary its direction like the vault. It is concave trans- versely, and slightly inclined backwards. Behind the superior ori- fice of the anterior palatine canal, it descends a little forwards, after being raised for a moment, and anteriorly it is prolonged a little more on the inner side than on the outer, on account of the ante- rior nasal spine. There is observed upon it the orifice of which we have just made mention : and just at the point of junction of the vomer with the maxillary bone, is seen the entrance of the small canal for the naso-palatine nerve, which is pretty constantly pre- ceded by an arterial groove. Toward the posterior third of this wall, there is a kind of squamous suture, formed by the palatine and upper maxillary bones, and which is here much less distinct than it is on the palatine arch. Posteriorly, it is terminated by a notched edge, which is somewhat raised, and by the posterior nasal spine. 355. The Inner Wall of the nasal fossae is the least complicat- ed, and is formed by one of the surfaces of the septum which sepa- rates these cavities. Sometimes this septum is deflected to the one side, which is most commonly the right, as Haller has observed; It IS then observed that the inner wall of one of the nasal fossse is concave, and the other convex. In other circumstances, on ac- count of the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone being laterally united to the anterior edge of the vomer, there occurs on one side a prominent oblique line, and on the other a corresponding KsTsTze ""^^ observed an aperture of greater or This septum is composed of the vomer, the perpendicular plate 01 tne ethmoid bone, a crest of the frontal bone, another of the 3104^ PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. nasal bones, and a third formed by tlie upper maxillary and palate bones. It is marked by numerous vascular and nervous furrows; pre- sents at its upper part the lower orifices of the internal olfactory canals; is cut anteriorly by a lai'ge triangular notch; and is ter- minated behind l)y the guttural edge of the vomer. 35C. The Outer Wall of the nasal fossae is that which presents the most important object of examination. At its upper and fore part, there is first observed the union of some transparent and irre- gular lamella3 of the ethmoid bone with the frontal bone, and the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, of Avhich the internal surface is seen a little beneath, where it forms part of the middle meatus. A little farther back, is a rugose and quadrilateral sur- face of the ethmoid bone, perforated by a great number of olfac- tory canals, shaped like the point of a pen, more or less long and oblique. This surface becomes convex posteriorly, and directs it- self outwards to unite with the sphenoidal turbinated bone, and ■with the sphenoid bone itself. From this arrangement, there re- sults a vertical channel between the body of the sphenoid bone and the lateral masses of the ethmoid, which ends above at the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus, and below at the superior meatus. This same surface is prolonged forwards over the middle turbinated bone; but, posteriorly, it is suddenly limited by the superior turbinated hone, which is formed by a thin plate of the ethmoid bone, inchned downwards and backwards, convex internally, concave outwards, limited anteriorly by a cul-de-sac, gradually terminated behind to- wards the vertical channel, and below, determining the form and extent of the superior meatus. 357. This meatus is a kind of horizontal channel, occupying only the posterior part of the wall which we are describing, perfo- rated anteriorly by one or two apertures, which lead into the pos- terior cells of the ethmoid bone, and posteriorly by the splieno-pa- latine hole, which is formed by the palate bone, the sphenoid bone, and frequently by its turbinated bone, which is sometimes double, and which always perforates directly the outer wall of the nasal fossae from within outwards. This hole gives passage to the nerves and vessels of the same name, and opens into the spheno-max- illary fossa. 358. Beneath the superior meatus, is the middle or ethmoidal turbinated, bone, larger and more curved than the upper, thin above and thick below, convex inwards, and concave externally ; its surface is wrinkled, and sometimes the" small olfactory channels are prolonged as far as its lower edge. It belongs to the ethmoid bone, and is terminated behind by free inequalities. It occupies only about the middle third of the outer wall of the nasal fossae, and principally forms their middle meatus. 359- This meatus is of much greater extent than the upper, and presents from before backwards, 1°, A portion of the inner sur- face of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone; 2°, A su-105 OF THE NASAL FOSS^. ture which it forms with the lachrymal bono; 3°, The anterior part of the inner surface of the latter bone, the pores with which it is perforated, and its union with the ethmoid bone; 4°, A por- tion of this latter, which has a lacerated appearance, and is arti- culated to the upper maxillary bone; 5°, The infimdibulum, which leads into the anterior ethmoid cells, and frontal sinus; 6°, The entrance of the maxillary sinus, which is contracted by the ethmoid bone, the inferior turbinated bone, and the palate bone, and situ- ated 'toward the posterior third of the wall, always above the floor of the sinus; this aperture is sometimes double, and is further contracted, in the recent state, by a glandular organ, lodged in the substance of the pituitary membrane. 360. Beneath the middle meatus is the in ferior turbinated bone (226), which presents the greatest number of variations, and seems suspended by its unciform process, which penetrates into the max- illary sinus. Bertin, Cheselden, and Haller, are of opinion, that it is most commonly an appendage of the ethmoid bone. Whether it be so or not, it lies over the inferior meatus, which consists of a horizontal channel, concave from above downwards, and straight from before backwards, formed above by the inferior turbinated bone, anteriorly, where it is broader, by the upper maxillary bone, and posteriorly, where it is contracted, by the palate bone. 361. The only thing remarkable that this meatus presents, is the inferior orifice of the nasal canal, which is situated anteriorly, and concealed by the lower turbinated bone : this aperture is in- chned a little obliquely backwards, and varies much as to its po- sition with respect to the entrance of the nostrils, being sometimes but a line or two distant from it, and sometimes upwards of a fin- ger's breadth. The nasal canal itself is formed by the upper max- illary bone, sometimes by itself, but more commonly united with the lower turbinated bone and the lachrymal bone: it ascends to- wards the lachrymal canal by describing a slight curve, the con- vexity of which is turned forwards and outwards ; it is narrower at the middle than at the extremities; its diameters are not all equal. It being a little compressed: it is lined by a mucous membrane. 362. We have already spoken of the anterior and posterior aper- tures of the nasal fossfe, (325, 331) ; the very numerous bones of which these cavities are composed, are the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, the sphenoidal turbinated bones, the frontal bone, the up- per maxillary, palate, and nasal bones, the inferior turbinated bones, and the vomer. OF THE SUTURES FORMED BY THE UNION OF THE CRANIUM AND FACE. 363. Almost all the points at which these two parts come into contact present sutures with very distinct denticulations. Thus there is one situated transversely above the nose, and formed bylOG PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the meeting of the nasal and upper maxillary bones with the frontal bone; it is continued laterally into those of tlie internal orbitar processes and lachrymal bones ; then there is observed, to the outside of the orbit, the suture which the frontal and sphenoid bones form with the malar bone; then that of the malar bone and the zygomatic process of the temporal bone; and lastly, the su- ture formed between the ascending portion of the palate bone and the pterygoid process ; the latter is vertical, and very indistinctly marked. We ought also to include among the sutures of this class those which result from the articulation of the vomer with the sphenoid bone, of the inferior turbinated bones with the ethmoid, and of the latter bone with the palate and vipper maxillary bones, always observing, that for the most part they present but very indistinct serratures, and that some of them even are nothing more than mere juxtaposition of surfaces. OF THE TEMPORAL, ZYGOMATIC, AND SPHENO-MAXILLARY FOSS/E. 364. We have already, in part, described the temporal fossa, (303). When the head is entire, it is limited below by the zy- gomatic arch, (arcus xi/gomaticus), a sort of bony projection form- ed by the temporal and malar bones : this arch is directed for- wards, has a double curvature, so as to be at once convex above and convex outwards, and is separated from the rest of the bones by a large empty space, which is filled up by the temporal muscle ; in its middle it presents a suture which results from the union of the two bones of which it is constituted, and which is so disposed that the temporal rests upon the malar, | their edges being here ob- lique : this suture is very distinctly serrated. Before the zygo- matic arch, the temporal fossa is completed by a portion of the posterior aspect of the malar bone, in which are seen two or three small vascular apertures. Posteriorly, a transverse ridge, formed upon the sphenoid bone, separates this fossa from the zygomatic. 365. Zygomatic Fossa.—This name is given to the space com- prised between the posterior edge of the outer wing of the ptery- goid process and the ridge which descends from the malar tubero- sity. We have already pointed out (336) most of the objects that are met with upon it; what we have now to say is, that the maxil- lary tuberosity is separated, above, from the pterygoid process, by a fissure which gives passage to the internal maxillary artery, and which Bichat has named the pterygo-maxillary fissure: it is vertical, broad above, and narrow below ; it unites in the former direction, nearly at a right angle, with the spheno-maxillary fissure; and be- low, it is continued into two small vertical sutures, very close to each other, only separated a little below, formed by the articula- tion of the palate bone with the pterygoid process on the one hand, and the maxillary tuberosity on the other. The pterygo- maxillary fissure leads into:DIMENSIONS OF THE CRANIUM AND FACE. 366. The Spheno-mawillary Fossa. This fossa, which is deep and narrow, and is continued behind the orbit, is formed by the splienoid bone behind, the upper maxillary bone before, and by the palate bone to the inside. The sphenoidal, spheno-maxillary, and pterygo-maxillary fissures terminate in it, and seem to run into each other; there are moreover observed five apertures in it, which are, posteriorly and from above downwards, the anterior orifices of the foramen rotundum and of the vidian and pterygo-palatine canals ; to the inside, the spheno-palatine hole, and at the lower part, the upper orifice of the posterior palatme canal. OF THE llESPECTIVE DIMENSIONS OF THE CRANIUM AND FACE. 367. The two organs of taste and smell occupy the greater part of the face; the more these two senses are developed, the greater size does it acquire, and this is at the expense of the cranium, which is so much the larger compared with the face, the greater the development of the brain is. It is also observed, that anteriorly the face has not a vertical direction, it being sensibly inclined forward. It is obvious, that the more the skuU is increased in size, the less marked ought this inclination to appear; and that the larger the cavities for lodging the organs of taste and smell are, the greater, on the other hand, must be the obliquity of the face. Now, as the nature of each individual depends in a great mea- sure upon the relative energy of each of his functions, and the senses in question are those of the brutal appetites ; as the brain, on the other hand, is the seat of the intellectual faculties, there results that the form of the head, and the proportions of the two parts of which it is composed, may form an indication of the general con- stitution in this respect, and this so much the more distinctly the more that it has a given magnitude, and a determinate destination; that it has to lodge, on the one hand, the centre of the sensations and volitions, and, on the other, the organs of smell, mastication, and taste; that the skull and face are respectively appropriated to this twofold purpose, and that the given volume of the one cannot be diminished without inducing a corresponding augmentation of the other. We see, in fact, that the animals whose muzzle is most elongat- ed, are of all others the most stupid, of which kind are cranes, geese, and snipes ; while, on the other hand, a high degree of in- tellect is attributed to those which have a very distinct forehead, such as the elephant and owl, the latter of which the Greeks gave as a companion to the goddess of wisdom. In man, who has re- ceived the noble prerogative of intellect, who has to exercise his mental more than his physical faculties, the capacity of the skull IS much greater than that of the face. In reptiles and many fishes, the mouth alone, with its two enor-108 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. mous jaws, constitutes almost the entire head ; and they are the most voracious, as well as the most ferocious of animals. They seem to live, as it were, only for the purpose of eating. Without going beyond our own species, we are led to consider as stupid and gluttonous, a man who has the lower part of the face very promi- nent ; and artists, in their representations of heroes and gods, care- fully avoid this projection, and make the forehead advance, so as to give the eyes the expression of habitual meditation. 368. It has been attempted, from these data, to estimate the re- lative proportions of the cranium and face. One of the simplest means that has been employed for this purpose, is the facial angle of Camper, formed by the meeting of two ideal lines, one of which passes from the most prominent part of the forehead to the most projecting part of the upper jaw, while the other extends from the meatus auditorius externus to the same point. The more this angle approaches a right angle the more does the cranium project forwards, and consequently the greater is the size of the brain; the more acute it becomes, the more elongated is the face, and the more are the organs of taste and smell developed. By enabling us therefore to estimate, in a certain degree, the relative proportions of the skull and face, it is capable of indicating, in some measure, the development of intellect in the individual. In the heads of Europeans, this angle is generally 80 degrees ; it is 75 in those of the Mongolian race, and only 70 hi negroes. The Grecian sculptors, it is observed, have given their divinities a facial angle of 100 degrees. It becomes more and more acute, on the other hand, as we descend in the scale of animals, being larger in the mammifera than in birds, and in these latter than in reptiles and fishes. 369. But this means of estimating the relative dimensions of the cranium and face, is little to be depended upon, because, in many cases the frontal sinuses swell out the cranium so much as to raise the facial angle a great deal beyond what the proportion of the brain would require. This inconvenience, however, may be obviated, by employing the method proposed by M. Cuvier, who advises to view the cranium and face in a vertical and longitudinal section of the head, and to compare the areas which these two parts may pre- SMit. Now, in the European, the area of the cranium is about four times that of the face; while in the negro, the latter increases about a fifth, and in the glires and solipeda, it becomes succes- sively larger. It is easy in this manner to appreciate the individual differences. OF THE PELVIS.* 370. The Pelvis is a large osseous cavity of an irregular form, open above and below, which terminates the trunk inferiorly; it • Pchm is thn Latin for a basin, to which the upper part of this group of bones has a considerable resemblance. Vesalius and Colombns appear to have been the109 OF THE PELVIS. supports or conttiins part of the intestines, and the urinary and ge- nital organs. As a powerful bony girdle, it affords articulation to the abdominal extremities, gives insertion to their muscles, and is subservient to the performance of their motions. * In the adult, it is situated nearly in the middle part of the body, and is composed of four broad and flat bones, differing much in their form, size, and situation. Of these bones, two, the Sacrum and Coccyx, are placed behind in the median line, and two anteriorly and on the sides^ the Ossa iiinominata. OF THE SACEUM. 371. The Sacrum {os sacrum), is symmetrical, triangular, cur- ved forwards below, and situated at the posterior part of the pelvis, between the two ossa innominata, where it is fixed in Uke a wedge, in such a way as to have its base above, to be joined with the last lumbar vertebra, and its apex below, to be connected with the coc- cyx. There is in it throughout its whole length a canal named the Sacral, which is a continuation of the vertebral. It presents the following parts. 372. A Spinal or Posterior Aspect. It is convex, very uneven and rough, and presents, in the median line, three, four or five ho- rizontal eminences, the upper of which are the longest, which cor- respond to the spinous processes of the vertebrae ; these eminences are frequently united together, and thus form a continued longitu- dinal ridge. Beneath them, the sacral canal terminates, under the appearance of a triangular channel, limited on the sides by two tu- bercles which unite superiorly with the last of the above eminences, and by their projection downwards form notches which transmit the last sacral nerves. These tubercles are named Horns of the Sacrum, (cornua sacralia ;) they sometimes unite with emmences on the base of the coccyx. 373. On the sides of these eminences are observed two broad and superficial channels, which seem to form the continuation of the vertebral grooves, and which are covered by the origins of the muscles by which the latter are filled up. These channels are per- forated by four holes named tha posterior sacral foramina, (forami^ na sacralia posterioraj which are placed vertically beneath each ptfier, dimmishing in size as they proceed downwards, and are very irregular xn their margin; they communicate with the sacral canal, ana give passage to the posterior branches of the sacral nerves. £ name°W,S it bears'"''''''''*^ ^^^^'^ ^''^ assigned it tlie particu. tlie Zms extremities are wanting, as in some animals, (tlic cetacca) tlie spinal columV*' '^'^'^ rudiments, and liave no direct articulation with cnlntrK'^!?!!,^'^' wcrerf was given by tlie ancients to a great number of differ- i IS, dnu especially to several of tliose wbicli are subservient to generation.110 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. To the outside of these holes, there is observed a series of emi- nences, whieh seem to be analogous to the articular processes of the vertebrae ; and above them, are seen, on each side, two de- pressions into which are inserted the sacro-iliac hgaments. 374. A Pelvic or Anterior Aspect. This, which is smooth and concave, is traversed by four prominent lines, indicating the union of the different pieces of which the bone is composed in childhood, which are separated by superficial, transverse grooves, which seem to correspond to the anterior aspect of the bodies of the vertebrae: the highest of these grooves is convex transversely, the next is plain, the others concave. On thf lateral parts are the Anterior Sacral Foramina, (foramina sacralia anteriora) which give pas- sage to the anterior branches of the nerves of this name; they are four on each side, and larger and more rounded than the posterior, with which they communicate by the sacral canal. To the outside of these holes, which also diminish in size from above downwards, is a surface which gives attachment to the pyramidalis muscle, and is marked with some broad grooves, having various directions, the upper transverse, the others becoming more oblique, from below upwards, in succession : these grooves terminate in the sacral holes, and are occupied by the nerves which issue from them. This part of the bone appears to be nothing else than an aggregation of pieces corresponding to the transverse processes of the vertebrae. 375. Two Iliac or Lateral Aspects. These aspects, which are very uneven, broad above and narrow below, present at the upper part an irregular rough space, of an oval form, with a notch be- hind, which is articulated to a similar surface belonging to the os innominatum; it is directed obliquely backwards, and, with refer- ence to the median Une, inwards, and is narrower below than above. The rest of these aspects is uneven for the attachment of the sacro- sciatic ligaments; at their lowest part, there is observed a small notch for the passage of the fifth pair of sacral nerves. 376. A Base, which is directed upwards and a little forwards, and is largest in the transverse diameter. In the middle and an- teriorly, it is surmounted by a transverse oval surface, placed ob- liquely to correspond with the body of the last vertebra, with which it is articulated, (63) by the medium of the last intervertebral car- tilage. On its sides is observed a smooth surface, transversely concave, convex from before backwards, inclined forwards, covered by the anterior sacro-ihac ligaments, and continuous with the iliac fossa. Behind the articular surface, is observed the orifice of the Sacral Canal, (canalis nervorum medulloi spinalis^, of a trian- gular form, more open behind than before, and giving attachment by its two lateral margins, to the last of the ligamenta flava. This orifice is limited, on either side, by a concave articular process, directed backwards and inwards, which unites with that of the last vertebra; it is detached from the rest of the bone anteriorly and on the sides by a pretty deep groove, which along with the inferior notch of that vertebra, forms the last intervertebral foramen.OF THE PKLVIS. Ill 377. A Summit, directed downwards and a little forwards, pre- senting a transverse oval surface, by which it is articulated to the COCCYX. 378. Sti-ucture. The sacrum, although very thick, especially at its upper part, is light and almost entirely spongy; it is besides perforated with a great number of cavities, which are further cal- culated to diminish its weight. An extremely thin layer of com- pact tissue invests its surface, and is prolonged into the sacral holes and canal. This canal, of which the transverse section is triangu- lar, follows the curve of the sacrum ; it is a little flattened below, or even open behind to a considerable extent, and diminishes in breadth as it descends. The last prolongation of the encephalic membranes and the sacral nerves fill up its interior. 379. Articulations and Development. The sacrum is articulat- ed to the fifth lumbar vertebra, the coccyx, and the two ossa inno- minata. Its junction with the spinal column forms a projecting angle named the Promontory, (ptomontorium.) Its development is in some measure similar to that of the vertebrae, and takes place by thirty-four or thirty-five points of ossification, disposed as fol- lows : 1st, five, placed above each other, occupy the middle and anterior part; 2dly, in each of the intervals by which the latter are separated, at a period considerably antecedent to that of birth, two small bony plates are developed, which seem to form their ar- ticular surfaces; 3dly, ten are situated anteriorly on the sides of the latter; 4thly, behind them there are developed six others, be- tween which, Sthly, there appear three or four others, which cor- respond to the spinous processes and their laminae; 6thly, there is one on each side, at the upper part of the lateral aspect, for the articular facet: this latter is developed at a later period, and seems to form a thin plate, which does itself sometimes originate by three or four particular centres. It is not uncommon also to find some other points of ossification besides those mentioned ; but they are very irregular. On account of the complexity thus exhibited in the development of the sacrum, many anatomists have considered it as formed by the union of five vertebrfp placed one above the other, and decreas- ing from the upper part downwards. 380. The sacrum has a different form in the male from what it has in the female. In the former, it is longer and narrower, and has a smaller curvature. In the latter, on the contrary, it is shorter, broader, and more curved, and presents pretty unvarying dimensions, which it is of importance to know ; thus, in general, It is from four to four and a half inches in length; its breadth, taken at the upper part, is nearly equal to its length, while at the lower, it is not more than six or seven lines ; its thickness, mea- sured from the middle and projecting part of its base to the first tubercle of its posterior aspect, is two inches and a half.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF THE COCCYX.* 381. The Coccy.v (Ossa Coccygis) is an assemblage of three or four, rarely five small bones, whose size gradually diminishes from above downwards, situated in the median line, connected by inter- posed cartilages, and seeming as if suspended from the sacrum, to which they form a sort of moveable appendage, and whose curva^ ture they prolong anteriorly. In the adult, these small bony pieces, which are analogous to the vertebrae, although they resemble them less than those of the sacrum, are almost always united, and con- stitute a symmetrical triangular bone, which corresponds in man to the tail of quadrupeds : in it the following parts are distin- guished. 382. A Spinal or Posterior Aspect, convex, uneven, receixing the insertions of the aponeuroses of the large glutei muscles and posterior sacro-coccygeal ligament. 383. A Pelvic or Anterior Aspect, concave, smooth, invested by the anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament: the rectum lies upon it. Like the posterior surface, it is intersected by transverse grooves, which correspond to the. intervals by which the different pieces of the bone were for a long time separated. 384. Two Lateral Edges, which are uneven, and give attach- ment to the anterior sacro-sciatic ligaments and the ischio-coccygei muscles. 385. A Base directed upwards, and presenting anteriorly an oval, concave surface, articulated to the summit of the sacrum, and posteriorly two small tubercular eminences, often continuous with the latter bone, and named the Horns of the Coccyx. In almost all cases there are observed upon it two eminences, which are notch- ed for the transmission of the fifth pair of sacral nerves, 386. A tubercular irregular summit, sometimes bifrircated or singularly contorted, which gives attachment to the levatores ani. 387- Structure. The coccyx is almost entirely spongy; the tissue of which it is composed is commonly softer than that of the other bones ; it is invested externally by a very thin plate of com- pact tissue. Its first piece is proportionally larger than the others, plain before, convex and uneven behind. The second is rounded, and has frequently two small processes behind, analogous to the horns of the first piece. The third, which is still more rounded, is broader above than below. The fourth is tubercular, uneven, aud has in many cases a great resemblance to one of the last phalanges of the fingers. The first portion is frequently continuous with the sacrum, and the fourth always unites at an early period with the third. This union takes place much later in the female than in tlie male. • ViiicKvl, cuculus, from its being supposed to resemble tbu beak of a cuckoo.113 OF THE OS INNOMINATUM. 388. Articulations and Development. The coccyx, which is articulated solely to the sacrum, commences its development with . four or five points of ossification, one for each of its portions. I have, however, sometimes observed three distinct centres in the first piece. Occasionally, also, the second and third pieces are each de- veloped by two lateral bony nuclei. The cartilages, of which it is entirely formed in the fcetus, ossify later than those of the sacrum. It is further to be observed, that the coccyx unites with the sacrum earlier in the male than in the female, in whom it is moreover longer and more curved. OF THE OS INJJOMINATUM. 389. Form. The Os innominatum (os coxarum,* os iliacum),f which is adouble unsymmetrical bone, of a quadrilateral form, curved upon itself in two different directions, as if it had been twisted, con- tracted in the middle, and of a very uregular figure, is the largest of, all the flat bones, and occupies the lateral and anterior parts of the pelvis. It is divided into the following parts :— 390. Femoral or External Aspect. This is at its upper part directed outwards, backwards, and downwards ; at its lower part, forwards. In its upper and posterior portion, there is observed a narrow, convex, uneven surface, to which is attached the gluteus maximus muscle. This surface, which is terminated beneath by a low circular ridge, named the Upper Curved Line, surmounts an- other broader surface, concave behind, and contracted at its fore part, into which the gluteus medius is inserted; this surface is in like manner bounded by a ridge named the Lower Curved Line^ which proceeds from the sciatic notch, to unite with the Uiac crest, and receives an aponeurosis belonging to the gluteus medius. A little more downwards is observed the orifice of a canal which trans- mits vessels to the bone, in the middle of a very large convex sur- face, which gives insertion to the fibres of the gluteus minimus, and which, at its anterior and lower part, presents inequahties, into which the cvirved tendon of the rectus femoris is inserted. All this portion of the external surface which we have been describing, forms a sort of wide fossa, alternately concave and convex, which some anatomists designate by the name oi External Iliac Fossa. 391. Proceeding downwards and forwards, this surface presents, the cotyloid\ cavity, or acetabulum, which is nearly hemispherical, inchnes obUquely outwards, forwards, and downwards, and is co- vered with cartilage, excepting in its bottom, where a rough de- pression is seen, which in the recent state is filled by one of the 80 called glands of Havers. This cavity has a diameter of about " Cox(r, the haunches. t rhis name is derived from the circumstance that these bones support the parts which tile ancients named Ilia, that is to say, the flanks. + ViiruXi:, a kind of cup. II'ASSlVt: ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 114 two inches, and is articulated with tlie head of the femur ; it is circumscribed by a margin, {supercilium) which is very promi- nent at the uppcr'part and externally, and uneven, and interrupt- ed anteriorly by a deep notch for the passage of the vessels which supply the joint ;^in the recent state it supports a fibro-cartilagi- nous brim, which increases the depth of the cavity. 392. A little before and beneath the cotyloid cavity, is observed the Foramen Ovale, (foramen obturator turn). It is of an oval form in the male ; triangular, with the angles rounded, and smaller in the female; its greatest diameter is inclined downwards and outwards ; its circumference, which is thin and uneven, presents at the upper part a groove, passing obliquely from behind for- wards and from within outwards, through which pass the obtura- tor vessels and nerve; in the fresh state this hole is closed by a fibrous membrane excepting at the place of the groove. The edges of tlie latter cross each other to be continued into the two sides of the circumference. 393. At the inner side of the foramen ovale is a concave, nearly plain surface, broader above and below than in the middle, to whicla the adductor muscles of the thigh and the obturator externus are attached. At its outer and posterior side, above the sciatic tube- rosity, is observed a superficial groove, over which the tendon of the obturator internus muscle slides. 394. Abdominal or Inner Aspect. This is at its upper part directed forwards, and at the lower backwards. At the backmost part and above, there are observed a tuberosity which gives at- tachment to the sacro-iliac ligaments, and an irregular surface, cor- responding to that of the lateral a,spects of the sacrum, with which it is articulated, (375). The rest of the upper part of this aspect is occupied by a broad and shallow cavity, named the Iliac Fossa, perforated in its middle by a vascular canal, and filled by the iliacus internus muscle ; it is limited below by a concave, broad, and rounded prominent line, {linea. arcuata') which is continuous with the posterior edge of the superior surface of the pubes (398), and thus forms the linea innominata or linea ilio-pecthiea, which constitutes a portion of the upper strait of the pelvis, (404'.) Be- neath this line are observed a smooth, inclined, nearly plain surface, covered by the obturator internus and levator ani muscles; the inner orifice of the obturator hole and its groove; and lastly, an- teriorly, a second surface, narrower below than above, which cor- responds to the bladder. 395. Upper Edge or Crest of the ilium. Thick, uneven, con- vex, inclined outwards, excepting posteriorly, where it is directed a little inwards, twisted upon itself like an Italic f, thinner in the middle than at the extremities, and longer in the female than in the male ; this edge gives attachment externally to the obliquus exter- nus abdominis and latissimus dorsi, as well as to the crural aponeu- rosis ; internally, to the transvcrsalis abdominis and quadratus umborum, and in the intermediate portion, to the obliquus inter-115 OF THE OS INNOMINATUM. nus abdominis. In an adult woman it is six inches in extent, when measured directly, and eight inches when its turnings are followed. 396. Lower Edge. This edge, which is shorter than the others, and inclined inwards, presents below a thin crest, more oblique and blunter in the female, turned outwards, forming one of the sides of the pubic arch, giving attachment externally to the gracilis and adductors of the thigh, and internally to the corpus cavernosum, and the transversus perinoei, and ischio-cavernosus muscles. This crest is surmounted anteriorly by a vertical surface, of an elliptical form, which unites with the bone of the opposite side to form the symphysis of the pubes. 397- Posterior Edge. Its form is very irregular; it is oblique from above downwards, and from without inwards. At its union with the upper edge, it forms the Posterior and Superior spinous process of the ilium, a large projecting eminence, which is sepa- rated by a small notch from another smaller eminence, named the Posterior and Inferior spinous process of the ilium : the latter is rounded, sharp, and formed by the posterior part of the surface which articulates with the sacrum. Beneath this process there oc- curs a very deep notch, (incisura ischiadica superior), which con- tributes to form the Great Sciatic Hole, and which is termmated below by a thin, pointed, triangular, and compressed eminence, named the spinous process of the ischium. This spine, which is more or less prominent in different individuals, gives attachment externally to the superior gemellus; internally to the coccygeus ; and by its summit to the anterior sacro-sciatic ligament. Beneath it are observed, a notch (ificisura ischiadica inferior), pretty fre- quently channelled, in which the tendon of the internal obturator muscle is reflected, and the Tuberosity of the ischium (tuber ischii). This latter eminence, which is broad and rounded, is formed by the union of the posterior and inferior edges of the os innominatum ; ■the quadratus and adductor magnus femoris, are inserted into its outer part; the inferior gemellus and sacro-sciatic ligament into the inner; the biceps, semi-tendinosus and scmi-membranosus into the middle. 398. Anterior Edge. This edge is concave, oblique above, and nearly horizontal below. By uniting with the upper edge, it forms the Anterior and Superior spinous process of the ilium, into which are inserted, externally, the tensor vaginas femoris, internally the iliacus muscle, and in the middle the obliquus externus abdo- mmis and sartorius. A notch giving passage to some small nerves, separates this eminence from the Anterior and Inferior spinous pnjcess of the ilium, to which one of the tendons of the rectus fe- moris IS attached. The tendon of the psoas'and iliacus muscle shdcs over a groove which is observed farther down, and which is limited internally by the Ilio-pectineal Eminence {eminentia ilio-pectinca) into which the psoas parvus is inserted. The edge of which we arc speaking is terminated by a triangular horizontal .surface, di- rected slightly downwards and forwards and broader externallyPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOiMOTlON. 116 than on the inner side; its posterior edge, which is thin and uneven, and which forms part of the superior strait of the pelvis, receives the fibres of the pectineus muscle, whilst the anterior edge is con- tinuous with one of the lips of the obturator groove. The ajjine of the puhes, to which are attached the pyramidalis muscle, and the outer pillar of the inguinal ring, occupies the summit of this surface near the union of the anterior edge with the lower. 399. Structure. The os innominatum is in general thick; its cellular tissue presents large inflated areolae, having the appearance of lace. Two layers of compact tissue, the one external, the other internal, cover it in its whole extent, and touch each other in the centre of the iliac fossse, where the bone is thin and transparent. The bottom of the cotyloid cavity is also very thin. 400. Development. Several years after birth an osseous plate is seen to develop itself upon the vipper edge of the bone, to form the iliac crest; while a similar plate embraces the sciatic tuberosi- ty, and extends over the ramus of the ischium; a third plate at the same time occupies the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium, and is more regular in its appearance in the male than in the female ; lastly, a fourth, which is less frequently observed in the male, is formed in the angle of the pubes. But in the foetus, long before this period, three principal centres of ossification are developed at once in the iliac fossa, at the sciatic tuberosity, and near the spine of the pubes. These three points of ossifica- tion unite their fibres in the cotyloid cavity. Nor must we forget to mention, that in certain subjects, especially in females, a par- ticular epiphysis constitutes the spine of the pubes, and forms a small lamina, which occasionally remains moveable on the body of the bone, so that it might be considered as the rudiment of the marsupial bone which exists in many animals. This opinion was that of Beclard, and I perfectly agree with him. 401. In consequence of this mode of development, the os inno- minatum has been divided into three portions, the I!iu7n* (os ilium sive pars iliaca ossis innominati), Pubes,'f (as pubis, sive pars pxi- dendalis ossis innominati) and Ischium,^ (os ischii, sive pa7's ischir- adica ossis itmominati). The ilium is the uppermost, and forms the margin and prominence of the haunch. The pubes consti- tutes the anterior part of the bone, and sustains the external or- gans of generation. The ischium is the lower portion, and is that which supports the body when it is seated. But although these three regions are distinct in various respects, they must not be con- sidered as constituting so many particular bones. We have also to observe, that the upper and horizontal portion of the pubes has received the name of the Bodi/ of that bone, while the lower por- • Probably so named, because it seems to support the intestine called tbe Ilcon. f So named, on account of the vicinity of the parts which are developed at pu- berty. $ 'llrxl'*^ coxa, sou aocluhnlum. 4OF THE PELVIS IN GliNEIlAL. 117 tioii is termed the Branch or Ramus: as to the ischium, it is its posterior part which forms the Body, and the anterior the Rami/n. 402. Articulations. The os innominatum is articulated to the sacrum, the os innominatum of the opposite side, and the femur. OF THE PELVIS IN GENERAL. OF THE CONFORMATION OF THE PELVIS. External Surface. 403. Anteriorly, this surface, which is inclined downwards, pre- sents, in the middle,where it is covered solely by cellular tissue, and by the skin of the pubic region, the symphysis of the two ossa pubis, which come into contact by a larger surface in the male than in the female; and on the sides, where it is broader, the rugosities into which the adductor muscles are fixed, the obturator holes, and the cotyloid cavities. The latter are placed at a greater dis- tance from each other in the female than in the male. Posteriorly, the pelvis is longer but narrower than before, and is conYex from above downwards, and transversely concave in the upper half. There are observed upon it, in the median line, the posterior tubercles of the sacrum, the end of the sacral canal, the union of the sacrum with the coccyx, and the posterior surface of the latter bone. On each side there occur the posterior sacral foramina, the insertions of the sacro-iliac ligaments, a broad and deep groove, extending vertically between the sacrum and os in- nominatum, and lastly, the posterior spinous processes of the ilium. On the Sides, are the external iliac fossaj, the curved lines to which the glutaei muscles are attached, the edge of the cotyloid cavity, and, at the lower part, the great sciatic notches. In the whole extent of its lateral regions, the pelvis is separated from the skin by thick muscles. Internal Surface. 404. The internal surface of the pelvis is divided into two dis- tinct parts, by a prominent rounded line which circumscribes a tri- angular curvilinear space, the angles of which are very rounded, ^d whose base corresponds to the sacrum. This line is named the Brim or Marffin of the pelvis, while the space which it embraces 18 called the Upper or Abdominal Strait, (introitns seu aper- iura peJvifi superior J. Proceeding from the junction of the sa- crum with the last vertebra, this hne passes over the ilium and is prolonged upon the pubcs; it is much more distinct posteriorly and on the sides than before. The abdominal strait has the torm of an ellipse, whose greatest axis is transverse, and whosePASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 118 circumference is interrupted posteriorly by the projection of the promontory. Its capjicity is measured by four diameters, whose dimensions are greater in the female than in the male, and which are as follows : 1st, the antero-postcrior or sacro-pubic, extending from the upper edge of the sacrum to the inner surface of the symphysis pubis, which is the smallest; 2dly, the transverse or iliac, from one side of the pelvis to the other, intersecting the pre- ceding at right angles, and which is the largest; 3dly, two ob- liqicc, measured from the cotyloid wall of one side to the union of the sacrum with the os innominatum on the other, and which are intermediate in size. 405. Above the upper strait, is seen the Great Pelvis, a sort of cavity which leads into the pelvis properly so called, or that ex- pansion which constitutes the haunches, in which are observed, posteriorly, the Sacro-vertebral Angle ; on the sides, the iliac fossiie ; and, anteriorly, a large notch, filled up by the broad muscles of the abdomen. 406. Beneath this strait, is the Small Pelvis or Pelvic Excava- tion, (cavum), remarkable for its capacity, which is somewhat greater than that of the strait itself; for the disposition of its walls, which all form smooth planes, inclined toward the lower aperture of the pelvis; and for its length, which is greater ^han that of the upper pelvis, although its breadth is much smaller. It seems to constitute a sort of curved canal, chlated in the middle, and contracted at its upper and lower extremities. Posteriorly, where it is concave from above downwards and directed downwards, it presents the concave surfaces of the sacrum and coccyx ; ante- riorly, where it is transversely concave and directed upwards, the posterior parts of the junction of the pubes, two surfaces which cor- respond to the bladder, and the two obtui-ator holes ; and, on the sides, the great sciatic notches and a portion of the articulation of the sacrum and os innominatum. UPPER CIRCUMFERENCE, OR BASE OF THE PELVIS. 407- It is inchned upwards and forwards, is very uneven, and is wider in the female than the male. It presents laterally the two iliac crests ; posteriorly, the sacro-vertebral angle, on the sides of which are two depressions filled by the muscles of the loins, and in which is seen the upper part of the sacro-iliac articulation; ante- riorly, the anterior spinous processes of the ilium, the channel, which lodges the united mass of the iliacus and psoas muscles, the ilio-pectineal eminence, the spine of the pubes, the upper part of the symphysis pubis, and lastly, the great notch of which we have already spoken, and whicli is formed by the anterior edges of the ossa ilei.no OF THE I'ELVIS IN GENERAL. LOWER CIUCUMFEUENCE, OK, LOWKJl STJtAlT OF THE PELVIS. 408. This strait, (e,vitus sen apertttra pelvis inferior), is cir- cumscribed anteriorly by the symphysis of the pubes, on the sides by the rami, which proceed from thence to the sciatic tuberosity, and behind, by the extremity of the sacrum and coccyx. It is di- rected downwards and a little backwards. Its form is irregular, and difficult to be determined, because its edges are notched and inclined in two different directions ; it seems, in fact, to result from the union of three large eminences, separated by an equal number of deep notches. The sciatic tuberosities form the two anterior eminences, which are placed wider asunder in the female than in the male, and which descend lower than the posterior and middle eminence, which is represented by the coccyx. One of the notches is placed before, and is named the Pubic Arch, or Arch of the Pubes: it is formed on each side by the bony plate which occurs beneath the obturator hole, and terminated above by an angle, nearly acute in the male, but very rounded in the female, which is occupied by the genital organs in both sexes; and is surmounted by the symphysis of the pubes. The two other notches are situated behind, between the sciatic tuberosity and the sacrum. They are named the Great Sciatic Notches, and are each divided, in the recent state, into three portions by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and traversed by the pyriformis muscle, the sciatic, glutaeal and pudic vessels and nerves, the tendon of the obturator internus, &c. 409. Here, as in the abdominal strait, there are observed four diameters. The antero-posterior, or coccy-ptibic, which is the largest, is measured from the summit of the coccyx to the symphy- sis of the pubes. The transverse is smaller and extends from one tuberosity of the ischium to the other. The oblique diame- ters are limited by the tuberosity of the ischium on the one hand, and on the other by the middle of the opposite posterior sacro- sciatic ligament; on which account these oblique diameters cannot be measured on an artificial skeleton. OF THE DIllECTION OF THE PELVIS. 410. The pelvis is not placed in a horizontal plane, but repre- sents a conoid compressed before and behind, and having its two extremities cut obliquely, so as to be always more or less inclined torwards Thus, in the standing posture, a Une drawn horizon- tally backwards from the upper edge of the pubes, falls nearly upon the middle of the sacrum. In the ordinary state, the inclination ot the abdominal strait comes in consequence to be 35°; but it varies according to the attitude assumed. 411- With respect to the lines, which are drawn transverselyPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 120 from one part of the pelvis to that which corresponds to it on the other side, they are always horizontal; these parts being placed at the same level, on account of the symmetry of this portion of the trunk. 412. From the circumstance that the two straits of the pelvis have not the same inclination, each of them has necessarily a dif- ferent axis ; that of the abdominal strait, passing through the centre of the space it circumscribes, would fall upon the lower third of the sacrum, while the axis of the perineal strait would pass from its centre to the sacro-vertebral angle, and meet the former about the middle of the pelvic excavation, forming with it an obtuse angle opening anteriorly. Moreover, the axis of the great pelvis is near- ly vertical, while that of the small pelvis is sensibly oblique from above downwards, and from before backwards. It will be guessed, that this determination of the axis of the pelvis is not given here with mathematical precision; but, such as it is, it is of much imr povtance to the accoucheur to know it. DIMENSIONS AND I'ROPOUTIONS OF THE PELVIS IN THE WELL- FORMED FEMALE. 413. Dimensions of the Great Pelvis. 1. From one superior and anterior spinous process to the other, 10.023 inches. 2. From the middle of one iliac crest to the corresponding point of the opposite side, II.O76 inches. 3. From the middle of the iliac crest to the edge of the abdomi- nal strait, 3.510 inches. 4. From the middle of the iliac crest to the sciatic tuberosity, 7.410 inches. 414. Dimensions of the Abdominal Strait, or inlet {introitus). 1. Sacro-pubic diameter, 4.290 inches. 2. Ihac diameter, 5.460 inches. 3. Oblique diameters, 4.680 inches. 4. Circumference, 14.820 inches. 415. Dimensions of the Perineal Strait, ot outlet (exitus). 1. Diameter from the coccyx to the pubes, on account of the mobility of the former bone, from 4.290 to 5 inches. 2. Transverse diameter, 4.290 inches. 3. Oblique diameters, 4.290 inches. 4. Summit of the arch of the pubes in breadth, I.I70 inches. 5. Base of the arch of the pubes, or the distance between its branches, 3-705.121 OF THE PELVIS IN GENERAL. 416. Dimensions of the Little Pelvis or Pelvic Excavation. 1. Height of the posterior wall, 4.836 inches. 2. Height of the anterior wall, 1.560 inches. 3. Height of the lateral walls, 3-705 inches. 4. Thickness of the symphysis pubis, .546 inch. 5. Depth of the cavity of the sacrum, -702 inch. 6. Length of the coccyx, .97^ inch. 7. Length of the concavity of the sacrum, beneath the arch of the pubes, 4.875 inches.* 417. We have given the dimensions of the pelvis m an article by itself, that they inay thus be more easily compared, for the pur- pose of deducing useful corollaries from them. The measurements in question we have indicated only in the fe- male, because in the male, although the pelvis presents nearly the same general conformation, it no longer presents the same dimen- sions, and as it is of no practical utiUtyf to become intimately ac- quainted with the measurements of the male pelvis, we shall not much insist on the differences that exist between it and the female. It is in fact sufficient for us to know, that the pelvis of the female has a greater capacity than that of the male ; that its surfaces are smoother, its contours less rugged, the attachments of the muscles less marked. In her, the haunches are more prominent and more rounded, because the upper part of the ossa innominata is thrown more outward; the iliac crest and spinous processes are thinner, and less rough; the sacro-vertebral angle projects less ; the contour of the abdominal strait is wider and more rounded; the sacrum is broader, as well as the pubic arch, of which the rami are less thick, and directed outwards ; the sciatic tuberosities, which are smaller, have also this direction; the junction of the pubes is not so high ; and the cotyloid cavities are more remote from the centre of the body, which produces a difference in the mode of running. But, although the pelvis of the female is broader thanTthat of the male, it is not nearly so high. In the latter, the bones are thicker, the muscular impressions more distinct, the articular sur- faces broader. Every thing, as Verheyen has remarked, seems to impress the idea of strength; while, in the female pelvis, every thing seems to indicate its adaptation to childbirth. 418. The stature has no decided influence upon the dimensions of the pelvis, and the differences existing in individuals are inde- " Chaussier. Tab. Synopl. dei Accouchem. folio, Paris, that V:°'^'"['^'^'"''"g tl'is observation, it may still be useful to remind the surgeon, foiiriri '"''^'^ '""y '"^ deformed ; that the tuberosities of the ischium will bo miirr/i' '^'"^^ f<-'''''i'" male subjects than in others ; that the ra- rii" ,u P"*"^® °f "^he ischium may be found quite straight, or almost per))eii. ly outw°''l*'''^T(«^"P""y left), whilst on the otiu^r side, it will arch widc- the male 1 • sufficiently curious also to observe, that this mal-conformation of of the other boner"" ''"'^^^^ present not the smallest deformity in anyPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 122 pendent of it. It is well known that little women are delivered with as much ease as tall women, and bring forth children quite as large as theirs. OF THE TRUNK IN GENERAL. 419. Between the head and chest, the trunk presents an empty space, the length of which is determined by that of the cervical region of the spine : this space is occupied by the Throat. An- other empty space occurs between the base of the chest and that of the pelvis, which is filled vip by the Abdomen; this space, how- ever, is much larger than the first. 420. All the regions of the trunk are not of equal breadth. It is observed that, in the female, its broadest part is the pelvis; in man, the broadest part is at the base of the thorax. In both sexes, the head is the narrowest region of the body ; but in very young children, its dimensions are larger than those of the thorax and pelvis. OF THE EXTREMITIES OR LIMBS. 421. The Extremities or Limbs (membra), are appendages of the trunk, four in number, disposed symmetrically in pairs, insert- ed into it by one of the extremities, and composed of a series of bones representing contiguous levers, all cut obliquely at their ex- tremities. OF THE StrPERIOR OB. THORACIC EXTREMITIES. {Artus Superixyres). OF THE BONES OF THE SHOULDER. 422. The Shoulder, which is situated on the upper, lateral, and posterior parts of the chest, connects the thoracic extremities to the trunk, and forms the centre of their great motions. It consists of two bones, the Scapula and Clavicle. OF THE SCAPULA. 423. Form. The Scapula or Shoulder-blade, (Omoplata), is an irregular bone, situated at the posterior and upper part of the tho- rax, from about the seventh rib to the first, forming the posterior part of the shoulder, and loosely connected, by means of muscles, ■with the head, the ribs, and the spine. It has a triangular forniyOF THE SCAPULA. and is flat and thin over tlie greater part of its extent; it is divided into the following parts. 424. Posterior or Dorsal Aspect. It is divided transversely into two parts by a flat, triangular eminence, situated about its up- per third, named the Spine, (spina scapulcB). This spine is li- mited posteriorly by a long, uneven, rough and undulated margin, ■which projects downwards at its commencement, where it is broad and thick. Near the inner edge of the scapula, it presents a smooth and polished triangvJar space, on which the aponeurosis of the trapezius slides; in the rest of its extent, it affords attachment at its upper and middle parts to the trapezius, and below to the deltoid. Externally, the spine of the scapula is terminated by a thick and short concave edge, which by its union with the former, gives rise to a considerable eminence named the Acromion.* This process is flattened in a direction contrary to that of the spine, of wliich it is the termination, and which contracts a little before pro- ducing it. Its outer surface, which is directed upwards and back- wards, is convex and uneven, and is covered by the skin. The inner surface is smooth and concave, and inclines downwards and forwards. Its tipper edge, which is directed inwards, gives attach- ment to the trapezius, and presents anteriorly a small oval surface, covered with cartilage, with which the outer extremity of the cla- vicle is connected. The lower edge is uneven, and gives attach- ment to some fibres of the deltoid muscle. Lastly, its summit, which is rounded, affords insertion to the acromio-coracoid liga- ment. 425. Above the spine of the scapula is observed a slightly con- cave surface, broad internally, narrow externally, filled by the su- pra-spinatus muscle, which attaches itself to its two inner thirds: this is the Fossa Supra-spinata. 426. Under the spine is the Fossa Infra-spinata, which is much larger than the preceding, somewhat prominent in the middle, but pretty concave outwards. There is observed upon it a longitudinal ridge, which gives insertion to an aponeurosis, common to the in- fra-spinatus, teres major and minor muscles. Between this ridge, and the axillary edge of the scapula is a long surface, broader below than above, divided into two parts by another ridge, which descends from that edge, and joins the preceding at an acute angle ; the upper and narrow portion of this surface gives attachment to the teres minor; the lower, to the teres major. ■ Lastly, the whole fossa infra-spinata is filled by the infra-spinatus muscle, which is inserted into its three inner fourths. . 427. Anterior or Costal Aspect. This is inclined inwards, and IS concave for the purpose of lying upon the ribs, forming what is called the Subscapular Fossa, (fossa suhscapularisJ. It is di- vided by more or less prominent ridges, running obliquely from aoove downwards, and from without inwards, into several broad " Ax^rLfim, summa scapula, Akods, surnmrn; Zf/.of scapula.124 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and superficial grooves, occupied by fasciculi of the sub-scapularis muscle, which is inserted into the inner two-thirds of their extent, and attaches its aponeuroses to the ridges mentioned. Behind the sub-scapular fossa, are observed, above and below, two plain sur- faces to which the serratus magnus is attached. 428. Upper Edcje or Costa. This edge is thinner and shorter than any of the others. Posteriorly, it gives attachment to the supra-spinatus muscle ,• anteriorly, to the sub-scapularis ; in the in- terval, to the omo-hyoidcus ; externally, it presents a notch, con- verted into a hole by a ligament, which gives passage to the supra- scapular nerve, and sometimes to the vessels of the same name. Lastly, it is terminated, anteriorly to this notch, by a narrow elon- gated projection, curved upon itself, having always more breadth than thickness, at first passing from below upwards, and presently directing itself from behind forwards, and from above downwards : this is the Coracoid* Process, (processus coracoideus). The up- per surface of this process is convex and uneven, and gives attach- ment to the coraco-clavicular ligaments; the lower surface is smooth and concave; the pectoralis minor is inserted into its ante- rior edge ; the acromio-coracoid ligament into the posterior; whUe the short head of the biceps and coraco-brachialis are attached to its summit. 429. Posterior or Vertebral Edge. This edge, which is also named the Base, (basis scapulceJ, approaches the vertebral co- lumn above, from which it retires at the lower part. At the dis- tance of a fourth of its length from the upper part, there is observ- ed a very blunt angle, which corresponds to the commencement of the spine of the scapula; this edge gives attachment posteriorly to the supra-spin^tus and infra-spinatus, anteriorly to the serratus magnus, and in the middle to the rhomboideus. At its union with the upper edge, it forms a projecting angle, which is embraced by the levator anguli scapulae, and which is named the Posterior or Cervical Angle. 430. Outer or Aaiillary\- Edge, named also the Inferior Costa. It inclines downwards and forwards, and is much thicker than the others. At its upper part, it is marked with a sort of groove into which the long portion of the triceps extensor cubiti is inserted. Posteriorly, it presents rugosities into which is inserted the teres minor. Anteriorly, where it is rounded, it furnishes points of in- sertion to the sub-scapularis. At its lower part, it receives the teres major; and by uniting with the posterior edge, forms an an- gle named the Inferior or Costal, which is thick and rounded; this angle is embraced as it were by the teres major and is over- lapped by the upper margin of the latissimus dorsi, to some fibres of which it occasionally affords insertion. 431. The axillary edge of the scapula is surmounted by a tliick • Kipr/^, rorvtis ; Vl'Sof^fgum ; that is to say of the shape of a crow's beak. t AxiUarij, belonging to the A.vilhi, or arm-pit.125 OF THE CLAVICLE. truncated angle, in which is formed an articular cavity named the Glenoid (cavitas glenoidea). * This cavity, which is superficial, is of an oval form, broader below than above; its great diameter is vertical, and a little inclined downwards and outwards ; it is cover- ed with cartilage, and is articulated with the head of the humerus; its circumference, like that of the cotyloid cavity, is surrounded by a fibro-cartilaginous rim; at its upper part, it gives attachment to the long portion of the biceps muscle. It is supported by a con- tracted part, named the Neck, (collum scapulce), which is more distinct posteriorly and downwards than in the other directions, and gives attachment to the fibrous capsule of the articulation of the humerus. 432. Structure. The scapula is cellular at its angles, and es- pecially so in the substance of the spine, acromion, coracoid pro- cess, and glenoid cavity. In the middle of the supra and infra- spinous fossae, it is entirely compact, thin and transparent. There are pretty regularly observed in it two distinct vascular holes on the upper and under surfaces of the spine. Some holes of this kind are also seen in all the places where there is ceUular tissue, and around the neck. 433. Development. Its development takes place by six or se- ven points of ossification : 1.° one for the body of the bone, which commences at its centre ; 2.° one for the glenoid cavity ; 3.° one for the summit of the coracoid process ; 4.° one for the upper sur- face and summit of the acromion; 5.° one for the dorsal edge ; 6.° one for the posterior edge of the spine ; 7° frequently one for the lower angle. 434. The scapula is articulated to the clavicle and humerus. OF THE CLAVICLE, "f* 435. The Clavicle or Collar Bone, (clavicula s. as juguli) is a long irregular bone, placed nearly transversely on each side, at the upper and fore part of the thorax, between the sternum and acro- mion, so as to cross obliquely the direction of the first rib. It is twisted in the form of an Italic /, somewhat in the manner of the keys used by the ancients; less curved and longer in the female than m the male; prismatic and triangular, or irregularly rounded in Its two inner thirds, contracted in the middle, broad and flat at «"ter part. It is divided into the following parts. 436. Body or Middle Part. Its upper surface is broader to- ward the outer part than at the inner, where it is rounded, and gives attachment to the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle. The w«;er s7/T/ac« presents the same disposition, and is uneven; there are observed upon it, at its inner part, a rough impression for the • Ta,',,, cama, haui profunda ; Xiic,, forma. f Clavicula, a key. Ku!,, duvi,.126 PASSIVli ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. insertion of the costo-clavicular ligament, and at the middle a lon^ gitudinal groove, where the hole is observed that gives passage to the nutritious vessels of the bone, which receives the fibres of the ; Kubclavius muscle ; at its outermost part there is a prominent ridge, running obliquely from within outwards, and from behind forwards, to which are attached the coraco-clavicular ligaments. Its ante- rior ed(je is broad and convex in its inner half, where the pectoralis j major is inserted, narrow and concave in its outer half, to which the | deltoid muscle is affixed. Its posterior edge, which is thick, con- , cave, smooth, and rounded internally, gives attachment, externally, where it is uneven and convex, to the trapezius. 437. Sternal or Internal Eoctremify. This extremity is in- clined downwards and forwards, and is considerably thicker than f the rest of the bone. There is observed upon it a triangular, broad, uneven surface, covered with cartilage, to be articulated with a nar- rower surface, which we have already mentioned as occurring at the upper extremity of the sternum (78). Ligaments are attached all round its margin, and its lower and posterior angle is much more \ prominent than the others. 438. Acromial or External Extremity. It is more elevated than the preceding, rests upon the coracoid process, * and incUnes backwards and upwards. It is articulated to the acromion by a narrow surface, oblong from behind forwards, incHned obliquely 1 from above downwards, and from without inwards, and covered with 1 cartilage. Like the preceding, it is perforated with numerous small t vascular apertures. ^ 439- Structure. The body of the clavicle is composed of a thick layer of compact tissue externally, and of a spongy tissue i with large areoljE internally; but no traces of a medullary canal are perceived in it, as in the other long bones, unless occasionally in extreme old age. The extremities are principally formed of cel- lular tissue, and covered by a thin plate of compact tissue. The canal of the nutritive vessels is very narrow. 440. Development and Articulations. The clavicle, whit l makes its appearance at a very early period in the foetus, commence its development by a single point of ossification for the body; bu 1 at a more advanced period, when that part has nearly acquired it i full size, there is formed at each extremity an osseous crust, whic I ultimately unites with the rest of the bone. It is articulated to th I sternum and scapula. • It does not rest directly on the coracoid process, being separated from it by tl coraco-clavicular ligament; bnt 1 have a preparation in my collection in which tl' I coraco-clavicular ligament had in all probability been wanting, as the clavicle at tl! I place articulates witli the root of the coracoid process by broad and well mark ' j surfaces- llOF THE ARM. OF THE ARM. OF THE HUMERUS. 441. Form. The Humerus (Os Humeri, Os Brachii) is the . longest and largest bone of the thoracic extremities ; it is suspend- e ed, as it were, to the shoulder, and terminates at the elbow • it is II irregular and of a cylindrical form. Its divisions are the following - 442. Body or Middle Part. From being nearly cylindrical at i; the upper part, it becomes prismatic and flattened 'from before :i backwards at the lower. It appears as if twisted upon itself in its middle region. Its posteiior surface {sxomidiedisiho^e, and turned a little in- TPards, whJe below it looks outwards, and is broad and flattened In Its whole extent, it is covered by the triceps extensor, to which It turmshes many points of attachment. Its inner surface is narrower than the outer. At its upper part, there IS observed a longitudinal depression, covered with car- tJage m the recent state deep above, and gradually disappearing as 1 descends ; this is the groove ^sulcus ukpUaUs) in which th! endon of the long portion of the biceps muscle slides. It .^es in- sertion, by Its posterior or inner edge, to the united tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. This surface of the humerus pre Sht is alTh'ed^ ^^"^^ ^« whichXToi: outer surfaced covered by this muscle at its lower part- liquely from above 21 a '"Pf 5^^^^ depression, inclined ob- mlks^^pat^eof tC ^^'^^^ ^'^^^'^ -^^^^ ^t^^-ifSp^ nerve, and one prominent Ss Thr!S:: '^'^T''^^ '"'"^ ^^^^^ ''^'-^ '^-^^ ^er part, where it dveVnt T ""''y ^'^^^^"^^ "P" 'ersed in the mi Wle bv T '''' ? '"^"^P^ i« tra- cery pron^nenTSkt '^''^''^ ^"^^ ^^'^^"^es t affords insertion to tt h V^rt, where 'Poneurosfs. ^"'^^P^ an intermusJular 444 '^rh ^l^erc^ht'SpTexC:^^^^^^^ !f ^"^istinct above, « inserted into i s SirnaV^ ' <^"raco-brachialis ™, together wiU^^ an i„^'^^ --^nd the triceps and brachialis in- = below. '''^^ nucrnniscular aponeurosis arc attached LoPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 44-5. The anterior line approaches very near the preceding at its iipper part, and there forms the anterior or outer edge of the bi- cipital groove, to which the tendon of the pectoralis major is at- tached. In the middle it is interrvipted by the impression of the deltoid muscle, and becomes rounded and broadened below, to give insertion to the brachialis internvis. 446. Upper or Scapular Ewtremity. This is the largest part of the bone, and is formed by three eminences. The upper, which is inclined inwards and backwards, of a nearly hemispherical form, smooth, and covered with cartilage, is named the Head., (Caput Humeri), and is articulated with the glenoid cavity of the scapula. It is supported by a contracted part or Neck, a httle longer and more distinct forwards, downwards, and inwards, than at its upper and oviter part, where it resembles a mere groove. The axis of this neck is placed obliquely to that of the bone, and forms an ob- tuse angle with it. The other two eminences are named the Greater and Smaller Tuberosities. The first, (tuberculum majus s. i externum), which is situated posteriorly, is rounded, and presents three plain surfaces, of which the anterior receives the tendon of • the supra-spinatus muscle, the middle that of the infra-spinatus, 1 and the posterior that of the teres minor. The other, {tuberculum minus s. internum), which is much narrower, but a little more pro- minent, gives attachment to the tendon of the sub-scapularis. These two tuberosities are separated from each other by the com- mencement of the bicipital groove, which is directed downwards , and inwards. 447. Lower or Anti-brachial Ewtremity. This end of the bone is flattened and curved forwards ; its transverse diameter is the greatest. At the outside, it presents an eminence, named the Ex- ternal Condyle, (condylus extensorim), into which is inserted th( external ligament of the elbow joint, together with the extensor carp radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor propriuf minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supinator brevis Internally, there is observed another eminence or tuberosity, th^ Interjial Condyle, {condylus f exorius), more prominent than th preceding, which is turned a little backwards, and receives a ten don common to the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmari longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, and flexor sublimis muscles, togethe with the internal lateral ligament of the joint. Between these tw eminences is an articular surface, turned forwards, descending b< 1 low them, and formed from the radial to the ulnar side ; 1st, b 1 the Small Head of the Humerus, {superficies articularis radialis I a rounded eminence, which is received into the cavity of the upp< extremity of the radius; 2dly, by a groove which corresponds the margin of that cavity ; 3dly, by a sharp semicircular cres which is lodged between the ulna and radius ; 4thly, by a puUe {superficies articularis ulnaris), situated beneath the level of t) small head, which articulates M'ith the large sigmoid cavity of t ulna. It is on account of the greater projection of this pulhOT THE BONES OF THE FORE-ARM'. 129 nr'that the humerus inclines outwards, when it is placed by its lower extremity on a horizontal plane. At the fore part of this extremity, and above the articular surface, is a superficial cavity, (fossa an- ^'^'ferior major), which lodges the coronoid process of the ulna when the fore arm is bent; and at the back part, is observed a deeper fossa, (J'ossa mawima s. posterior), which receives the olecranon when the fore-arm is extended. Lastly, above the small head, is a depression, (fossa anterior minor), into which the edge of the upper cavity of the radius is received during the forced flexion of the joint. 448. Structure, Articulations, and Development. The humerus •I'is compact in its body, spongy and cellular at the extremities, and '■"contains a large medullary canal. It is articulated to the scapula, ■■'the radius, and the ulna; and is developed by eight points of ossification, one for the body, one for the head, one for the large tuberosity, one for the small tuberosity, one for the pulley of the lower extremity, one for each of the condyles, and commonly one for the small head. OF THE BONES OF THE FOEE-AUM, OF THE HADIUS. 449. The Radius, which is situated nearly vertically at the outer part of the fore-arm, is shorter than the ulna by the length of the olecranon; it is smaller above than at its lower part, and is slightly curved inwards about the middle. It is divided as follows. 450. Body or Middle Part. It is prismatic and trigonal. Its anterior surface becomes gradually broader as it descends, is plain ' in the greater part of its extent, and about a third from the upper extremity presents the orifice of the medullary canal,* which is dn-ected upwards :f the three upper fourths of this surface give attachment to the flexor longus poUicis manus, and its lower fourth to the pronator quadratus. Its posterior surface is convex in its upper third, which is covered by the supinator brevis ; in the rnuldle it is shghtly concave, and receives the insertions of the ex- tensors of the thumb; at the lower part it is convex, and is cover- ed by the extensor communis digitorum, extensor proprius indicis, and extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The outer surface, which s rounded and convex in its whole extent, gives attachment at its upper part to the supinator brevis ; in the middle, where a rou^rh impression is observed, to the pronator teres ; and, at its low^er part, IS covered by the tendons of the radial extensors of the car- p. 331. ^ocnin. Dc Corj/. Jlum.fuL To.n. i. th^n,ml ^"''"5''' "«'««^"Pfi"" "f fig- 3. I'lute xix. of Mitchell's Engravings of KPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 130 451. These three surfaces are separated by an equal number of" prominent edges, of which the posterior is rather indistinct at its iipper and lower parts, although pretty obvious at the middle. The inner, whicli is very distinct, thin, and sharp, and somewhat archpd ui the middle, gives attachment to the interosseous ligament. The anterior is less prominent; it is rounded, especially at its lower part, sometimes presents the aperture for the vessels of the bone, and at its upper part affords insertion to the flexor sublimis, flexor longus proprius pollicis, and supinator brevis ; while at its lower part, it receives first the pronator quadratus, and afterwards the supinator longus. 452. Upper or Humeral EMremity. It presents at its upper part a superficial circular cavity, covered with cartilage, into which is received the small head of the humerus. The circumference of this cavity, which is also smooth, and covered with a cartilaginous layer, is broader internally, where it is articulated with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; in the rest of its extent, it is connect- ed with the annular ligament. This articular part of the radius is supported by a round contracted Neck, (colkcm), about a fingers breadth in length, and inclined a little outwards. This neck ter- minates downwards and inwards at the bicipital tuberosity, (tuber radii), an eminence which is smooth and contiguous externally with the tendon of the biceps flexor, to which it aflbrds attachment in- ternally by a rough surf\ice. 453. Lotver or Carpal Extremity. It is nearly square, and larger than the upper. There is observed at this lower part an ar- ticular surface, which is traversed from before backwards by a somewhat indistinct line, and is connected externally with the os seaphoides, and interna;lly with the semilunar bone, for which pur- pose it presents two surfaces, of which the outer is triangular, and of greater extent, the inner square, and less elongated. Anterior- ly, this extremity of the bone gives attachment to the anterior li- gament of the wrist joint. Posteriorly, it presents two vertical grooves, of which the outer is narrow, passes a little obliquely out- wards, and contains the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, while the inner, which is broader and superficial, affords a passage to the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum and extensor indicis. Internally, it presents an oblong cartilaginous cavity, which is articulated to the lower extremity of the ulna; and on the outside is marked with two other grooves, the anterior for the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primi internodii pollicis, the posterior for the tendons of the ra- dial extensor muscles. The edge by which these grooves are se- parated terminates below in a pyramidal eminence, named the styloid process, ( processus styloideus), which is itself terminated by a "blunt summit, into which the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint is inserted. 454. Structure, Articulations, and Development. The radius presents exactly the same structure as the humerus, and all theOF THE ULNA. 131 long bones ; it contains a medullary canal, wliich is more distinct, and wider above than below. It is articrdated with the humerus and ulna, and the scaphoid and semilunar bones. It is developed by three points of ossification, one for the body, and one for each of the extremities. OF THE ULNA. 455. Form. The Uhia or Cubitus, is a long irregular bone, situated at tlie inner part of the fore-arm ; it is larger above than below, is a little longer than the radius, and like it is divided into a body and two extremities. 456. The Body or Middle Portion, is curved forwards at its upper part, backwards and outwards at the lower, while its middle region is straight. Its anterior surface, which is concave above, gives attachment at its upper part, where it is broad, to the nexor profundus, which is also attached to its middle ; and at the lower part, W'here it is narrow, to the pronator quadratus. Near its up- per part is observed the orifice of a canal for the passage of vessels into the bone, which is directed upwards. The posterior surface is divided into two parts by a longitudinal prominent Ime ; of these parts, the inner, which is broader, gives attachment, from above downwards, to the anconeus and extensor carpi ulnaris ; while the outer, which is narrower, receives, in the same direction the inser- tions of the supinator brevis, extensors of the thumb, and extensor indicis. The inner surface, which is very broad and somewhat concave at the upper part, is covered in its three upper fourths, by the flexor profundus ; while at the lower part, it is much con- tracted, and becomes sub-cutaneous. 467- These three surfaces are separated by as many edges. The outer is sharp in the three upper fourths of its length, rounded be- low, and gives attachment to the interosseous ligament. The anterior edge, which is more rounded, gives insertion, at its upper part, to the flexor profundus, and, below, to the pronator quadratus. The posterior edge is very distinct in its three upper fourths, and there gives attachment to an aponeurosis common to the flexor carpi ul- naris, flexor profundus and extensor carpi ulnaris ; it gradually becomes obliterated below. 458. The Upper or Humeral Extremity is very large, of an ir- regular form, difficult to be described, and is formed principally by two processes. One of these is called the Olecranon*, (processus anconeus) ; this is situated posteriorly, and at a much higher level than the rest of the bone ; at its upper part it gives attach- ment to the triceps extensor; posteriorly, it presents a narrow tri- angular surface, covered solely by the skin; while anteriorly it is concave and invested with cartilage. The other process, which is • n'p.sxjavov cubiti pars glbbera ; ilMvn, cubitus ; kqkvo;, galea.132 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. named the Coronoid {processus coronoideus), is situated before and beneath the olecranon ; at its upper part it is cartilaginous and inclined backwards; but below, it is directed forward, and pre- sents a very distinct impression for the brachialis internus. On the inside, it gives attachment to some fibres of the pronator teres and flexor sublimis, together with the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint. Externally, it presents an oval cavity, with its greatest diameter from before backwards, which is covered with cartilage, and is named the smaller sigmoid cavity* (cavitas sig- moidea minor J ; this cavity is articulated with the upper extremity of the radius, and is continued above into the Larger Sigmoid Ca- vity (cavitas sigmoidea major), which rolls upon the trochlea of the humerus, and which is formed by the anterior surface of the olecranon, and the upper surface of the coronoid process, which unite nearly at a right angle ; a transverse hne notched at the ex- tremities indicates the situation of this union. Its posterior and vertical portion is larger than the anterior, which is horizontal. The larger sigmoid cavity is divided by a prominent line, which passes from the upper part of the olecranon to the summit of the coronoid process, into two lateral portions, the inner of which is the larger. 459. The Lower or Carpal Extremity is very small, and pre- sents two eminences. The outer, which is named the Head (ca- pitulum ulnce), is rounded, covered with cartilage, contiguous infe- riorly with the triangular fibro-cartilage of the joint, and received externally into the cavity of the lower extremity of the radius, (453). The inner, or Styloid process {processus styloideus), is more promi- nent, and is placed a little backwards; it is conical and slightly turned outwards ; its summit gives attachment to the internal late- ral ligament of the wrist-joint. Posteriorly these two eminences are separated by a groove, in which the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris passes, and below by an uneven depression, into which the triangular fibro-cartilage just mentioned is inserted. 460i Structure, Articulations, and Development. The ulna, which is perfectly similar to the radius in its structure, is articulat- ed with that bone, the humerus, and, by the intervention of the triangular fibro-cartilage (459), '^^ith the cuneiform bone. It is al- so developed by three points of ossification. Sometimes it presents a supernumerary bone at the summit of the olecranon or coronoid process.-}- Sometimes also there occurs a centre of ossification in the cartilage, which is to form the styloid process. * 2;y^ofjJ^}, having- the form of the letter sigrna, represented by C and not by 2. •)■ Os sesamoideuin processui anconeo im])Ositum,f vel in apice processus coronoi- dei§ observanint. 8oeinni. Dc Corp. Hum. Fab. torn. i. p. 327. X Clieiial OUss. Bntan, Med. Basil. 1705, 4 § xxviii. § 111 collectione mca. 5OF THE BONES OF THE CARPUS. 133 OF THE BONES OF THE CARPUS.* (Ossa Carpi). The carpal bones are eight in number, and form two rows. FIRST ROW. OF THE SCAPHOID BONE. 461. The Scaphoid Bonef (os Scaphoides, os NaviculareJ, is situated at the upper and outer part of the carpus, and is the larg- est of those that occur in the first row. It is elongated, convex on the side next the fore-arm, concave in the other direction, and in- chned downwards and outwards. Its upper surface, which is tri- angular, smooth, and cartilaginous, is articulated to the radius. The inferior surface, which is directed a Uttle outwards and backwards, is also triangular and smooth, convex, and covered with cartilage, and is articulated to the trapezium and trapezoides. The posterior surface, which is very narrow, is marked in its whole length by a groove into which Hgam exits are inserted. The anterior, which is also narrow, is concave at the upper and outer part, and presents a pretty distinct eminence for the insertion of ligaments. The outer surface is narrow and tubercular, and receives the insertion of the external lateral ligament of the radio-carpal articulation. The in- ner presents two concave and cartilaginous spaces; the upper, which is narrower, is articulated to the semilunar bone ; the lower, which is broader, is inclined downwards, forwards, and inwards, and is vmited to the head of the os magnum. OF THE SEMILUNAR BONE.]: 462. The Semilunar Bone (os Lunatum), is smaller and less elongated than the scaphoid. Its upper surface is convex and smooth, and is articulated to the radius. The lower, which is of greater extent from behind forwards than in the transverse direc- tion, presents a concave space, which is connected with the head of the OS magnum, and with the os unciforme; this articulating surface is sometimes double. The a-nterior and posterior surfaces, which are uneven and rough, give attachment to ligaments ; the former of these is the larger. The outer surface, which is a little concave, smooth, covered with cartilage, slightly inclined upwards, * K«j3-«f of the Greeks. t 'S.Kuif),, navicula ; iXf, ftgtim. t So named because tlie surface by wliicli it is articulated to tlic scaphoid bone is or the form of a crescent.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 134 and of a semicircular form, is articulated to the scaphoid bone. The inner surface is directed a little downwards, and presents a broader, somewhat convex and nearly quadrilateral facet, which rests upon the cuneiform bone. OF THE CUNEIFORM BONE. 463. The Cuneiform or Pyramidal Bone (Os triquetnim), is a little smaller than the semilunar, and is situated to the inside of that bone, and a little beneath it. Its form is that of a wedge, whose base is directed outwards and upwards, and the summit downwards and inwards. Its upper surface is convex and smooth, and is contiguous to the triangular fibro-cartilage, which separates it from the head of the ulna. The inferior surface is inclined outwards, a little concave and smooth, and rests upon the unciform bone. The posterior surface is uneven, and gives attachment to ligaments. The anterior presents internally a plain and circular surface, covered with cartilage, which articulates with the pisiform bone, and is limited externally by ligamentous impressions. The outer surface, which is quadrilateral, convex, smooth, and inclined a little upwards, is articulated to the semilunar bone. The inner is marked with an uneven depression for the insertion of ligaments. OF THE PISIFORM BONE. 464. This is the smallest bone of the carpus, of which it occu- pies the inner and upper part. It is of a rounded form, whence its name ; and is placed in a plane anterior to the other bones of the carpus. Posteriorly it presents a circular surface, which unites ■with the anterior surface of the cuneiform bone. All the rest of its surface is convex, rough, and uneven. It gives attachment above to the flexor carpi ulnaris, below to the abductor of the little finger; anteriorly, to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. SECOND ROW. OF THE TKAfEZIUM. 465. The Trapezium {os rfmltangulum maju^)j is situated at the outer and lower parts of the carpus, a little before the other bones, and seems to have an oblique direction. Its upper surface is concave and cartilaginous, and articulates with the scaphoid bone. The lotoer surface, which is convex from behind forwards, and con- cave transversely, is connected with the first metacarpal bone. The posterior and outer present insertions of ligaments. The anterior, which is narrow and uneven, is marked above with a groove in ■which Hes the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and of which theOF TPIE BONES OF THE CARPUS. 135 outer edge, forms an eminence for the attachment of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and the abductor and opponens pol- licis muscles. The inner surf ace is inclined downward, and articu- lates with the OS trapezoides by a broad and concave space, and with the second metacarpal bone by another narrow and plain surface, situated beneath the preceding. OF THE OS TKAPEZOIDES. 466. The Trapezoides (os multangulum minus), is smaller than the trapezium, more extended from behind forwards than in any other direction, and thicker behind than before. Its upper surface, which is concave, smooth, narrow and quadrilateral, is articulated with the scaphoid bone; the lower is divided by a prominent line passing from before backwards, into two parts, of which the inner is broader and somewhat concave, and unites with the second metacarpal bone. The posterior surface is convex and rough, for the attachment of liga- ments ; the anterior is of a similar description, but is narrower. The outer is convex and articulates with the trapezium; the inner, which is narrower and concave anteriorly to be articulated to the os mag- num, receives the insertions of ligaments behind. OF THE OS MAGNUM. 467. The OS magnum (os capitatum), is the largest of the carpal bones. It is thick and cubical below, rounded and hemispherical above, and its height is greater than any of its other dimensions. Its upper surface, which is named its head, has the greatest part of its convexity turned backwards and outwards; it is supported by a contracted neck, in the form of a groove, and is received into a cavity presented by the scaphoid and semilunar bones together. Its infe- rior surface is divided into three portions, the external of which, inclined outwards, concave and smooth, is articulated with the se- cond metacarpal bone; while the middle portion, which is broader than the rest, horizontal, and turned a little obliquely upwards at its posterior part, rests upon the third metacarpal bone; and the inner, which is very small, plain, and also horizontal, is joined to the fourth. Its posterior surface is broad and convex below, a Uttle concave above, and gives attachment to ligaments, as does the anterior, which is narrower. The outer surface is plain, and is articulated to the trapezoides. The inner surface presents pos- teriorly and above, a larger concave space, which is connected with the unciform bone ; the remaining part is rovigh, and gives attach- ment to ligaments.136 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF THE OS UNCIFOUJME. 468. Next to the os magnum, this is the largest of the bones of the carpus, of which it occupies the inner and lower part; it is somewhat of the form of a wedge, with the base directed down- wards. Its upper surface, which is extremely narrow, is rounded and smooth, and is articulated to the semilunar bone. The lower surface is divided into two facets, which rest upon the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. The posterior is triangular and uneven, and gives attachment to ligaments. The anterior bears internally and below a large eminence, curved outwards, which affords at- tachment to the annular ligament of the wrist, and some of the muscles of the little finger. The outer is smooth above and be- hind, to be articulated with the os magnum, uneven before and be- low, where it gives insertion to ligaments. The inner, which is very oblique, is concave downwards and backwards, convex above and before, and is articulated to the cuneiform bone. 469. Structure and Development. All the bones of the car- pus are formed of a loose and spongy tissue, which in the recent state is filled with a great quantity of fluid ; a very thin layer of compact tissue invests their surface. They are each developed by a single point of ossification, excepting the os unciforme, which has two. The pisiform bone does not begin to ossify until about the age of twelve. In describing each of the carpal bones, we have al- ready sufficiently pointed out their articulations, to render it unne- cessary to recur to them here. OF THE METACARPAL BONES.* {Ossa Metacarpi.) OF THE FIRST METACARPAL BONE. (Os Metacarpi Pollicis.) 470. This bone, like all those of the metacarpus, belongs to the class of long bones; it is shorter and thicker than the four others. Its body is a little curved from behind forwards; it is convex and covered by the tendons of the extensors of the thumb at its back part, and presents anteriorly, in the middle, a longitudinal ridge which gives attachment to the opponens and flexor brevis pollicis; internally and at the upper part, where it is very narrow, the first dorsal interosseous muscle is attached. Its upper or carpal ex- tremity, supports a smooth articular surface, concave from behind • Mjtu!, post ; Ka^rn, carpus.137 OF THE METACARPAL BONES. forwards, and convex transversely, -which is connected with the trapezium; externally, this extremity gives attachment to the ten- don of the extensor ossis metacarpi polhcis. To the rest of its cir- cumference a fibrous capsule is attached. Its lower eivtremity, or head, is convex and smooth, more prolonged and broader before than behind, and covered with a cartilage for the purpose of being articulated to the first phalanx of the thumb. There are observed at its anterior part two depressions, which correspond to the sesa- moid bones, and, on each side, a depression which receives the in- sertion of the lateral ligament. OF THE SECOND METACAIIPAL BONE. (Os Metacarpi Digiti Indicis.) 471. This is one of the longest and largest of these bones. Its body, which is curved like that of the preceding bone, is of a prismatic and trigonal form. Posteriorly, it presents a prominent longitudinal line, which bifurcates below, to form the sides of a triangular surface, of which the summit is turned upwards, and into which are inserted, externally, the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and, internally, the second. At its fore part it is sur- mounted by a blunt and rounded edge, which corresponds to the tendons of the flexors, and is more prominent below than above. Externally, it gives attachment to the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and, internally, and somewhat anteriorly, to the first of the palmar iuterossei. Its upper extremity is marked in the middle with a concave surface, which articvilates with the os tra- pezoides; externally, it presents a plain surface, inclined for- wards, which unites with the trapezium; and, internally, a double articulating surface, of which the upper part is connected with the OS magnum, and the lower with the third metacarpal bone. Poste- riorly, this extremity of the bone bears a tuberosity which gives at- tachment to the tendon of the extensor carpi radiaUs longior, and, anteriorly, inequahties for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. The loiver ewtremity, or head, of this bone is similar to that of the first, and is articulated with the first phalanx of the forefinger. OF THE THIRD METACAIIPAL BONE. (Os Metacarpi Digiti Medii.) 472. This bone is a little shorter than the preceding. Its body presents exactly the same disposition. Anteriorly, it gives attach- ment to the flexor brevis pollicis, for the upper fourth part of Its length, and in the lower three fourths affords insertion to the adductor pollicis. Externally the second, and internally the third dorsal interosseous muscles, arc inserted into it. Its upperPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 138 ecotremity presents a nearly plain surface, liorizontal at the fore part, inclined forwards and inwards posteriorly, which is articulat- ed to the OS magnum ; posteriorly, this extremity gives attachment to ligaments, and to the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis bre- vior: anteriorly, it receives ligaments only; externally, it presents a concave smooth surface, which is articulated with the second me- tacarpal bone ; and, internally, there are observed two surfaces se- parated by a depression, which are connected with the fourth me- tacarpal bone. Its lower extremity, which is articulated with the first phalanx of the middle-finger, is similar to that of the preced- ing bone. OF THE rOUllTH METACARPAL BONE. (Os Metacarpi Digiti Annularis.) 473. It is shorter and smaller than the third, and presents the same form in its body, which gives attachment externally to the second palmar, and third dorsal interosseous muscles, and on the inside to the fourth dorsal. Its upper extremity presents two smooth articular surfaces, of which the inner is broader and some- what concave, and articulates with the unciform bone, while the other, which is external and posterior, is very small and plain, and is connected with the os magnum. Before and behind, this extre- mity gives attachment to ligaments ; externally, it has two facets separated by a depression, connected with two corresponding facets of the third, and internally, a simple surface, somewhat concave, united to the fifth metacarpal bone. The lower extremity is arti- ctdated to the first phalanx of the ring-finger. OF THE FIFTH METACARPAL BONE. {Os Metacarpi Digiti Minimi.) 474. This bone is shorter than the fourth. Its body is a little flattened from behind forwards. Posteriorly, it is marked with an oblique line, which divides it diagonally into two portions, the outer of which is concave, and gives attachment to the fourth dor- sal interosseous muscle, while the inner, which is convex and broader, is covered by the tendons of the extensors of the little fin- ger. To the outside and anteriorly, it gives attachment to the third palmar interosseous muscle, and, internally, where it is nar- row and uneven, to the adductor minimi digiti. The upper extre- mity presents a concave surface, directed a little outwards, and ar- ticulated with the os unciformc; there are seen upon it, internally, a tuberosity for the attachment of the extensor carpi ulnaris, ex- ternally, an articulating surface for the fourth metacarpal bone, and anteriorly and posteriorly, impressions of ligaments. TheOF THE BONES OF THE FINGERS. 1S9 lotver extremity is connected with the first phalanx of the little finger. 475. Structure and Development. The metacarpal bones have the same structure as the long bones in general; in other words, their body is compact, and their extremities cellular. They are hollowed by a distinct medullary canal. In the middle of the an- terior surface of their body, the aperture of their principal canal for the vessels of the bone is observed, its direction being upwards. The first is developed by two points of ossification, one for the body, and the other for the tipper extremity; the other four have also two, one for the body, and the other for the lower extremity. 476. Articulations. The first is articulated with the trapezium and the first phalanx of the thumb ; the second with the trapezium, trapezoides, os magnum, the third metacarpal bone, and the first phalanx of the fore-finger; the third with the os magnum, the second and fourth metacarpal bones, and the first phalanx of the middle finger ; the fourth with the os magnum, os unciforme, the third and fifth metacarpal bones, and the first phalanx of the ring finger; the fifth with the os vinciforme, the fourth metacarpal bone, and the first phalanx of the little finger. OF THE BONES OF THE FINGERS. 477- The fingers are composed of fourteen bones, named Pha- langes* [internodid).-\' Each of them has three, excepting the thumb, in which there are only two. Those next the metacarpus are longer and larger ; the extreme series is the smallest, and the middle bones are of an intermediate character. In all of them the upper extremity is larger than the lower; the anterior surface is concave, and the posterior convex, the former, being connected with the tendons of the flexors, the latter with those of the extensors of the fingers. OF THE FIRST OR METACARPAL OR PROXIMAL PHALANGES. {Phalanges Primce.) 478. There is one of these bones for each finger. That of the middle finger is the longest, while the one belonging to the Httle finger is the shortest and weakest. Their anterior surface forms a sort of groove, which lodges the tendons of the flexor muscles, and whose thin and rough edges give attachment to the fibrous sheath of these tendons. The upper extremity., which is of a quadrilateral form with rounded angles, presents a transversely • <I>aXa^,yi(, from ^«x«>g, (wicsy they being compared to soldiers arranged in order. t Inter, Mwce/j; nodus, ajulnl.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 140 oval cavity, which is articulated with the head of the correspond- ing metacarpal bone, and whose sides have inequalities for the at- tachment of the lateral ligaments. That of the first phalanx of the thumb receives the insertions of the abductor, flexor brevis, and adductor poUicis. Their lower extremity is surmounted by two small condyles separated by a groove, more prolonged before than behind, and articulated with the next phalanx. OF THE SECOND OR MIBDLE PHALANGES. {Plialanges SecundcB, sive Mediae.) 479. In the thumb the middle phalanx is wanting. That of the middle finger is the longest, while the one belonging to the little finger is the shortest and smallest. They have a great resem- blance to the first phalanges, only that there are observed at their middle and fore part two impressions, to which the terminations of the tendons of the flexor sublimis are attached, and that their up- per extremity presents two concave surfaces separated from before backwards by a prominent line, for its articulation with the con- dyles of the metacarpal phalanges, and inequalities, at its posterior part, for the attachment of a portion of the tendon of the extensor communis digitorum. OF THE THIRD Oil EXTREME OR DISTAL PHALANGES. {Phalanges Unguium.) • 480. Each of the fingers, including the thumb, has one. That of the thumb is the largest; the smallest is that of the little finger. Their posterior surface is convex, and covered by the naUs ; the anterior is concave at its middle part, and gives insertion to the tendon of the flexor profundus. The base is marked with two ca- vities similar to those of the upper extremities of the middle pha- langes, and articulated with the condyles of their lower extremity. On the sides are seen the impressions of the lateral ligaments, and posteriorly the attachment of the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. The summit is rounded, compressed, very uneven, tu- bercular, broader thah the body, and connected with the pulp of the fingers. 481. Structure, Articulations, and Development. The first and second phalanges are similar to the metacarpal bones in struc- ture, and are, like them, furnished with a medullary canal; the last phalanges are entirely formed of cellular tissue, covered with a slight layer of compact tissue. The first phalanges are articulated with the metacarpal bones, and with the second or middle ; the second phalanges, with the first and last; the latter, with the sc-OF THE SUPERIOR EXTUEMITIES IN GENERAL. 141 cond, excepting that of the thumb, which is immediately connected with'the first. They are developed by two points of ossification, one for the body, the other for tlie upper extremity. OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES CONSIDERED IN GENERAL, WITH REFERENCE TO THE BONES OF WHICH THEY ARE COMPOSED. 482. The superior extremities, whose length is such that, in the standing posture, the tips of the fingers reach the middle of the thigh, are composed each of thirty-two bones, the weight of which is sustained by the connexions, more or less remote, of the shoul- der with the head, the neck, and the vertebral column. In order to point out the different regions into which they are divided for the purpose of facilitating their examination, they are supposed hanging by the side of the body, with the palm of the hand turned forwards. The following pecuUarities are then observed in each of the portions of which they consist:— 483. The Shoulder is applied upon the upper part of the tho- rax, in such a manner as to increase its transverse extent on the outside in a great degree. It is longer than broad, and this length is more marked in the female than the male, on account of the greater development of the mammae, which induces an enlargement of the chest at its upper part. With respect to its height, it is the scapula alone that can serve to furnish an estimate of it, the clavicle being of no importance in this respect. The shoulder is in general inclined backwards, and the glenoid cavity of the scapula turned directly outwards. The two bones of which it is formed constitute a bent and horizontal lever, which is so disposed, that the summit of the angle is above the glenoid ca- vity, and its base directed inwards and backwards. 484. The Arm (ho-achium), or portion of the thoracic extremity • extended between the shoulder and elbow, is formed by a single bone already described, and scarcely presents any thing for our ex- . amination in its general conformation. It is protected at its upper part, by the projection formed by the acromion and coracoid pro- ' cess. The pulley which is observed at its lower part is oblique, so . as to be directed forwards toward the inner edge of the bone, and backwards toward its outer side. The inner tuberosity of this ex- 1 tremity corresponds to the head of the humerus, and the outer tu- 1 berosity to the large tuberosities of the upper extremity. 485. The Fore-arm {anti-brachium), which is situated between t the arm and hand, is flattened from before backwards, curved a 1 little forwards, and of nearly uniform breadth in its whole length. The two bones of which it is composed are so arranged, that the : thickest part of the one corresponds to the thinnest part of the ' other, so that, in the different parts of the extent of the fore-arm, t the sum of their diameters remains almost imiformly the same. 1 Both arc rounded on the side, where they arc farthest from eachPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 142 Other, and are bounded by a sharp edge on that by whicli they mutually apjiroach. They are in contact at their two extremities; but in the middle are separated by an interval, named the inter- osseous space, which is contracted above and below, and in the re- cent state, is closed by a membraniform ligament. Their two car- pal extremities are situated nearly at the same level; but the up- per extremity of the ulna rises about a twelfth part above that of the radius. The latter is in general situated in a plane a little an- terior to that of the ulna. At the elbow, it is the ulna that prin- cipally forms the joint; but at the wrist, the radius is the chief constituent, and thus draws along with it the hand in all its mo- tions. We have supposed the upper extremity hanging along the side of the body, with tlie back of the hand directed backwards. This position is what is termed supination (supinatio). The term pro- nation ipronatio), again, is applied to the position in which the back of the hand is directed outwards, while the thumb is turned for- wards. In pronation, the radius is in its natural place at the up- per extremity, while its lower turns upon the ulna ; and in this state the two bones cross each other. 486. The Hand (manus), or last part of the thoracic extremi- ties, varies in its dimensions in different individuals, and is more extended in height than in breadth. It is also broader than the fore-arm. Its anterior surface, which is concave, is named the palm (pahna s. vela) ; the posterior, which is convex, and a little inclined upon the fore-arm, is named the hack of the hand (dors%im manus). Its outer or radial edge f margo radialis), is thicker than the inner or ulnar (margo ulnarisJ. The hand is divided into the following parts. 487- The Carpus or Wrist {carpus), which commences the hand in the skeleton, and which is articulated to the fore-arm, being scarcely broader than it, is transversely oval: its height is inconsi- derable. It is flattened from before backwards, and slightly curved forwards. Its posterior surface is in general convex, and traversed by an unequal depression, which indicates the separation of the two rows of bones of which it is composed. Its anterior surface, which is concave, represents a sort of groove in which pass the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers, together with nerves and ves- sels. The scaphoid bone and trapezium externally, and the pisi- form bone with the process of the os unciforme internally, form four eminences which limit this groove on the sides, and to which are attached the muscles of the thumb and little finger, as well as the anterior annular hgament of the wrist. The two surfaces of the carpus are, in general, very uneven for the insertion of ligaments. The posterior surface forms part of the back of the hand, and is covered by the extensor muscles of the fingers. 488. On the side next the fore-arm, the carpus presents a con- vexity more prolonged backwards than forwards, which is covered with cartilage in the recent state, and is articulated with the bonesOF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES IN GENERAL. 143 of the fore-arm to form the wrist-joint. At the lower part it is ter- minated by a certain number of articular surfaces, which are con- nected with the metacarpal bones. Externally and internally, it presents inequalities which give insertion to ligaments. 489. Metacarpus {metacarpus). This part of the hand, which is situated between the carpus and fingers, is of a quadrilateral form, broader below than above. It is concave before, convex be- : hind, and presents very distinct intervals existing between the 1 bones of which it is composed, which, with the exception of the I first, are in contact at their upper or proximal extremities. The • space which occurs between the first and second is also much larger ! than the others. It is in these intervals that the interosseous mus- , cles are lodged. 490. The fingers {digiti) * are five in number, and are desig- 1 nated by their numerical name, counting from the radius towards : the vdna. The first is named the Thumb (PoUex); the second the , Forefinger or Index, the latter name being applied to it from its ■ being used to point out a distant object; the third is named the . Middle Finger, on account of its position; the fourth, the Ring , Finger, because it is on it that rings are usually worn; lastly, the fifth is named the Little Finger, from its inferior size, and occa- - sionally the Auricular, from its being the only one that can easily be introduced into tlis external auditory canal. The middle finger is the longest; the index and ring-fingers follow next; the thumb and little finger are the last in this respect. But with regard to thickness, the following is the order which they I follow :—first the thumb, then the middle finger, the fore-finger*, the ring-finger, and lastly, the little-finger. In general, the dorsal surface of the fingers is convex'in the longitudinal, and more es- >pecially in the transverse direction. Their palmar surface pre- iSents a corresponding concavity. The thumb is straighter than ithe others. ( OF THE INFERIOR OR ABDOMINAL EXTREMITIES. (Artus Inferiores.) OF THE THIGH. OF THE FEMDK. 491. Form. The Femur (Os Femoris) is the longest, largest ■and heaviest, of aU the bones of the body. It is of a cylindncal torm, somewhat curved anteriorly, directed obliquely downwards :ancl inwards, and slightly twisted upon itself, so that in the skele- j ton It IS much nearer the corresponding bone of the opposite side at Its lower extremity, than at the upper, where it is separated to a • AaxruXo/ among the Greeks.144 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION\ considerable distance. Being a double bone, it is consequently unsymmetrical, which is equally the case with all the other bones of the lower extremity. The femur rests upon the leg, and trans- mits to it the weight of the pelvis, with which it is articulated at its upper part. The following parts are observed in it. 492. The Body, which is pretty thick above, contracted in the middle, and greatly enlarged below. It is slightly twisted upon itself, and presents a very distinct curvature, of which the convexity is anterior. It is somewhat triangular in its three upper fourths, and is flattened from before backwards in the lower fourth. Its anterior surface, which is convex, broader above and below than in the middle, and slightly twisted upon itself, gives attach- ment in the three upper fourths of its length to the crureus, which covers it entirely. The outer surface is narrow, slightly concave above, convex below, and gives attachment to the vastus externus muscle. The inner surface, is broader than the preceding, nearly plain, and covered by the vastus internus, to which it gives attach- ment in its two upper thirds. 493. These surfaces are separated by three edges, of which two are lateral, rounded, rather indistinct, and give attachment to the vasti muscles. The third, which is posterior, very prominent, rough, and furnished with distinct asperities, has received the name of Linea aspera. This line, whose direction is parallel to the axis of the bone, is much more distinct at its middle part than at the extremities. It has besides a certain breadth, and presents two lips or edges (labia), separated by an interval, and retiring to a great distance from each other at the upper and lower parts of the bone, which makes it appear bifurcated at its two extremities. It gives attachment externally to the vastus externus and the short head of the biceps. Internally, it receives the insertion of the vastus internus; while its middle part receives a portion of the fibres of the three adductor muscles of the thigh. The canal for the vessels of the bone, which is directed upwards, is seen at the middle of this line. It is generally single, but occasionally there are two or three apertures. The external branch of the upper bi- furcation of the linea aspera ascends to tlie trochanter major; it is very rough, and gives attachment externally to the vastus externus. internally to the addvictor magnus, and in the middle to the ten- don of the gluteus maximus. The internal branch, which is not very distinct, passes upwards and inwards to the trochanter minor, and gives attachment to the pectincus and vastus inter- nus. The quadratus femoris and adductor magnus cover the triangular interval existing between these branches. Thebrancliet; of the lower bifurcation of the linea aspera are longer than those of the upper; they descend toward the posterior part ol the condyles, above which they terminate by very distinct impres- sions, and are more widely separated than those of the upper bi- furcation. The external branch, which is more prominent than the inner, affords insertion to the vastus externus and biceps flexorOF THE SUTERIOR EXTREMITIES IN GENERAL. 145 muscles; the internal, which is depressed at its upper part, and even almost entirely effaced toward the middle for the passage of the crural artery, which runs across it, gives attachment to the viistus internus and adductor magnus. These two lines are sepa- rated by a triangular flattened surface, which corresponds to the popliteal vessels and nerves, and is limited at its lower part, and laterally by rough impressions, which are placed immediately above the posterior extremity of the condyles, and which give at- tachment to the tendons of the gastrocnemius externus muscle. 494. The Upper, or Pelvic Extremity. This extremity, which is angularly curved from its union with the body of the bone, and of a very irregular form, presents three large processes. One of these, which is the largest and highest of the three, is called the Head {caput ossis femoris). It is of a spherical form, and is di- rected obliquely upwards, inwards, and a little forwards. At the^ middle, or a little below it, there is observed a small ragged and uneven depression, which gives attachment to the round ligament of the hip joint. This head is covered with cartilage, and is arti- culated with the cotyloid cavity of the os innominatum ; it is sup- ported by a long Neck, {coUicm), flattened from before backwards, I which forms a more or less obtuse angle outwards with the axis of the body of the bone.* It is longer and smaller below and behind, than above and before. The head is separated from the neck by a variously contorted line, which corresponds to the circumference of the cartilage by which the head is invested. Two other broad and scabrous lines, directed obliquely inwards and downwards, pro- ceeding from the great to the small trochanter, and situated the one before, (linea intertrochunterica anterior), the other behind, {lima inter trochanter ica posterior), the base of the neck, indicate its junction with the body of the bone, and give attachment to the 1 capsular ligament. The part of the neck Avhich is next the head, f is rounded and smaller ; in the rest of its extent, it has the form of ! a triangular prism, with very blunt angles. ! 495. The second process of the upper extremity of the femur is J named the Great Trochanter,(Trochanter Major). It is a 3 broad, thick, rough, quadrilateral eminence, flattened from within !, outwards, occupying the outermost part of this region of the fe- ). mur, and situated at a lower level than the head. The Outer Sur- g(l face of this process is broad and convex ; it is covered by the ten- tt|| don of the gluteus maximus, from which it is separated by a syno- vial bursa. It is terminated below by a rather prominent ridge, which gives attachment to the vastus externus muscle. Its hmcr • riiis angle cliHiigcs with age, until at last the head sinks below the level of the Irochanicr iMajor; it changes also its level, the neck shortens and the head of the bone becomes .?t.s.vi/c, to nse the lan«uago of Botanists, from the disease termed by Mr. IJ. Bell '< Interstitial Absorption'," and lias been in this condition, fre<iuently mistaken l)y Snrgcons for cases of fracture of the neck of the bone which had heal, ed by osseous tniion. Sec " Remarks on Interstitial Absorption of the neck of the tliigb bone. By Uenjamin Bell, .Snrgeon." Edin. 1821. t 1 fX'-nn/' fi'.yxi of the Greeks, from Tpo;^,,;, a wheel.146 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. Surface presents at its upper part an irregular depression, named the Digital Cavity, which gives attachment to the tendons of the pyriformis, superior and inferior gemelli, obturator internus, and obturator externus muscles. The Anterior Edge of the great trochanter is not very prominent, but is very broad and rough ; it gives insertion to the tendon of the glutgeus minimus. Its Poste- rior Edge is rounded and more distinct, but narrower, and receives the tendon of the quadratiis femoris. Its summit, which is short, thick, and very rough, gives attachment to the glutfeus medius. 496. The Small Trochanter,* {Trochanter Minor), is situated beneath and behind the base of the neck of the femur, and much lower than the great troclianter; its form is pyramidal, and its direction obliquely inwards and backwards. Its summit gives at- tachment to the united tendon of the psoas magnus and iliacus in- ternus. From its base, which is triangular, there proceed three prominent lines ; two superior, of which the one ascends obliquely outwards to the great trochanter, while the other proceeds obliquely inwards, to be continued into the lower part of the neck ; and one inferior, which directs itself toward the linea aspera, and forms the inner branch of its superior bifurcation. 497- The Lower or Tibial Eootremify, which is larger than the upper, is a little flattened from before backwards, and is thinner in its middle part than on the sides, which are formed of two consider- able eminences, known by the name of Condyles {condyli ossis fe- moris). These condyles articulate with the tibia, and are distin- guished into internal and external. The Internal Condyle is nar- rower, less prominent anteriorly, more oblique, more prolonged backwards than the other, and also descends lower when the femur is placed in a vertical direction, but remains on the same level with it when the bone is restored to its natural obliquity. These two con- dyles present a greater convexity behind than before. They are separated posteriorly by a large notch, {fovea intercondyloidea pos- terior), very uneven in its bottom, which is prolonged between them, and which is destitvite of articidar cartilage, and lodges the crucial ligaments of the knee-joint. Anteriorly their surfaces seem to be con- tinued into each other, and form a sort of pulley { fovea intercondy- loidea anterior), which is convex from above downwards, concave transversely, more prominent and higher externally than internally, and formed especially at the expense of the outer condyle, of which it occupies all the fore part; it is articulated with the patella. The inner condyle presents internally an uneven projecting eminence, - -namedtheInternal Tuberosity, (tuberculumcondyli interni),vYvich. gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and to the tendon of the adductor magnus. Externally, it gives insertion to the fibres of the posterior crucial ligament, by an uneven and rough surface. The outer condyle presents externally the Ex- ternal Tuberosity, {tuberculum condyli externi), which is less pro- * T|j«x'«*'''? l^'"-^os of the Greeks.OF THE LEG. 117 minent than the internal, uneven, rough, convex, and gives attach- ment to the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Beneath this tuberosity, there is observed a pretty wide groove, which re- ceives the tendon of the popliteus muscle.* Internally, this con- dyle presents an uneven rugose surface, at the posterior part of which is inserted the anterior crucial ligament. Very convex be- hind, nearly flat before, and very broad beneath, this condyle differs considerably from the inner, which is more convex anteriorly, and less broad below. - 498. Structure. The femur presents the structure common to all the long bones, in other words, is formed of compact tissue in its body, and of cellular tissue in its extremities. Its compact tis- sue appears evidently fibrous at the outside, and especially on the neck. A large cylindrical medullary canal occupies the whole in- terior of the bone, and presents a multitude of broad laminae which detach themselves from its walls, together with very slender mter- laced filaments. 499. Development. The femur is developed by five points of ossification, one for each of the three processes of the pelvic extre- mity, one for the body, and one for the two condyles of the lower extremity. 500. Articulations. It is articulated with the os innominatum, the tibia, and the patella, by the various parts already mentioned. OF THE XEG. OF THE PATELLA. 501. The Patella {Rotula), is an irregular flattened bone^ of inconsiderable size, occupying the anterior part of the knee. Its form is that of a triangle rounded on the angles. Its Anterior Surface is convex, uneven, covered with a great number of small vascular apertures and longitudinal striae, which indicate the direc- tion of the fibres of the bone: it is covered by tendinous and aponeurotic expansions, and by the skin. The Posterior Surface is separated into two portions, covered with cartilage, and articulated with the condyles of the femur, by a prominent line which descends obhquely inwards from the base of the bone towards its lower * The groove described in the text receives the tendon of the popliteus muscle only ouring the flexion of the knee-joint, the tendon being inserted into one extremity of Wrt, tv!^ "''^^"■'•V^'"'"'''^^* ^'^'^ encrusted with cartilage, and covered w^m the synovial membrane, thus forming a part of the articulation of the knee. '^''fended, the tendon of the popliteus is not in the groove; npxinn n "'^ «™ooth lip of it, and should the Ro thaf If u fO"'*'de>-able degree, the tendon at last slips into the groove ; of thl nn 7?^ "'ii,' ''een/»,7«erf for Ihc occasional rcceplion of the tendon anv nnafZ-"'^''''an's'T'. wiiicli lias scarcely been properly drscribed bv Xrdes, r T T" ''y Winslow. We slmll return to thi. .tructure wnen describing the functioni. of tliw popliteus muscle.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 148 angle. Of these two portions, the outer is larger and deeper than the inner, in conformity to the disposition of the articular part of the corresponding condyle. Beneath them is seen a small trian- gular rough surface, into which is inserted the ligament of the patella. 502. The Base of the Patella, which is thick, directed upwards, and cut obliquely downwards and forwards, gives attachment to the tendon of the rectus femoris. Its two Lateral Edges, which are thin, convex, and prominent, receive aponeuroses from the tri- ceps extensor. Its Summit, which is sharp and directed down- wards, gives insertion to the ligamentum patellte. 503. Structure. The patella is almost entirely formed of very dense cellular tissue, traversed by longitudinal bony fibi-es, and co- vered with a very thin layer of compact tissue. It appears to bor- row this peculiar structure from the fibrous basis in which it is de- veloped. It in fact originates in the midst of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, in the same way as the sesamoid bones are developed. 504. Development and Articulations. The patella originates by a single centre of ossification; it remains long cartilaginous, and only becomes entirely osseous at a pretty advanced age. It is ar- ticulated with the condyles of the femur, and is connected with the tibia by the ligamentum patellae. OF THE TIUIA.* 505. Form. The Tibia is the largest and longest of the two bones of the leg, of which it occupies the inner and fore part. Next to the femur, it is the largest bone in the body. It is divided into the following parts: 506. Body. This part is prismatic and triangular; its thick- ness diminishes from the upper part to the lower in a general man- ner, but the place where it is smallest, is below the middle third. Independently of its being twisted upon itself, like all the long bones, it presents a double curvature, which is such that internally its two upper thirds are slightly convex, while the lower is a little concave. Its Inner Surface, which is directed a little obliquely forwards, slightly convex, and broader above than below, is covered at the upper part by the tendinous expansions of the sartorius, gra- cilis and semitendinosus muscles, while in the rest of its extent it lies immediately under the skin. Its Outer Surface, which is al- so broader above than below, is concave in its two upper thirds, ■where the tibialis anticus is inserted, and convex in the remaining third, which is covered by the tendons of that muscle, of the exten- sor communis digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis and peroneus * Tibia, a ])i))e or (lute. It is said timt the first instrmncnts of lliis sort were uiade by slu'i)licrds of the leg bones of animals.OF TIIU TIEIA. 1,49 tertius. Its Posterior Surface is also broader above than below, and is slightly convex in its whole extent. Its upper part is tra- versed by a prominent line, which directs itself obliquely down- wards and outwards, and into which are inserted the popliteus, so- leus, tibialis posticus, and flexor communis digitorum pedis. The portion of the posterior surface of the tibia which is situated above ' tliis line, is of small extent, of a triangular form, and covered by the popliteus muscle; that which lies beiaeath it, being of greater size, is covered by the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, to which it gives attachment. In the upper part of this surface is seen the orifice of the canal for the vessels of the bone, the direc- tion of which is obliquely downwards and forwards. It is the largest of all the canals of this kind that are met with in the long bones. 507. These surfaces are separated by three edges. The ante- rior is more prominent at its middle part than above, and espe- cially than at the lower part, where it is rounded and disappears altogether: it is called the Crest {crista tibice). It is twisted like the body of the bone, and gives attachment to the aponeurosis of the leg. The inner edge is thick, rounded, more distinct below than above, where it gives attachment to the internal lateral liga- ment of the knee-joint. To this edge are also attached the popli- teus, soleus, and flexor longus digitorum pedis. The meter edge is thin and sharp, and gives insertion to the interosseous ligament: it is bifurcated at the lower part. 508. The Upper or Femoral Extremity, which is larger than the lower, is transversely oval. It presents at its upper part two articular surfaces, which are concave, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and articulated with the condyles of the femur; they are improperly known under the name of Condyles of the Tibia. The inner, which is deeper than the other, is of an oval form from before backwards. The outer, which incHnes a Httle obhquely downwards and outwards, has a nearly circular form. A pyramidal process, with a broad base, inclined obliquely upwards and in- wards, surmounted by two tubercles, situated at a greater distance from the fore than the back part of the bone, and named the Spine Of the Tibia, separates these two surfaces, and presents anteriorly and posteriorly two uneven depressions, which give attachment to the semilunar fibro-cartilages, and the crucial ligaments of the knee joint. The anterior is larger than the posterior. The upper extremity of the tibia is limited anteriorly by a tri- angular, somewhat convex surface, directed obliquely forwards and ciownwards, presenting a great number of vascular apertures, and at Its lower part a tubercle to which is attached the ligamentum On tl ■ -1 "'■'^''"'''''y j« observed a more or less deep notch, nnl Tcon.siderablc eminences are met with, which arc named th^ Tuberosities of the Tibia ; the inner, which is larger ktPv ' T ^''^'"^^fhf" the outer, gives attachment to the internal latcial ligament of the knee joint, and posteriorly to the tendon ofPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 150 the semimembranosus muscle. The outer presents at its back part a small rounded surface, somewliat convex, nearly circular, directed downwards, and covered with cartilage to be articulated to the up- per extremity of the fibula. 509- The Lower or Tarsal Ewtremity lias a nearly quadrilateral form, and presents anteriorly a broad convex surface, which gives at- tachment to ligaments, and is covered by the tendons of the muscles of the fore part of the leg. Posteriorly, there is observed another sur- face, nearly plain, and traversed from above downwards and from within outwards by a superficial groove, in which slides the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis pedis ; at its lower part it also receives insertions of ligaments. To the outside is seen a concave triangu- lar surface, rough above where a ligament is attached to it, broad, smooth, and polished below, to be connected with a similar surface of the lower extremity of the fibula; it is at the summit of this surface that the outer edge of the body of the tibia terminates. Inteifnally there is seen a thick triangular process, directed down- wards, and flattened from within outwards ; this is the Malleolus Interntis or inner ankle. It is not placed in the same plane with the internal tuberosity of the tibia, but is a little anterior to it, which appears to depend upon the twisting of the body of the bone. This process is convex and subcutaneous internally ; externally it presents a small triangular surface, which vinites nearly at a right angle with the lower articular surface of this extremity of the tibia, and is connected with the astragalus. Anteriorly and posteriorly, it is terminated by two thick edges, of which the anterior is convex, and gives attachment to ligaments, the posterior marked with one, or sometimes two superficial grooves, directed downwards and in- wards, in which slide the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum. The summit of the malleolus intcrnus is broad- er, and descends less behind than before ; it gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. Inferiorly, the tarsal ex- tremity of the tibia is terminated by a concave quadrilateral sur- face, broader externally than inwards, separated into two parts by a very superficial prominence which transverses it from before back- wards. This surface, which is limited internally by the external surface of the malleolus internus, and externally by the notch which receives the lower extremity of the fibula, is articulated to the upper svirface of the astragalus. 510. Structure. The tibia presents the structure common to all the long bones, its body being formed of compact tissue, and its extremities of cellular tissue covered with a layer of compact tissue. Its medullary canal is the most distinct of any in the body. 511. Articulations and Development. This bone is developed \ by three points of ossification, one for the body, and one for each extremity. The spine which terminates its crest above, is some- times formed by a small lenticular epiphysis which does not long f remain distinct. The malleolus internus is also sometimes deve-151 OF THE FIBULA. loped by itself. The tibia is articulated to the femur, the fibula aud the astragalus. OF THE FIBULA.* 512. Form. The Fibula (Perone), is nearly of equal length with the tibia, but much more slender, and occupies the outer part of the le"-. It has a slightly oblique direction, which is such that its lower^extremity is more forward than the upper. The follow- ing parts are observed upon it. 513. The Body, which is slender, rounded at the upper part, prismatic and triangular in the rest of its extent, is twisted upon itself, and slightly curved outwards. Its inner surface looks a httle backwards at its upper part, and is afterwards twisted so as to become anterior. It is divided by a longitudinal ridge, to which the interosseous ligament is attached, into two portions, of which the anterior and smaller gives attachment to the extensor longus pollicis pedis, extensor communis digitorum and peroneus tertius; while the posterior, which is larger, and a little concave in the longitudinal direction, represents a sort of groove which gives at- tachment to the tibialis posticus. Its oztter surface, which looks a little forward at its upper part, and backwards at the lower, gives attachment above to the peroneus longus, and in the middle to the peroneus brevis, which almost entirely cover it. The poste- rior surface looks a little outwards above, and is afterwards turned to be directed inwards at its lower part; superiorly, it gives at- tachment to the soleus, and below to the flexor longus pollicis pedis. In its middle part is seen the orifice of the canal for the vessels of the bone, which is directed forwards and downwards. At its lower part, this surface, which has become broader, presents a triangular, convex, rough space, which is articulated with the tibia. 514. The surfaces of the fibula are separated by three edges. The anterior (crista), is directed outwards at its lower part, and gives attachment internally to the extensor communis digitorum pedis and peroneus tertius, and externally receives the insertions of the lateral peronei. At the lower part it bifurcates, and the branches of this bifurcation are separated by a triangular surface, somewhat concave, and covered by the integuments. The internal edge is turned forwards at its lower part, and is much more pro- minent in the middle than at its extremities. Above, it gives at- tachment to the tibialis posticus, and flexor longus pollicis pedis, and at the lower part receives the insertion of the interosseous li- gament. The eMernal ed<je is turned backwards at its lower part, and gives attachment posteriorly to the soleus and flexor longus pollicis pedis, and anteriorly to the two lateral peronei. * llitoiti of the Greeks ; J'ibiila among; tho Lalliis.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 515. Tlie Upper, or Tibial E.vtremiti/, is rounded, and is ge- nerally known by the name of the Head {cajjitulum), of the Fibula. It presents a somewhat concave surface, inclined inwards and forwards, which is articulated with the external tuberosity of the tibia, (508). It is terminated posteriorly by a pyramidal pro- cess, which is directed upwards. Its whole circumference presents inequalities which give attachment to ligaments, and especially to the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and the tendon of the biceps flexor miiscle. 516. The Lower, or Tarsal Extremity, is elongated, flattened from within outwards, terminated inferiorly by a pointed projection, and forms the Outer Ankle (Malleolus Ewterniis), which is larger, and descends lower than the internal. Its outer surface is convex, and lies immediately under the skin. The inner presents a small triangular smooth surface, concave from behind forwards, convex from above downwards, which is articulated to the astragalus, and is limited behind by a rough uneven depression, giving attachment to one of the posterior ligaments of the ankle-joint. Above this articular surface is a rough triangular space, which connects the fibula with the tibia. Anteriorly, the malleolus externus presents a thin uneven edge, into which ligaments are inserted. Posteriorly, is another much broader edge, on which there is a groove for the passage of the tendons of the lateral peronei muscles. Its summit forms a pyramidal eminence which gives insertion to the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. 517. Structure, Development and Articulations. The body of the fibula is formed of compact tissue. Its extremities are chief- ly composed of cellvilar tissue; it contains a medullary canal. It is developed by three points of ossification, one for the body, and one for each extremity ; and is articulated to the tibia and astra- galus. OF THE BONES OF THE TARSUS.* (Ossa Tarsi.) OF THE CALCANEUM, OR OS CALCIS.-)* 518. This bone occupies the posterior and inferior part of the tarsus, and especially contributes to form the heel by the large prominence which it presents behind. It is elongated posteriorly, and slightly compressed on either side. It is the largest bone in this part of the lower extremity. Its upper surface presents posteriorly a space, concave from be- fore backw2U-ds, convex in the transverse direction, situated ante^ * Ta^ffos of the Greeks ; Tarsun among the Ijatins. •)• ImX); of the Greeks ; in Latin, Culv, the Heel.153 OF THE DONES OF THE TARSUS. riovly to the tendo Achillis; in the middle a broad convex articu- lar surface, looking forwards and outwards, and articulated to the astragalus; anteriorly and to the outside, a rough uneven depres- sion for the attachment of ligaments ; anteriorly, and to the inside, another articular surface, narrow, oblong, and slightly concave, which is also articidated with the astragalus, and which is separat- ed from the preceding by a deep rough groove, into which is in- serted a ligament proceeding toward the astragalus. This facet is formed upon a projection which the bone here makes, and which is uneven on the inside to give attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. It is named the Small Process of the Calcanenm. Its loiver surface, which is much narrower than the upper, pre- sents posteriorly two tuberosities, the inner of which is the larger. These tuberosities aflFord insertion to the superficial muscles of the sole of the foot, and are separated by a depression into which a strong ligament is fixed. Anteriorly, this surface contracts still more, and is terminated by a rough tubercle into which is inserted the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The aiiterior surface of the calcaneum is the smallest of all: it is concave from above downwards, slightly convex from without inwards, covered with cartilage, and articulated to the os cuboides. The portion of the bone which sustains this surface is contracted, and has received the name of the Great Process of the Calca- neum. Its posterior surface, which is convex in all directions, presents inequahties at its lower part, where the tendo Achillis is inserted. Its upper part is smooth and pohshed, and is separated from the tendon just nlentioned by a synovial bursa. Its outer surface, which is broader behind than before, is markr ed anteriorly with two superficial grooves, directed downwards and forwards, for the passage of the tendons of the lateral peronei muscles. It Hes, in a great part of its extent, immediately under the skin, and presents anteriorly, on the great process, inequahties to which the extensor brevis digitorum pedis is attached. The two grooves are separated by a spine into which the external lateral lio-a- ment of the ankle joint is inserted. Lastly, its inner surface, which is broad, concave from before backwards, slightly convex from above downwards at its posterior part, forms an arch imder which sUde the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum pedis, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus poUicis pedis. The tendon of the latter muscle passes in a very distinct groove, which occupies the upper part of this surface, and which is tormed under the small process. The plantar vessels and nerves are also lodged m this cavity. Posteriorly and below, it presents inequalities to which the accessory muscle of the flexor lono-us di gitorum is attached. °PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 154 OF THE ASTRAGALUS.* 519- The Astragalus^ which, next to the calcaneum, is the largest bone of the tarsus, is of a very irregular and somewhat cubical form, and occupies the middle and upper part of the tarsus, where it ap- pears as if wedged in between the two malleoli. Its upper surface is formed, in its two posterior thirds, by an articular facet, which re- presents a pulley with a shallow groove; this pulley, which is broader before than behind, convex from behind forwards, inclined back- wards, a little concave in the transverse direction, is articulated with the lower extremity of the tibia, and has its outer edge more pro- minent than the inner. Its anterior third presents a rough depres- sion, for the insertion of ligaments, which constitutes a portion of the neck of the astragalus. Its lower surface presents two articular sur- faces, separated from each other by a very distinct groove, directed obliquely forwards and outwards, narrower behind than before, into which are inserted ligaments which are attached on the other hand to the calcaneum. Of these surfaces, one is posterior and exter- nal, large, concave, directed backwards and inwards ; the other, anterior and internal, and slightly convex : both are articulated with the upper surface of the calcaneum. The anterior surface of the astragalus is convex and rounded, and is articulated to the os naviculare ; it is formed by a very distinct prominence {caput as- tragali), which the bone forms at this place, and is supported by a kind of neck (colhim). The nec/c of the astragalus, is narrow above, where it presents a depression filled with adipose cellular tis- sue and ligaments, oblique below, where it presents the groove, in- to which are inserted the ligaments connected with the calcaneum ; it is very rough, uneven, perforated with a great number of vascu- lar foramina, sinuous, and, as it were, twisted upon itself It is longer externally and above, than inwards and downwards. Its posterior surface is very narrow and traversed obliquely, down- wards and inwards, by a groove in which passes the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis pedis, and which presents externally a pointed eminence, to which a ligament is attached. Its outer surface, which is triangular, smooth, concave from above downwards, plain or slightly convex from behind forwards, is articulated with the fibula. The inner S7j,rface, rough and uneven in the greater part of its ex- tent, which gives attachment to ligaments, presents, at the upper part, a smaller surface than that of the outer, broader before than behind, where it terminates in a point, and is articulated to the mal- leolus internus. It joins the upper surface of the bone nearly at a right angle.OF THE OS NAVICULARE AND OS CUBOIDES. 155 » OF THE OS NAVICtJLAUE. 520. The Os naviculare (os scaphoides tarsi),* occupies the . middle and inner part of the tarsus, and is of an oval form, having ! its o-reatest diameter directed obliquely downwards and inwards. ! lts%iterior surface, which is convex and smooth, is formed of three \ facets, the uaner of which, directed forwards and a little inwards, is i broader below than above, to be articvilated with the first or inter- I nal cuneiform bone ; while the middle surface, which looks direct- 1 ly forwards, and is broader above than below, meets the second or ; middle, and the outer, which is nearly square, and inclined forwards : and outwards, articulates with the third or external; they are se- parated from each other by rather indistinct angular Unes. The posterior surface of the os naviculare is concave and smooth, and '. articulates with the head of the astragalus. Its circumference is rough and convex at the upper, outer, and lower parts, and pre- sents many impressions of ligaments. Externally, it is sometimes furnished with a small surface .which articulates with the os cu- boides. At its lower part internally, it is surmounted by a promi- nent and uneven tubercle, into which the tendon of the tibialis pos- ticus is inserted. OF THE OS CUBOIDES. 521. The Os Cuboides is situated at the anterior and outer part of the tarsus. It is of a cubical form, as its name implies; although it is in reality somewhat longer and thicker internally than to the outside. Its upper surface, which is covered by the extensor bre- vis digitorum pedis, is flat and rough ; it looks outwards, and gives attachment to ligaments. The lower surface is divided into two parts by an eminence directed obliquely forwards and inwards, which gives attachment to the inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and which separates two depressions, the posterior of which is broader and rough, and also affords insertion to the fibres of this hgament, while the anterior is a true oblique groove in which slides the tendon of the peroneus longus. Its anterior surface is inclined a little outwards, and is formed of two distinct surfaces, the inner of which is square, and articulates with the fourth metatarsal bone, while the outer, which is triangular, is joined to the fifth. Its750.9- terior surface, which is concave from above downwards, and con- vex transversely, is articulated with the calcaneum. The cnder is very narrow ; there is seen upon it the commencement of the groove which extends over the lower surface, and which forms in this place a sort of pulley for the reflection of the peroneus longus. Lastly, the inner surface, at its posterior part, which is uneven and rough, gives attachment to ligaments, and in some cases presents a small • nnvhmla, u boat.156 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOJVIOTION. surface, which is articulated with the os naviculare ; but in t*ie mid- dle, it presents a rounded, smooth, and plain surface, which unites with the external cuneiform bone, and which is limited anteriorly by impressions of ligaments. OF THE CUNEIFOllM BONES. 522. The Cuneiform Bones (ossa cuneiformia) occupy the ante- rior and inner part of the tarsus, between the os naviculare and the three first metatarsal bones. They are wedge-shaped, and of unequal size. They are sometimes designated by their numerical name, counting from within outwards; sometimes they are distin- guished, according to their size, into large, middle, and smalland sometimes according to their position into internal, middle, and external. We shall follow the latter division. OF THE INTERNAL CUNEIFORM BONE. 523. The Internal Cuneiform Bone {as cuneiforme internum), is larger than the rest. Its vertical diameter is greater than its transverse; it is of the form of a wedge, with the base directed downwards. Its anterior surface, which is slightly convex and covered with cartilage, has the form of a crescent, with the convex edge turned inwards; it is articulated with the first metatarsal bone. The posterior surface is inclined a little outwards; it is triangular, smooth, and concave, and is connected with the inter- nal articular surface of the anterior aspect of the navicular bone. The inner surface is very large, nearly plain, and rough, and lies immediately under the skin. The outer, which is also nearly flat, presents, at its upper part, two articular surfaces, the anterior and smaller of which is articulated with the second metatarsal bone, while the posterior, which is larger, is connected with the middle cuneiform bone. The lower part of this surface is uneven, and gives attachment to ligaments. The Base of the internal cunei- form bone is convex, rough, and directed toward the sole of the foot; it gives attachment to the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and to a portion of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. It descends be- neath the level of the other two cuneiform bones. Its Summit, which is directed upwards, is represented by a rather thin edge, which forms externally a small indistinct angle, arising from the union of the two portions of the outer surface. OF THE MIDDLE CUNEIFORM BONE. 524. The Middle Cuiieiform Bone (ns cuneiforme medium), is the smallest of the three cuneiform bones. It is, as it were, wedg-OF THE EXTERNAL CUNEIFORM BONE. 157 ed in between the internal and the external. Its Base, which is < quadrilateral, is directed upwards, and gives attachment to liga- ments, as does its Summit, which is rather thin, and situated be- low. Its anterior surface, which is triangular, and slightly con- vex, is articidated to the second metatarsal bone. The posteriory which is also triangular and somewhat convex, is connected with the OS naviculare. The inner surface, presents above and behind a smooth, flat surface, which articvdates with the internal cunei- form bone; inferiorly and anteriorly it is rough, and gives attach- ment to Mgaments. Lastly, the outer surface presents, behind, a smooth and somewhat concave surface, which is articulated to the I external cuneiform bone. On the anterior part of this surface : there is a rough depression for hgaments. OF THE EXTEBNAL CUNEIFOIIM BONE. ' (Os Cuneiforme Externum J. 525. This bone is of intermediate size between the first and se- . cond cuneiform bones. It is situated on the outside of them, and on the inside of the os cuboides. Its anterior aspect is flat, smooth, and triangular, and is articxdated with the third metatarsal bone. The posterior aspect, which is of the same form, inclines a httle inwards, and is connected with the os naviculare. The m- ' ner aspect presents anteriorly a narrow surface, which is articvilat- ^ ed to the second metatarsal bone, and posteriorly another some- what convex surface connected with the middle cuneiform bone : these two surfaces are separated by a rough depression which gives attachment to ligaments. The outer aspect is surmounted, pos- teriorly and above, by a flat, rounded surface, which is connected with the OS cuboides ; and anteriorly, by another small and almost linear surface, which articulates with the fourth metatarsal bone. ■ 1 he rest of this aspect presents impressions of ligaments. The Jiase at the bone looks upwards and a little outwards ; it is rough and slightly convex. Its Summit, which is directed downwards, IS thick and tubercular. • '^fw^'^w^e and Development. The structure is the same in all the bones of the tarsus, their interior being formed of spono-y tissue, very soft, and plentifully moistened by fluids in the recent state, while the surface is invested by a very thin layer of compact I ssue, which has a lamellar or fibrous appearance. The calcane- al! tS" I'^'^-'^g-'^^us take their rise from two centres of ossification; cuneifnrl f ^'•^^^^^^1«P"^ by a single point, which, in the three II tC a ■ particular, does not appear until after birth. useless to recapitulate their articulations.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ]53 OF THE METATARSAL BONES.* (Ossa Metatarsi). OF THE FIRST METATARSAL BONE. 527. The First Metatarsal Bone (os metatarsi pollicis pedis), is shorter but thicker thcin the others, to the inside of which it is situated. Its Body, whicli is prismatic and triangular, presents an tipper surface, which is convex and inchned inwards ; an inferior surface, concave, broader at its extremities than in the middle, and covered by the flexor breyis pollicis pedis ; and an outer surfaee which is also a little concave, and corresponds at its upper part to the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and below to the adductor pol- licis. Of the three edges by which these surfaces are separated, two are superior, rounded, and slightly concave; the third is inferior, more prominent than the preceding, and turned a little outwards. Itspos- terior or tarsal extremity presents a slightly concave, kidney-shaped surface, corresponding to the one which the internal cuneiform bone presents at its fore part; its circumference is bulged and uneven, and at the lower part is furnished with a tubercle, into which is inserted the tendon of the peroneus longus. Its anterior or phalan- geal extremity is called the head (capitulum) ; it is rounded, con- vex, smooth, and more extensive below than above. In the former direction, it presents two depressions in the form of channels, which are separated by an intervening prominence, and which lodge the sesamoid bones ; it is articulated to the first phalanx of the great toe. On the sides of this extremity are seen impressions for the lateral ligaments of the articulation.. OF THE SECOND METATARSAL FONE. 528. This is the longest of all the bones of this region. Its Body, which is elongated, narrower before than behind, presents in gene- ral a form which varies in different individuals. Its upper surface is slightly convex, and is divided by a blunt edge into two parts, the inner of which gives attachment to the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and the outer to the second. Its loiver surface, which is very narrow, concave, and connected with the adductor pollicis pecHs, is covered by the two first plantar interosseous muscles. The inner surface is also narrow and rounded. The outer is flat, and like it, corresponds to an interosseous muscle. The posterior or tarsal extremity of the second metatarsal bone, which has the form of a wedge, and is jammed in, as it were, between the three cunci-' lorm bones, presents posteriorly a triangular concave surface^0¥ THE METATAHSAL BONES. 159 ^vhicll articulates with the middle of these bones ; internally a flat rough surface, oft which there is observed, at the upper part, an articulating surface for the internal cuneiform bone ; externally, two articular surfaces, situated one above another, and separated by a depression, which are articulated with two corresponding sur- faces of the third metatarsal bone ; behind, and continuous with these siufaces, is a hnear facet, by which this bone is connected with the external cuneiform. At the upper part, this extremity is terminated by a rough flattened surface, which forms its base ; at the lower part, by a narrow uneven edge, which represents its sum- mit. The anterior or phalangeal extremity of this bone, which is also named the head, is convex, transversely compressed, more ex- tended below than above, and articulates with the first phalanx of the second toe. It is marked internally and externally by de- pressions, which give attachment to the lateral ligaments of this articulation. There is also observed upon it, at its upper part, a superficial groove, which separates the head from the rest of the bone. OF THE THIRD METATARSAL BONE. 529. It is a little shorter than the second, but has nearly the same form. Its body, which is prismatic, presents a con- vex superior surface, divided into two parts by a prominent line, which gives attachment to the second and third dorsal interosseous muscles; two lateral surfaces, which correspond to the same muscles ; and an inferior edge, which is thin, •concave, and gives insertion to the first plantar interosseous muscle. Its posterior or ta7'sal extremity is nearly of the same form, as that of the preceding bone; it presents posteriorly a flat triangular surface, directed inwards, which articulates with the ex- ternal cuneiform bone; internally, two small surfaces, continuous ■ posteriorly, but separated anteriorly by a slight depression, which articulate with the second matatarsal bone ; externally, a concave surface, which is connected with the fourth metatarsal bone, and which is limited below by ligamentous impressions. The base of this extremity is turned upwards, flat and rough; its summit, which looks downwards, gives attachment to ligaments. The anterior or phalangeal extremity of this bone resembles that of the 1 preceding, and is articulated to the first phalanx of the third toe. OF THE FOURTH METATARSAL BONE. 530. The fourth metatarsal bone has nearly the same form as tiie third, but is a little shorter than it. The ?4per surface of its ooay 18 narrow, and also divided into two by a prominent line ; it gives attachment to the third and fourth dorsal interosseous muscles. Its outer surface is narrow and rounded ; the inner iircscnts the same160 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. disposition ; the former gives attachment to the fourth dorsal interos- seous muscle, the latter to the second plantar interosseous muscle, as also does the inferior edge, which is thin, concave, and directed a little outwards. The Posterior or Tarsal Extremity of the fourth metatarsal bone is of a cubical form, and presents posteriorly a square surface, somewhat concave, which is connected with the os cuboidcs ; internally, two other surfaces, of which the anterior is convex, and articulates with the third metatarsal bone, and the posterior, which is very narrow, unites with the external cuneiform bone; externally, a somewhat concave surface, which articulates with the lifth metatarsal bone; superiorly and inferiorly, two rough surfaces, which give attachment to ligaments. The Ante- rior or Phalangeal Extremity differs in nothing from that of the other metatarsal bones. It is articulated with the first phalanx of' the fourth toe. OF THE FIFTH METATARSAL BONK. 531. This is about the same length as the fourth metatarsal bone. Its Body is flattened from above downwards, curved so as to have the convexity inwards, and much larger posteriorly than anteriorly. Its upper surface is convex, and inclined outwards;' the lower is inclined inwards, gives attachment to the third plantar interosseous muscle, and is partly covered by the flexor brevis minimi digiti. The inner surface, which is narrow and convex, receives at its upper part, the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle, and, at the lower, the third plantar. The Posterior or Tarsal Ewtremity is very large, and of a pyramidal form. It presents, posteriorly, a triangular convex surface, directed inwards, which articulates with the os cviboides ; internally, a concave sur- face, united to the fourth metatarsal bone ; externally, a very prominent tubercle, inclined downwards, outwards and backwards, to which are attached the tendon of the peroneus brevis, and a portion of the abductor minimi digiti; superiorly and inferiorly. insertions of ligaments. The Anterior or Phalangeal Extrcmif ii. is much smaller than that of the other metatarsal bones. Its convexity is more prolonged downwards and outwards. It articu- lates with the first phalanx of the fifth toe, and gives insertion to part of the transversalis pedis. 532. Structure and Develop7ne7it. The metatarsal bones arc precisely the same, as to structure and development, as the meta- carpal (4-75). Like them, they have a medullary canal, cellulai extremities, and a body chiefly composed of compact tissue. Th( first has an epiphysis commencing at its posterior extremity, anc the other four have one at their anterior extremity. 533. Arlicidaf/mis. The first metatarsal bone articulates witl the internal cuneiform bone, and the first phalanx of the great toe the second is united to the three cuneiform bones, the third met;- 1.161 OF THE BONUS OF THE TOES. firsal bone, and the first phalanx of the second toe; the third is connected with the external cuneiform bone, the second and fourtli metatarsal bones, and the first phalanx of the corresponding toe ; the fourth is articulated with the os cuboides, the external cuneiform bone the third and fifth metatarsal bones, and the first phalanx of the fourth toe; lastly, the fifth is connected with the os cuboides, the fourth metatarsal bone, and the first phalanx of the httle toe. OF THE BONES OF THE TOES. 534). The Toes, {digiti pedis), like the fingers, are five in number, and are distinguished individually by their numerical names, count- ino- from within outwards. The first is also called the Great Toe, {hallux), and the fifth is designated by the name of Little Toe. The first only is formed of two phalanges; all the others have three. OF THE FIRST, METATARSAL OR PROXIMAL PHALANGES OF THE TOES. (Phalanges Posteriores.J 535. These phalanges are much longer than the others. They are much more slender and rounded than the corresponding pha- langes of the fingers, with the exception of that of the great toe, which is flattened and of great size. The rest gradually diminish in size. Their Body is very slender anteriorly, thicker behind; 1 its tipper surface is straight, convex, and corresponds to the tendons I of the extensors of the toes; the loiver is concave, especially to- wards the extremities, and corresponds to the tendons of the flexors; the lateral parts of this surface give attachment to the fibrous sheaths of these tendons ; the lateral surfaces are concave, and cor- respond to the tendons of the interosseous muscles and lumbricales. Their Posterior Eivtremity, which is larger than the anterior, pre- sents posteriorly a concave rounded surface, articulating with the head of the corresponding metatarsal bone, and has on each side a tubercle for the attachment of the lateral ligament. Their An- terior Extremity, which is much smaller, is formed by two con- dyloid prominences, which are close together above, and separated below by an intervening groove ; their greatest convexity is direct- ed downwards. On the sides of this extremity are observed the impressions of the lateral ligaments. MPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 1G2 OF THE SECOND OR MIDDLE PHALANGES OF THE TOES. (Phalanges Medice.) 536. They are very short, and of a cubical form : the great toe has none. Their upper surface is convex in the transverse direction, concave from before backwards, and corresponds to the tendons of the extensor digitorum pedis. The inferior surface, ■which is uneven and concave, gives attachment to the tendon of the flexor brevis digitorum. The lateral edges are concave from before backwards, and give attach?nent to the fibrous sheaths of the tendons of the flexor muscles. Their Posterior Extremity presents a concave articular surface, of which the greatest diameter is transverse, which is marked, in its middle part, with a verti- cal prominence; it is articulated with the condyles of the first phalanges. Their Anterior Extremity becars two small condyles, somewhat less prominent than those of the anterior extremity of the first phalanges. OF THE THIBD, EXTKEMK OR DISTAL PHALANGES. (Phalanges Unguium.) 537. The third or extreme phalanges are all very small; that of the great toe is much larger than the rest; their form is some- what pyramidal. Their Body, of which the superior and inferior surfaces are concave from before backwards, and convex in the transverse direction, gives attachment at its upper and posterior part to the tendon of the extensor communis digitorum, and sus- tains the nail at its upper and fore part. Inferiorly, it presents at the back part a tubercle, which receives the insertion of the ten- don of the flexor communis perforans. Their Posterior Extre- mity or Base is much larger than the anterior ; in other respects, it is similar to that of the second phalanges. The Anterior Extre- mity or Summit is fungiform, rounded, tubercular, and is con- nected with the pulp of the toes. 5-38. Structure, Development, and Articulations. The first phalanges of the toes are similar to those of the fingers, with re- spect to their composition and mode of growth ; but the second and third are only formed of cellular tissue, invested by a thin layer of compact tissue, and are only developed by two, and sometimes by a single point of ossification, on account of their smallncss. When there are two of these points, the one occupies the posterior extremity, the other the body. The anterior extremity does not present an epiphysis. The first phalanges articulate with the me- tatarsal bones and the second phalanges ; the latter with the firstOF THE SESAMOID BONES. 1G3 and tliird. In the great toe, the first phalanx is connected di- rectly with the last. OF THE SESAMOID BONKS. * 539. The Sesamoid Bones (Ossa Sesamoidea), are small irre- o-ular bodies, varying in number, and irregular in their occurrence, but which generally exist more numerously in the male than in the female, and which are met with in certain joints of the fingers and toes. They vary much in their form, and are composed of spongy tissue covered by a slight layer of compact tissue. They do not exist in children, and are only developed in advanced age in the tendons which surround the joint to which they belong. 540. In the hand, two are commonly met with at the anterior part of the first joint of the thumb, sometimes one or two at the corresponding joint of the fore-finger, another at that of the little finger, and one at the second joint of the thumb. It is seldom that they are observed in any of the other joints, although Mor- gagni-j- mentions such an occurrence. The two first of the thumb are large, of an oblong form, convex anteriorly, covered with car- tilage posteriorly, and lodged in a groove of the inferior extremity of the first metacarpal bone : sometimes one of them is larger than the other. They are enveloped by the fibres of the tendon of the flexor brevis muscle, while the tendon of the flexor longus passes between them. 541. In the foot there are in like manner three for the great toe. Their form is the same as those of the thumb. One is also pretty frequently found at the first joint of the second toe, and another at that of the fifth. 542. Sesamoid bones also make their appearance in other parts of the body. Thus there is pretty frequently one at the posterior part of each condyle of the femur. In old people, another very fi-equently occurs beneath the os cuboides, in the tendon of the peroneus longus. Lastly, the tendon of the tibialis anticus also contains one, near its insertion into the navicular bone. OF THE INFEUIOH ISXTllEMITIES CONSIDERED IN GENERAL WITH REFEKENCE TO THEIR BONES. 543. The inferior extremities are formed of a series of bones, which represents a sort of column resting upon a broad basis, to which it transmits the whole weight of the body. This column is as It were broken in its middle part; for it approaches that of the opposite side as far as the knee, after which it descends vertically, * '^>i'rait»%iVi«, oh formavi Ksmni, ffianis fere simikvi. t Aclvcisar. Aiuit. ii. iiiiiinad. xxx. p. Gl.I'ASSIVR ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and parallel to the other. In women, however, there is always a slight inclination inwards, in the whole extent of the extremity. In general also the lower extremity presents a curvature outwards, be- cause the femur is a little convex in this direction ; because the outer part of the upper extremity of the tibia is never suflicicntly raised, to compensate the deficiency in the length of the correspond- ing condyle, and because the upper extremity of the tibia itself is also a little curved. In the thigh the column is solid, and formed by a single bone. At the knee, it is of larger size. In the leg, it contracts a little, and results from the junction of two bones which are separated by an interval. 544. In describing the os femoris, we pointed out nearly all the circumstances which the Th'ujh {femur), presents in the skeleton. Its axis is not parallel to that of the extremity in general. At the union of its body with its upper extremity it is angularly bent, and approaches the integuments at its upper and outer part, leaving in- fernally a large space for muscles. We observe, however, that the two femurs are by no means parallel, being separated above by the whole distance from one cotyloid cavity to the other, and coming very near each other at their lower extremity ; whence it results that in their natural position the condyles are placed at the same level, although the inner is a little longer than the outer. We also observe, with reference to the theory of fractures and dislocations, that the great trochanter, the outer condyle and the malleolus of the fibula are situated nearly in the same line in the natural posi- tion of the limb. 545. The Leg {cms), gradually diminishes in thickness from above downwards. It is flattened from before backwards, and from without inwards, and it is thicker internally than externally, on ac- count of the unequal size of the two bones of which it consists. The space by which the latter are separated is filled by a membra- nous ligament, and is very narrow below. In its whole length also, it seems narrower than the interval left between the radius and ulna. The leg presents, at its lower part, the two malleoli or ankles. In all cases it forms an angle with the foot; but it is only when bent that it forms one with the thigh. 546. The Foot {pes), which is composed of twenty-six bones very closely connected, and articulated to each other by a great many surfaces, forms a solid whole, of which the axis intersects, nearly at a right angle, the line of direction of the total length of the body. It is longer than broad, and is more prolonged anteriorly than posteriorly, the posterior portion of the calcaneum being in fact the only part of the foot that projects beyond the leg in the Litter direction. It is at first narrow, so long as it is formed of the calcaneum alone, but quickly enlarges when that bone unites with the astrji-OF THE SUPERIOR AND INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. lG5 s^alus, .md continues so to the articulation of the phalanges with The metatarsus. It again contracts in the region of the toes. On the inner side, from the calcaneum to the phalanges, the foot presents a concavity in which are lodged muscles, nerves and vessels, and which prevents it from touching the ground in its whole extent. The Back of the Foot {dorsum pedis), or its upper surface, \s convex and inclined outwards and forwards. Its outer edge is thin- ner than the other. Its posterior extremity is named the Heel, the anterior the Point of the foot, and its under surface the Sole {plan- ta pedis). 547. The Tarsus {tarsus), forms a land of vault, the concavity of which is manifestly augmented by the groove of the inner sur- face of the calcaneum. The bones of which this part consists are disposed in two rows, although their arrangement is less regular than in the carpus. The astragalus and calcaneum form the pos- terior row ; to the anterior belong the os naviculare, os cuboidcs, and the three cuneiform bones. The head of the astragalus is directed forwards ; the anterior extremity of the calcaneum is turned a little outwards ; the os cu- boides, os naviculare, and the three cuneiform bones, which rest upon it, are situated transversely. 548. The Metatarsus {metatarsus), is composed of five bones, which are not closely connected in their whole extent, but separate as they advance toward the toes. That of the great toe is situated in a plane anterior to the others, whUe that of the fifth is far be- hind. These bones are strongly articulated to each other by their tarsal extremity; but anteriorly they are widely separated, a pretty large interval existing, in particular, between the first and second. The portion of the vault or arch of the foot formed by the metatar- sus differs from that formed by the tarsus, in being less thick, and in the circumstances, that the pieces of which it is composed are longer and more slender, and leave between them distmct inter- vals. 549. The toes {digiti pedis). In the most perfect natural state, and especially in women, the second toe is the longest and exceeds the level of the others ; the first is the next in these respects, and the rest progressively diminish. The first is undoubtedly the largest. But the use of shoes greatly alters the form of the feet in civilized countries. In consequence of the constraint which they impose npon them, the toes change their direction, their phalanges become irregular, and they are even frequently united together. COMPARISON OF THE SUPEKTOIl AND INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 550. The superior extremity is situated in a plane posterior to that occupied by the inferior extremity of the same side. This is satisfactorily shown by letting a line fall from the glenoid cavity to the acetabulum.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 166 The two superior extremities are separated, at their upper part, by a larger interval than that which exists between tlie heads of the femurs. With respect to length and strength, tlie inferior extremities greatly exceed the superior; their length forms seven-thirteenths of the total length of the body. We observe, however, that the hand, from the manner in which it is articulated with the fore- arm, presents larger dimensions, following the general axis of the limb, than the foot, which forms nearly a right angle with the leg. The femur and humerus have a great resemblance to each other; at their upper extremity, the head and trochanters of the one cor- respond to the head and tuberosities of the other. Tlie tibia and fibula have an obvious resemblance, the former to the radius, and. the latter to the ulna. The patella may, to a certain extent, be considered as analogous to the olecranon. The malleoli of the foot, and tlie styloid processes of the wrist, are also analogous parts. But the foot and the hand are the parts that admit of the most perfect comparison. Pes altera manus, it has been said, and the saying is very true ; they present the same divisions, the same bones, and, to a certain degree, the same kind of motions. Indi- viduals born without arms have been seen, who were so expert in using the foot, that they could write and lay hold of the minutest objects with it. Tiiese two parts differ, however, in certain respects. Thus the tarsus is very different from the carpus in respect to the number, size, form and arrangement of its bones. The tarsus is the longest part of the foot; in the hand the carpus occupies very little space. All that the former has gained with respect to size and solidity, it appears to have lost with reference to mobility. The toes are much shorter than the fingers, and present con- siderable differences in the structure and conformation of their pha- langes. OF THE PBEPAEATION OF BONES. 551. Bones may be cleaned and prepared in the following man- ner : Choose the bones of a young adult subject, which has died of a lingering disease, and is much infiltrated; cut away the soft parts, but take care not to remove the periosteum. Put the bones in- to an earthen ware jar, large enough to hold them without crowding, and cover them entirely with soft water, which should be renewed daily for six or eight days, that all the blood may be carried off: at the end of this time cover up the jar very accurately, and let them macerate for four or five months; the temperature of the maccn-iiting room being at least as high as 70^ Faln-cnlicit. The bones are now"to be taken out of the water of maceration, cleaned with a hard brush, and then well Avashcd with water, or they may be again macerated for several days, the water being fre- quently changed.107 OF THE PREPARATION OF BONES. All that remains to be done after this is to expose them to the air, in a,shady place, to dry. The maceration may be hastenedby carrying it on in a warm place, or the bones may be cleaned in a very short time by boiling them for six or eight hours in soft water; after this they are to be soak- ed in cold water for some days, and then taken out, brushed in a solution of sub-carbonate of potass or soda, and afterwards washed with clean water: but these methods are by no means so good or safe as the former, and must not be attempted with diseased bones; besides, the bones treated in this way are never white, and in a short time they become greasy, and give out a rancid smell. All other processes employed to clean bones injure their texture. In order to examine the internal structure of bones, different sec- tions should be made of fresh bones, of bones which have been inject- ed, and of bones in the different stages of growth and development. Bones may be freed of their earthy matter by diluted muriatic acid; on the contrary, they may be freed of the animal matter by calcination. 552. To prepare and separate the bones of the head, that of a subject of about fifteen or eighteen is most proper, for at a more advanced age some of the sutures become obliterated, in which case the bones will break rather than separate. To effect this separation, the interior of the skull, after it has been fully macerated, is to be filled with peas and put into water; by the action of the water the peas swell out, and thus force the bones of the cranium from each other; when this is accomplished, the bones of the face may be separated by a little care and ma- nagement. To have a proper idea of the way in which the bones of the cra- nium and face are connected together, it is necessary to make dif- ferent sections: the most useful are, a cranium with the skull-cap removed for showing the inner surface of its base ; a vertical sec- tion of the cranium and face ; preparations also should be made of the cranium without the face, and the face without the cranium, the two latter preparations, it is evident, must be made from young skulls. In studying the bones of the head, other sections will suggest themselves.168 PASSIVE OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. CHAPTER SECOND. OF THE ARTICULATIONS. Preliminarij Remarks. 553. The mode in which the bones are connected and fitted to each other, is designated by the name Articulatiun. It is by means of articvilations that the osseous system forms a whole, whidi constitutes the Skeleton. 554. In the long bones, it is by the extremities that the articu- lations take place ; in the broad bones, it is commonly by the edges; in the short bones, by various points of the surface. DIVISIONS OP THE ARTICULATIONS. 555. The articulations are naturally divided into two general classes, the moveable and the immoveable. 556. The former present two great subdivisions : for the sur- faces of the bones, which enter into their formation, may be kept in a sort of continuity, by means of some particular organ inter- posed between them, as is the case with the bodies of the vertebrte, or they may be merely contiguous, as in the articulations of the limbs. 557. The latter, which belong peculiarly to the bones which unite to form cavities destined to protect the organs, such as the head, the pelvis, &c. are also subdivided into different orders, dependent upon the conformation of the surfaces which concur to form them. Thus, these surfaces may be, 1°, Simply placed in juxtaposi- tion, which is the case in places where the bones, by their very po- sition, must necessarily preserve their mutual relations in a perma- nent manner, as is observed at the base of the cranium, and in the articulation of most of the bones of the face, where the mechanism of the part is of itself sufficient to ensure solidity. 2°, They are interlocked, if the general mechanism of the region is insufficient to maintain this solidity. They then present projections and in- dentations, of irregular size and form, which are mutually received, and are exactly fitted to each other, as may be seen with respect to the broad bones of the cranium. This mode of union is only pre- sented by the circumference of the flat bones, in which, on account of the narrowness of the surfaces, it is necessary that the points of contact should be multiplied. 3", They sometimes constitute aOF THE ARTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. kind of real implantation, of wliicli an evident example is present- ed by the reception of the teeth into their alveoU. 558. The following table is intended to represent, in a complete and accurate manner, all that belongs to the division and differ- ences- of the articulations of bones, as well as their nomenclature. A. Movieahle Articulations, or Diartliroses* a. Surfaces intimately united by an intervening body, which constitutes Amphiarthe.osis.-|- rEx. The junction of the bodies of the vertebrce with each other ; that of the ossa pubis ; tJie articulation of the upper part oftlie sternum. b. Surfaces not united as in the preceding case,| 1°. And permitting motions of circumduction, or in all possible idu-ections. This is the orbicular or vagzie Diarthrosis, which is 1 divided into Enarthrosis,$ in which the motions are performed by means of a head ■i received into a cavity ; Ex. Articulation of tlie os innoniinatum and femur ; Or, by means of a cavity which revolves on a head ; Ex. Artiadation of the ~, first phalanges of the fingers witli tlie metacarpal bones. AkthhodiAjII which is formed by the contact of plain, or nearly plain sur- ; faces, whose motions are very manifest; Ex. Articidation of tlie lower jaw ; Or obscure, called by some authors the planifurni, or close Diarthrosis, (ar- ' ticulus adstrictus) and which others have considered as the true Amphiarthro- sis.—Ex. Articulation of the bones of the carpus. 2°. Or, only permitting limited motions of opposition. This is the GiNGLYMUs,^ or alternating or Cardiniform Diakthkosis. It is distinguished into Angular Ginglymus, or Hingk, of which the motions are commonly re- duced to flexion and extension. It is called perfect, if these motions are ab- solutely the only ones allowed;—Ex. 7'he elbow joint ; Or imperfect, if some lateral motions are also permitted.—Ex. The knee- joint. Lateral Ginglymus, or Rotatory Diarthrosis, in which rotation is the only possible motion, and which is double, when a bone turns on another by two given points.—Ex. The radius vn the ulna; Or simple, if the motion is performed at a single point.—Ex. Articulation of the atlas with the odontoid process. B. Immoveable Articulations or Synarthroses*^' j 1°. SuTURE.ff Thearticular surfaces, more or less thick, constantly invest- ed with a cartilaginous plate intimately united to both, receive each other by * A/i, per ; articulus. .1/.. ^^'"'^'''"""9"''' mixed articulation; it is also called conlinu. ' "«« JJiarllirosis. I TJl"".'" cMed Contiguous Diarthrosis. u . o "v' "-ik""! articu/iix; the preposition indicates a deep reception. II Aj3{«o,«, Calai, lib de Ossibus. Ij- v^^"'"*'**XvM,cum; anC^o,, artiadus ; coartkulatio. TT '■o'turu, a scam.170 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. means of more or less distinct projections and indentations. Sometimes tlie denticulations which form them have a contracted neciv : it is this tliat conbti- lutes the Dovetail Suture.—Ex, Sagittal Suture. At other times, on the contrary, the circumference of a bone presents but few inequahties, and is sloped to receive the neiglibouring bone: this is the Squamous Suture, in whicli the articular edges of the bones are fitted to each other, like the pieces of a multivalve shell.—Ex. The temporal suture. 2". Haumonia.* Here tlie surfaces are only in juxtaposition. They merely present rugosities, which are fitted to each other.—Ex. Articulation oj' the maxillary and nasal bones with each other. 30. GoMi'iiosis.f The surfaces implanted.—Ex. The teeth in the alveoli. 4o. ScHiNUYLESis.J A plate of a bone is received into a groove of ano- ther bone.—Ex. Upper echje of the vomer, and the rostrum, of the s])henoid bone: between the lachrymal hone and the ascending process of the superior maxiUary bone.\\ OF THE PARTS WHICH ENTER INTO THE STRUC- TURE OF THE ARTICULATIONS. 559. Cortilages. The surfaces of the l)ones which form move- able articulations, are always covered with a layer of cartilage, mor^ or less thick, of a pearly white colour, and remarkably hard an(i elastic. This cartilage, which resembles a layer of wax laid over the bone at the place where it exists, is always much broader than it is thick; it adapts itself perfectly to the articulating parts, and adheres, by one of its surfaces, to the bony tissue in a manner as yet little understood, but extremely firm. There is, however, wv continuity of substance between it and the cartilaginous parenchy ma of the bones; for on removing, from a recent bone, by means of an acid, the phosphate of lime which it contains, there is per- ceived no intimate connexion between the tissues, and the cartilage then separates spontaneously. No vessel appears to pass directly from the interior of the bone to the surface of the cartilage; anc * 'AQuovja, adapia. f ro^ip&)ir/f; r^iiti^oii clavus. X 2;^;/»S£/X»(rif, calamiJissura. v. Monro on the Bones. II The aggregate of tlie means by which the connexion of the bones is effected is what is called %nt/7/;;/sw ; [luftqiuns ; "Ew, eum ; tpuai, crcsco ; av/jiipuu, concrcsco, and as these means vary in the greater number of cases, they being sometimes car tiluges, sometimes cartilaginous ligaments, fibrous ligaments, &c. the old anatomists taking them for the basis of their divisions, distinguished several kinds of symphjM - Thus the articulations in which cartilages are employed to keep the bones togethc are called Sipichondroses, [2i/v, ctwi ; ^o'^"^- cartila(jo.] These synchondroses ma be only temporary, as that which exists at an early age between the sphenoid bon and the basilar process of the occipital; or they may be met with at all periods c life. The latter may permit pretty distinct motions, as is the case in particular wit the sterno-costal cartilages ; or are entirely fixed, as the articulations of the pelvi are, to which the name of xt/mphi/scs is peculiarly applied. The articulations whic are effected by means of ligaments, like that of the knee, arc called Si/nneuroses [2uv, cum; viv^ov, iicrvus, ligamenlum] those in which the bones are kept in placeb muscles, us is observed in the os hyoides, are called Syssarcoscs ; [Suv, cum; aa(. canA tliose in which membranes are emjiloyed, are called Mcningoses: \}>lnny\ vicmbrana] of which examples are presented in the skulls of children, at tlie place occupied by the fontanclles before the bones are completely ossified.OF THE ARTICULATIONS IN GICNERAL. after a careful injection, it is observed, on dividing tlie bone longi- : tudinally, that all the arteries lose themselves in its spongy tissue. The free surface of the cartilage is covered by the synovial r membrane of the articulation, which gives it a smooth and polished . appearance, and which adheres so closely to it, that it might be ■ supposed to be perfectly bare. The circumference of these cartilages terminates on the bony - surface, by gradually becoming thinner. With regard to their : thickness, it is much greater at the centre than at the circumference . of those cartilages which cover the heads of bones, while an oppo- > site arrangement is observed in those which cover the correspond- ing cavities. The thickness is uniform in the cartilages of the different articulations by planiform arthrodia, as in the carpus and t tarsus. 560. In the synarthrodia! articulations, there is a cartilaginous layer of great tenuity, continuous with the two bones forming the . articulation, which becomes thinner and more adherent as age ad- \ vances, and is even very freq\iently ossified in old age. In the - sutures of the skull, these cartilaginous laminae are thinner at the inner, than at the outer side of the wall. 561. The articular cartilages, when deprived of their synovial membrane by continued maceration, are foirad to be composed of fibres, arranged like the pile of velvet, and attached perpendicu- larly to the surface of the bone. These fibres are so closely com- pacted, that at first sight they seem to constitute a homogeneous whole. The elasticity of this tissue is very great, especially in : adult age, and is well retained in the state of death. 562. These organs remain untouched after a pretty long mace- - ratiori, and resist putrefaction in a high degree. The action of a ■ strong heat makes the cartilages curl, as it does almost all the . other animal tissues. By desiccation in the open air, they become ^ hard, horny, semi-transparent, and lose their elasticity as well as the greater part of their volume. 563. The cartilages do not receive vessels which carry red blood. No lymphatics have been detected in them, nor have nerves as yet been traced into their substance. 564. Ligaments. The ligaments, which are met with in almost all the moveabk articulations, are very dense fibrous bundles, re- . gular or irregular, round or flat, of a glistening white colour, vary- ing much in form and size, sometimes even membranous, but al- ways mterlaced with the periosteum at their two extremities, which peculiarly distinguishes them from the tendons.* Their use is to connect the bones and cartilages together.f «n!iv'^'^*^"''''''J^ *° ^'"^ 'Infinition, it will bo seen that many anatomists have crrono- , m Itf"'"" f to parts which totally difler from them in form, 7Zl.T:i composuion. This appellation should not therefore be applied to the tone, m whin"""? I"""''";"'" ^^ ''■'^1^ ''^^^^ '"-■■"'"tli the tongne, the folds of tlie peri, lonciim winch sustani the liver, &c. t I'lexibilituto et ehisticitatc ligaraciitum discernitur ab osse, habitu librato a172 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. The fibres of the ligaments are connected by a somewhat hiosc cellular tissue, which frequently contains fatty ilakcs, especially in those whose form is irregular. These fibres are white or greyish, liard, possessed of little elasticity, hut very tenacious, and cajjable of bearing the greatest stress. Some small blood vessels and lym- phatics traverse them, and penetrate into their intervals by narrow fissures filled with cellular tissue, but no nerves have been disco- vered in them. 565. The tissue of the ligaments contains a large proportion of water. It becomes hard, transparent, elastic and brittle by desic- cation, which gives it moreover a reddish or yellowish colour. By maceration, it softens and becomes flocculent at the surface, long be- fore resolving itself into mucous matter. 566. Fibrous Capsules. This name is given to cylindrical membranous bags, of a fibrous texture, more or less strong and thick, elastic, whitish, loose in proportion as the part is susceptible of more extensive motion, enveloped by a great quantity of cellular tissue, strengthened by tendinous fibres coming from the neigh- bouring muscles, and open at their two extremities, M'hich are in- terlaced with the periosteum around the circumference of the upper and lower articular surfaces, in the humero-scapular and ilio-femo- ral articulations, the only ones in which true capsules are observ- ed. They sometimes open to afford a passage to tendons which go to attach themselves to the bone, and are lined internally by the synovial membrane. After a fortunate injection, the surface of these capsules is seen covered with a very distinct net-work of vessels, which subdivide more and more as they approach the circumference of the carti- lages. M. Heyligers* has observed that they also receive nerves, which is especially apparent in the articulation of the thigh, as I have had occasion to see myself. 567- Like the tissue of the ligaments, that of the capsule is with difficulty altered by maceration, retaining its appearance and structure for a long time, nor is it until after a considerable period has elapsed, that its fibres separate from each other to be converted into a soft, whitish and homogeneous pulp. Both are dissolved into jelly in boiling water, after having first curled, and that some- times with so much violence as to detach the surface of the bone to which they are fastened. They both harden in the air, and ac- quire the transparency of horn. Sulphuric acid reduces them to a blackish pulp, and nitric acid converts them into a yellow sulv stance; acetic acid swells them and reduces them to a gelatinous mass. The alkalies swell and soften them. 568. Articular Fibro-cartilages. These bodies which are in- cartilaginc ; tluritie et colore a musculo ; robore a nervo ; soliditate a vasis; postOl et usn a tondiuibus, quibuscuni, quantum ad materiam, exacto convenit. Soemm. Dc Corp. Hum. fal). torn. ii. p. 1. • Dissert. Flnjs-Amt. dc Fob. Int. Articul. 8vo. Trajecti ad Rhcnum. 1803, p-or THE AKTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. 17.3 tcrmcdiate in (brm and properties to the ligaments and carti- lii<'-cs, were formerly considered as true ligaments. Thoy are in fact firmed of a sort of hard, tenacious, dense and compact, fibrous base, in the meshes of which is deposited a true cartilaginous sub- stance, to which are owing the white colour which characterizes them, the inorganic appearance which their section presents in se- veral'places, and the elasticity which they particularly possess. Tlie resistance which they oppose to ruptures, and their solidity, are on the other hand derived from the nature of their base. They are almost always met with in the interval of the surfaces of certain moveable articulations, as in the knee or jaw ; they also exist between the bodies of the vertebrte. Their form is singular- ly variable ; they commonly represent a kind of plates, generally free at their two surfiices, and occasionally perforated in the centre. They are not covered by a perichondrium. But few blood-vessels are observed in them, and no nerves have yet been discovered. Their elasticity is very manifest. Desicca- tion renders them hard and brittle, without giving them a yellow tint. Reagents act upon them, as upon the two systems whose aature they seem equally to participate. ■ 569. Articular Synovial Membranes or Capsules. These mem- branes have the greatest resemblance to the serous membranes, with reference to their form, structure, and functions. They oc- cur in all the moveable articulations without exception, and form bags without apertures, transparent, and applied over all the parts which enter into the composition of the joint, without containing any of them. Their internal surface is free, contiguous to itself smooth, polished, often furnished with villosities and fimbriated prolongations, and continually lubricated by an albuminous fluid, cof an aspect almost similar to that of the cavity of the pleura or peritoneum. Their external surface is cellular, and is attached to all the neighbouring organs, the ligaments, fibro-cartilages, diar- throdial partilages, &c.; it is often seen to form small hernije be- tween the fibres of the capsules. These articular synovitxl capsules vary much in their general asl pect. There are some which represent round and simple bags, as IS the case at the phalangeal articulations. Others, as in the coxo-femoral, and scapulo-humeral articulations, are traversed by a ligament or by a tendon, round which they are reflected so as to Ibrm a sheath. These membranes are absolutely cellular, as is proved by mace- ration, there being no distinct fibre in them. Their tissue is den- ser, and less pliant than that of the serous membranes; their ves- sels do not in the healthy state admit red blood. No lymphatic vessels have as yet been discovered in them, but it may be presum- od that they exist in great abundance. No nerve has ever been observed in them. Ihe synovial membranes apjicar entirely foreign to the solidity the articulations; and only favour their moliuns by exhaling a174 rASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. fluid of a peculiar nature, which is named Synovia, * {Aximgia ar- ticularis, s. unguen articuiare). 570. This fluid (which is not, as was for a long time believed, produced by the mixture of the serosity of the membranes with the marrow of the bones), is whitish, viscid and transparent, of a sweetish and somewhat saline taste, and of a faint animal smell. If it be allowed to rest on being removed from the joint, it is con- verted into jelly. It mixes very well with water; its specific gra- vity is a little greater than that of water, in the proportion of 105 to 100 ; it lathers when agitated, and can be drawn out like the white of an egg, without being so unctuous, or so consistent as it is. The action of caloric, alcohol, and mineral acids, demonstrates the existence of albumen in it, which becomes concrete under their in- fluence. Latterly, M. Orfila has shown that flbrin is one of the constituent principles of synovia, which also contains mucus and free soda, the latter causing paper tinged with a vegetable blue to become green when dipped in it. M. Margueron has moreover discovered hydrochlorate and carbonate of soda in it; but all these substances are held in solution by a great quantity of water, which forms more than three-fourths of the weight of the fluid. Exposed to a moist air, the synovia loses its viscidity, becomes turbid, as- sumes a red or brown colour, and allows ammonia to be disengag- ed. By distillation it furnishes a charcoal, which, besides the two salts mentioned above, also contains phosphate of lime. There has also been observed in it an animal substance, which is said to be uric acid. The quantity of the synovia varies much in the different articu- lations, there being some which contain more than the others; but in general, it may be stated, that the greater the mobility of the part is, the more abundant is this fluid. 571. In all the moveable articulations there occur certain organs of a reddish colour, varying much in their volume, figure, and si- tuation. Sometimes there are several of them together in the same articulation ; frequently there is only one, which is of remarkable size, as in the ilio-femoral articulation; and it is to be observed, that the more motions an articulation has to perform, the more nu- merous, and the larger these bodies are. They are of various shapes, some being quadrangular, others semilunar, &c. Sometimes they are placed in particular cavities of the bones, sometimes merely at the circumference of the latter ; but, whatever be their position, it is always such that they are completely protected from pressure, when the bones move upon each other. Rosenmuller thought he perceived, in the tissue of these bodies, secretory follicles, which Clopton Havers named Glandulce vntci- • A word of obscure and recent origin, which Paracelsus appears to have firat (•ini)l()yod to designate a disease, or whicii may have been apjiiicd to tlic Ihiid in question on account of its bearing some distant resemblance to tlie albumen of an egg. f fliemoir read to (he Acad, des Sciences, in 1792.AUTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 'iiffinosd',* imagining the synovia to be secreted by them, in wJiicli ,ie was follow'ed by Winslow, Hallcr, Berlin, Portal, Heyligers, ikc. But most of the modern anatomists have rejected this opi- lion, and among those who have done so we distinguish the names )f Wahher, Bichat, Boyer, Beclard, &c. These do not distin- ruish the bodies in question from cellular tissue, as the most i.-areful dissection discovers no traces in them of the parenchyma .)eculiar to glands, as no vestige of an excretory canal can be per- leived in them, and as they are entirely resolved into cellular tissue voy insufflation, as well as by maceration. The synovial membrane .•brms above each of these alleged glands a mviltitude of floating Tinges, variously cut on their free edges, which are particularly ..veil seen by dissection under water. It was these fringes that Havers considered as the excretory ducts of his glands arranged ilongside of each other; but, properly speaking, they are nothing out folds of the synovial capsule, which contain in their substance .■ellular tissue, fat, and blood-vessels. OF THE ARTICULATIONS IN PARTICULAR. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. ARTICULATIONS OF THE HEAD. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE CRANIUM WITH EACH OTHER. 572. These articulations admit no kind of motion, and constitute ;ither sutures or harmoniae. We have already described them at ength (281 to 291) ; and have now only to mention a few additional mrticulars regarding them. They are different at the base from what they are at the vault )f the cranium : in the former, the surfiices are in general merely ilaced in juxtaposition, broad, separated by a pretty thick layer of -•artilage, especially between the sphenoid and occipital bones, be- wecn the latter bone and the temporal, &c.; while, in the latter, hey present denticulations which are received by each other, are larrow, and have between them only an extremely thin cartilage, vhosc existence, however, may be proved by long maceration, or boilmg. The circumstance of this cartilage being thinner in- crnally than at the outside of the cranium (560), accounts for the iutures bemg sooner obliterated in old people on the inside, than 50 the outside of the walls of this cavity. * Nuvce Obscrv. dc Ouibus, &c. 12mo. Amst. 1731, p. 209.176 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ARTICULATIONS OF THE FACE. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER JAW. 573. We have already described the manner in which tlic facei is articulated with the cranium (363), and pointed out the different sutures which the bones of the face itself form by their union. We shall only here remark, that in the recent state all their junctions are similar in their composition to those of the cranium (572) ; that sutures seem to circumscribe the face, and occupy its surface, wiiilst harmonia; are placed at the centre, and that the interval be- tween the surfaces of both orders is occupied by a more or less di.s tinct cartilage. ARTICULATION OF THE LOWER JAW. 574. This articulation, which belongs to the order of arthrodiae is double, but it is the same on both sides. It is formed by th glenoid cavity of the temporal bone and the tuber articulare of th same bone (172, 173) on the one hand, and the condyle of the in ferior maxillary bone (253) on the other. The glenoid cavity, of which the outer extremity is a little more anterior than the inner is only articular in its fore part, which is covered with a very thin cartilage prolonged over the tuber articulare. The condyle of the jaw is also covered with a thin cartilage, which is insensibly lof^t towards the neck. These surfaces are kept in connexion by several ligaments. 575. Ewternal Lateral Ligament. This is a thin, short, and narrow fasciculus, with nearly parallel fibres connected by a dense cellular tissue : it is a little broader at its upper part than below It is attached above to the rough surface, which separates the com mencement of the roots of the zygomatic process (172)? and des cends from thence obliquely backwards, to terminate at the outci side of the neck of the inferior maxillary bone. Its outer surface is covered by the skin and parotid gland; the iniier is appliet against the synovial capsules and inter-articular fibro-cartilage. 576. Internal Lateral Ligament. This is thinner and longci than the outer. It arises from the spinous process of the sphenoic bone and the parts in its vicinity, and descends obliquely forwards becoming broad and membranous as it proceeds, and is attached t( the inner and foreside of the orifice of the inferior dentar canal Its fibres are divergent, especially below. Its outer surface corres ponds above to the synovial capsules and external pterygoid mus clcs ; the internal maxillary artery passes between it and the necl of the condyle ; and the inferior dentar vessels and nerve hav connexions with it fartlicr down, and separate it from the ramus 0 the lower maxillary bone. Itfc inner surface rests upon the inter177 ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. nal pterygoid muscle, so that this ligament separates the two muscles of this name from each other. 577- Stylo-maocillary Ligament. This ligament appears less intended for connecting the maxillary bone with the temporal, than for multiplying the attachments of the stylo-glossus muscle. It is a mere aponeurotic cord, rather thin, which is attached above to the styloid process of the temporal bone, from whence it descends towards the angle of the jaw, where its fibres are inserted between the masseter and pterygoideus interaus. It receives by its inner side a great part of the fibres of the stylo-glossus muscle.* 578. Synovial Membranes or Capsules. They are two in num- ber, because this articulation contains in its interior an interme- I diate fibro-cartilage. The upper, after being expanded over the . cartilage of the glenoid cavity, and tuber articulare, is continued I downwards over the upper surface of the fibro-cartilage ; while the loiver, after investing the inferior surface of the same organ, covers the condyle of the jaw, being a little more prolonged posteriorly I than anteriorly. These two synovial capsules have no communi- ( cation together, unless the fibro-cartilage is perforated at its centre, which sometimes happens. Ewternally, they correspond to the ( external lateral ligament; posteriorly, to the parotid gland ; ante- ' riorly, to the external pterygoid muscle ; internally, to adipose cel- lular tissue. Their posterior part is very loose, and strengthened by an irregular fibrous layer, which is perforated by a great num- ber of holes for vascular twigs. 579. Inter-articular Fibro-cartilage. It presents the form of a I thin lamina, transversely oval, separating from each other the two > synovial membranes, to which it adheres strongly by its two sur- faces. Its upper surface is concave from before backwards, a little V convex transversely at its anterior and posterior parts, and is thus i accommodated to the disposition of the glenoid cavity. The inferior surface is concave, and covers the condyle. Its cir- ' cxmiference lies between the fold of the two synovial membranes ; II it adheres externally to the external lateral hgament; gives attach- n raent anteriorly to some fibres of the external pterygoid muscle; t and, posteriorly, is penetrated by a considerable number of small ^ vessels. It is thicker throughout, and especially behind, than ' at the middle part, which is often perforated with a hole, as we |h have said, (.578). I The fibres of this cartilage arc concentric and very close ; they > are better seen at the circumference than at the centre. * Tlierc is still pretty generally admitted in this articulation atiotlii>r lignniciit whicli is named the Inlr.r.viuxillary ; but, as Boyer remarks, it is nothing l)ut un :ij)oi)eurosis common to the buccinator and constrictor pharyugis superior mucles. i his will be spoken of, when these muscles arc described. N iPASSIVE OllCAKS OV LOCOMOTION. ARTICULATIONS OF THE IIYOID BONES. 580. The liyoid bone is not directly connected with any of the surrounding bones; but it has indirect connexions with the tem- poral bone by means of the stylo-hyoid ligaments. Tlie differ- ent pieces of which it is composed touch each other by cartilagi- nous surfaces-, and arc kept in position by ligaments. The latter articulations become obliterated witli age. 581. Styh'hyoid LirjavicMt, {Ligamenhim siispensoriKm ossis hyoidis). This is a slender and very elongated fasciculus, broader below than above, formed of parallel, whitish and glistening fibres, which descend obliquely forwards and inwards from the sty- , loid process of the temporal bone (177) to tJie small horns of the ! oshyoides (278), to which it is attached so as to form an extremely j acute angle with the great horns. It is frequently full of bony j granulations, varying in size and number, and sometimes com- i pletcly ossified. It varies exceedingly in other respects also, and has even been seen substituted by a muscle.* ARTICULATIONS OF THE MEAD WITH THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. ARTICULATION OF THE OCCIPUT WITH THE ATLAS. 582. This articulation, which is a very close double arthrodia, is formed by the condyles of the occipital bone, and the superior i articular cavities of the atlas (56, 162) ; the surface of both these parts is invested with a pretty thick cartilage, which is interrupted in several points of its circumference by inequalities, in which are lodged small masses of reddish cellular tissue. A synovial mem- brane, which exists on each side, covers the articular surfaces, being reflected from the one to the other ; it is very loose anteriorly, be- cause on this side, it comprehends in its circuit a part of the sur- face of the occipital bone, while in the rest of its extent it is con- fined to the circumference of the condyle. Anteriorly, it covers the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament; posteriorly and eaternally, it is in connexion with much cellular tissue; internally, it covers the ex- tremity of the transverse ligament, a part of the corresponding odontoid ligament, and small masses of adipose cellular tissue which have been taken for synovial glands. This articulation is further strengthened by two ligaments, the one before, the other behind, besides a great number of small irregular ligamentous fibres. 583. Anterior Occ'ipito-Atlantal Ligament, {MemJyrana an- mdi atiterioris vertebra; primce). It is situated between the an- i terior arch of the atlas and the corresponding part of the margin of ■ the occipital hole, and is composed of two distinct fasciculi. One ■ of these, which is narrow, round, thick, superficial, and formed of B • VVcitbitflit Syiulesm. Ito. rctropoli, 17t2, p. 2\% IARTICULATIONS 01<" THE TRUNK. 0 (lesirieiis." vertical fibres, parallel to each other, has been named the Antenor Cerrkal Ligament; it descends from the basilar process to tho tubercle of the anterior arch of the atlas. The other, which is much thinner, broad, and membraneous, extends transversely from • the outer extremity of one of the occipito-atlantal articulations, to ( the corresponding point on the opposite side ; its tissue is dense and compact, and the fibres of which it is composed are with diffi- culty distinguished ; its anterior surface is covered by the preced- ino' fasciculus, the recti capitis antici majores and minores muscles, and a portion of the recti capitis laterales ; it gives rise, by its sides, to a fibrous arch, the concavity of which is directed upwards, and which is attached to the fore part of the occipital condyle on the one hand, and on the other to the jugular surface of the same bone; this ligamentous arch is traversed by the pneumo-gastric rand spinal accessory nerves, and by the internal jugular vein. The posterior surface of this ligament rests upon the odontoid rprocess, its ligaments, and on the synovial capsules of the articu- ation itself. 584. Posterior Occipito-Atlantal Ligament, (Membrana annuli •lost. vert, primce). This is broader than the last; it is formed of wo laminte placed the one before the other, which proceed together '"rom the posterior part of the circumference of the occipital hole, jetween the condyles, separating as they descend; the anterior, svhich is thick and presents very distinct vertical fibres, is interlaced yith the dura mater of the vertebral canal; while the other, which s of a looser and apparently cellular tissue, is attached to the great .rch of the atlas. Between these two laminae there is a slight layer I f cellular tissue, traversed by a great number of nervous filaments ind vascular twigs, which pass through small holes formed in the laidst of the fibres. The anterior surface of this ligament corre- ponds to the dura mater ; the posterior to the recti capitis postici iiajores and minores, and the obliquus superior. Its extremities )rm with the upper notches of the vertebra two apertures, through hich pass the vertebral arteries and sub-occipital nerves. ARTICULATION OF .THE OCCIPUT 'WITH THE AXIS. bec%1 585. Here we find neither diarthrodial cartilages nor synovial Mr • ' •• " ■ . . ^ - J - ' . — " &— -— ^j^^^.^i^,. iipsules to describe, on account of there not being bony surfaces, lapted for sliding on each other. The connexions are formed by tic!) eans of a very strong ligamentous apparatus. 586. Odontoid Ligaments, {Ligamenta vertebrcB colli secundae ;t,l#| aria). These are two short, thick, round, and very strong fasci- (iJf-||ah, with parallel and close fibres, longer below than above, which jljeJ^Ihpresent each a sort of cone, whose truncated summits embrace the jjfin'l -les and apex of the odontoid process, while their bases are in- ' '"fi^/^'^ ^" s"!*!! uneven fossae, formed on the inside of each con- rfi le of the occipital bone ;* their direction is obliquely outwards • Soemmering describes each of these ligiiments as being " initio latum ct in acu-180 PASSIVE OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and slightly upwards. They correspond anteriorly to a mass of cellular tissue and to the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament, and posteriorly to the occipito-axoidal ligament. There is observed, moreover, a third ligamentous fasciculus of great firmness, which passes horizontally from one condyle to the other, forming some attachment by its middle to the summit of the odontoid process, and intermingling part of its fibres with the pre- ceding ligaments. 587- Suspensory ligament of the second cervical vertebra,* {Liga- mentum dentis rectum medium). This ligament extends from the anterior margin of the occipital foramen to the odontoid process of the second cervical vertebra, into which it is inserted immediately above its anterior articular surface. This ligament is placed between, and incorporated with, the an- terior occipito-atlantal ligament and superior appendix of the trans- verse ligament of the atlas. ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 588. These articulations are very numerous and comphcated,' because the region of the trunk to which they belong is composed of a great number of bones, which touch each other by several points at once. Nevertheless, as these' bones have a great resem- blance to each other, the ligaments which unite them present a si- milar disposition, and may be described together, with the excep- tion of those which connect the axis with the atlas. ARTICULATION OF THE TWO FIRST VERTEBE^E WITH EACH OTHER. 589. This articulation is of the kind named lateral or axoida ginglymus, and is capable of great mobility. It takes pkce by se veral points at once, viz. by the toothlike process of the vertebr dentata with the anterior arch of the atlas, and by the lateral art cular surfaces of these two vertebras, which are horizontal ani much larger than those which succeed. 590. Synovial Membranes of the Odontoid Articulation. The are two in number, the one anterio?', the other posterior. Tl first extends over a concave oval surface, covered with a thin cart lage, situated on the posterior surface of the anterior arch of tl atlas, and a corresponding convex surface, which the odontoid pn cess presents anteriorly : this capsule is very thin, transparent, i little looser above than below, and surrounded with much cellul J tissue. The posterior membrane is equally thin, and envelop«| * Wcitbreclit denied tlic existence of this lignment. IARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 181 with cellular tissue at its upper part and on its sides. It covers an oblong convex surface, incrusted with cartilage, which exists at the posterior part of the odontoid process, and is even prolonged a little upon its sides; whence it proceeds backwards over the an- terior part of the transverse ligament, to which it sHghtly adheres, and which it renders smooth and polished. It is contiguous late- rally with the synovial membrane of the occipital condyles, and even blends a little with it. 591. Transverse or Cruciform Ligainent [Ligamentum atlantis transversum, seu ligamentum cruciforme). This ligament, which con- sists of a thick, strong, and firm bundle of fibres, flattened from before backwards, and a little broader in the middle than at its two extremities, extends from the inner part of one of the lateral masses of the atlas, to the corresponding point of the opposite side, passing behind the odontoid process. There results from this arrangement, that it describes in its course a fourth of a circle, and forms with the anterior arch of the atlas, a sort of ring in which the odontoid process turns, or which turns upon it. Its posterior surface is convex; the anterior surface, which is con- cave, is contiguous to the odontoid ligaments, to the odontoid process, and is a little covered by the posterior synovial capsule of the same process. From the middle part of its inferior edge, there is detached a small fasciculus of vertical fibres {appendix in- ferior), about a line in breadth, which is attached to the posterior part of the body of the axis. From the corresponding point of its upper edge, there also proceeds a very distinct fasciculus of fibres {appendix superior), broader above than below, which ascends to attach itself to the basilar surface, some lines before the occipital foramen. The transverse part of this ligament, which is very strong, dense and thick, is composed of transverse, parallel, close fibres, commonly separated by narrow intervals, filled with cellular tissue, into two or three distinct bundles, placed above each other. 592. Anterior Atlanto-axoidal Ligamerit. The lower edge of the small arch of the atlas and its middle tubercle, give rise to the fibres of this ligament, which are attached inferiorly to the base of the odontoid process, and to the fore part of the body of the axis. The latter fibres are the longest, and sometimes form a distinct rounded fasciculus, while the others represent a kind of membran- ous layer, which occupies the interval of the articular capsules, and even covers them a little. The ligament of which we speak, IS covered anteriorly by the recti capitis antici majores muscles. 593. Posterior Atlanto-axoidal Ligament. This ligament, ■which is of a membranous appearance, very thin and loose, is at- tached, on the one hand, to the inferior edge of the posterior arch ot the atlas, and, on the other, to the upper edge of the lamina of rlT^' Z^^^^^^^^^'^' is covered by much adipose cellular tissue, and by the obliqui capitis inferiores musdes. Anteriorly, it is • connected with fasciculi of vertical fibres, of a yellowish colour,182 PASSIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. separated from each other by cellular tissue, having a considerable resemblance to the ligamenta flava, but attached to the inner lip of the lamina} of the axis, and to the lower edge of the posterior arch of the atlas : the dura-mater of the vertebral canal covresponds to them. 594. Synovial Membranes of the Articular Processes. The articular surfices by which these processes are connected, are much larger than in any of the other vertebraa, and, like them, constitute a planiform arthrodia; but it is to be observed that those of the axis are much broader than those belonging to the atlas. Tliev are all covered by a very thin layer of cartilage, and kept in place by a synovial membrane on each side. These membranes are re- markable for their extreme looseness, which is still greater anterior- ly and posteriorly, than on the sides ; they not only embrace the articular surfaces of the processes of the atlas, but are reflected a little over their circumference. They are a little thicker than the synovial membranes of the odontoid process ; they correspond an- teriorly to the anterior atlanto-axoidal hgament; posteriorly, to adipose cellular tissue ; internally, to the odontoid synovial cap- sules and the transverse ligament; externally, to the vertebral ar- teries, over which they are reflected so as to form a sort of sheath. COMMON ARTICULATIONS OF THE VEllTKBU^,. 595. Each vertebra, from the third cervical to the last lumbar inclusive, is placed in contact with that which precedes or follows it, by its body and articular processes ; the laminae and spinous processes of all the vertebras being moreover connected by liga- ments. There resvdts from this, that the common articulations of the vertebrae present themselves vmder the appearance of an am- phiarthrosis for their bodies, and of a plain arthrodia with obscure motions for their articular processes, and that they are further strengthened by accessory ligaments, capable of great resistance. We also observe that each vertebra has, on the one hand, isolated and peculiiir means of union, as the ligamenta flava and the fibro- cartilages ; and on the other, j^articipates in the use of common organs, which extend at once over the whole vertebral column, or at least the greater part of it, such as the anterior and posterior vertebral ligaments. AUTICULATIONS OF THE HODIES OF THE VERTEBIi^. 596. Anterior common ligament {Ligamentnm comnnme anta- itis, seu Fascia longiladinalis anterior.) This ligament occujiies the anterior part of the vertebral column, from the axis to the up- per part of the sacrum. It is membraniform and of a glistening ajjpearance, and presents very distinct longitudinal stria?, whichAIITICULATIONTS OF THE TRUNK. 183 separate so many bundles of fibres, between which there exist small intervals, irregular as to form and position, for the passage of blood- vessels and cellular tissue. This ligament is very narrow in the ..neck, broader in the back, still broader in the lumbar region, and V so disposed as to cover the greater part of the bodies of the verte- 1' hrse. It is thin in the cervical and lumbar regions, thicker in the ■ back, and everywhere follows the inequalities of the vertebrae, ac- ; commodating itself to all their flexuosities. Its a?iterior suyface : corresponds, in the neck, to the pharynx and oesophagus; in the : back, to the oesophagus, the aorta, the vena azygos, and the tho- r racic duct; in the loins, to the aorta, the vena cava inferior, the ' receptaculura chyli, and a great number of lymphatic vessels and : glands. All these parts are connected to it by loose cellular tissue. 1 In the lumbar region, its fibres are strengthened by those of the tendons of the pillars of the diaphragm, with which they are inter- laced. Its posterior surface is applied against the bodies of the vvertebrfB, and the fibro-cartilages which separate them; it is ob- < served to contract a firmer adhesion to the latter than to the for- mer, and that it is much more firmly fixed to the projecting edges iof the body of each vertebra than to its middle part. The lateral •edges of this ligament are much thinner than it is in the middle; : they correspond, in the cervical region, to the recti capitis antici imajores and longi colli muscles, and in the lumbar region to the [ psoae muscles. On the sides of this ligament and under the longi colli muscles, : there occur, in the cervical region only, and for each vertebral ar- ticulation, two small fibrous fasciculi, which extend obliquely, from kabove downwards and from within outwards, from the upper ver- tebra to that beneath it. Their fibres are short and thin, and frequently in a great part confounded with the fibro-cartilage over ' which they are applied. The fibres which constitute this ligament do not occupy its whole length; they even have not all the same dimensions. The supsr- I ficial fibres cover the bodies of four or five vertebrae ; those which are intermediate, are lost beyond the third vertebra below that from which they have risen; the deepest are still shorter, and ' only go from one vertebra to that which is immediately below ' It. It is also to be observed, that in general these fibres arise in much greater numbers from the fibro-cartilages than the vertebraj themselves. 697. Poster 'tor commoji ligament. (Ligamentum commune posteriiis, sen Fascia longituditialis postica.) This ligament is. Connected above with another ligament named the occipito-a.void, which is a kind of membrane, thicker laterally than at its middle part, IS attached superiorly in front of the occipital hole to the ba- silar groove, and descends within the vertebral canal, as far as the level of the body of the axis, passing behind the odontoid process Its fibres are vertical, parallel', close, and of unequal length. The yceper fibres arc attached to the upper edge of the transverse Ji,184 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. gament; the itiiddlo ones descend as far as the posterior sur- i face of the axis; while the more superficial are incorporated i with the ligament we are now going to describe. The pos- terior common ligament extends at the back part of the bodies i of the vertebrae, from that of tlie axis to the sacrum. It is broader in the neck and back, than in the lumbar region, where it is so narrow as not to be more than two lines broad in all parts of its i course, it is broader opposite each intervertebral substance, than on ! the bodies of the vertebrfi; themselves, which gives it the form of a long band contracted at intervals. It is smooth, and of a very shining pearly white ; it does not, like the former, present distinct i bundles of fibres or intervals for the passage of vessels. It is in general denser and more compact' than the anterior ligament, rather thin in the lumbar and cervical regions, and thickest in the back. Its posterior surface is in contact with the dura mater which envelopes the spinal man-ow, and is connected with it by an extremely loose filamentous cellular tissue, of a reddish colour, not containing fat, but very susceptible of serous infiltration. This disposition is particularly apparent at the lower part, for at the up- i per, the dura mater is pretty intimately united to the ligament. The anterior surface corresponds to the bodies of the vertebrae, and to the posterior part of the circumference of the intervertebral i fibro-cartilages, and adheres much more firmly to the latter than i the former, to which it is only attached at their upper and lower i parts. In the middle, it is separated from the bone by an interval, I in which are lodged the vessels which ramify in the spongy tissue \ of the vertebra. Its lateral edges are in connexion with the venous i sinuses of the vertebral canal, and are raised to allow the vessels | to pass, at the separation of the preceding ligament. This ligament, like the anterior, is composed of superficial fibres, ! occupying the interval of four or five vertebrae or fibro-cartilages, : and of deep fibres, extended over two vertebrae only, or even over a single vertebra and its fibro-cartilage. 598. Inter-vertebral Fibro-cartilages. (Ligamenta inter-verte- > hralia, Weit.) These organs resemble sections of cylinders, of a whitish colour, firm, and possessed of flexibility. They are si- tuated between the bodies of the vertebrae, from the interval which separates the second and third, to that which exists between the i last vertebra and the sacrum. Their form corresponds to that of ' the bodies of the vertebrae with which they are connected, being oval in the neck and loins, while in the dorsal region they are circular. The fibro-cartilages of the neck and upper part of the back, are : much thinner than those of the lower part of the back and loins, the latter having a thickness of half an inch. But each of them lias not an equal thickness in all parts of its extent; in the loins and neck, they are thinner behind than before, and the reverse in the dorsal region ; which constitutes one of the principal causes of the triple curvature of the spine. By their upper and under swfaces, the fibro-cartilages, closely185 ARTICULATIONS OP THE TRUNK. adhere above and below to the corresponding surfaces of tlie verte- bra? ; in subjects whicli have not exceeded twenty years, they are united to the epiphyses of these bones, with which they are easily .1 removed. Their circumference corresponds at the fore part to ithe anterior vertebral ligament, and at the back part to the poste- ; rior, contracting strong adhesions with their fibres ; it forms part Dof the intervertebral foramina, and in the back, contributes more- over to the formation of the small articular cavities which receive the head of the ribs. The intervertebral fibro-cartilages are formed in their circumfer- . ence by very close fibres, and laminje of the nature of ligaments ; the ,1 fibres never direct themselves perpendicularly from one vertebra to J another ; but the outermost ascend from left to right, and cover a a layer which has an opposite direction, and which is itself applied 1 against other layers having a different direction. The lamina, V which are concentric, are numerous anteriorly and laterally, but in 1 less number at the back part; they intersect each other, diminish i in thickness, and leave between them wider intervals, in proportion .i as they approach the centre of each fibro-cartilage. Their vacuities . are filled with a soft, pulpy, homogeneous viscid substance, of a : greyish colour; and at the centre itself there is only a very soft, - spongy, elastic, areolar tissue, plentifully supplied with the substance . in question : this disposition is much more apparent in the lumbar I region than in any other part of the vertebral column. In chil- i dren, this substance is whitish, transparent, and much less abun- ( dant than in adults, in whom it has more consistence and is of a ; yellowish colour. In old people, it diminishes still more in quanti- I ty, and the fibro-cartilages lose much of their thickness. These bodies when soaked in water, swell and increase very much i in their vertical extent, frequently acquiring a whole inch of thick- ness ; but it is especially towards the centre that the inci-ease is effected, and if one of them is cut horizontally between two verte- brae, each portion rises in the form of a cone having its base to- ward the external laminae of the fibro-cartilage, which acquire a red colour on remaining sometime in water. By desiccation, on the contrary, these organs are rendered much thinner, especially in the middle part, which is then reduced to a line of thickness. In the recent state the elasticity of these fibro-cartilages is ex- tremely remarkable, and restores to its direction the vertebral co- lumn after it has been variously bent in a dead body. If a verti- cal section is made of several vertebra;, the tissue of this body ex- pands and surpasses the level of the osseous surfaces. Their tena- city or power of cohesion is also very great, and even exceeds that ot the bones with which they are connected. ARTICULATIONS OF THIS ARTICULAR PROCESSES. •599. In describing the vcrtcbni;, we pointed out the form andPASSIVE ORGANS OF L0C03I0TION. direction of the surfaces by which their articular processes cm^espond i to each other. These surfaces are invested with a very tliin car'ti- i laginous layer, which is covered by a small synovial membrane re- flected from the one over the other. This membrane is not very loose, and contains scarcely any synovia; it is pretty constantly covered with small bundles of ligamentous fibres, more or less se- parated and irregular, which proceed from the articular process of one vertebra to that of the opposite vertebra, and are more distinct in the back and loins than in the neck. At the inner part, it has connexions with the neighbouring ligamentum subflavum. AKTICULATIONS OF THE LAMINA OF THE VEIITEBII-E. 600. Yellow ligaments. (lAgamenta verfehrarum siihflam). These ligaments, which occupy the interlaminar spaces of the vertebne, from that which exists between the second and third, to that which separates the last from the saci-um, and complete the vertebral canal behind, are formed of a peculiar tissue, (16. F. ('.) very strong and firm, elastic, of a yellowish colour, and composed of vertical fibres. They are more ap- parent at the interior, than at the exterior of the vertebral canal, and each of them is divided into two portions, the one right the other left, angularly united toward the base of the spinous process, but in such a manner as to leave between them a small fissure, which is closed by cellular tissue. At the upper part of the neck, they are thin and narrow; they become thicker and broader in proportion as they descend, and in the loins acquire very considerable dimen- sions. Each portion of these ligaments has a quadrilateral form, and is I transversely elongated. Their miterior surface is connected with the dura mater of the spinal marrow, from which it is separated by a cellular tissue of which we have already had occasion to speak, (597) i it ^^^^ ^ smooth and polished appearance. The posterior surface., which is rough and uneven, is with difficulty perceived, especially in the dorsal region ; it is partly covered by the superior vertebral lamina, and partly by the multifidus spina? muscle. Their upper edge is attached to the inner surfixce of the laminas of the vertebra which is situated above; the lower edge is fixed to the very margin of the vertebral lamina placed beneath. Externally^ these hgaments are in contact with the synovial membrane of the articular processes, while interrially, toward the angle whicli they form at their union, they are continuous, in the back and loins, with the interspinal ligaments. AUTICULATIOXS of the STINOUS rROCESSES. 601. Tnf.ernpinal Ligaments, f membrana2 inierspiiuiks). These ligaments occupy the intervals of the spinous processes in the back 1ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 1S7 ; and loins, but are wanting in the neck, where they seem to be sub- istituted by tlie muscles of the same name ; they represent so many small mernbranes, whose form varies according to that of the space which they occupy, so that they are narrow and somewhat elon- .gated in the back, while they are broad and quadrilateral in the loins : they are stronger and thicker, the lower their situation is in Ithe spine. Their surfaces, which are lateral, correspond on either side of the median line, to the erector muscles of the spine. One of their edges is attached above to the lower edge of the upper pro- cess, and another below, to the upper edge of that situated beneath. IPosteriorly, they are confounded with the ligament by which the iapices^of the spinous processes are connected, and anteriorly with 'the yellow ligaments. They are composed of irregular bundles of fibres, which follow different directions, but generally proceed ob- iliquely, and in an opposite direction to the inferior process and the mext ligament, so as to cross each other. 602. Ligament by which the apices of the spinous processes of the •vertebrcB are connected, [Ligamentum quo apices processuum spi- K770sortcm vertehrarum connectuntiir'). It is situated behind the -summit of the spinous processes of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, ifrom the seventh cervical vertebra to the middle posterior tubercles of the sacrum. In the back, it is very narrow and mvich thinner I than in the loins ; in both regions, its fibres are closely interlaced i.with those of the aponeuroses of the neighbouring muscles ; but ithey may easily be distinguished on account of their longitudinal ildirection. These fibres have not all the same length, but present ::an arrangement similar to that which we have already observed »with respect to the anterior vertebral ligament, in other words, they i^extend to two, three, four, or five spinous processes, according as t they are deep-seated, intermediate, or superficial. Its poste^'ior ^surface is covered by the skin, which strongly adheres to it by means of a dense cellular tissue. Its anterior surface sends fibres to the interspinal ligaments, while its edges confound theirs with the dorsal and lumbar aponeuroses. 603. These are not the only fibrous organs which the vertebral column presents at its surface. Wcitbrecht, Soemmering, and Lauth admit inter-transverse ligaments, which according to them !■ exist between the transverse processes, from the fifth dorsal verte- bra to the eleventh. But these ligaments are nothing but thin bundles of irregular fibres, which seem to be confounded with the' tendons of the muscles of the vertebral grooves, and which ap- pear destined rather to give them insertion, than to connect the bones. Around each intcr-vertebral foramen, there also occur cir- cular and irregular bundles of fibres, frequently sending off a pro- 1 ongation which divides the hole into two portions, and are espe- cially manifest in the lumbar region.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 188 ARTICULATIONS OF THE THORAX. STEKNO-COSTAL ARTICULATIONS. 604). We already know, that the first seven ribs are the only ones whose cartilages are directly articulated to the sternum ; these articulations may therefore be divided into two orders ; that of the True or Sternal Ribs, in which little motion is allowed, and that of the False or Asternal Ribs, in which the motions are more distinct. ARTICULATIONS OF THE CARTILACiES OF THE TRUE RIBS WITH THE STERNUM. 605. The inner extremities of each of these cartilages (95) pre- sent a surface which is lodged in one of the small cavities placed upon the lateral edges of the sternum (80), and which, like these edges, is invested with a slight layer of cartilage, the surface ol" which is not very smooth. Two radiated ligaments, the one an- terior, the other posterior, strengthen this species of arthrodia. A very close, and extremely thin synovial membrane, furnished with but little synovia, covers the articular surfaces; it is not in gene- ral easily perceived, but is a little more distinct in the two or three upper articulations than in those which follow, excepting, however, the first, in which there is an absolute continuity of substance be- tween the costal cartilage and the sternum. This capsule is con- nected before and behind with the anterior and posterior ligaments of the articulation, and is moreover strengthened, above and be- low, by some irregular fibres. 606. There almost always occurs, in the articulation of the second of these cartilages, a fibrous fasciculus which proceeds from its projecting angle to the retiring angle of the sternal cavity, and which divides this articulation into two parts, which renders two synovial membranes necessary. 607- Anterior Ligament. This ligament is broad, thin, mem- branous, triangular, and composed of fibres which proceed in a radiating manner from the inner extremity of the cartilage, to be expanded over the anterior surface of the sternum, where they are interlaced with those of the ligaments of the opposite side, and of those situated immediately above and beneath, with the periosteum of the bone, and with aponeurotic fibres of the pectoralis major. The direction of the fibres of this ligament is such, that the upper fibres pass obliquely upwards, the lower obliquely downwards, and the middle fibres horizontally ; they arc not all of the same length, the superficial being longer than the deep-seated, which are shorter the nearer they are to the joint. From the mutual in- terlacing of the fibres of all the anterior ligaments, there results a membrane of considerable thickness {membrana stcrni anterior), 4189 AKTJCULATIONS OF THIi TllUNK. nhich entirely covers the sternum, and which is much more appa- rent at its lower part than above: in some subjects, it even forms at the lower part a kind of triangular plane, separate and distinct. Tlie anterior ligament is covered anteriorly by the pectoralis major. 608. Posterior Ligament. It is not so thick as the preceding, and its fibres are not so apparent, although their disposition is ab- solutely the same. By their mutual interlacing, they form on the mediastinal surface of the sternum, a membrane (membrana sterni posterior), as thick as that formed by the anterior ligaments, but smooth, polished, without distinct fibrous fasciculi, unless it be merely a few which extend over its whole length, which would seem to indicate that it does not entirely originate from the poste- rior ligaments. It is traversed by a considerable number of small blood-vessels. 609. Ligament of the Ensiform Cartilage, or Costo-wiphoid Ligament (Ligamentum cartilaginis ensiformis). Besides hav- ing the same ligaments as those of the other cartilages of the true ribs, the cartilage of the seventh is connected with the ensiform cartilage by a particular ligament, whose dimensions vary much in different subjects. This ligament generally presents itself in the form of a small elongated and very thin fasciculus, which, arising from the lower edge of the cartilage, descends obliquely inwards, and expands over the anterior surface of the sternal appendage, uniting with that of the opposite side. It is covered by the rectus abdominis. ARTICULATIONS OF THE CARTILAGES OF THE FALSE RIBS WITH EACH OTHER. 610. We have already pointed out (94) the manner in which the sixth, seventh, and eighth sterno-costal cartilages meet each other by their contiguous edges, by means of small oblong surfaces. These articular surfaces vary much as to form and extent, and are also frequently observed between the eighth and ninth cartilages. Each of these articulations is furnished with a small synovial bursa, inuch looser and more apparent than that which exists at the junc- tion of the preceding cartilages with the sternum ; each is also strengthened anteriorly and posteriorly by oblique and irregular fibres, which proceed from one cartilage to the other, much more distinct in the former than in the latter direction, and are confounded with the perichondrium. Moreover, the inner extre- mities of the first three or four abdominal ribs are connected by a kind of small ligamentous cord, with the lower edge of the next cartilage above. The corresponding extremity of the cartilages of the two last ribs in general, and of the last rib always, are con- nected solely with the abdominal muscles.* nf hJ^^m ""'f ^''♦''*="''"y of f''" Rtenio-costal cartilages is intimiitoly iinitcH lo tliaf nnt ZS^ '\ ''K'""''"' »"y '^i"<l to keep these suilaeef,, wliidi do IOC aamit of any motion, in eomicxion (95).190 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. AJITICULATIONS OF THE ItlBS WITH THK BODIKS OF THE VEFl- TKUIi.F,. 611. T hese articulations, wliicli belong to the order of angular ginglymi. and which are extremely close, result from the junction of the heads of the ribs, invested with a thin cartilaginous lamina, with the cavities formed on the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae (87, 53). These cavities, as we have already shown, belong to one vertebra only for the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs ; but for all the others, they are formed on the bodies of two contiguous verte- hrixi and on the fibro-cartilage which connects them : they are all covered with a thin layer of cartilage, which is destitute of the po- lished appearance commonly remarked in organs of this nature. There is also observed in each of them a small mass of the reddish cellular tissue which has been taken for synovial glands, togethei* with the following ligaments. 612. Anterior or Radiated Ligament {Ligamentum caqntuli costarum). It is not the same in all the articulations of the ribs, on account of the peculiarity which we have exposed in the pre- ceding paragraph. In the nine which follow the first, it is formed of three flat and thin fibrous fasciculi, which are fixed separately to the two vertebrae, and the fibro-cartilage, which concur to form the articular cavity, and which, converging, attach themselves all round the anterior part of the head of the rib ; they constitute an irregularly quadrilateral fasciculus, with radiating fibres, of which the superficial are longer than the deep-seated. The small middle fasciculus which comes horizontally from the fibro-cartilage is the least distinct. The radiated ligaments of the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, which are not thus divided, do not, however, present only a single order of fibres : part of that of the first is attached to the last cer- vical vertebra, and those of the two others also extend to the neigh- bouring vertebrae. The anterior surface of these radiated ligaments is covered by the branches of the thoracic ganglia of the great sympathetic, by the pleura, and, on the right side only, by the vena azygos. The posterior surface is applied against the articulation, for which it forms a sort of fibrous capsule, in conjunction with the middle costo-transverse ligament. 613. Inter-articidarLigament. It exists in the interior of the articulation of the head of each rib, from the second to the tenth inclusive, and is wanting in the rest. It is a small fibrous fascicu- lus, slightly tinged with yellow, of a very close texture, more or less thick, flattened from above downwards, short, fixed on the one hand to tlie prominent line which separates the two articular sur- faces of the head of the rib, and on the other to the angle of theAUTICLLATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 191 ;avity which receives it, where it is continuous witli tlie intcrvcrtc- iral fibro-cartihigc. It divides the articulation into two parts .vhich have no communication with each other. 614. Synovial Alembranes. It will readily be perceived that ..here must be two in the articulations in which the last mentioned jgament occurs, which naturally separates them from each other, md only permits them to be expanded over the upper or lower half :)f the articular surfaces ; while in the other articulations these nembranes are simple, and cover the whole extent of the articular ;urfaces, being reflected from the one to the other. These capsules rire always indistinct, and contain but a very small quantity of lynovia; in some cases they even seem to be wanting, on account t)f the great thickness of the inter-articular ligaments. URTJCULATIOXS OF THE IIIBS WITH THE TRANSVERSE PROCESSES. 615. These articulations are formed between the tuberosity of ihe ribs, and the summit of the transverse process of the correspond- ing vertebrjE. All the ribs are thus articulated excepting the two ast. Each of the parts mentioned presents a surface covered with thin cartilage, and invested with a small synovial bursa, looser ;-nd more distinct than that of the preceding articulation ; the Dresence of the synovia is also more manifest in it. The ligaments 'fhich concur to keep the parts in their respective situations are aanied as follows. 616. Posterior Costo-Transverse Ligament, (Ligamentum •^•ansversum. externum costarum). This ligament is of a quadri- atcral form and flat, about two lines broad, with close and paral- el fibres, which are a little longer below than above; it arises from he summit of each of the transverse processes of the dorsal ver- 'ebnp, and proceeds nearly transversely outwards towards the non- irticular portion of the tuberosity of the corresponding rib. Its leep-seated fibres are shorter than the others; it is shorter and ifiore oblique in the upper ribs than in the lower: in fact, the last Icscends a little forwards ; that which precedes it is nearly horizon- tal, and the rest are ascending. It corresponds anteriorly to the ^rticu^ation, and posteriorly to the muscles of the vertebral ;roovcs. t)17- Middle Costo-Transverse Ligament, (Lig amentum ver- bids cnstce externum). This ligament is only seen when the rib 8 forcibly separated from the transverse process, and its fibres torn isundcr, or when a horizontal section of these two parts is made, ^^'liile they are still in their natural place. It seems formed of a "ellular substance in which there are perceived some irregular fas- :;icuh of fibres of a reddish colour, which occupy the interval situ- itcd between the rib and the anterior surface of the corresponding nmsvcrsc process.192 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. G18. Anterior Costo-Transmrse Liyaimnt, (Ligamentum transversum internum costarum, seu ligamentum cervicis costcB in- ternum J. The first and last ribs are destitute of tliis ligament; and, in the others, it does not really belong to their articulation, since it does not proceed from the transverse process to be attach- ed to the corresponding rib. It presents the appearance of a fas- ciculus composed of long diverging fibres, narrower above than be- low, broader and thinner in the lower ribs than in the upper, and always more distinct anteriorly than posteriorly; it is attached to the lower edge of each transverse process, and descends fromi thence inwards, to be inserted broader into the upper edge of thei rib beneath, near its articulation with the body of the vertebra. Irr most subjects, it seems composed of two fasciculi, one of which; smaller than the preceding, crosses its direction; the latter arisei immediately from the base of the process, and is attached to the head of the rib beneath. The anterior costo-transverse ligament corresponds anterioi'ly to the intercostal nerve and vessels; poste- riorly, to the longissimus dorsi. Externally, it is continuous with a thin aponeurosis of the intercostal muscles, and serves internally to complete an aperture, filled with cellular tissue, and traversei by the posterior branch of the corresponding intercostal nerve. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. auticulations of the bones of tub pelvis with the vertebral column. articulation of the sacrum with the veetebr.e. » 619. The articulation of the sacrum with the fifth lumbar verte bra, is in general perfectly similar to those of the vertebrae, anc takes place by three different points ; viz. by the oval surface which is at the middle of the base of the sacrum, and which is connectec with the inferior surface of the body of the last vertebra, forming an amphiarthrosis; and by the two articular surfaces, seen behinc the entrance of the sacral canal, which constitute a double arthxo- dia with the inferior articular surfaces of the last vertebra. The means of union which are met with here are also the same as m the vertebral column, and are as follows:—A fibro-cartilage, (598) ; the continuation of the anterior and posterior common vertebral li- gaments, (596, 597) ; interspinal ligament; the termination of | the ligament by which the apices of the spinous processes are con- \ nected, (601, 602) ; and, lastly, an interlaminar ligamentum flav- I um, (600), which descends from the laminue of the last lumbar 1 vertebra, to the posterior part of the orifice of the sacral canal IARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. 193 There arc also observed synovial membranes in the articulations of the articular processes of the sacrum with those of the vertebra. In other respects, we have no differences to point out, and these parts require no particular description. 620. Sacro-vertebral Ligament This is the only organ pre- iented by the articulation in question, that is not equally observed in the vertebral column. It is a very short and strong fasciculus :)f fibres, which arising from the anterior and inferior part of the sansverse process of the last vertebra, descends obliquely outwards towards the base of the sacrum, where it attaches itself, intermix- ing with irregular fibres placed before the sacro-iliac articulation. :(t rests upon ligamentous fibres and cellular tissue behind; but is covered anteriorly by the psoas muscle. ILIO-LUMBAR ARTICULATION. 621. Ilio-lumhar Ligament. This ligament is the only means vy which the fifth lumbar vertebra and the os innominatum are connected, there being here no immediate union between the bones. 11 is broad and thick internally, thin and narrow externally; its lorm is triangular, and its direction horizontal. Its fibres, which rre divergent, are very commonly separated into several fasciculi, \)y cellular tissue and vessels. The superior, which are the long- ^st, constitute the superior and anteHor ligament of the pelvis, iiligamentum pelvis anticum superius), while the inferior form its nferior and anterior ligament, {ligamentumpelvis anticum infe- dus). From the summit of the transverse process of the fifth, and vometimes, the fourth lumbar vertebrae, the former passes trans- e ersely outwards to the posterior third of the iliac crest, into which t is inserted; the latter proceeds from the transverse process of he last lumbar vertebra to the most remote part of the iliac crest. The anterior surface of these ligaments is covered by the psoas nagnus; the posterior rests upon the mass of the muscles which •ccupy the vertebral grooves. Their upper edge corresponds to the [uadratus lumborum, and the lower to the sacro-iUac ligaments. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE PELVIS WITH EACH OTHER. SACRO-COCCYGEAL ARTICULATION. ' n^^" '^^^s articulation has a great similarity to that of the bodies )t the vertebrjE with each other. It is an amphiarthrosis formed )y the summit of the sacrum, which corresponds to the base of the :occyx by an oval surface. Two hgamcnts and a fibro-cartilagc ^ecp the surfaces in connexion. o23. Anterior Sacro-coccygeal Ligament. It consists of a •mau number of irregular parallel liijrcs, expanded into a thinIQii PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. membrane, which descends from the anterior part of the sacrui over the corresponding surface of the coccyx. The rectum rest upon this Ugament. G24. Posterior Sacro-coccygeal Ligament. This is the on! one admitted by some anatomists. It is triangular, flat, broad above than below, and of a pearly tint. It arises from the margil of the inferior orifice of the sacral canal, and descends over th' whole posterior surface of the coccyx, into which it is inserter; Posteriorly^ this ligament receives some aponeurotic fibres from tli glutaeus maximus, and is covered by the integument; anterior/ it covers the termination of the spinal portion of the arachnoi membrane, a portion of the sacrum, and almost the whole of th coccyx. From the above description it will be seen, that this ligame not only serves to strengthen the articulation, but also complet the sacral canal behind. Its superficial fibres are much long than the deep-seated, and do not intersect each other like the la ter, which are very short but strong, and extend from the apex the sacrum to the cornua of the first bone of the coccyx. 625. Fibro-cartilage. It differs from those placed between tl bodies of the vertebrae only in being thinner, and in not havin its centre so pulpy. Its laminas, which are as numerous be'' as before, are less so on the sides. 626. The pieces of which the coccyx is composed are connect by a similar fibro-cartilage; but ossification soon obliterates the especially in men, for in women this phenomenon is not observe until they have passed the period of conception. SACRO-ILIAC AIITICULATION. 627. This articvdation, which is also named the Sacro-Ili Syynphysis, is a synarthrosis formed by the union of the semiluna notched, slightly convex and uneven surfaces which we pointed ou in describing the lateral surface of the sacrum (375), and the * ternal surface of the ossa innominata (394). They are each i vested by a thin cartilaginous lamina, which is, however, a litt thicker on the side next the sacrum. These laminee do not coi into contact, there being placed between them a soft, yellowi substance of a nature little known, very different from synovia, a disseminated in isolated flakes. Their surface is granulated a rough in the adult only, for in children it is smooth, and ev seems covered by an indistinct synovial membrane. These t surfaces are kept together by four strong ligaments, together w' several irregular fibres. 628. Ctreat Sacro-sciatic Ligament. (Ligamenfum Sacro- chiaticum majus, seu Liyamentum tuberoso-sacrum). It is plac at the posterior and inferior part of the pelvis; it is of a triangu195 ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. form, thin, flat, narrower in the middle tlian at its extremities. It arises by a broad base from the posterior and inferior ihac spine, . the sacro-spinal ligament, the last posterior tubercles of the sacrum, the lower part of the lateral surface of that bone, and the edge of . the coccyx, and directs itself obUquely outwards, downwards, and a I httle forwards. As it advances, it loses much of its breadth, but i its thickness increases in the same proportion ; it is at length at- ; taclied to the tuberosity of the ischium, becoming broader a second ; time, and intermingling with tendinous fibres of the biceps femo'ris : and semi-tendinosus muscles. Here there is detached a small fibrous prolongation, named by some anatomists the Falciform Li- . gament, which winds around the inner part of the tuberosity, at- : taches itself above it by its convex edge, and with its concave and floating edge covers the obturator internus muscle, for which it : forms a sort of channel, as it ascends along the ramus of the is- L chium (401). The posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament gives attachment in its whole extent to fibres of the glutaeus maximus; the anterior is united internally to the small sacro-sciatic ligament, and is separated from it externally by a triangular interval, which gives passage to the obturator internus, and to the pudic vessels and nerve. Its fibres, which converge from the sacrum toward the OS innominatum, and are more oblique as they are higher, are so Idisposed that at the middle of their length the inner cross the 'Outer; they form several planes, separated from each other by ■cellular tissue, between which pass pretty considerable branches of ithe sciatic artery. 629. Small Sacro-sciatic Ligament, (Ligamentum sacro-ischi- aticum minus, internum seu ligamentum spinoso-sacrum). It is smaller than the preceding, before which it is situated, and pre- sents nearly the same form. Internally it is broad, partly con- founded with the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament, but fixed a little 'more anteriorly to the sides of the sacrum, and to a small portion of the edge of the coccyx. From this it proceeds outwards and forwards towards the spinous process of the ischium, to which it is '^attached, contracting and becoming thicker as it approaches its in- sertion. Its posterior surface covers the preceding ligament, and the pudic vessels and nerves ; the anterior is connected with the I ischio-coccygeus muscle. I It is composed of fibres which are more horizontal the lower they are ; and is divided into several distinct fasciculi which con- verge from the sacrum toward the sciatic spine. 630. The two sacro-sciatic ligaments separate the great sciatic notch into two holes ; the upper and larger of which is traversed by the pyriformis muscle, the giutjeal vessels and nerve, and the sci- ^ atic vessels and nerves, while the lower and smaller gives passage to the obturator internus, and the pudic vessels and nerve. J 1 hcse two ligaments, while they serve to connect the sacrum , OS mnominatum, also contribute to the formation of the wallsPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 196 of the pelvis. Their inner edge sends towards the anus an apon- eurotic expansion which supports the levator ani muscle. ()31. Long Sacro-iliac Ligament, (Li(/amentu7n jjosficum Inn- gum ossis ilei). This ligament, which is situated over the portion of the great sacro-sciatic ligament that comes from the crest of the ossa innominata, is attached on the one hand to the posterior and superior spine of the ilium, and on the other to the lateral and pos- terior parts of the sacrum, opposite the third or fourth posterior sa- cral foramen, and externally of it. It consists of a very strong, long, flat, nearly vertical fasciculus, broader above than below, with fibres so much the longer the more superficial they are. It is covered by the glutat'us maximus, which even has some points of attachment to it, and is strengthened by a shorter and thinner fibrous fasciculus, which intermingles with it upon the sacrum, af- ter having risen from the posterior and inferior iliac spine. C32. Short Sacro-iliac Ligament, (Ligamentnm posticum breve ossis ilei). It is very irregular, very short, and occupies posteriorly the space which the sacrum and ossa innominata leave between them, before the mass of the muscles of the vertebral grooves. The fibres which constitute it are much shorter before, near the articulation, than behind; they cross each other in a num- ber of diflcrent directions, and are very close, and possessed of great firmness : they are attached on the one hand to the two first eminences of the posterior aspect of the sacrum, and to the sides of that bone at their upper part; and on the other, to the internal surface of the iliac tuberosity. Such is their adhesion to these parts, that if the sacrum and os innominatum be forcibly separated, the surface of one or other of these bones is detached along with them, without their being ruptured. C33. Besides these different ligaments, there arc still several fi- brous bundles which concur to unite the sacrum with the os inno- minatum ; bvit they are irregularly disposed, and have nothing con- stant in their form or appearance. Some are situated behind the sacrum, and form a sort of membranous circle around each poste- rior sacral hole. Most of these are attached, by their extremities, to two separate tubercles, while their middle part is raised up so as to permit blood vessels to pass under them. The others, which only consist of some irregular fibres, expanded into membranes, are placed before the sacro-iliac symphysis, and vary much in their length and direction. They present a very shining appearance, and are confounded with the periosteum of the sacrum and ossa innominata. ' ARTICULATION Oil SYMPHYSIS OF THE PUBES. • (Symphysis seu Cmnmissnra Ossinni Pubis). G34. This articulation is formed by the contact of two slightlyARTICULATION OR SYMPHYSIS OF THE TUEIiS. 197 convex and uneven oval surfaces, which the pubic portions of the ossa innominata present, at the anterior and superior part of their lower edge (396). There is between them a fibro-cartilaginous plate, thicker anteriorly than behind and in its middle ; it is white, very dense, elastic, and formed of two distinct portions, one of wliich belongs to the left os pubis, and the other to the right. But there are detached from each of its portions transverse fibres, stronger, closer, and more numerous in the male than in the female, which form concentric laminje intersecting each other, the more sviper- ficial of which pass round the articulation, while the internal on- ly describe a semi-circle at its upper or lower part. In many sub- jects, and chiefly in women, it is observed that these fibrous laminae are wanting at the posterior part of the symphysis. They are so much the broader and thicker, the nearer they are to the lower and upper part of the symphysis ; their dimensions decrease in propor- tion as they approach the centre, and they become less apparent. Toward the middle of these, there are also commonly observed two small smooth polished oblong surfaces, covered with cartilage, moistened by a viscid fluid of a whitish or yellowish colour, and which appear lined by a very delicate synovial membrane. They generally occupy only a third of the length of the posterior half of the thickness of the symphysis. This disposition is much less ap- parent in the male than in the female, and it is still more distinct immediately after parturition. We observe, however, that in ge- neral the quantity of fibres, and the extent of the cartilaginous sur- faces, are in inverse ratio, and that the relation between them is very variable; for sometimes the fibres predominate, and some- times the smooth surfaces occupy almost the whole breadth of the articular surfaces of the pubes. The fibro-cartilaginous substance which unites the bones of the pubes, is much thicker anteriorly than posteriorly, where it forms a sort of prominence, very distinct in the female, and which occupies only the middle of the symphysis: it disappears above and below. This articulation is strengthened by two ligaments. 635. Anterior Pubic Ligament. This ligament is an irregular fibrous expansion, partly intermingled with the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles, partly with the periosteum of the bones of the pubes. It appears to be formed of several superimposed layers, which all pass before the articulation. The most superficial of these layers, proceeds from the upper part of the symphysis, ex- panding and separating into two fasciculi, to the fore part of the rami of the pubic arch. The deep fibres are transverse, and unite m their passage with the laminfe of the fibro-cartilage. 636. S'uh-Pulric or Triangular Ligament, {Ligamcntum arcu- atum). This is much stronger than the preceding; it is a thick and triangular bundle which occupies the upper part of the arch of the pubes, to the upper and inner part of the rami of wliich it IS attached on either side. Its fibres, which are of a yellowish co- Jour, very close, transverse, and a little curved so as to present198 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. their concavity below, arc very sliort above, and are continuous with the lamina; of the symphysis ; they become longer in proportion as they are lower, and are then immersed in cellular tissue. This ligament is very firm and perfectly distinct. 637. The symphysis of the pubes is further strengthened above by various irregular fibres; there are also observed some which pass transversely over the prominence, which its fibro-cartilage forms behind. 638. Obturator Ligament, {Membrana obturrma foraminis thyroidei). It is on account of its situation that we here describe this fibrous organ, for it does not at all belong to the articulations of the pelvis. It is a true membrane, which almost entirely closes the obturator hole, to the circumference of which it is attached, excepting at the upper part, where there is a more or less distinct notch for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. Its fibres are interlaced in various directions, and are always more marked toward the notch. Its anterior surface corresponds to the obtu- rator extcrnus muscle, and the posterior to the obturator internus, both of which are in part attached to it. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. AKTJCULATIONS OF THE BONKS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTJIEMITIES. Sterno-Clavicular Articulation, 639- The clavicle is articulated by arthrodia Avith the upper ex- tremity of the sternum, which presents a concave surface (78) for the reception of the head of that bone (437)• The two articular surfaces, but especially that of the clavicle, are invested with a layer of diarthrodial cartilage, remarkable for its thickness. They do not exactly correspond in their dimensions, for the head of the clavicle exceeds in all directions, and especially above and before the circumference of the cavity of the sternum. Several ligaments serve to strengthen this articulation, they surround it on all sides so as to bear, in their general capacity, some resemblance to the na- ture of fibrous capsules. 640. Anterior Sterno-clavicular Ligament. This is a broad fasciculus, consisting of divergent fibres, separated by vascular in- tervals ; it is fixed by its narrow extremity to the fore part of the head of the clavicle, whence it proceeds downwards, and inwards over the edges of the articular cavity of the sternum, where it is attached by its broadest extremity. By its ■posterior surface it covers the two synovial membranes, and adheres strongly t;) the inter-articular fibro-cartilage, and by the anterior corresponds to the sterno-mastoidcus and the integuments. 641. Posterior Steruo-elavicu/ar LJgamenf. This ligament is narrower and weaker than the preceding; its fibres are also lessARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOU EXTREMITIES. 199 divergent. It is attached, on the one liand, to the posterior part of the inner extremity of the davicle, and on the other, to the pos- terior and superior part of the sternum, on tlie edges of the arti- cuhir cavity. Its anterior surface covers the two synovial mem- branes, and a part of the circumference of the fibro-cartilagc. The posterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoideus and stcrno- thyroideus muscles. 642. Inter-clav/icular Ligament. {Ligamentum interclavi- ciilare). This name is given to a very distinct fasciculus, placed transversely above the upper extremity of the sternum, between the heads of the two clavicles. Its appearance varies in different indi- viduals, it being sometimes thick, and sometimes thin, at one time simple, at another composed of several separate bundles. It is al- ways flat; its fibres, which are parallel, are longer above than be- low, frequently separated by small apertures, and always more com- pact and closer in the middle, than at the extremities; they are also curved, and their concavity, which is not very decided, is di- rected upwards. These fibres arise from the upper part of the ster- nal extremities of the clavicles, and are partly incorporated with the tendons of the anterior portions of the sterno-mastoid muscles. Frequently this ligament has only slight membraneous adhesions to the sternum, while, at other times it is strongly fixed to its perio- steum and ligaments. Its posterior surface corresponds to the sterno-hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei muscles; the anterior to the integuments. Its upper edge forms with the sternum a notch, through which vessels pass. 643. Costo-clavicular Ligament, {Ligamentum rhomboides). This ligament does not form an intimate part of the articulation of which we are treating, it being in no shape attached to the ster- num. It is of a rhomboidal form, short, flat, and very strong, with dense, compact, oblique fibres, and longer externally than in- ternally ; it proceeds from the inner and upper part of the car- tilage of the first rib, ascending obliquely backwards and outwards, to be inserted into a prominence, which the lower surface of the clavicle presents internally. One of, its surfaces is directed for- wards and upwards, and is covered in a great part by the subcla- vius muscle; the other, which faces backwards and downwards, touches the subclavian vein. At its inner part it corresponds to the articulation. 644. Inter-articular Fibro-cartilage, (jCartilago inter-articu- laris). It is a nearly circular plate, fitted to the articular surfaces of the sternum and clavicle, between which it lies; it is thicker at Its circumference than in"the centre, which is sometimes perforated. The circumference is united to the ligaments described above, es- pecially the anterior and posterior. Above and behind, where it is very much thicker, it is fixed to the head of the clavicle; inferiorly and internally where it is very thin, it is attached to the union of the sternum with the cartilage of the first rib, partly confound- ing itself with the perichondrium of the latter. The structure ofPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 200 this organ is perfectly similar to that which we observed in the fibro-cartilage of the temporo-maxilhiry articulation; its fibres are also much more apparent at the circumference than at the mid- dle part, where they cannot be distinguished. 645. Synovial Membranes. They are two in number, on ac- count of the disposition of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage, which renders one insufficient. I'he one belongs to the clavicle and upper surface of the fibro-cartilage, the other invests the sternum and the opposite surface of the same organ. By their external surface, they adhere, in a great part of their extent, to the four ligaments described above ; but in the intervals of these ligaments they can be easily distinguished, and may even be made to form small protruding vesicles by pressing the surfaces against each other. They generally contain very little synovia. In other re- spects they are similar to the synovial membranes of the other arti- culations, and only communicate together in cases where the fibro- cartilage is perforated. SCAPULO-CLAVICULAIl ARTICULATION. 646. This articulation is of the kind designated by the name of Plain Arthrodia. The two surfaces which are presented for the purpose of forming it, the outer extremity of the clavicle (438) on the one hand, and the upper edge of the acromion (424) on the other, are covered with a slight layer of cartilage, remarkable for its little density and whiteness. There commonly occurs between them a very thin inter-articular ligament, pretty frequently nar- rower than the surfaces themselves, and always of very variable form. Two ligaments, the one superior the other inferior, belong to the articulation, which is lined by a synovial membrane; but the clavicle is also connected with the coracoid process by another very strong ligamentous fasciculus, without any contiguity of sur- faces. 647- Superior Ligament. It forms a broad and thick fascicu- lus, of a quadrilateral form, flat, shorter before than behind, which covers the whole upper part of the articulation, and which is itself covered by the interlaced aponeuroses of the deltoid muscle and trapezius. It is composed of parallel fibres, directed obliquely from within outwards, and'from behind forwards, which are at- tached, on th^ one hand, to the upper part of the outer extremity of the clavicle, and on the other to the upper part of the acromion. 648. Inferior Ligament. It resembles the superior in form, and is nearly as distinct. Its fibres, which are laxer and less nu- merous, frequently leave intervals between them, and are at- tached to the lower edges of the two surfaces. Anteriorly, it is continuous with the preceding ligament, but is separated poste-ARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 201 riorly from it by a space which is filled with cellular tissue. Be- lotv, it corresponds to the supra-spinatus muscle, and above, to the synovial capsule and to the fibro-cartilage, when it exists. 649. Synovial Membrane. It contains very little synovia, and is sometimes double, on account of the presence of the inter-articu- lar fibro-cartilage. Its disposition is very easily conceived in the two cases, and its outer surface is only in contact with the two li- o-aments of the articulation, and with cellular tissue. ° 650. Caraco-clavicular Ligament. It is this ligament which does not belong to the scapulo-clavicular articulation; several ana- tomists have considered it as double, because it is formed of two fibrous bundles, whose direction is different; both serve equally to connect the clavicle with the coracoid process. Considered as a whole, it appears irregular, voluminous, and very strong; its two fasciculi are separated from each other, anteriorly, in a distinct manner, by an angular space which is filled with cellular tissue. The posterior and inner fasciculus {Ligamentum scapulcB com- mune conoides), has the form of a reversed cone. It is shorter than the other, with close and divergent fibres, and is attached by its base to a tuberosity which the lower surface of the clavicle presents externally, and by its summit to the broadest part of the coracoid process. Its anterior surface is covered by the subclavius muscle, and the posterior by the trapezius. It is slightly confounded ex- ternally with the second fasciculus, and inferiorly with some of the' fibres of the coracoid ligament (652). The anterior and external fasciculus {^Ligamentum scapulce commune trapezoides), which is placed at the distance of an inch from the scapulo-clavicvilar articvdation, is longer and broader than the posterior ; it is also thinner, and has a quadrilateral form ; its fibres, which are shorter behind than before, are separated by small cellular spaces. It is attached superiorly to an oblique line, which proceeds from the above tuberosity to the extremity of the clavicle, and inferiorly to the inner and posterior part of the upper surface of the coracoid process. It unites posteriorly with the preceding ligament, forming a very distinct projecting angle. One of its sur- faces is directed upwards an.d forwards, the other downwards and backwards; the first is in connexion with the supra-spinatus muscle, and slightly with the acromio-coracoid ligament (653) ; the other with adipose cellular tissue, which fills the triangular space left be- tween these two fasciculi.* PROPER LIGAMENTS OF THE SCAPULA. 651. These ligaments extend from one point of the scapula to another. One of them closes the notch of the upper edge of this " III OS versiim hoc ligiimcntiim adsci vo. Soemm. Dc Conu Jlmii. Fab. loiti. ii. p. 31. Vide iiolc at pngc i2(j of this work.20^2 PASSIVE OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. bone, the other is stretched between the acromion and coracoid pro- cesses. 652. Coracoid Ligament, (Ligamentutn sc.apulce proprium posterim). This hgament is wanting, when the notch which it completes is converted into a hole by osseous substance; in some cases it is double. It is a thin and flat fasciculus, narrower at the middle than at its extremities, broader posteriorly than anteriorly, with close aponeurotic fibres, which are in part continuous with, those of the coraco-clavicular ligament. It is attached on the one hand to the base of the coracoid process, on the other to the pos- terior part of the notch. The supra-scapular nerve passes almost always under this ligament, above which creep the vessels of the same name. 653. Acromio-coracoid Ligament, {Ligamentum scapulcE pro- prium anterius). It is triangular, broad, thin, and flat, and stretches transversely between the coracoid process and the acromion, broad- er at the end next the former than at the other. It is indeed at- tached to the whole extent of the outer edge of the coracoid pro- cess by two fasciculi, at first separated by cellular tissue, and af- terwards united into a common bundle, which becomes narrower and thicker as it approaches the summit of the acromion into which it is inserted. One of the two roots of this bundle is anterior, shorter, broader and thinner, and directed transversely outwards; the other, which is posterior, longer, narrower, and thicker, is di- rected obliquely backwards and outwards. Both are, however, connected by a slight fibrous membrane. The upper surface of the acromio-coracoid ligament is covered by the clavicle and the deltoid muscle; the inferior covers the su- pra-spinatus muscle. Its anterior edge is continuous with a pretty dense cellular lamina, subjacent to the deltoid muscle, and applied over the tendons of the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus muscles. This ligament completes the vault formed by the acromion and coracoid process above the head of the humerus. SHOULDER JOINT. 654. The bony parts which concur to form this articulation (scapulo-humeral) are, on the one hand, the head of the humerus (446), and, on the other, the glenoid cavity of the scapula (431). Both are covered with diarthrodial cartilages, thicker at the centre of the former, and at the circumference of the latter than in the rest of their extent. It is also to be remarked, that the depth and ex- tent of the glenoid cavity are not proportional to the size of the head of the humerus, so that a portion of this eminence is always without the cavity, and corresponds to the articular capsule. 655. Capsular or Orlncular Ligament. {Ligamentum capsu- lare magnum humeri.) It has tlic form of a hollow conoid, trun- cated, tile summit of which embraces the contour of the glenoidARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPKIllOR EXTREMITIES. 203 cavity of the scapula, while its base is fixed around the neck of the humerus, the circumference of which has more extent than that of the glenoid cavity. Its looseness is very remarkable, and it is much longer than necessary, merely to keep the surfaces in con- tact, permitting them to separate from eacli other more than an inch. Its outer surface is covered superiorly and internally, by the coraco-humeral ligament (65G) and deltoid muscle; a little more externally, by the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor muscles, whose tendons are firmly attached to it; inferior- ly, the long portion of the triceps extensor muscle is only separat- ed from it by a thin layer of rather loose cellular tissue, which is also the case with the circumflex vessels and nerves; internally, it is interrupted by the passage of the tendon of the sub-scapularis muscle, which mingles part of its fibres with this ligament. From this interruption there generally results an oval aperture, the cir- cumference of which is strengthened above, and on the sides by two pretty distinct fibrous fasciculi. Its inner surface is completely lined by the synovial membrane. Its upper edge is attached around the glenoid cavity, beyond the glenoid ligament (657). Its infe- rior edge is fastened to the base of the neck of the humerus, ex- panding and prolonging itself considerably beneath this portion of the bone at its lower part, while at its upper it is confounded with the tendons of the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus. Between the two tuberosities of the humerus, this edge is interrupted by the passage of the tendon of the biceps flexor muscle, and attached to the two sides of the groove which lodges it. This ligament is formed of fibres crossing each other in all di- rections, and thicker above than any where else. The tendons of the different muscles which are inserted into the tuberosities of the humerus, are in part incorporated with it, and contribute in no small degree to strengthen it. 656. Coraco-humeral or Accessory Ligament. It is situated at the upper and inner part of the articulation, and is formed by a very dense fasciculus, which arises from the outer edge of the cora- coid process, and proceeding forwards and outwards, is attached to the anterior part of the great tuberosity of the humerus, mixing Its fibres with those of thq tendon of the infra-spinatus muscle. Its inner surface is intimately united to the capsule in the greater part of its extent. 657. Glenoid Ligament. {Ligamentum glenoideum). This is a sort of fibro-cartilaginous rim, which seems intended to increase the depth of the glenoid cavity ; it is especially formed by the fibres of the tendon of the long portion of the biceps muscle, which biturcates at the upper part of this cavity, embracing it, in the interval between its two branches; there are also distinguished in It, proper fibres. It has a somewhat prismatic and triangular form; Its thickest portion is fixed upon the circumference of the cavity ; Its tree edge, thin and bliarp. The synovial membrane coversPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, ()58. Synovial Membrane. After lining the glenoid cavity and the ligamentous rim which surrounds it, this meml)rane is reflected hackwards over the neck of the scapula to reach the inner surface of the capsular ligament, which is entirely covered by it; and where the fibres of this ligament separate, it is applied im- mediately upon the side of the tendon of the subscapularis mus- cle ; and after arriving at the neck of the humerus, is reflected to proceed over the cartilage of its head. When this reflec- tion takes place, it furnishes a prolongation which descends for about an inch along the bicipital groove, ascending again upon the tendon of the biceps muscle, enveloping it on all sides, to the glenoid cavity, and forming inferiorly a cul-de-sac, which prevents the synovia from flowing out. By this arrangement, the tendon of the biceps traverses the articvdation freely, but is not contain- ed in the interior of the synovial membrane. At the upper part of this articulation, there is a bursa mucosa, which extends from the capsular ligament to the vault formed by the acromion and coracoid processes, and by the acromio-coracoid ligament. It always contains a great quantity of synovia, and ap- pears to belong as much to the supra-spinatus muscle, as to the ar- ticulation itself. 659- This articulation also contains small granulated, reddish, and very vascular masses of cellular tissue ; they are found col- lected in greater or less number at the inner part of the upper and lower attachments of the capsular ligament; the arteries and veins of such of these bodies as are situated upon the humerus, come from the anterior circumflex vessels, which diffuse over the capsule a great nvxmber of branches. The cellular grains placed on the neck of the scapula receive branches from the supra-scapu- lar vessels: some of these latter are distributed to the capsule. ELBOW JOINT. 660. This articulation constitutes a perfect angular ginglymus, formed by the meeting of the superior extremities of the ulna and radius with the inferior extremity of the humerus. Tliese differ- ent parts present in their aggregate two transverse rows of emi- nences and cavities, Avhich fit into each other in a very close man- ner, and all whose surfaces are invested with cartilages. That of the cavity of the radius is continued thinner over the cyhndri- cal circumference of its extremity. The cartilage of the great sigmoid cavity of the vilna (458) is prolonged over the small cavity of the same name ; it is interrupted at its middle part by a transverse depression, widened at its extremities, where it is con- verted into notches. t our ligaments serve to keep together the surfaces of this arti- culation, which are lined in their whole extent by a synovial mem- brane.ARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOR E^JTIiEMITIES. ^205 061. External Lateral Ligament (Liffatnentuni laterale exter- num ciihiti). This ligament, ^vhich is not very distinct from a tendon common to the muscles situated at the posterior surface of the fore-arm, and almost confounded with that of the supinator brevis, consists of a short fibrous fasciculus, flat, triangular and ver- tical, broader below than above, and applied upon the synovial cap- sule of the articulation. Its tipper extremity is attached to the ex- ternal tuberosity of the humerus ; the lower, loses itself in the an- nular ligament of the radius, and seems to bifurcate to be equally divided between the anterior and posterior parts of that ligament. Some of its posterior fibres pass over the annidar ligament, and after mingling with the posterior ligament, are inserted into the outer edge of the ulna. 662. Internal Lateral Ligament {Ligamentum laterale inter- num C7ihitij. Tliis ligament is longer, broader, and stronger than the preceding, and like it is of a triangular form. But it is formed of two distinct bundles ; the anterior of which is attached to the internal tuberosity of the humerus, and terminates on the inside of the coronoid process of the ulna, concealed by the tendon common to the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, and applied upon the syno- vial membrane. The other fasciculus, which is posterior, is form- ed of a great number of radiated fibres, which, also proceeding from the internal tuberosity of the humerus, are inserted into the inner part of the olecranon, and connected internally with the triceps extensor and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and with the ulnar nerve, while externally they strengthen the synovial membrane. 663. Anterior Ligament (Ligamentum accessorium anticum). This is a thin, irregular membrane, varying in its form, and com- posed of obhque fibres, separated from each other by intervals fill- ed with cellular tissue. It covers nearly the whole articulation an- teriorly. Its superficial fibres, which are very numerous, pass from the internal tviberosity of the humerus to the annular ligament of the radius, with which they are incorporated; the middle fibres, which are vertical, arise from the humerus between its two tuberosities, and are lost among the preceding; the deep fibres, which are also vertical, are collected into isolated fasciculi; they proceed from the coronoid cavity of the humerus, and gradually disappear upon the synovial membrane. The anterior surface of this ligament is co- vered by the tendon of the brachialis internus ; the posterior is in connexion with the synovial membrane, and with a mass of reddish and very vascular cellular tissue, which fills up the coronoid cavity. 664. Posterior Ligament. (Ligamentum accessorium posti- cum). This ligament can only be well seen when the fore arm is bent upon the arm, and is much weaker than the anterior. It is formed of two separate fascicuH. One of these, which is internal, 1.S nearly parallel to the posterior fasciculus of the internal lateral ligament, and ascending from the summit of the olecranon, is in- serted mto the inside of the pulley or trochlea of the humerus, and the edge of its olccranal cavity. The other fasciculus, which is206 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIOST. external, is a sort of fibrous band, extended between the two tu- berosities of this bone, immediately behind the olecranal cavity. This ligament is covered by the tendon of the triceps extensor, and by the anconeus, and is applied over the synovial membrane and a mass of cellular tissue, which occupies the olecranal fossa at its upper part. 665. Synovial Meynhrane. (Memhrana cubiti capsnlaris). It is common to the humero-cubital articulation, and that of the two bones of the fore-arm at their upper part. Applied behind the anterior ligament of the articulation, from which it is se- parated by a great quantity of cellular tissue, this membrane de- scends towards the neck of the radius, around which it forms a sort of cul-de-sac, directing itself from the inner surface of its annular ligament; it then ascends into the cavity of the head of the radius, passing between the inner side of its circumference and the small- er sigmoid cavity of the ulna; it is then continued into the larger sigmoid cavity, and from thence proceeds to the internal surface of the tendon of the triceps extensor, of the lateral liga- ments, and of the posterior ligament, to arrive at the olecranal cavity, whence it proceeds to the chfferent articular surfaces of the inferior extremity of the humerus, which it covers, and then ar- rives at the coronoid cavity, whence it finally proceeds to the point from which we have imagined it to set out. Its external surface. is in connexion with the brachialis internus, anteriorly ; with the ulnar nerve, and the triceps and anconeus, posteriorly; with the internal lateral ligament and the common tendon of the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, internally ; and with the external lateral ligament, and the common tendon of the posterior muscles of the fore-arm, externally. This membrane is raised up by small adipose masses, opposite the depressions which surmount the pulley and condyle of the hu- merus, as well as at the summit of the olecranon, and around the sigmoid cavities of the ulna. ARTICULATIONS OF THE ULNA WITH THE RADIUS. 666. Collectively, these articulations constitute a double lateral ginglymus, and are formed, above and below, by an immediate contact of the two bones of the fore-arm, which are separated in the middle, (485), and connected solely by a fibrous membrane pass- ing from the one to the other. UPPER RADIO-CUBITAL ARTICULATION. 667. In this articulation, it is the inner side of the circumfer- ence of the head of the radius that is received into the small sig- moid cavity of the ulna, (458.) These surfaces are invested withARTICULATIONS OF TIIIC SUPEIIIOU EXTREMITIES. 20? a cartilaoinous crust, which is continuous with the cartilages of the preceding articulation ; the same synovial membrane also extends to it; this articulation has only a single ligament. 6G8. AnnuUtr Ligament, (Ligamentum annulare sive orhlcu- lare radii). This is a very strong. Hat, fibrous band, about two lines broad, very dense, and sometimes cartilaginous, with circular fibres more apparent at the extremities than in the middle part. It surrounds the superior extremity of the radius, and with the small sigmoid cavity forms a sort of ring in which the radius turns. The ho-ament forms about three-fourths of this ring, and is attach- ed, on°the one hand, to the anterior edge of the small sigmoid ca- vity, and on the other, to its posterior edge. Its outer sxirface is covered by several muscles, and by the external lateral ligament of the preceding articulation which unites with it; its inner sur- face is lined by the synovial membrane ; its upper circumference, fixed by several of the ligaments of the elbow joint; the low- er free, and corresponds in the greater part of its extent to a reflection of the synovial membrane in the form of a cul-de-sac; only some oblique fibres, arising from the posterior part of the ul- na, beneath it, are attached to it posteriorly. MIDDLE RADIO-CUBITAT, ARTICULATION. 669. Interosseous Ligament, (Memhrana interossea, anti- hrachii). This ligament does not fill up the whole interval between the radius and ulna, being deficient from the elbow joint to the under part of the bicipital tuberosity, through which deficiency the posterior interosseous vessels pass. It has the form of a thin, aponeurotic, resplendent membrane, a little thicker above than below, composed of a great number of flat parallel fibrous fas- ciculi, placed one above the other in the same plane, and de- scending obliquely from the inner edge of the radius to the outer of the ulna. These principal fasciculi are connected by other very deUcate, loose and flexible fibres, leaving in their mtervals small apertures more or less apparent, which allow vessels and nervous filaments to pass, from one of the surfaces of the fore-arm, to that of the opposite side. The two lateral edges of this ligament are intimately incorporated with the pe- riosteum of the radius and ulna. Its anterior surface is covered, in its three upper fourths, by the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus poUicis manus, which are partly inserted into it, and have between them the anterior interosseous vessels; and m its lower fourth, by the pronator quadratus. Its posterior surface is in connexion with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis jnctacarpi poUicis, extensor primi internodii poUicis, extensor se- cundi internodii poUicis, and the extensor proprius indicis; it commonly presents two or three fibrous bands, which descend fromPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 208 the ulna towards the radius, and which consequently have an op- posite direction to that of the other fibres. Lastly, this ligament, which is notched above, as we have said, is perforated at its lower part by a very distinct oval aperture, for the passage of the ante- rior interosseous vessels and nerve. 670. Round Ligament, (Chorda transt^ersalis Cubiti). This liga- ment seems destined as a substitute for the preceding in the upper part of the interosseous interval. It is a. round fibrous cord of very small size, situated on a plane anterior to that of the interosseous ligament, following an opposite direction, and separating superiorly the flexor sublimis digitorum from the supinator brevis. It is at- tached above to the anterior and superior part of the ulna, beneath the insertion of the brachialis internus ; whence it descends paral- lel to the inner edge of the tendon of the biceps muscle, and after- wards attaches itself to the radius, immedi?tely beneath the bicipi- tal tuberosity. It leaves between it and the radius a very distinct triangular space, filled with cellular tissue. Sometimes it is com- posed of two fasciculi; one of which passes behind the tendon of the biceps, and is inserted into the outside of the bicipital tube- rosity. LOWER RADIO-CUBITAL ARTICULATION. 671. This articulation is formed by the reception of the head of the ulna into a concave surface which the radius presents at its lower and inner part, (453). The two surfaces are invested by a very thin and smooth cartilage, and are merely surrounded by some irregular fibres, which strengthen the synovial membrane anteriorly and posteriorly. The principal means of union observed here is a fibro-cartUage. 672. Triangular Fibro-cartilage, {Cartilago intermedia trian- gularis ulnam inter et radium). This fibro-cartilage, which is placed transversely between the lower extremity of the radius and ulna, is thin, narrow and yellowish; it is denser and more cartila- ginous at its circumference than at the centre, thinner and broader externally than internally, and formed of fibres more apparent be- low than above. Its upper surface, which is concave and smooth, is contiguous to the lower part of the head of the ulna ; the loio- er, which is also concave and smooth, is in connexion with the cuneiform bone. Its anterior and posterior edges are connect- ed with the fibres of the radio-carpal articulation. Its base is in- serted into the prominent edge, which separates the carpal cavity of the lower extremity of the radius, from that which receives the ulna ; sometimes it is only connected with it by means of the sy- novial membranes. Lastly, its summit is attached to the depres- sion, which separates the styloid process of the ulna from the arti- cular surface of that bone. 673. Synovial Membrane, {Membrana capsularis sacciformis). Its looseness is very remarkable anteriorly and posteriorly, whereAIITICULA.TIOMS OF THE SUPElllOll EXTIIEMITIES. 20!) it is covered by some oblique and irregular fibres. It passes from ths ulna to the radius, fdriuing between tlieiu a very loose cul-de- sac, and from the latter bone is reflected over the upper surface of tiic preceding libro-cartilage. The quantity of synovia which it contains is always very great. WIUST JOINT. 674. This articulation, which is formed by the junction of the hand and fore-arm, is an arthrodia. The inferior extremity of the radius enters peculiarly into the formation of this articulation, of which the ulna forms but a small part. This inferior extremity of the radius, separated into two surfaces, and the inferior surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage, constitute a transversely elliptical ca- vity, into v/hich is received a convex surface, inclined backwards, formed by the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones : the two first of these bones correspond to the radius, and the third to the fibro-cartilage, which separates it from the ulna. All the bony sur- faces of this articulation are covered by pretty thick diarthrodial cartilages, and a very distinct synovial membrane occurs in its in- terior. It is strengthened by four ligaments. 675. EMernal Lateral Ligament, (Ligamentum radiate articu- li radio-carpalis). It descends from the summit of the styloid process of the radius to the outer part of the scaphoid bone. Its fibres are divergent; the anterior, which are longer than the others, are continuous with the annular ligament of the carpus, and extend as far as the trapezium. It has a rather irregular form, but it is very strong. 676. Internal Lateral Ligament, {Ligamentum cubitale articur- li radio-carpalis). From the summit of the styloid process of the ulna, it passes obliquely inwards and forwards to the inner side of the cuneiform bone, where it is attached. It sends some of its most superficial fibres to the anterior annular ligament of the car- pus and to the pisiform bone. It is thicker and less broad than the preceding, 677. Anterior Ligament, {Ligamentum carpi palmare). It arises from the fore part of the lower extremity of the radius and of the styloid process of that bone, and descends inwards, to be at- tached to the fore part of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, but principally to the semUunar. Its fibres, which are scarce- ly apparent at the lower part, are united at the upper into narrow and parallel bands; they form a sort of membrane which presents small apertures for the passage of vessels, and is covered by the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers. 678. Posterior Ligament {Ligament7mi carpi dorsale). It is narrower and less strong than the anterior ligament, but its fibres are winter and more distinct. It arises from the posterior part of tile lower extremity of the radius, and descends obliquely inwards210 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. to be attached to the posterior part of the semilunar and cunei- form bones. It is covered by the tendons of the extensors of the fingers, and, Hke the anterior, is applied upon the synovial mem- brane. 679. Synovial Membrane. This membrane, which is at first extended over the convex surface presented by the bones of tlie carpus, as well as over the peculiar substance which connects them together, leaves these parts to proceed to the inner surface of the ligaments just described ; it is even seen at various points exposed between their fibres, and when the articulation is pressed, it pro- trudes under the form of small vesicles. It leaves the ligaments to be expanded over the articular part of the radius, over the inferior surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage. It always con- tains a considerable quantity of synovia. In this articulation, there are observed numerous cellular and vascular grains around the small head of the ulna; they receive their vessels from the interosseous vessels. Some of them, al- though less developed, also occur on the circumference of the car- tilage of the radius. AHTICULATIONS OF THE CARPAL BONES. AHTICULATIONS OF THE FIRST HOW OF CARPAL BONES. 680. We have already described the surfaces by means of which the bones of the carpus are joined to each other; all their articu- lations are arthrodial; the points by which they are in contact, are therefore covered with cartilage. We have only now to speak of their ligaments, which are similar for the three first bones of the first row, and for all those of the second. A nearly continuous fibrous layer also surrounds these bones, and insures the solidity of their articulations. C81. Interosseous Ligaments. They are two very narrow lay- ers of an apparently fibro-cartilaginous substance, dense and com- pact, which occur at the upper part of the interval left between the scaphoid and semilunar bones on the one hand, and between the latter and the cuneiform bone on the other. Their upper sur- face is smooth, and on a level with the convexity of the scaphoid and semilunar bones, and is covered by the synovial membrane of the wrist joint. The smallness of the intervals which they occupy, accounts for the extreme shortness of these ligaments. 682. Dorsal or Posterior Ligaments. These are two in num- ber, and are placed transversely behind the bones of the first row of the carpus, between the scaphoid and semilunar bones on the one hand, and on the other, between the latter bone and the cunei- form. They are in a great measure confounded with the neigh- bouring fibrous organs, and are continued into each other by some of their fibres. Of these the superficial are longest.ARTICULATIONS OF THK SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 211 6'83. Pnlmar or Anterior Ligaments. These ligaments, wliicli are not so strong as the dorsal, arc placed deeply under the ante- rior radio-carpal ligament, and directing themselves transversely, are attached on the one hand to the scaphoid and semilunar bones, and on the other to the latter bone and the cuneiform. In passing from one of these bones to the other, they contract adhesions to the interosseous ligaments. 68-l<. The pisiform bone is articulated to the cuneiform in a dif- ferent manner. The rounded surface by which it corresponds to the cuneiform bone is covered with cartilage, and gives attachment, by its circumference, to a small isolated and rather loose synovial membrane, strengthened by some irregular bundles of fibres. AIITICULATIONS OF THE HONES OF THE SECOND ROW OF THE CAIIPUS. 685. Dorsal and Palmar Ligaments. They present the same disposition as those of the first row; but there are three of each kind which extend transversely, from the trapezium to the trape- zoides, from the latter to the os magnum, and from the os magnum to the OS unciforme. The dorsal ligaments are more distinct than the palmar. 686. Interosseous Ligaments. Of these there are only two, one between the trapezoides and os magnum, and one between the OS magnum and os unciforme. The first is less marked than the second, which occupies a space situated before the articular sur- faces. Both are irregular fasciculi, intermingled with adipose tissue. ARTICULATION OF THE TWO UOWS OF THE CARPAL BONES WITH EACH OTHEU. 687. This articulation is composed of two arthrodire, and an en- arthrosis; the contiguity of the scaphoid bone to the trapezium and trapezoides on the one hand, and on the other, that of the cuneiform to the unciform bone, constitute the two arthrodiae. The enarthrosis is formed by the reception of the head of the os magnum into a cavity, formed by the scaphoid and semilunar bones. The surfaces by which these bones are in contact, are covered by thin cartilages, and are kept together by ligaments. 688. External and Internal Lateral Ligaments. They are very short, and appear to be continuous with the lateral ligaments of the radio-carpal articulation. The first, which is the strongest and most apparent, arises from the outer part of the scaphoid bone, and terminates at that of the trapezium. The second descends from the cuneiform bone to the os unciforme. 689. Anterior Ligament. This ligament, which is formed ofPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 212 short and close fibres, is much more visible on the inside of the ar- ticulation than externally. It consists of several oblique and pa- rallel fasciculi, which, arising from the three first bones of the first row of the carpus, cUrect themselves inwards and backwards, to ter- minate on those of the other row. 690. Posterior Ligament. This ligament varies much as to size and direction. Like the anterior, it is formed of several fibrous fasciculi, which arise from the posterior part of the bones of the first row to terminate on those of the second. This and the preceding have the same relations as the ligaments of the radio-carpal articu- lation, with which they seem to form a fibrous membrane envelop- ing the whole carpus. 6'91. Synovial Membrane. It covers the surface by means of which the two rows of the carpus are in contact, and moreover fur- nishes two prolongations which proceed upwards between the three first bones of the first carpal row to the interosseous ligaments; it also sends oH' three inferiorly, which descend between the four bones of the second carpal row, to invest the surfaces of the articulation of the carpus with the metacarpvis, and of the superior metacarpal articulations, terminating between the latter in some culs-de-sac. It occasionally leaves the articular surfaces: thus it entirely covers the neck of the os magnum behind; it also lines the inner surface of the ligaments of all the articulations, between which it establishes a communication. In certain parts of its passage, this membrane presents small adipose grains and prominent red dots, analogous to the synovial fringes. If we except the pisiform bone, a single sy- novial membrane therefore is common to all the surfaces by wliich the bones of the carpus are articulated together. 692. LigamentH of the Pisiform Bone. They are two in num- ber, and are very strong and distinct. They arise from the lower part of the pisiform bone, and are situated in a plane much anterior to that of the other ligaments of the carpus. One is external, and goes to the process of the unciform hone; the other, which is in- ternal, separates from the preceding, and terminates at the upper part of the fifth metacarpal bone. They complete the channel in which the tendons of the flexors of the fingers pass, and are in part incorporated with the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and abduc- tor minimi digiti, which, conjointly with them, keep the pisiform bone in its place. ARTICULATIONS OF THE CARPAL WITH THE METACARPAL BONES. ARTICULATION OF THE FIRST METACARPAL BONE WITH THE TRA- PEZIUM. 693. This articulation is an arthrodia. We have already de- scribed its surfaces (465—470), which are covered with a cartila-ARTICULATIONS OF THE TUOUACIC EXTUEMITIES. 213 o-inous substance, and a rather loose synovial membrane, which passes from the one to the other. 694. Capsular Ligament. This is the only ligament which the articulation presents. It is formed of longitudinal libres, more dis- tinct externally and behind than in the other directions, and passes from the circumference of the upper extremity of the metacarpal bone to that of the articular surface of the trapezium. They leave separations between them, through which the synovial capsule, which lines their inner surface, is perceived. This articulation is also much strengthened by the muscles of the thumb. ABTICDLATIOXS OF THE FOUK LAST METACAIIPAL BONES WITH THE CARPUS. 695. We have already described the surfaces which constitute these articulations, and the synovial membrane which invests their cartilages, (691). They only present two kinds of ligaments, an- terior and posterior., 696. Dorsal or Posterior Ligaments. They descend from the posterior surface of the bones of the second carpal row to the four last metacarpal bones. The trapezium and trapezoides send each one to the second of these bones ; the os magnum furnishes one to the third; the fourth has two, of which, one comes from the os magnum, the other from the os unciforme; the latter bone gives rise to the single ligament which belongs to the fifth metacarpal bone. All these small fasciculi are very short, flat, quadrilateral, thin and very compact. They leave between them spaces through which blood-vessels pass. 697- Palmar or Anterior Ligaments. They are much less dis- tinct than the posterior, but in other respects present exactly the same arrangement. The third metacarpal bone is the only one that exhibits any difference ; it is connected with the trapezium by two superficial hgaments, situated above the sheath of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and by a deep ligament situated beneath that sheath ; it is also connected with the unciform bone by a par- ticular fasciculus. 1 AIITICUI-ATION OF THE METACARPAL BONES WITH EACH OTHER. 698. The first metacarpal bone is isolated. The others touch each other at their upper part by small surfaces covered with cartilage, and already described, as well as the synovial cap- W\ 1 ^' ^^^^^ invests them. The surfaces by which the third and fourth metacarpal bones are united, are the only ones tor which there exists a small synovial bag. Dorsal and Palmar214 PASSIVE ORGANS OV LOCOMOTION. Ligaments, to tlic number of three on each side,* having a trans- verse direction, not very distinct from each other, especially before, strengthen the articulations of the four last metacarpal bones, which have also between them at their upper part, short and dense inter- osseous ligaments, placed immediately under the culs-de-sac of the synovial membrane. 699- Transverse and Inferior metacarpal Ligament. This is a fibrous band, about two lines broad, stretched transversely before the lower extremities of the last four metacarpal bones, which are not in direct contact with each other. Its anterior surface is marked with four depressions, which correspond to the passage of the tendons of the flexors of the fingers, and whose sides are con- tinuous with the sheaths of these tendons; it is moi-eover covered by the lumbricales muscles, and by the vessels and nerves of the fingers. Its posterior surface is intimately connected with the li- gaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, and corresponds to the tendons of the interosseous muscles. The fibres of this li- gament are transverse ; the superficial, which are longer, embrace the heads of the four metacarpal bones ; the deeper, which arc shorter, only go from one bone to the other. ARTICULATION OF THE METACARPAL BONES WITH THE PHA- LANGES. 700. These articulations are .formed by the reception of the heads of the metacarpal bones into a concave arvJ superficial sur- face, presented by the superior extremities of the first phalanges of the five fingers. The surfaces are all covered with cartilage, but those of the phalanges are much less extensive than those of the metacarpal bones. An anterior ligament, and two lateral hga- ments, serve to strengthen each of these articulations, which are invested with a synovial membrane. 701. Anterior Ligament. This ligament is a kind of fibrous half ring, embracing the anterior part of each articulation. On each side, it is attached to the metacarpal bone, before the lateral liga- ments ; and anteriorly, it partly confounds its fibres with those of the transverse and inferior metacarpal ligament, and with those of the sheath of the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers. From this disposition there are formed two curved planes, meeting each other by their convexity, one of which corresponds to the tendon, and the other to the articulation. It is in the substance of this li- gament that, in the thumb, the two small sesamoid bones, between which passes the tendon of the flexor longus proprius pollicis, are developed. 702. Lateral Ligaments. They arise from the lateral parts of , • On admet qu'il n'y a point de ces ligamens entre le pouce et )e doigt indica- teur; mais c'est a tort, comine je m'en suis convaincu, par dcs redicrches exactcs. Meckel, Man. d'Anatomie tnidiiit par Jourdun et Brescliet. torn. ii. p. 40.ARTICULATIONS OF THE THORACIC EXTREMITIES. 215 .the head of each metacarpal bone, behind the preceding, in a smali special depression, and descend obliquely forward, to be at- tached to the two sides of the upper extremity of the phalanx. They are thick, broader above than below, rounded, and composed •of longitudinal, parallel and very numerous fibres. Externally the collateral vessels and nerves of the fingers run along them, and in- ternally they are covered by the synovial membrane. 703. Synovial Membrane. Proceeding from a small space at . the fore part of the cartilaginous surface of the metacarpal bones, it directs itself behind the anterior ligament, and on the inside of the lateral liagments, whence it gains the articular surface of the plialanx; after this it forms a very loose bag, free in a great part of its extent beneath the tendon of the extensor muscle, and lastly co- vers the head of the metacarpal bone. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PHALANGES. 704. The articulations of the phalanges with each other are per- fect angular ginglymi, and are all very much alike in respect to their articular surfaces and ligaments. The thumb has only one, while each of the other fingers has two. The condyles of the lower extremity of the first and second phalanges are incrusted with cartilage, as well as the corresponding cavities of the upper extre- mity of the second and third. Each of these articulations has an anterior ligament, two lateral ligaments, and a synovial capsule. The anterior ligameM, which is of the same form as that of the preceding articulation, is attached to the two sides of the extremity of the phalanx above, and receives anteriorly a great number of dense and glistening fibres, which proceed from the sheath of the flexor tendons ; it is less marked in the first, than in the last pha- langeal articulation. The lateral ligaments are precisely similar to those of the articulation of the metacarpus and first phalanx. Lastly, the synovial membrane also resembles that of the above mentioned articulation ; it is intimately connected posteriorly with the tendon of the extensor digitorum in the Last articulation. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE INFERIOR EXTRE- MITIES. HIP JOINT. 795. This articulation is an enarthrosis, resulting from the re- ception of the head of the femur, (494) into the cotyloid cavity of the OS innominatum (391). The two surfaces are covered by a very distinct diarthrodial cartilage; that of the head of the femur • IS much thinner at its circumference than in the middle, where it IS interrupted by a depression which gives attachment to the round ligament. The cartilage of the cotyloid cavity which pre- -scnts the reverse arrangement as to thickness, is deficient at its216 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. bottom, where one of the so called synovial glands is situated. This articulation is furnished with a synovial membrane, a cap- sular ligament, an inter-articular ligament, and a cotyloid liga- ment. 706. Capsular Ligament. {Memhrana capsularis femoris). This is the strongest, thickest, and largest of the capsular liga- ments. It embraces the whole articulation, and extends downwards and outwards, from the margin of the cotyloid cavity to the base of the neck of the femur. It is not so loose as the capsular hga- ment of the humerus, to which it has in many respects a great re- semblance ; nor is it perforated by a tendon. Its thickness is very considerable, especially at the fore and upper part, where it is strengthened by a fibrous band which descends from the anterior and inferior spine of the os innominatum, incorpoi-ates with the cap- sule, and terminates at the anterior line of the base of the neck of the femur, becoming much broadened. The inner and posterior parts of this ligament are the thinnest. Internally, these fibres are often sufficiently separated from each other to allow the synovial membrane to be seen between them, although in this direction they are strengthened by some detached fibres from above the obturator hole. Near its attachment to the neck of the bone, the capsule is perforated, especially at its fore part, with a great number of apertures which allow vessels to pe- netrate. 707. The Outer Surface of the capsular ligament of the hip joint is covered anteriorly by the rectus femoris, psoas and iliacus muscles ; a bursa mucosa separates it from the united tendons of the two latter muscles ; internally, the obturator externus and pec- tineus, lie over it; posteriorly, it rests upon the quadratus femo- ris, gemelli, pyriformis and obturator internus; and above, is sub- jacent to the gluta3us minimus, which adheres pretty closely to it. Its Inner Surface is entirely invested by the synovial membrane. Its Upper Circumference is attached to the margin of the coty- loid cavity, within two or three lines of the cotyloid hgament, to which it is attached opposite the inferior notch. It is also con- nected by a particular fasciculus to the anterior and inferior spi- npus process of the ilium, and by some fibres to the edge of the ckurator foramen, as we have already said. It ascends per- ceptibly higher at the outside than internally, and is strengthened in a great part of its extent, above and behind, by the termination of the curved tendon of the rectus femoris, which even passes to its inner surface. The Inferior Circumference is closely fixed around the base of the neck of the femur; it descends lower at the outside than internally, where it sometimes does not pass beyond the middle of the neck of the bone, and is limited anteriorly and posteriorly by the two oblique lines of the neck ; by the small tro- chanter below, and the greater above. 708. Round Ligoment of the Head of the Femur, or Inter-ar- ticular Li(jame?it, \Ligumcnlum teres capitis femoris sen ligamcn-ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFEUIOll EXTIIEMITIES. 217 twn inter-articulare). This is a flat, triangular fasciculus of fibres, extended from the extremities of the inferior notch of the cotyloid cavity to the rough depression on the head of the femur; it is enveloped by a very loose sheath of the synovial membrane. Its inner sxirface^ which is slightly directed upwards, is contigu- ous to the cellular mass which occupies the bottom of the cotyloid cavity. The outer surface, which looks a little downwards, is ap- plied against the head of the femur. Its base is bifurcated, that is to say, it is formed of two flattened bands, of which the upper and smaller comes from the corresponding extremity of the cotyloid notch, internally of the ligament of the same name, while the infe- rior, which is larger, comes from that of the opposite side. These two bands are united by a fibrous membrane, and are confounded together towards the head of the femur. This ligament, which was first described by Vesalius, is some- times wantmg. 709. Cotyloid Ligament, (acetabuli labrum cartilagineum). The circumference of the cotyloid cavity, which is of itself very prominent, is further eked out by means of the fibro-cartilaginous rim which surmounts it, and which renders it perfectly regular, by closing up the three notches observed in it. It resembles the gle- noid ligament of the shoulder joint, but is stronger and larger. It is applied upon the bone by a base about three lines broad, and is terminated, in the other direction, by a free and sharp edge, in- chned a little inwards, and embracing the circumference of the head of the femur. This ligament is broader opposite the notches of the cavity than in their intervals, and is not continuous with the diarthrochal cartilage, there existing a very distinct circular groove between them. Its two surfaces are lined by the synovial mem- brane ; but the outer is contiguous to the capsular ligament, and the inner to the head of the femur. At the notch of the cavity it passes from one of its extremities to the other, and thus trans- forms it into a true hole. It is composed of fibres, which arise externally from the circum- ference of the cotyloid cavity, incline a little towards its interior, and terminate on the inside of this same circumference, at a greater or less distance from it. These fibres are very close and compact, and are joined externally by some of the fibres of the curved ten- don of the rectus femoris. /lO. The cotyloid ligament is not the only fibrous organ which contributes to convert the cotyloid notch into a hole, it beino- as- sisted in this by two bundles of fibres which are attached beneath It, to the two sides of that notch, forming two planes which cross each other. The deeper of these planes {tigamentutn labri cartir- laymei trunsvcrsum internum), comes from the upper side, and IS partly attached to the lower, where it is confounded with the co- tyloid ligament; the otiier {/igamentum labri cnrtilmjinei iram- versum ewfernim) which is superficial, ascends towards the up-218 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. per part of the notch, is incorporated with the same ligament, and also with the obturator ligament. 711. Synovial Membrane. From being at first expanded over the cartilage of the head of the femur, it is continued over a part of the neck of that bone, where it invests a sort of dense, thick membrane with longitudinal and separated fi^bres, which constitutes the periosteum of the neck. At the base of this neck, it is reflect- ed over the capsular ligament, which it lines in its whole extent. Arrived at the circumference of the cotyloid cavity, it passes over the two surfaces of its fibro-cartilaginous rim, enters into its inte- rior, covers the reddish cellular tissue which occupies its bottom, adheres strongly to it, and lastly, is reflected along the round liga- ment to the cartilage of the head of the femvir. 712. Beneath this synovial membrane, in the back part of the bottom of the cotyloid cavity, is a flattened mass of reddish cellu- lar tissue, mingled with a soft and unctuous substance, forming the largest of the organs that have been described under the name of Synovial glands. It receives a great number of arterial ramifica- tions, which arise from a small branch of the obturator artery which enters the cavity by its inferior notch; some of these ramifica- tions lose themselves on the membranous sheath of the inter-ar- ticular ligament. There issue from it a great number of venous ramifications, which also make their escape through the notch of the cavity, forming a trunk which enters the obturator vein. These vessels are accompanied by a nervous filament of the same name, and are surrounded by a layer of more or less adipose cellular tis- sue, losing itself on the edge of the mass itself, which is surmount- ed by very large fringes. 713. The whole circumference of the head of the femur, is more- over surrounded with numerous small grains, of the same nature as those which we have already pointed out in several of the articula- tions. There is one very large grain of this kind, which raises the synovial membrane close to the insertion of the inter-articular li- gament, at the centre of the head of the femur. 714. The capsular hgament is traversed by a great number of blood-vessels ; many nervovis filaments also creep on its surface. The latter arise from the obturator nerve by a branch which sepa- rates from it as it passes through the obturator hole, and which divides into five or six twigs at the upper and inner part of the jcapsule. Another branch, arising from the same trunk, directs it- self more downwards following the same direction; it separates upon the capsiUe into eight or ten filaments, some of which pass through the notch to be distributed to its inner surface, while the other proceeds nearly as far as the small trochanter. KNEE JOINT. 715. This articulation is the most complex in the body. It is an angular ginglymus, into the formation of which there enter, theARTICULATIONS OF THE INFEUIOR EXrUKMITIIiS, 219 COIK .v^.-vlylcs of the femur, the upper extremity of the tibia, and the posterior surface of the patella. The condyles of the femur, toge- ther with the pulley which exists between them, are invested by a pretty thick cartilage, which is especially so at the middle part of the condyles; this cartilage does not cover the sides of the con- dyles, and ascends much higher before than behind. Another less thick'car tilao-e is extended over the posterior surface of the patella. Lastly there is a layer of the same substance on each of the cavi- ties on the upper extremity of the tibia, and this is also thicker at the centre than at the circumference. The ligaments of this articulation belong peculiarly to the patel- la, or are common to the femur and tibia, and surround a syno- vial membrane of great extent. 716. Ligament of the Patella (Ligamentum patellce). This ligament is in reality nothing but the continuation of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, in the substance of which the patella seems to be developed in the same manner as the sesa- moid bones (503) ; nor is it admitted as a distinct ligament by most authors. It forms a flat bundle, narrower at the middle than at its extremities, more developed above than below, extended from the inferior angle of the patella, and the depression at the lower part of its posterior surface, to the anterior tuberosity of the ti- bia (508). Its anterior surface is covered by the skin, and a pro- longation of the fascia lata. The posterior surface is applied at its upper part, upon an adipose mass of remarkable size, which it- self rests upon the synovial capsule, and at its lower part is sepa- rated from the tibia by a small bursa mucosa, which is extremely loose, and rather plentifully supplied with synovia. The edges of the ligament of the patella are continuous with the aponeuroses, which the triceps extensor muscle transmits to the tibia. Its fibres are very different from those of the other ligaments. They are parallel, close, and glistening; the superficial fibres are continuous at the fore part of the patella, with those of the tendon of the rectus muscle; the posterior manifestly form a continuation of those of the bone itself. 717- Long External Lateral Ligament {Ligamentum laterale externum longum genu). It is situated nearer the posterior part of the articulation than the anterior; it is a strong, rounded, fibrous cord, which descends vertically from the tuberosity of the external condyle of the femur, to the outer part of the head of the fibula. It is covered in the greater part of its extent by the ten- don of the biceps flexor cruris ; internally, it is applied upon the tendon of the poplititus, the corresponding semilunar fibro-carti- lage, to which it intimately adheres, and the synovial membrane. The external inferior articular vessels pass beneath it. Another ligamentous bundle, {Ligamentum laterale externum Oreye), appears accessory to this. It passes, behind, and parallel to It, from the lower part of the external condyle of the femur to the summit of the upper extremity of the fibula.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 718. Internal Lateral Ligament {Ligamentum later ale inter~ num). It is also situated a little behind the articulation, and de- scends from the tuberosity of tlie internal condyle of the femur to tlie upper part^ of the inner edge and surface of the tibia. It is flat and membranous, thicker anteriorly than posteriorly, much broader below than above. It is covered at its upper part by the aponeurosis of the thigh, and below by an aponeurotic expansion, arising from the tendons of the sartorius, semitendinosus, and gra- cilis. It is applied over the synovial membrane; the internal fibro- cartilage, which gives insertion posteriorly to a considerable bundle of its fibres ; and the tibia. 719. Posterior Ligament {Ligamentum posticum Winsloii.) Some anatomists consider this ligament as a division of the apo- neurosis of the semimembranosus muscle. It appears, however, rather to form a distinct ligament, which is deeply seated at the back part of the articulation, and directed obliquely from the in- ternal tuberosity of the tibia to the outer condyle of the femur. Its fibres are irregular, and present frequent separations for the passage of vessels. It is covered by an aponeurotic plane, which really comes from the semimembranosus, and is applied upon the crucial ligaments, from which it is separated by a great quantity of fat, and by the middle articular vessels. 720. Anterior Crucial Ligament (Ligamentit7?i cruciatum anti- cum). It is attached to the inner and back part of the external condyle of the femur, whence it proceeds obliquely towards the un- even depression, which is situated on the fore part of the spine of the tibia. It contracts as it descends ; its fibres are slightly twist- ed upon themselves; and when it has arrived at the tibia, it is con- tinued into the anterior extremity of the internal semilunar fibro- cartilage. Anteriorly, it is invested by the synovial membrane, and posteriorly, is applied by means of cellular tissue upon the fol- lowing ligament. 721. Posterior Crucial Ligament {Ligamentum cruciatum pos- ticum). It arises from the outer and fore part of the inner condyle of the femur, crosses the direction of the anterior crucial ligament, proceeding obliquely outwards and backwards, to the posterior part of the spine of the tibia. It increases much in size as it descends, and its inferior extremity seems divided into two fasciculi, of which one is attached to the tibia, while the other is continued into the posterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage. Pos- teriorly, it is covered by the posterior ligament, and by a great quantity of cellular tissue. Anteriorly, it is apphed against the anterior crucial ligament. The two crucial ligaments {Ligamenta crjiciata genu) are not contained within the articulation, as might at first sight be sup- posed. They are of considerable strength, are composed of dense fibres, and follow such a direction as to cross each other, the one passing before the other, like the two legs of the letter X. 722. Semilunar or Iiiter-artivular Fibro-cnrtihges {Cartila- gines Imiatoi sivc intcr-arlicularcs gcnv). These are two crcs-ARTICULATIONS OF TIIK INFERIOR EXTRIiailTIES. 221 cent-shaped fibro-cartilaginous laminfp, tliick at their convex side, and thin at the other, wliich are situated between the condyles of the femur, and the articular cavities of the upper extremity of the tibia, of which they only occupy about the two external thirds, so that the middle of the upper extremity of that bone is free. One of them is internal; it is nearly semicircular, a little elongated from behind forwards however, and broader posteriorly than ante- riorly. Its convex margin, which is directed inwards, is partly united to the internal lateral ligament. The anterior extremity is attached to the fore part of the spine of the tibia, and is continuous with the anterior crucial ligament. The posterior extremity is at- tached behind the same eminence. The other fibro-cartilage is external; it forms nearly an entire circle ; it is broader before than behind. Its convex margin-^ which is directed outwards, is contiguous posteriorly to the tendon of the popliteus muscle, and more anteriorly, affords points of at- tachment to the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral liga- ment. Its anterior extremity is attached to the rough depression, which exists at the fore part of the spine of the tibia; but this in- sertion takes place much farther back than in the preceding carti- lage. Its posterior extremity is attached behind the spine of the tibia, before the insertion of the other cartilage, posteriorly to that of the posterior crucial ligament, with one of the two fasciculi of ■which it is continuous. These fibro-cartilages are composed of concentric fibres, longer externally than in the interior, less compact towards the extremi- ties than at the middle. They are connected anteriorly to each other by means of a small ligamentous fasciculus {ligamentum trans- versum), sometimes wanting, about a line broad, and surrounded by^ soft and yellowish adipose substance. Their upper surface is con- cave, the lower nearly plain. Both sire very smooth, and covered by the synovial membrane. Their concave edge is thin, sharp, and free, and their middle part is hollowed. 723. Synovial Membrane (Membrana synovialis articuli genu). This membrane has a very complicated course ; we shall commence its description at the posterior part of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, a place where it forms a very loose and distinct ,cul-de-sac, particularly apparent when that tendon is reversed from above downwards. It descends from this place over the posterior surface of the patella, on the sides and lower part of which it is in contact with much adipose cellular tissue. It then separates from the ligament of the patella, rests upon a great quantity of fat, and gives rise to a prolongation in the form of a canal, which traverses the articulation, and passes to the space between the two condyles of the femur.* The synovial membrane is now reflected on the fillr/°T "T"}^ "^^P ''"^ surface of this prolongation, and as it is commonly nncu witii a little lat, sojnc anatomists liave given it tlie name q( AdipoK Lifrcmcnt I'md 7 't '^"""ot I'y a'ly means be considered us belonging toPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 222 upper surface of the semilunar cartilages, from whence it passes over the concave edge to the lower surface, from which it is conti- nued upon the articular surfaces of the tibia : posteriorly, it sur- rounds the crucial ligaments and the fat behind them, forming a sort of sheath for them, and thus preventing their being contained within the joint. Lastly, it arrives at the condyles of the femur by several points at once, that is to say, by the adipose canal and the sheath of the crucial ligaments. It covers the whole inferior surface of these condyles, and adheres less to them the nearer it is to their tuberosities, where it invests a bony surface destitute of cartilage. Altogether posteriorly, it is reflected on the fore part of the tendons of the gastrocnemius, and surrounds that of the pop- liteus. 724. It is at the place, where the synovial membrane meets the edge of the cartilages covering the articular surfaces of the fe- mur and tibia, that the small globular masses of reddish cellular tissue occur, which are generally found in the neighbourhood of the joints. There are some also in the cavities situated before and behind the spine of the tibia, as well as on the external circumfe- rence of the semilunar fibro-cartilages; but the largest mass*, is that which is observed beneath the patella and its ligament. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TIBIA WITK THE FIBULA. 725. Like the two bones of the fore-arm, those of the leg are connected directly by their two extremities, and by their middle part tlu'ough the intervention of a fibrous membrane. There is this difference, however, between these two parts, that the articu- lations of the one permit very free motions, while the disposition of those of the other renders motion impossible, or at least very ob- scure. UPPER ARTICULATION OF THE TIBIA WITH THE FIBULA. 726. This articulation is an arthrodia, resulting from the con- tact of two circular flat surfaces, belonging, the one to the tibia, the other to the fibula, and covered with a layer of cartilage. They are lined by a synovial capsule, and are kept in place by two liga- ments. 727. Anterior Ligament. It descends obhquely outwards, from the fore part of the external tuberosity of the tibia, to the fore part of the head of the fibula ; it is flat and rather broad. Its fibres are separated by cellular tissue into several distinct fascicuU, which • Heyligei s (Diss. Physiol. Annt. de Fab. Int. Art. Ifi03. p. 57) says that in this mass lie traced an excretory duct, ramified by its roots like that of the pancreas, and opening by several apertures upon the sides of the fibro-cartilages and the pa- tella.ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 223 are parallel, and longer above than below. This ligament is strength- ened, and covered in a great part by the tendon of the biceps flexor cruris. r i 728. Posterior Ligament. This is less marked, and much weaker than the anterior, and is composed of closer fibres; it presents tlie same arrangement behind the articulation, as the other ligament does at its fore part. It is covered by the popliteus, and some- times the synovial membrane of the knee joint extends to it. 729. Synovial Membrane. It lines the two airticular surfaces, the two ligaments, and some irregular fibres which are intermediate between the latter. Anteriorly and above, it is covered by the tendon of the biceps, and posteriorly and above, it is contiguous with the synovial membrane of the knee joint. MIDDLE ARTICULATION OF THE TIBIA AND FIBULA- 730. Interosseous Ligament (Ligamenttim interosseum, sen memhruna interossea). The interval between the tibia and fibula is filled up by this ligament, which, like that of the fore-arm (669), has the form of a thin aponeurotic membrane, broader above than below, composed of oblique fibres, which pass from the outer edge of the tibia to a ridge, which runs along the inner surface of the fibula, and terminate below at the inner edge of that bone. Its anterior surface is covered by the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis, and peroneus tertius, and by the anterior tibial vessels; the muscles are attached to it by their fleshy fibres. Its posterior corresponds to the tibialis pos- ticus and flexor longus proprius pollicis, which are also in part at- tached to it. At the upper and outer part, this membrane pre- I sents a pretty large aperture for the passage of the anterior tibial vessels; at the lower part, it is continuous with the interosseous li- : gament of the inferior articulation, and presents a hole, which gives ; passage to a branch of the peroneal artery. There also occur in various points of its surface, and especially internally, a consider- : able number of holes for vascular ramifications. INFEKIOU AUTICULATION OF THE TIBIA WITH THE FIBULA. 731- This articulation is continuous with that of the ankle, from 1 which it borrows part of its synovial membrane, and is formed by 1 r. means of a convex surface of the fibvda, which is fitted to a con- { cave surface of the tibia. Both are invested with a thin cartilage, J ! but at their lower part only ; it is indeed only for an extent of two b ' or three lines that they are contiguous, and their cartilage is mere- ly a prolongation of that of the ankle joint. Four ligaments occur J' here. jj 732. Anterioi' Ligament {Ligamentum tihio-Jthulare ontiawi).PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. It is triangular, broader below than above, directed obliquely from ■without inwards, and a little from below upwards, and divided into several fasciculi by cellular tissue. Its base is attached to the fore part of the lower extremity of the fibula, and is partly confounded with the ligaments of the next articulation ; its siimmit is inserted into the fore part of the neighbouring portion of the tibia. Its aoi- terior surface is covered by the peroneus tertius, the aponeurosis of the leg, and the skin; the posterior covers at its upper part the inferior interosseous ligament, and is in contact below with the car- tilage of the astragalus. 733. Posterior Ligament {Ligamentum tthio-Jihulareposticum). This resembles the preceding, but is a little smaller; its structure is the same. It is attached on the one hand, behind the tarsal ex- tremity of the fibula, and on the other, to the neighbouring part of the tibia. The lateral peronei muscles cover it, and it lies upon the inferior interosseous ligament, and the astragalus. 734. Posterior and Inferior Ligament (Ligamentum tihio-fibu- lare postimm inferius). Continuous with the preceding, this liga- ment is inserted behind the malleolus cxternus, and directs itself transversely to that of the tibia, passing to the posterior part of its articular surface, and forming a very distinct fibrous fasciculus. It forms part of the cavity, which receives the articular pulley of the astragalus in the ankle joint. 735. Inferior Interosseous Ligament {Ligamentum interosseum inferius). It fills up the interval, left by the osseous surfaces of the articulation above their cartilages. It is a dense tissue, inter- mingled with some adipose flakes ; its fibres are very short, and adhere strongly to the bones; it seems to be continuous above with the superior interosseous ligament (730) ; it can only be well seen on separating the two bones by force, beginning from above. ANKLE JOINT, oil AUTICULATION OF THE TIBIA AND FIBULA WITH THE TARSUS 736. This articulation is a perfect angular ginglyraus ; the fibu la and tibia form together a cavity which receives the astragalus and whose depth is increased by the two malleoli, as well as the different ligaments of the preceding articulation. The tibia and fibula have each their articular cartilage, which is prolonged over their malleolus, and the surface by which they touch each other The articular pulley of the upper surface of the astragalus, and ii lateral articular surfaces, are also invested by cartilage. A synovia membrane is extended over all the parts of this articulation; t which belong, two lateral ligaments, two anterior, and a posterior 737. Internal Lateral Ligament {Ligamentum deltoides). Thi is a broad quadrilateral band, composed of numerous longitudin fibres, longer before than behind, which descend obliquely backARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 225 wards from the summit of the malleolus intcrnus and its depression, to the inner part of the astragalus and calcancum, sending also some fibres to the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the fiexor longus dif^itorum pedis. Its inner stirface is covered by the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; the outer is invested by the synovial mem- brane. 738. External Lateral Ligament (Liffarnentum malleoli ecvter- ni medium perpendiculare). This ligament is round, narrow, very strong, and of great length ; it arises from the summit of the malleolus externus, descends vertically to be inserted into the up- per and middle part of the outer surface of the calcaneum. It is covered by the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, and covers part of the synovial membrane. 739. Anterior Peroneo-tarsal Ligament (Ligamentum malleoli externi anteriiis). Attached to the fore part, and near the sum- mit, of the malleolus externus, smaller than the preceding, some- times divided into two fasciculi, but always regular and quadrila- teral, with close and very strong fibres, this ligament passes ob- liquely forwards to be inserted into the anterior edge of the exter- nal articular surface of the astragalus. 740. Posterior Peroneo-tarsal Ligament (L^igamentum mal- leoli externi posterius). It passes obliquely downwards and in- wards from the depression which exists behind the external mal- leolus, to the posterior part of the astragalus, towards the outer edge of the groove of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis pedis. Its fibres are numerous, and are divided into distinct fasciculi. 741. Tibio-tarsal Ligament, {Ligamentum anterius internum). This is an assemblage of some irregular fibres, which do not form a distinct fascicukis, immersed in adipose cellular tissue, and co- vered by the tendons of the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius pol- licis, and extensor communis digitorum. They descend obliquely from within outwards, from the anterior part of the tarsal extremi- ty of the tibia, to the fore part of the articular pulley of the astra- galus. 742. Synovial Membrane. Of all the membranes of this de- scription, this always contains the greatest quantity of synovia. It extends over the cartilaginous surfaces of the fibula and tibia, and ascends between these two bones into their inferior articula- tion (731)- It is prolonged on the interior of the two malleoli, lines the ligament which we have described, and is reflected up- on the lateral articular surfaces, and over the cartilaginous pul- ley of the astragalus. It is very loose anteriorly and posterior- ly, where it is in contact with a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. AUTICULATION OF THE AST]lAOALUS WITH THE CAI-CANKUM. 743. The inferior surface of the astragalus is articulated byPASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. arthrodia in two places, with the superior surface of the calcancuin. We have ahready described these surfaces; the posterior are much larger than the anterior, which constitute an articulation common to them with that of the scaphoid bone and astragalus. All these surfaces are invested with cartilage. Three ligaments and a syno- vial membrane are observed here. 744. Interosseous Ligament, [Ligamentum astragalo-calcaneum interosseuni). This ligament, which is narrow and flattened in- ternally, and thick externally, is composed of a great quantity of fibres, the external of which are longer than the internal; these fibres are concealed in a mass of adipose tissue, although they are very dense and close. It is attached below to the calcancum, in an uneven and oblique depression, which separates its two arti- cular surfaces, and ascends from thence to a similar groove, which the astragalus presents at its lower surface. 745. Posterior Ligament, (Ligamentum astragalo-calcaneum posterius). It is confounded in a great measure with the sheath of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis pedis, which covers it, from which it is however distinct. It is formed of a few parallel fibres, which direct themselves obliquely inwards from the posterior part of the astragalus, to be attached to the neighbouring part of the calcaneum. 746. External Ligament. This is a round fasciculus, with dense fibres, which descends parallel to the external lateral liga- ment of the articulation of the fibula with the tarsus, from the base of the external articular surface of the astragalus, to the outer sur- face of the calcaneum. It is not described by authors. The lateral ligaments of the articulation of the tibia with the tarsus also strengthen the union of the astragalus and calcaneum. 7'^7- Synovial Membrane. Very loose and separated poste- riorly from the tendo Achillis by a great quantity of fat, it invests the posterior cartilaginous surfaces of the two bones, and is more- over, prolonged a little backwards over a portion of the calcaneum, which does not belong to the articulation. In certain cases, the anterior articular surfaces of the calcaneum and astragalus are divided into two orders, and then the posterior are furnished with a particular synovial membrane, and the ante- rior are the only ones, that are continuous with the articulation of the scaphoid bone and astragalus. ARTICULATION OF THE CALCANEUiM WITH THE SCAPHOID BONE. 748. In this articulation, there is no connexion of surfaces be- tween the two bones; they are merely kept together by two very strong ligaments. 749. Inferior Ligament bcttveen the Calcaneum and Scaphoid Bone, {Ligamentum calcaneo-scaphoideum inferius). It ])resents itself under the form of a flat, very thick, almost Hbro-cartilaginousARTICULATIONS OF THE INFEIlIOIl KXTREMITIliS. 2'27 fasciculus, formed of dense, compact, whitish fibres, directed ob- liquely iiiAvards and forwards, from the anterior part of the small tuberosity of the calcaneum, to the inferior surface of the scaphoid bone. It is frequently divided into two fasciculi, the one external and thin, {■Liyamentum planum, Weit.), the other internal and very strong, {Liyamentum teres, Weit.) Inferiorly, it is situated over the tendon of the tibiahs posticus, and above, forms a cavity with the calcaneum and scaphoid bone for receiving the head of the astragalus. ^. 750. E.vternal Ligament between the Calcaneum ajid os Sca- phoides, {Ligamentum calcaneoscaphoideum eaaternum). Like the preceding, it enters into the composition of the cavity which re- ceives the astragalus, at the inside of which it is chiefly visible. It is a very short fasciculus, which proceeds from the lower and outer part of the scaphoid bone to the fore and inner part of the calca- neum. Its fibres are very numerous. ARTICULATION OF THE SCAPHOID BONE WITH THE ASTRAGALUS. 751. This articulation is an enarthrosis, which is formed by the head of the astragalus entering into a cavity, which the posterior surface of the scaphoid bone, a portion of the calcaneum, and the two preceding ligaments, concur to form. The bony surfaces are covered with a cartilage, which is prolonged upon the astragalus much farther below than above. A single ligament and synovial capsule belong to this articulation, in which there are observed, moreover, two of those cellular masses which have been taken for synovial glands. These are very distinct. 752. Ligament between the Scaphoid Bone and Astragalus (Ligamentum astragalo-scaphoideum.) It arises from the upper part of the neck of the astragalus, and passes to the upper part of the scaphoid bone. It is a broad, thin, horizontal fasciculus, with parallel fibres, which are directed a little obliquely from within out- wards. It is covered by the tendons of the extensor digitprum, and sends some fibres to the cuneiform bones. 753. Synovial Membrane. Forming a cul-de-sac between the astragalus and calcaneum, it invests the head of the former of these bones, then the preceding ligament at its lower surface, the poste- rior surface of the scaphoid bone, and the two calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments. It is strengthened externally by bundles of irregular fibres. ARTICULATION OF THE CAJ.CANEUM WITH THE CUBOID BONE. 754). This articulation is an arthrodia, which results from the contact of the anterior surface of the calcaneum, and thePASSIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. T28 posterior surface of the os cuboides, whicli are kept in connexion by two ligaments, and lined by a synovial membrane. 755. iSnperior Ligament between the Calcaneum and osCuboidea {Ligamentnm calcaneo-cubaidemn superius). This ligament is broad, thin, divided into fasciculi by the intervention of much adi- pose substance, and formed of several superimposed planes. Its fibres, which are rather short, originate from the upper and fore part of the calcaneum, and are inserted into the corresponding part of the OS cuboides. They lie upon the synovial membrane, and are covered by the tendon of the peroneus tertius. 756. Inferior and Superficial Ligament between the Calcaneum and OS Cuboides {Ligamentum Longum Plantce). This is the long- est and strongest of the ligaments of the foot. Its thickness, pearly lustre, and the longitudinal direction of its fibres are very remarkable. It arises from the posterior and inferior part of the calcaneum, and passing directly forwards, terminates in part at the oblique tuberosity observed at the inferior surface of the OS cuboides. The rest of its fibres, which are much longer than the others, pass below the fibrous sheath of the peroneus longus, and divide into several fasciculi which go to the posterior extremi- ty of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and give insertion to muscular fibres. This ligament corresponds below to the deep- seated muscles of the sole of tlie foot. 757. Inferior and Deep Ligament between the Calcaneum and os Cuboides. This ligament, which is shorter and situated higher than the preceding, and separated from it by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue, arises from the calcaneum before the superficial li- gament, and proceeding a little inwards, is inserted wholly into the tuberosity of the os cuboides. 758. Synovial Membrane. Its course is sufficiently simple, as it only covers the two cartilaginous surfaces, upper, and inferior deep ligaments between the calcaneum and cuboid bone ; it is seen exposed in several of the interstices in the former; exter- nally, corresponds to the sheath of the peroneus lojigus^ and in- ternally to a fibrous and cellular tissue. ARTICULATJON OF THE SCAPHOID WITH THE CUUOID BONE. 759. A kind of interosseous ligament is observed between the scaphoid and cuboid bones. It is very strong and firm, with short, dense fibres, and firmly attached to the two bones. In the sole of the foot, there is also observed another inferior ligament^ rounded," concealed in the cellular tissue, and extended obliquely between the scaphoid and cuboid bones. When the two bones touch each other by a surface covered with cartilage, there is observed, moreover, a small special synovial bag^ and a dorsal ligament^ which passes transversely from one toARTICULATIONS OF THE INFEKIOR EXTREMITIES. 229 the other, under the form of a quadrilateral fasciculus, and is cover- ed by the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. ARTICULATION OF THE EXTERNAL CUNEIFORM BONE WITH THE CirBOID. 760. The outer side of the external cuneiform bone is articulat- ed to the OS cuboides by a cartilaginous surface, covered by a sy- novial capsule. A dorsal and plantar ligament are the only bonds of this articulation. The first, which is thin and oblique, is inserted into the upper part of the neighbouring edge of the two bones; its fibres are separated by vascular intervals. The other, which is much thicker, is seen at the lower surface of the tarsus; attached to the inner part of the os cuboides, and passes over to the plantar surface of the external cuneiform bone ; its fibres are transverse. There also occurs between these two bones, where they are not in immediate contact, a fibrous and cellular tissue, analogous to most of the interosseous ligaments. AIITICCLATIONS OF THE CUNEIFORM BONES WITfiE THE SCAPHOID. 761. The scaphoid bone is articulated by means of its anterior surface with the three cuneiform bones, forming an arthrodia. The surfaces by which these bones are in contact are covered with cartilages, continuous with those of the articulations of the cunei- form bones with each other. A synovial membrane and six liga- ments are observed here. 762. Dorsal Ligaments, (Ligamenta dorsalia). Of these there are three, an internal, a middle, and an external; their insertions into the scaphoid bone are confounded with each other. They take place at the upper part of that bone, whence they proceed in a di- verging manner to the corresponding part of each of the cuneiform bones. The first, which is divided into two fasciculi, is thicker be- low than above, and is strengthened by the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The others are not so broad or strong. 763. Plantar Ligaments, {Ligamenta plantaria). These ar^ also three in number, and are less distinct than the precedino-. Their fibres, which are parallel and close, are united into a singTe fasciculus beneath the scaphoid bone, but separate on arriving^at each of the cuneiform bones. Some of the fibres of these ligaments come from the termination of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. In^. Synovial Membrane. It is common to the articulations ot the cuneiform bones with each other, and with the scaphoid oone. It lines the ligaments by which they are connected toge- tner, and covers their investing cartilages. 4PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 230 ARTICULATIONS OF THE CUNEIFOUM BONES WITH EACH OTHEB. 765. The cuneiform bones are mutually articulated by surfaces covered with cartilage. Two ligaments directed transversely, which seem united into one, fasten them at their upper part, passing from the dorsal surface of the middle, to those of the external and inter- nal. Two other ligaments, transverse also, but less distinct, and covered by a prolongation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus, proceed from the plantar surface of the second to those of the first and third also; that on the inside, is much stronger than that which is on the outer. Between the articular surfaces there are observed some interosseous fibres. The synovial membrane is the same as that of the preceding articulation. ARTICULATIONS BETWEEN THE TARSUS AND METATARSUS. 766. We have already pointed out the disposition of the sur- faces contributing to the formation of tliese articulations (527, 533), which are so many very close, plain arthrodiae. They are invested by a thin cartilage, and kept in connexion by dorsal and plantar ligaments. There are also observed synovial capsules in them. 767. Do7-sal Ligaments. Each of the metatarsal bones receives one from each of the tarsal bones with which it is connected. Thus, the first presents a broad and thin ligament which comes from the internal cuneiform bone ; the second three, which come from the three cuneiform bones, and unite by converging, at the upper part of its posterior extremity ; the third has one which comes from the third cuneiform bone, and sometimes a second from the os cuboides ; lastly, the latter bone gives one to the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. All these ligaments are covered by the tendons of the extensor muscles of the toes, and applied over the synovial capsules. 768. Plantar Ligaments. These are equal in number to th^ dorsal ligaments, and disposed nearly in the same manner. That of the first metatarsal bone is very strong; it is attached to the tuberosity, is observed at the lower part of its posterior extre- mity, and comes from the anterior part of the base of the first cuneiform bone. The internal plantar ligament of the second met- tatarsal bone is also remarkable for its thickness and length ; it sends some fibres to the third metatarsal bone; the two otliers are covered by a prolongation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus^ The other ligaments present nothing particular. The sheaths of the tendons which are observed in the sole of the foot, and espcr cially that of the peroneus longus, contribute much to strengtiien all these ligaments.ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. HSl 769. Synovial Meivhmnes. The first metatarsal bone and in- ternal cuneiform have one entirely separate, and strengthened in- ternally by a prolongation ol" the tendon of the tibialis anticus. Another is common to the articulations of the second metatarsal with the three cuneiform bones, and of the first two of these with each other. There is one for the union of the third meta- tarsal bone with the third cuneiform, which sends prolongations between the surfaces of the two neighbouring metatarsal articula- tions. Lastly, a single synovial membrane serves for the articula- tion of the two last metatarsal bones with each other and with the OS cuboides. ARTICULATIONS OF THE METATARSAL BONES WITH EACH OTHER. 77^^- These articulations have a great resemblance to those of the metacarpus. As in the hand, the first metatarsal bone is not immediately articulated with the next, posteriorly ; but anteriorly, the transverse ligament of the toes extends to it. The other four are directly articulated at their posterior extremities, by means of surfaces covered with cartilage, and lined by prolongations of the synovial membranes of the preceding articulations. There are here dorsal and plantar ligaments^ similar to each other, and to those of the metacarpus (698). They extend transversely in each region from the second to the third, from the third to the fourth, and from the fourth to the fifth metatarsal bones. There are, besides, inter- osseous fibres between the points of the non-articular surfaces. 771- Transverse Metatarsal Ligament. It connects together the anterior extremities of the five metatarsal bones, which have no direct connexion by bony surfaces, and is in all respects simi- lar to that of the heads of the last four metacarpal bones which "we have described (699). ARTICULATIONS OF THE METATARSAL RONES WITH THE PHALANGES. 772. These articulations which constitute arthrodias, are formed by means of surfaces covered with cartilage (527—535), and strengthened by two lateral ligaments and an inferior, perfectly similar to the lateral and anterior hgaments of the articulations between the metacarpus, and phalanges of the fingers (701, 702). The synovial membrane is only here a little looser, and more ex- tended than in the hands.PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 232 AUTieULATIONS OF THE PHALANGES OF THE TOES. 773- Their surfaces, ligaments, and synovial membranes are in all respects similar to those of the fingers, only the ligaments are a little smaller, on account of the inferior size of the bones themselves. PIIEPARATION OF LIGAMENTS. 774'. The ligaments are most conveniently dissected immediately after the muscles have been removed. When being dissected they are to be put on the stretch, and carefully freed from the sur- rounding cellular tissue; and as at their insertion into the bones, their fibres run into the periosteum, and are also continuous with neighbouring tendons, the dissector when making a ligamentous preparation must carefully distinguish how much is ligament, how much tendon, and liow much periosteum. Nothing has been said about macerating them; this, if possible, is to be avoided until the ligaments liave been fully isolated from the neighbouring parts. The preparation may be then put into water for a short time, for the purpose of facilitating the removal of the periosteum, and clean- ing the bone. Thin and infiltrated subjects are tlie best for ligamentous pre- parations.OF THE JIUSCLES IN GENKUAL. DESCRIPTION OF THE ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCO- MOTION, OR MYOLOGY. CHAPTER FIRST. OF THE MUSCLES AND THEIR APPENDAGES IN GENERAL. Of the Muscles. 775. The Muscles (Musculi)* are organs formed of long pa- rallel fibres, commonly of a red or reddish colour, soft, irritable, contractile, united into distinct fasciculi, varying in number and size, and themselves composed of subordinate fasciculi. 776. In the body of man, and the vertebrate animals in gene- ral, we find two classes of muscles. Some, which are internal, membraniform and hollow, are especially destined for the functions of nutrition and generation ; others, which are external, are more or less thick and solid, and subservient to what most physiologists call the animal functions. 777- The character by which the muscles of the latter order are essentially distinguished, is the faculty which they possess of con- tracting under the influence of the will, and of thus becoming the efficient cause of most of the motions performed in the animal body (16. I.) 778- The muscular or fleshy fibre, perceptible by the naked eye, has in general a prismatic or flattened, pentagonal or hexago- nal form, but is never cylindrical; its diameter varies little, and its length equals the entire interval between its two insertions. It is possessed of little elasticity, more or less red, bent in a zigzag manner in its longitudinal direction, varying extremely as to leno-th, firmer in adults than in children and old people, of the same'size m small as in large muscles, and passing through its course witli- out bifurcating or ramifying. It possesses little tenacity in the dead body, and is easily torn asunder; but, during life, it sustains very great efforts without breaking. It is itself composed of a great number of fibrils similar to each other, visible only by means of • M5,- from Mw,7^.ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIOX. 234 the microscope. The last of these filaments that can he perceived, do not appear to he hollow, as some anatomists have alleged. On examining them with the microscope, Sir Everard Home, Bauer, Prevost, Dumas, and Beclard, found that the finest muscular fibres are identical with the particles of the blood deprived of their colour- ing matter, and whose central globules are united into filaments, by a sort of jelly or mucus, the essential nature of which is not yet understood. Their colour is accidental, and does not exist in all red-blooded animals, some of which have tlie muscles white; but in the greater number their tint is very decided, and becomes deeper and deeper with age. 779- A variable number of muscular fibres, therefore, united into fasciculi, and forming a distinct mass, varying much as to size and form, having its extremities attached to the bones by means of tendons or aponeuroses, constitutes a muscle, in which there is dis- tinguished cellular tissue as the basis, together with ramifications of nerves, arteries, veins, and lymphatics. It is in fact from the union of all these different organic systems, that the muscular sys- tem really results, which of itself forms the greater part of the vo- lume, and a great part of the weight, of the body. 780. Tlie Celhilar Tissue is an important element of the mus- cular system. It connects the fleshy fibres ; it is not very visible between the smaller fibres, but becomes more so in proportion as they unite into larger fasciculi, and forms for each of the latter a sheath in which they are inclosed. After uniting several of these fasciculi to form an entire muscle, the cellular tissue consti- tutes a very distinct layer around it, and this layer in most cases is of a membranous appearance, rather loose, and filled with fat in greater or less quantity according to the subject. It is of it that the general sheath of the united fasciculi is constituted ; the cellu- lar tissue of the muscles may thus be considered as a collection of envelopes contained within each other, and diminishing in thick- ness and denseness from without inwards, so that those which sur- round the fasciculi of a lower order are in a manner invisible, their tenuity and softness being so great. 781. Now, this cellular tissue of which we have already had re- peated occasion te speak, is itself an assemblage of lamellfc, of very minvite, soft whitish filaments, crossing each other in a multitude of different directions, leaving in their intervals areola?, consisting of numerous irregular cellules, which communicate with each other. This tissue surrounds and penetrates all the organs of the system (16. A.) ; it is the seat of a serous exhalation, the product of which is accumulated in greater or less quantity in its cellules. It must not be confounded with another tissue, also very extensively distributed, and which is immersed in its substance ; I mean the Adipose Tissue (16. A. a.) This, which is in particular very abundant in the general cellular envelope of the muscles, is com- posed of small masses, pretty regularly rounded, agglomerated and connected with each other: each of these granulations is a smallOF TH£ MUSCLES IN GKNEUAL. membranous, isolated vesicle, filled with fat, the interior of wliich is diviiled by several incomplete partitions, while its surface is co- vered by blood-vessels.* 782. From the neighbouring trunks the muscles receive very distinct arteries, whose size and number are always proportional to the volume of the muscle: they penetrate its substance from all points of its surface, although their entrances are generally more towards- the middle than the extremities. Their principal branches creep at first between the largest fleshy fibres ; they then divide and subdivide into an almost infinite number of ramifica- tions which ultimately become capillary, to be introduced, always running along the cellular envelopes, and incessantly presenting new divisions and new anastomoses, between the subordinate fasci- cuU and the fibres themselves. With the exception of certain viscera, such as the lungs and kidneys, there are few organs which receive so much blood as the muscles. 783. The veins follow, in the muscles, the same course as the arteries, which they accompany in their whole course ; but they surpass them, as they do every where else, in number and magni- tude. Some of their principal branches even creep at the surface of the muscles, without corresponding to any artery. Bichat is of opinion, that in general they are but scantily supplied with valves. Like the arteries also, they communicate with the vessels of the tegumentary membranes adjoining the muscles. 784. The lymphatic vessels are not easily traced in the muscles ; but in the tongue, diaphragm, and especially the face, some trunks are perceived penetrating the fleshy fibres. 785. The nerves of the muscles of voluntary motion are nu- merous, and of variable size. Excepting the skin and organs of sense, no part is so abundantly supplied with them. They come almost all from the brain and spinal marrow ; a few, however, pro- ceed from ganglions, and accompany the arteries. The small muscles have never more than a single branch; those of large size are penetrated by several branches at once; but, in general, few- organs receive so many. In the extremities, the nerves enter the muscles, by following nearly the same direction, at a point more or less near their upper extremity, seldom beneath their middle. In the trunk, on the contrary, they often introduce them- selves into the muscles, by forming a more or less acute, or right angle with them. In general, they penetrate the fleshy tissue at the same time as the vessels, especially the arteries, with which they are closely connected by cellular tissue. t^l I ^ ^"tering the muscles, the nerves divide and subdivide, un- til they at length entirely disappear. It has not yet been ascer- ained, if each muscular fibril receives a nervous filament; but it appears that before terminating they become gradually softer, by ■ Berlard, Propositions sur (juelqucs points de Medecine, 4.to, Paris, 1813.ACTIVR ORGAN'S OF LOCOMOTION. 230 losing their ncurilema, so that the medullary substance of these i nerves would be in immediate contact with the muscular fibre. 786. When exposed to the air, after being cut into small pieces, , the muscular tissue dries up ; but if it be submitted in mass to the \ influence of that agent, it putrefies. In the former case, it acquires a brown colour, becomes hard, and to a certain degree transpa- rent ; in the latter, it becomes green, livid, very foetid, and often phosphorescent. In cold water it loses its red colour, and imparts it to the liquid in which it is immersed; assumes a straw-colour, softens at the end of a considerable period, and is converted into putrilage or adipocire. By repeated washing and squeezing, the I muscular parenchyma is reduced to the state of nearly pure fibrin t (8). In boiling water, on the contrary, it crisps and acquires a greater j: density ; at the end of some time, however, it softens, and has lost all power of curling under the influence of caloric or concentrated acid, as it did before boiling; the downy part seems to dissolve, and there only remain the fibres; the muscle has then lost the albumen, gelatin, fat and salts which formed part of its substance; , but still retains its form. It also in general putrefies less readily under these circumstances. 787- By the action of fire, the muscles are more deeply colour- ed, become denser at their outside, lose a part of their substance, which liquefies, and change their consistence and taste. Under the action of nitric acid, they are transformed into a yellow substance, and emit much azote. Alcohol, diluted acids, and solutions of alum, common salt, and nitrate of potash, increase their consis- tence. 788. The organic elements of the muscles are fat, gelatin, albu- men, a great quantity of fibrin, a principle of peculiar nature, coloured, soluble in alcohol, giving to broth its taste and smell, and named Osmazome* by M. Thenard, who discovered it. There also occur in these organs a colouring matter, somewhat dift'erent from that of the blood, carbonate, hydrochlorate and phosphate of soda, phosphate of lime, and oxide of iron. If the analysis is push- ed farther, the results obtained, are a great quantity of azote, hy^ | drogen, oxygen, carbon, iron, phosphorus, soda, and lime. \\ 789. The muscles, like the bones, may be divided into lo77ff, ^ broad, and short, and each of these kinds may present muscles, |i either simple or compound. jj 790. The simple muscles have all their fibres in a similar di- * rection. They are in general bulging, that is to say, present the form of an elongated fascicvdus, whose transverse outline is round- ed, and more or less inflated in the middle. This form depends upon the mode of insertion of the fleshy fibres, which, arising above and terminating below, one after another in succession, are so much less numerous, the nearer to each extremity they arc examined; the rectus femoris and supinator longus furnish • Offiri, odor; cucnknlum.OF TH1£ MUSCLES IN GENEIIAL. 287 examples of this arrangement. The simple muscles arc sometimes jlat, and have parallel fibres, which form a kind of fleshy band, as ij we observe in the sartorius, &c. or broad and very extended mem- '1 branes, as in most of the abdominal muscles. These two kinds of muscles have sometimes tendons or aponeuroses in their middle, or in some part of their extent: of this description are the masseter, the recti abdominis, &c. 791- There are also simple radiated, and simple penniform muscles; the fibres of the former proceed from a common centre, and are disposed like the radii of a circle, as is the case with the diaphragm, the iliacus internus, the temporal muscle, &c.; those of the latter are disposed in two rows, which unite in a middle . line, forming an angle with each other, like the barbs of a feather; 3 a variety of this muscle is that, which is named semi-penniformy i and which has its fibres also oblique, but on one side only. The : flexor carpi radialis is penniform, the flexor carpi ulnaris, semi-pen- I niform. 792. The compound muscles are those, which have but a single I belly and several tendons, like the flexors of the fingers; or several I l^ellies and several tendons, like the biceps flexor cubiti, the sacro- l lumbalis, Sec. .i5;793. We have already made known the various situations, which I the bones may have with relation to the diff'erent planes of the I body (46) ; it is the same with respect to the muscles. Their size, 1 like their direction, may also sometimes serve to distinguish them f from each other ; but it is in their form that tliey exhibit the great- . est number of varieties. There are, in fact, triangular muscles, as ' i is the case with several of those in the hand; cubical, as the mas- : seter and pterygoid muscles ; square and flat, as the pronator . quadratus of the fore-arm; rhomboidal, orbicular, serrated, and 1 trapezoidal. In most cases the muscles are in pairs, there being ■ very few single, &c. 794. In general, the name of Belly (venter), is given to the middle portion of a muscle, while its extremities are named the Head and Tail, or more commonly the Origin and Insertion. Whence the names of gastrocnemitis, digastric, biceps, triceps^ &c. according as they present two bellies, two or three heads, &c. OF THE TENDONS. 795. The Tendons (Tendines), are very elastic, tenacious, fi- brous cords, which transmit to the bones the motions of the mus- cles, and are absolutely passive in themselves. All the fibres of these organs appear to arise from the periosteum, or at least to be incorporated with it. They diflcr from the ligaments only in the circumstance, that one of their extremities is manifestly continuous Willi the fleshy body of a muscle. 'i'hcy arc suinclimes concealed in tlie midst of the muscukr288 ACTlVi: ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. fibres; but always terminate them, for a muscle is never fixed to a bone ■without their assistance, or that of aponeuroses. In most cases the tendons have a rounded cylindrical form ; there are some also which are flat, radiated, bifurcated, digitated, perforated or perforating, &c. Some proceed in a straight line; others are reflected, and deviate more or less from their original direction. They ai-e all covered with a loose cellular tissue, which allows them to slide easily over the neighbouring parts, or over each other. This sliding is even not unfrequently favoured by a particular synovial membrane, or by a cartilage developed on the surface of the bone. Their organization is always the same. They are composed of very close, line, white, glistening longitudinal fibres, not interlaced, but placed parallel to each other, incapable of being elongated, but susceptible of being extended into membranes. The resistance of these fibres is considerable; they support enormous weights with- out breaking, and their strength is much superior to that of metal- lic wires, so long as they are kept moist. The tendons have very few blood-vessels; in fact none are ob- served in them in their ordinary state. Nor have any nerves been traced in them ; sesamoid bones are very frequently developed in their substance. They present much the same chemical characters as the li- gaments; but by maceration soften readily without dilating or swelling ; their fibres separate from eacli other, and at length change into a soft whitish pulp, which appears to be homogeneous. In boiling water they curl at first, then soften, become semi- transparent, and dissolve almost entirely into jelly. Exposed to the air, they dry up, and become similar to horn. OF THE APONEUROSES. 796. The Aponeuroses are fibrous expansions, prolongations of the hgaments, tendons, or periosteum, but which on being strictly examined appear always to originate from the latter mem- brane, or to terminate in it. They are more or less broad, and so disposed as to envelope the muscles in a sort of sheath, or to furnish points of attachment to their fleshy fibres; for it is re- markable, that the latter are never fixed directly to a bone, or even to the periosteum, but connected with them by the intervention of fibrous organs, such as tendons or aponeuroses, as we have al- ready said (795). The aponeuroses of the first kind may surround a whole limb, and envelope its muscles entirely, as is the case in the thigh ; or, they may serve as a bridle to keep the muscles in their place, with- out covering them in all parts, as is observable in that which unites the two small posterior scrrati. Those of the second kind arc sometimes broad, as is seen on the239 OF THE MUSCLES IN GENERAL. criu-alis, gastrocnemius, &c. In other cases, they form arches for allowing vessels and nerves to pass, at the same time that they give attachment to Heshy fibres, as in the diaphragm. Lastly, they are composed of isolated fibres in the substance of a muscle, as in the masseter and pterygoid. _ . , . , The Enveloping Aponeuroses vary much in their thickness, which is however, in general, so much greater, the larger and more numerous the muscles are which they surround. Their two surfaces are always in contact with cellular tissue ; but the inner frequently sends, between the muscles, fibrous prolonga- tions, which extend to the periosteum of the neighbouring bones. They are of a shining white colour, and might be considered as tendons expanded into membranes, did they not offer a little more resistance to maceration and boiling. Their fibres are also more or less interlaced. The Aponeuroses of hisertion sometimes result from the ex- pansion of a tendon, as in the rectus femoris, or arise immediately from the periosteum, as in the masseter. They may also furnish points of attachment by their two surfaces, or by one of them only, and afford the very great advantage of multiplying them much withovit any loss of surface. Those which are arched, serve to pre- vent the vessels from suffering compression during the contraction of the muscle. OF THE FIBROUS SHEATHS. 797- The Fibrous Sheaths are a kind of envelopes, destined to •keep down the tendons at their passage over the bones, in the places where they are reflected, and to prevent them from expe- riencing any other deviation, than that caused by the contraction of the muscles to which they belong. Some of these sheaths, as those of the wrists, contain the united tendons of several muscles ; others, as those of the fingers, are intended for a single tendon, or for two only. Of these latter, some are of considerable length, while others merely form a kind of ring. They all, in general, present the form of a hollow semi-cylinder, which is completed by the bone to which they are attached; and thus form a sort of canal. This canal is Uned by a synovial membrane. They are confounded at their edges with the periosteum ; are very strong, and their tissue, very dense and close. The fibrous sheaths which envelope several tendons together, bear the name of Annidar Ligaments. Some of them, as at the fore part of the wrist, leave all the tendons in contact with each other; those of the posteriin- part of the wrist, on the contrary, send between them small fibrous partitions which serve to isolate them.ACriVlC OKGANS OF LOCOMOTION. NUMBKll AND NOMEKCLATUllE OF THE MUSCLES. 798. As most of the muscles are in pairs, and there arc hut very few single, it might be supposed that the number of names would be much less. Yet the greatest confusion prevails in their nomenclature; for there is not one among them that has not received more than one name, and some have as many as a dozen.* There is much difference of opinion as to the number of the muscles. 8ome authors make them amount to four hundred and more ; M. Chaussier admits only three hundred and sixty-eight. Some have been named after their uses ; for example, the dia- phragm, buccinator, extensors, supinators, pronators, flexors, levators, depressors, constrictors, &c. But it sometimes happens, that an error has been committed in this respect, and besides, a muscle may have several vises at once ; thus the levator anguli scapulae, in raising the posterior angle of the bone, depresses the anterior angle. Other muscles have derived their name from their position ; of which kind are the interspinales, interossei, palpebralis, pectoralis, subclavius, popliteus, ulnaris, iliacus, temporalis, &c. But fre- quently, there arc several different muscles in each region. There are others whose names are indicative of their /or???, such as the trapezius, quadratus lumborum, scrratus, digastricus, del- toid, scalenus, rhomboideus, pyramidalis, triangularis sterni, &c. Some again are named on account of their resemblance to some ob- ject ; the splenius, which is supposed to resemble the spleen; the lumbricales, which look like earthworms ; the soleus, in which there is recognised the appearance of a sole or flounder. Others bear a name which has reference to their dimensions^ their extent^ or vo- lume ; the flexor longus digitoruni, gracilis, vastus externus, su- pinator brevis, pectoralis major, he.; or to their direction; ob- liqui abdominis, recti capitis, orbicularis oris, he.; or to their com- position ; semiteudinosus, semimembranosus, triceps, biceps, com- plexus, Sec. ; and even to their numerical order as the interossei, which have been designated Jirst, second, third, &c. ; or to their relative situation, which has caused them to be called anterior, superior, superficial, deep, &c. Many muscles have been designated according to the various points of the skeleton to which they arc attached, as the sterno- cleido-mastoideus, occipito-frontalis, omo-hyoidcus, stylo-hyoideus, hyo-glossus, &c. It is on this circumstance that M. Chaussier's nomenclature is founded. The nomenclature to be employed here, is that in common use in Britain. It is founded on all the dif- ferent considerations mentioned above. • Tliin sufficiently ai-<;oiints for Ur. Sclingor of Fmth having cniploycil a tiiick octavo volume to iiiinivcl these comjilieated syiioiiyiiies.241 OF THE MUSCLES. CLASSliaCATION Ol' THE MUSCLES. 790. Anatomists have successively introduced various modes of tlividing the muscles. Some, and in particular Winslow, have ar- rano-ed them according to their uses. Albinus, Sabatier, Boyer, and^Bichat, have arranged them according to the different parts of the body which they occupy, and each of these parts has received the name of rctjion. In the foUo^ving pages the muscles will be described in the order in which they should be dissected. CHAPTER SECOND. OF THE MUSCLES IN PARTICULAR. MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 800. Before describing the muscles of the back, it is neces- sary to speak of the Ligamentum nuchcB, which is a very elon- gated, narrow fibrous cord, formed of pretty close parallel fibres, which it is often very difficult to distinguish from the aponeu- iroses of the trapezius, attached to it. It arises from the se- venth cervical vertebra, and ascends between the trapezius, splenius and complexus, to be attached to the external occipital protuberance. From its anterior part, it furnishes a cellular pro- longation, which proceeds as far as the external occipital ridge, and to the .spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae; but this pro- longation is entirely destitute of fibres, and has the appearance of a septum which separates the posterior cervical muscles from each other. Posteriorly, this ligament lies directly vmder the skin. The first layer of muscles comprehends the Trapezius and La- (issimtis dor si. OF THE TllAPEZIUS OK CUCULLARIS. 801. The T, •apezius is a thin triangular muscle, situated at the posterior part of the neck and back, and at the upper part of the • shoulder. It arises from the inner third of the upper curved line of the occipital bone, from the whole length of the ligamentumACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. nuchoe, the spinous processes of the seventh cervical, and all the dorsal vertebrae, as well as from the interspinal ligaments by which they are connected. All these origins take place by aponeuroses ; that from the occipital bone presents a thin and broad aponeurosis, the fibres of which are frequently more than an inch in length. Along the ligamcntum nuchae the fibres of these aponeuroses are very short; but from the sixth cervical to the third dorsal vertebra inclusive, they acquire considerable size, and form a membrane which represents the half of an ellipse ; they then shorten again, to be elongated a second time at the lower part of the back, where there is observed a triangular and pretty long aponeurosis. The fleshy fibres succeed these aponeuroses ; those Avhich come from the occipital bone and ligamcntum nuchae, descend obliquely out- wards and forwards, turn upon themselves, and terminate at the outer third of the posterior edge of the clavicle ; those which arise from the last cervical vertebra and the upper dorsal are shorter than tlie others, and proceed horizontally outwards, to be attached to the acromion, the acromio-clavicular ligament, and the spine of the scapula, by long aponeurotic fibres, very strong and distinct. All the others, which are the more oblique the lower they are, ascend outwards toward the inner extremity of the spine of the scapula, and there degenerate into a triangular aponeurosis, whose : summit is attached to a small tuberosity; this aponeurosis slides, with the assistance of a very loose cellular tissue, over a bony sur- face of the same form. 802. The posterior surface of this muscle is entirely covered by [ the skin, from which it is separated by a cellular tissue containing j little fat, and denser above than below. The anterior surface is applied, at its upper and inner part, upon the complexus muscle; farther down, upon the splenius, levator anguli scapulae, and ser- ratus posticus superior. At its lower part, it covers the supra-spi- natus, infra-spinatus, rhomboideus, latissimus dorsi, sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi muscles, and the inner extremity of the spine of the scapula. The layer of cellular tissue interposed between it ! and these different parts is in general rather thin, excepting toward j the supra-spinatus muscle. 1 803. When the whole of the trapezius contracts at once, it car- j ries the shoulder and clavicle backwards. Its upper fibres elevate I the tip of the shoulder directly, the lower indirectly. When both f trapezii act together, the two scapulas are brought nearer each other, » and carried backwards. When the shoulder is fixed, it extends ' the head, and inclines it laterally. 804. To dissect the trapezius, a large block is to be put under • the thorax of the subject, whose head and arms should be allowed ' to hang downwards. An incision is to be made through the skin from the external occipital protuberance, along the spinous processes of the vertebra; to the upper part of the loins, and ano- ther incision from this one, and perpendicular to it, opposite the first dorsal vertebra to the acromion. I213 MUSCLES OF TIIK BACK. By these incisions there are two Haps which must be successive- ly dissected; the upper, from below upwards, and the lower from above downwards, always taking care to follow the direction of the fibres. When the upper flap is being dissected, the shoulder should be drawn downwards, when, on the contrary, the lower flap is to be dissected, the shoulder is to be drawn upwards and for- wards. OF THE LATISSIMUS DOItSI. 805. The latissimits dorsi is a broad, thin, flat muscle, very ir- regularly quadrilateral, situated upon the posterior, lateral, and in- ferior region of the trunk, extending from the lower part of the back to the arm, passing over the inferior angle of the scapula, and the posterior part of the axilla. The greater part of its fleshy fibres are inserted along the outer edge of a strong aponeurosis, which is contracted at its upper part, but very broad below, where it is incorporated with that of the serratus posticus inferior, and the obliquus internus abdominis. This aponeurosis, which is formed of fibres interlaced in all directions below, and following the direction of the fleshy fibres above, arises from the last five, six, seven, or eight spinous processes of the back, from all those of the loins and sacrum, from the asperities of the sacral grooves, and from the posterior part of the iliac crest, where it is continuous with aponeurotic fibres of the glutasus maximus and sacro-spinalis. The other fleshy fibres of the latissimus dorsi come from the outer sur- f;ice of the last three or four ribs by digitations, at first aponeu- rotic, which are laid the one over the other so as to present an im- bricated appearance from above downwards, and which are inter- laced with digitations of the obliquus externus abdominis, with which they form a pretty acute angle. After thus commencing, the fibres of the muscle, which are so much the shorter and less oblique the higher they are, converge and proceed to the lower angle of the scapula, the upper fibres passing horizontally outwards, and those of the costal digitations ascending almost vertically. When arrived there, the muscle pre- sents little breadth, but much thickness, and often receives a small fleshy bundle from the scapula; then contracting considerably, it continues its progress upwards and outwards, at first applied upon the teres major, it afterwards turns round it, so as to be nearly co- vered in its turn by that muscle. Lastly, arrived in the vicinity of the humerus, the fleshy fibres of the latissimus dorsi give rise to a tendon about three inches long and an inch broad. This tendon is turned from below up- wards, and from behind forwards, over the lower edge of the teres major, whose direction it crosses a little. Its lower part receives the fleshy fibres of the upper part of the muscle, and its upper part those from below. At first, contiguous with the tendon of theACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. teres major, separated from it by cellular tissue, and afterwards by a small synovial capsule, it soon unites with it to be inserted at the same time into the posterior lip of the bicipital groove. An aponeurotic band about two lines broad, descends from the small tuberosity of the humerus to these tendons, which send out from their lower edge another fibrous expansion which throws itself in- to the brachial aponeurosis, and some bundles which line the bicipital groove in conjunction with the tendon of the pectoralis major. 806. The posterior surface of the body of this muscle is every- where covered by the integuments, excepting at its upper and inner part, where it is subjacent to the trapezius. The anterior surface covers the oblique muscles of the abdomen, the serratus posticus inferior, sacro-spinalis, levatores costarvim, the inferior intercostal muscles, the serratus magnus, rhomboideus, teres ma- jor, infra-spinatus, the lower ribs, and the inferior angle of the scapula. 807- The anterior surface of its tendon, united with that of the teres major, is in connexion with the axillary vessels, the brachial plexus, and the coraco-brachialis. The posterior is contiguous to the upper and inner part of the humerus, where a thin synovial capsule facilitates its motions. 800. The latissimus dorsi carries the arm backwards by lower- ing it, and making it turn upon its axis from without inwards. It also draws the tip of the shoulder backwards and downwards. It applies the inferior angle of the scapula against the thorax, and brings the arm strongly against the walls of that cavity when it acts simultaneously with the pectoralis major. When a person is suspended by the hands, and an effort is made to raise himself, it pulls the trunk upon the arms. By taking its fixed point upon the humerus, it can also raise the ribs to which it is attached, and thus become a muscle of inspiration. Lastly, it is a tensor of the aponeurosis which covers the sacro-spinalis muscle, whose contrac- tions it thus favours. 809. For the dissection of this muscle an incision should be made along the mesial line, from the termination of that for the trapezius, to the lower part of the sacrum. The upper part of the muscle is to be dissected by removing the lower part of the trapezius, in doing which, the cellular membrane be- tween these two parts is to be dissected off along with the latter. Then cut through the skin parallel to the upper margin of the muscle, and dissect it off along with the subjacent cellular tissue and fat, from above downwards ; the dissector must always re- member to stretch the fibres by drawing the arm outwards when the upper fibres are being dissected, somewhat upwards for the middle fibres, and very much upwards for the lower. The trapezius and latissimus dorsi being removed, the next layer presents the following muscles.MUSCLES or THE BACK. OF THE RHOMHOIDKUS. 810. The Rhornhoideus (Musculi Rhomhoiclei major et minor), is a broad flat muscle, of nearly square form, occupying the upper part of the back and lower part of the neck. It is divided by a cellular line into two portions, which have been considered as dis- tinct muscles; of these, the upper is smaller, the lower larger. It arises by aponeurotic fibres, longer below than above, from the lower part of the ligaraentura nuchas, the spinous process of the last vertebra of the neck, those of the first four or five dorsal ver- tebrae, and from the corresponding interspinal ligaments. The fleshy fibres, which are all parallel, descend a little outwards, to the spinal edge of the scapula, where they are attached superiorly and inferiorly; but in the middle, they are inserted along a sort of aponeurotic arch, vertical and parallel to the edge of the scapu- la, with which it is only connected by its two extremities, being separated from it in the rest of its extent by cellular tissue tra- versed by vessels. 811. The posterior surface of the rhomboideus is in a great part covered by the trapezius; inferiorly it is covered by the latissimus dorsi, and between these two muscles, is in contact with the skin. The anterior surface covers the serratus posticus su- perior, the splenius, sacro-spinalis, and part of the intercostales externi; it is also applied over some of the ribs. Its ujjper edge is covered, in nearly its whole extent, by the levator anguli sca- pulas. 812. The principal action of the rhomboideus is to bring the scapula toward the trunk; it also lowers the tip of the shoulder, . by bringing the lower angle of the scapula toward the vertebral column. 813. This muscle is exposed by making an incision through the trapezius, from about the middle of the base of the scapula, obliquely upwards to the spinous process of the second dorsal vertebra. The trapezius is to be removed by dissecting in the direction of the fibres of the rhomboideus, which should be stretched by drawing the shoulder downwards and forwards. OF THE LEVATOR ANGULISCAPULA. (Angularis Scapula.) 814.. This long and thick muscle is situated at the lateral and posterior part of the neck. It is attached to the posterior tuber- cles ot the transverse processes of the fitst three, four or five cer- vical vertebra;, by as many small tendons, frequently united withACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIONT. ^40 the splenius and scalenus posticus. Each of tliese tendons gives rise to a fleshy bundle ; that of the atlas is the longest and thick- est ; the others become more slender as they are more inferior. They are at first isolated, but unite below into a single bundle, which descends obliquely backwards and outwards, to be inserted by short tendinous fibres, into the posterior angle of the scapula, and the inner part of its upper edge. 815. Its outer surface is covered at its upper part by the ster- no-cleido-mastoideus, in the middle by the skin, and below by the trapezius. The inner is applied upon the sen-atus posti- cus superior, sacro-lumbalis, transversalis colli and splenius. Its posterior edge covers a portion of the upper edge of the rhom- boideus. 816. This muscle depresses tlie tip of the shoulder by raising the posterior angle of the scapula, which it causes to perform a ro- tatory motion. When it acts in concert with the trapezius, the shoulder is directly raised. It may also incline the neck to its side, or fix it in the erect position, when it acts in conjunction with its fellow, 817- The dissection of this muscle is effected, by removing the upper portion of the trapezius from its attachments to the spine of the scapula and the clavicle, and dissecting it inwards; by this means the lower part of the muscle is exposed ; if now the dissec- tor stretches the muscle by drawing down the upper angle of the scapula, he can easily expose the rest of the muscle by successively removing the skin which covers its middle part, and the superior extremity of the sterno-mastoid which covers its upper part. OF THE SERRATUS POSTICUS SUPERIOR. 818. This muscle, which is situated at the upper part of the back, is of an irregularly quadrilateral form, flat and very thin. It is attached to the lower part of the ligamentum nucluE, to the spinous processes of the last cervical, and two or three of the upper dorsal vertebrae, by a very delicate aponeurosis, extending to the half of its length, that is to say, to opposite the outer edge of the splenius and sacro-lumbalis, and mingling a little with the inser- tions of the rhomboideus, trapezius and splenius. The fibres of this aponeurosis are parallel and directed obhquely from above downwards and from within outwards ; the fleshy fibres follow the same direction, and separate into four digitations, which are at- tached to the outer surface and upper edge of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, the farther from their angle the lower they are. Sometimes there are only three of these digitations; in other cases there are five. I'hey always terminate by short aponeurotic fibres. 819. The posterior surface of this muscle is in connexion withMUSCLES OF THE BACK. 247 the rhomboideus, angukris scapula', serratus magnus and trape- zius. The anterior is applied upon the splenius, longissimus dorsi, transversalis, sacro-lumbalis, the ribs and external intercostal muscles. 820. It raises the ribs to which it is attached, and is consequent- ly subservient to inspiration. It also keeps down in some measure the vertebral muscles over which it passes. 821. This muscle is exposed, by cutting through the rhomboi- deas near its insertion into the base of the scapula, and dissecting it towards the spine; then, by drawing the scapula from the side of the thorax, the digitations of the serratus will be exposed covered with loose cellular membrane which must be removed. OF THE SEllUATUS POSTICUS INFEKIOR. 822. It is broader than the preceding, but equally thin, and has nearly the same form. It is situated at the lower part of the back, and in the lumbar region. Arising from the last two spinous processes of the back, and the first three of the loins, as well as from the corresponding interspinal ligaments, by a broad apo- neurosis, with parallel fibres directed obliquely upwards and out- wards, which is partly confounded with that of the latissimus dorsi, it divides, after a short passage, into four very distinct bundles. The first, which is very broad, is attached to the outer hp of the lower edge of the second false rib, over an extent of four or five in- ches, and by its lower border covers the upper edge of the third. The other three, which become successively narrower and shorter, are attached in the same manner; but are directed upon the ribs farther from the angle than the first, so that the fourth is at- tached not only to the bony part, but also to the cartilage, of the last rib. Their edges also overlap each other, presenting the ap- pearance of imbrication., to use the language of botanists. 823. The posterior surface is covered by the latissimus dorsi. The anterior rests upon the three last ribs, the corresponding ex- ternal intercostal muscles, and posterior lamina of the aponeu- rosis of the transversahs abdominis, which separates it from the sacro-spinales. 824. It lowers the ribs to which it is attached, and thus contri- butes to exspiration. It is in some measure an antagonist of the preceding muscle. 825. The fleshy part of this muscle must be first exposed by cutting through the outer and lower part of the latissimus dorsi, and dissecting it towards the spine. The tendon of the serra- tus will be found incorporated with that to which the latissimus dorsi is attached.ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 248 OP THE VEllTEBRAL APONEUROSIS. 826. These two muscles are united hy an aponeurosis so tliin as to be absolutely transparent, and almost to disappear by desic- cation. It is fixed, to the upper edge of the one, and lower of the other; but is also attached externally to the angles of the ribs, and internally to the spinous processes. Its form is con- sequently that of a very elongated quadrilateral plane; its fibres are in general indistinct, and interlaced with each other in the direction of the aponeurosis; at the upper and lower parts, how- ever, there arc some transverse fibres which are more distinct, and run in a direction parallel to those of the serrati postici muscles. This aponeurosis keeps down the vertebral muscles behind, which are thus inclosed in a sort of sheath, bony before, and membra- nous in tlie other direction. OF THE SrLENIUs. (Miisculi Splenius Capitis et Splenius Cervicis.) H27. Tlie splenius is an elongated, fiat, althougli pretty thick muscle, much broader above than below, situated obliquely at the back of the neck and upper part of the back. It arises by aponeu- rotic fibres, which are longer below than above, from the spinous processes of the fii'st five or six dorsal vertebras, from their inter- spinal ligaments, from the spinous process of the last cervical ver- tebra, and from the ligamentvun nuchac, as far as the tliird cer- vical vertebra. From these different points of attachment, the fleshy fibres arise, which form a bundle whose thickness and breadth continue to increase as it recedes from them. It ascends outwards, leaving between it and its fellow a triangular interval, in which the complexus is seen. On arriving at the middle part of the neck, it separates into two portions. The lower and outer of these, which bears the name of splenitis cervicis, is narrower, and is itself divid- ed into three small bundles, which are attached by an equal num- ber of thin and slender tendons, longer internally than externally, to the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrre, where they are often confounded with the tendons of the trans- versalis colli, levator anguli scapula;, scalenus posticus, and first inter-transversus colli. The other portion, which is superior and internal, is called the sphnius cajntis; it is larger, continues to ascend, and terminates, by short aponeurotic fibres, at the outer lialf of the rough impression observed between tlie two curved lines of the occipital bone, at the mastoid portion, and the whole outer edge of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, below the inser- tion of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus. 828. The posfcrior surface of the splenius is covered above byMtJSCLKS OF THE BACK* 219 the sterno-cleiao-mastoklcus; in tlie middle, by the trapezius and lev itor anguli scapuhi,'; below, by the serratus posticus superior, and rhomboideus. The anterior surface lies upon the corn- plexus, longissimus dorsi, trachelo-mastoideus and transversalis ^'^829. The splenius extends the head, inclining it laterally, and impresses upon it a rotatory motion which turns the fece to one side. When the two muscles act together, they extend the head directly. 1,1 830. This muscle is exposed: the upper part, by the removal of the upper portions of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles ; the lower, by the removal of the serratus posticus superior. The following are the muscles of the third layer : OF THE LONGISSIMUS DOUSI AND SACRO-I.UMBALTS. 831. These two muscles are intimately incorporated below, where they constitute a very strong and thick fleshy bundle, a little flat- tened, contracted below, and broader above, which fills the whole space that exists between the lower part of the sacrum and the twelfth rib; opposite the latter they may be separated from each other : the longissimus dorsi is the internal, and more voluminous ; the sacro-lumhalis the external, and more slender. 832. A broad, strong, dense, and thick aponeurosis, of a white and ghstening appearance, formed of fibres interlaced, and separat- ed, from space to space, by apertures traversed by nerves and ves- sels, covers the whole of this mass behind. Attached to the poste- rior part of the iliac crest, the sides of the notch which terminates the sacral canal, the whole middle ridge of the sacrum, the spinous processes of the lumbar and last dorsal vertebrae, as well as to the corresponding interspinal ligaments, this aponeurosis gives origin to the greater part of the fibres of this muscular mass, is prolonged much higher on the longissimus dorsi than the sacro-lumbalis, and divides into a considerable number of narrow bands, .whose neighbouring edges are connected by a more or less thin, and trans- parent aponeurotic membrane. 833. But the Heshy mass of which we speak, does not derive its origin from this aponeurosis alone ; it arises from the sacrum by a pointed prolongation, which covers the posterior surface of that hone from the end of the sacral canal, and which is particularly attached to its three upper transverse processes. It arises also, by small tendons, from the spinous processes of the three or four last vertebne, from the sacro-iliac ligament, and from tlie inner and pos- terior part of the crest of the ilium ; from these diflcrent places the fleshy (ibres ascend almost vertically. 8<j\. The Lonf/issimiis Dorsi is extended at the posterior part of the trunk, from the preceding bundle to the ujipcr part of the back, between the sacro-lumbalis and spinalis dorsi. It isACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. elongated, a little flattened, very thick and somewhat square be- low, slender, and terminating in a point above. It divides, as it ascends, into a great number of fleshy tongues, ending in tendons, which form two distinct rows, one externally on the side of the sacro-lumbalis, the other internally along the vertebral column. The tongues of this latter row, which are larger than the others, and more distinct in the back than in the loins, have tendons so much the longer and more slender the higher they are, and are at- tached, to the number of twelve, to the transverse processes of the vertebrae of the back. The tongues of the second row, on the con- trary, are thinner, flat, and so much the longer and less fleshy the higher they are; they are in number eleven, eight, or seven, and are attached to the lower edge of as many of the upper ribs, near their articulation with the transverse processes. This attachment to the ribs takes place by means of small flat and almost aponeu- rotic tendons, particularly thin below, in which direction they are more distant from the articulation than above. Frequently, the longissimus dorsi sends a thin, slender elongated tendon, which ascends towards the neck and sometimes reaches the head,* or is confounded with one of the complexi or with the splenius. 835. The internal surface of the longissimus dorsi covers the semispinalis dorsi and multifidus spinae, and is in contact with the complexus and transversalis colli; the external is contiguous to the sacro-lumbalis ; the anterior is applied upon the levatores cos- tarum, the ribs, the transverse processes, the posterior costo-trans- verse ligaments, the dorsal vessels and nerves, and a portion of the external intercostal muscles; lastly, the posterior surface corre- sponds to the aponeurosis of the obliquus internus and transversa- lis of the abdomen, the inferior and superior serrati, the aponeuro- sis which goes from the one to the other, the latissimus- dorsi, trapezius, rhomboideus, and splenius. 836. The Sacro-lumhalis is elongated, thick, pyramidal, more developed below than above, separated from the longissimus dorsi merely by an adipose line, and directed somewhat obliquely from below upwards and from within outwards. The fleshy fibres of the sacro-lumbalis which come from the common mass, that is to say, from the posterior part of the iliac crest and from the aponeurosis, ascend almost vertically and termi- nate at the six last ribs by five, six, or seven flat tendons, which are inserted below the angle of these ribs. Twelve other small internal, elongated, slender tendons, so much the shorter and thicker the lower they are, arise from above the angle of all the ribs. Each of them gives rise to a fleshy bundle, which is confounded with those in its vicinity, after having ascend- ed obliquely upon the angle of the ribs ; these bundles continue the body of the muscle, which, without them, would cease at the • Hlorgngni. Adv. Anat. IT. p. 3S.MUSCLES OF THE BACK. mkldle of the thorax. After unituig witli each other, these pro- cesses ascend obliquely outwards, and terminate in tendons at first united by their neighbouring edges, so as to form a sort of mem- brane, then isolated, and becoming longer and more slender the hic^her they are. These tendons, which cover the posterior sur- face of the Heshy bundles, are attached below the angle of the up- per ribs and to the tuberosity of the lirst, as well as to the summit of the last four or five transverse processes of the neck. This por- tion of the muscle has received the name of Cervicalis Descendens. 837- The posterior surface of the sacro-lumbalis has the same connexions as that of the longissimus dorsi. The anterior sur- face covers the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis, the ribs, the external intercostal muscles, the longissimus dorsi and trans- versaUs colli. The inner surface, is applied against the longissimus dorsi, being only separated from it by branches of the dorsal nerves. Its outer edge, between the pelvis and thorax, corresponds to the point of junction of the posterior and middle laminae of the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis. 838. These two muscles prevent the vertebral column from yielding to the weight of the organs placed before it, which would tend to drag it forwards; they bend it backwards when they act in conjunction with those of the opposite side, and laterally when acting singly. The sacro-lumbalis may serve to depress the lower ribs in particular, or to raise the upper, according as it acts from the lumbar region or from the cervical. The longissimus dorsi fixes the transverse processes, tending to lower them upon the pelvis, and concurs in this manner, with the semi-spinalis dorsi and multifidus spinje to keep the vertebral column erect. 839. The longissimus dorsi and sacro-lumbalis are exposed : in- feriorly, by removing the fascia lumborum and inferior serratus; in the middle, by removing the vertebral aponeurosis, and then the superior serratus ; and above, by dissecting away the splenius. A cellular and adipose line, together with some vessels and nerves, indicates the division between the longissimus dorsi and sacro-lum- balis, which require to be separated from each other for the pur- pose of examining the external attachments of the one, and inter- nal attachments of the other. OF THE SPINALIS DORSI. 84-0. This muscle is applied upon the lateral surfaces of the spinous processes, from the third or fourth dorsal vertebra, to the first or second lumbar. It arises by three, four, five, six, seven, -or eight tendons, sometimes split, so much the longer and stronger the higher they are, from the spinous processes of the dorsal ver- fl' ^^^"^ second to the ninth. From these tendon-s arise the fleshy fibres, which form thin narrow fasciculi, broader in the middle than at the extremities, convex externally, concave internally.ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. After intermin<Tling in various ways, and even sometimes after be- ing almost entirely confounded, they terminate by four or five ten- dons, the lowest of which is the longest and strongest, which are attached to the two or three last dorsal, and two first lumbar vertebrae. They frequently receive accessory fleshy fibres, which come to them from the longissimus dorsi. 841. This muscle, by bringing nearer to each other the spinous processes to which it is attached, contributes to extend the verte- bral column, and sometimes to incline it a little to either side, when only one muscle acts. 842. This muscle is exposed at the same time as the longissimus dorsi, to which it is intimately connected: it must, however, be se- parated from it by cutting the connexions, in order to show the attachment of the longissimus dorsi to the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae. OF THE TttANSVERSALIS COLLI. 843. The Tronsversalis Colli {Tra7isviersm Cervicis), is si- tuated on the posterior and lateral parts of the neck, and upper part of the back. It is slender, elongated, flattened from within outwards, thinner at its extremities than in the middle, and arises, most commonly, by six small tendons, from the transverse pro- cesses of the eighth, seventh, sixth, fifth, fourth, and third dorsal vertebrjp. These tendons are so much the longer the lower they are, and cross at right angles those of the longissimus dorsi. They ascend almost vertically, and are replaced by fleshy tongues which cover, and are incorporated with, each other. These tongues, in their turn, are terminated by tendons similar to the preceding, but so much longer the higher they are ; they are accompanied by the fleshy fibres as far as their insertion; they are attached to the lower part of the posterior tubercle of the transverse processes of the sixth, fifth, fourth, third, and second cervical vertebras, so that the muscle is not connected with the two first dorsal, or last cer- vical vertebra. 844. The posterior side of the transversalis colli is almost con- founded above with the trachelo-mastoideus muscle. In the mid- dle, it is covered by the levator anguli scapulae, and the serratus posticus superior; and below, by the longissimus dorsi, with which it is also in part confounded. Its a?iterior side covers the trans- verse processes of the vertebrae, from the second cervical to the eighth dorsal. Its outer surface, which inclines a little backwards, corresponds to the splenius, levator anguli scapula?, and cervicalis descendens ; the inner is applied upon the trachelo-mastoideus, coraplexus, and part of the semi-spinalis dorsi. 845. The transversalis colli extends the vertebrae of the neck, and inclines them to its own side.MUSCLES or THE BACK. 253 OF THE THACHELO-MASTOIDEUS. 846. The Trachelo-Mastoideiis (Compleonus Minor), is situated externally of the complexus, at the back part and on the sides of the neck. It is long, slender, flattened, broader above than below, and arises from the last four transverse processes of the neck, and three or four of the back, by tendinous and fleshy tongues, which are al- most immediately incorporated. These small tendons, which vary very much in size, are the more distinct the lower they are. The fleshy fibres by which they are succeeded, form by their union a bundle which ascends vertically, becoming broader, to the mastoid process, behind which it is inserted by a flat tendon which existed for some time previously in the substance of the muscle. The muscle is frequently intersected by aponeuroses, varying much in their number, direction, and position ; or it receives, in the middle of its inner edge, a fleshy band which is sent off" by the longissimus dorsi. 847- The posterior surface of the trachelo-mastoideus, which inclines outwards, is covered above by the splenius, and below by the transversalis colli, with which it is united. The anterior sur- face is applied upon the complexus, in almost its whole extent, and especially at its inner part. It also covers, at its upper part, the obliqui capitis, the posterior extremity of the digastricus, and the occipital artery. 848. This muscle inclines the head a little without rotation, when it acts by itself, or reverses it slightly when both muscles act. 849. The trachelo-mastoideus, the transversalis colli, and the cervicahs descendens, (which has been described as a part of the sacro-lumbalis), are all so closely connected to each other, that they appear but one mass, occupying the lateral part of the cervical vertebras; but if carefully examined, they will be found merely united by cellular substance, by cutting which, they may be se- parated from each other: the cervicalis descendens lies on the outside, the trachelo-mastoideus on the inside, and the transversalis colli between them. OF THE COMPLEXUS.* 850. The Complexus is a pretty thick elongated muscle, much broader at the middle, and above than below, where it is pro- longed into a very slender point. It is situated under the splenius. It arises from the transverse and articular processes of the last four or five cervical, and from the transverse processes of the first four or five dorsal vertebra.', by as many small tendons whose fibres are * Jiiiibiaciiig many tilings, complicuted.ACTIVE OIIGANS OF LOCO.AJOTION. 2,54. strongly interlaced with the fleshy fibres, and much more distinct below than above ; they arc frequently confounded with those of the tranversalis colli. It also frequently arises, by other small ten- dons, from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and firi3t two dorsal vertebra;. To all th cse tendons succeed the fleshy fibres, which, from being at first disposed in i.solated fasciculi, are soon intimately incorporat- ed. Those which come from the third, fourth, and fifth transverse ]>rocesses of the back, form a separate band, which ascends ob- liquely inwards, and terminates anteriorly by a small tendon, broader at its extremities than in the middle, which occupies the middle third of the inner edge of the muscle, and sends from its upper part other fleshy fibres which ascend to the occipital bone. I'he fleshy fibres which proceed from the transverse processes of the neck and the two first of the back, ascend less obliquely, and are arrested by an aponeurotic intersection in the form of the letter V, more distinct internally than externally, and directed transversely, which occurs about the middle of the muscle and oc- cupies its whole breadth. From the upper edge of this intersec- tion proceed other fleshy fibres which ascend a little inwards, and are attached to the inner part of the impression which is observed between the two curved lines of the occipital bone, by aponeuroses prolonged very far among the fleshy fibres. 851. The posterior surface of the complexus, which is turned a little outwards, is covered successively from above downwards, by the trapezius, splenius, trachelo-mastoideus, transversalis colli, and longissimus dorsi. The anterior surface is applied, from below upwards, upon a part of the semi-spinalis colli, upon the deep cer- vical artery, the posterior branches of the cervical nerves, and the posterior recti and obliqui of the head. Its mner edge is separated inferiorly to a distance from that of the opposite muscle, but approaches it as it ascends, and from about the middle of the neck is only separated by a line of cclkdar tissue. The aider edge is free from the second vertebra to the occipital bone. 852. This muscle prevents the head from being bent, or raises it when it has been bent. When it acts by itself, it extends the head, inclining it to its own side, and turning it by rotation to the opposite side. When the two act together, the head is directly extended. 853. When the trapezius is raised, the upper part of this muscle is seen between the splenii by their separation from each other at the third cervical vertebra. This upper part may serve as a guide for exposing the rest of the muscle, removing successively from above downwards the splenius, the sacro-lumbalis, the longissimus dorsi, the traiosversalis colli and trachelo-mastoideus. The preceding mUsclcs being removed, the fourth layer is brought into view.255 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. OF THE SEMISPINALIS COLLI, SEMISPINALIS UOKSI, AND MULTl- FIUUS SPIX.E. 854. These muscles consist of a number of small fleshy fasci- culi, situated at the inner part of each vertebral groove, from the axis to the posterior surface of the sacrum, extended from the transverse processes to the spinous processes of all the vertebrae, frequently confounded with each other, and contracting more or less intimate unions with the interspinales dorsi et lumborum and longissimus dorsi. Of these muscular fasciculi, some are super- ficial, the others deep and covered by the former The superficial are divided into two muscles, the semispinalis colli, and the semi- spinalis dorsi. 855. The semispinalis colli arises from the extremities of five or six of the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, from whence its fasciculi proceed obliquely from below upwards and from with- out inwards, to be attached to the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae from the fifth to the second. 856. The semispinalis dorsi arises from the posterior and supe- rior part of the summit of the transverse processes of the eleventh, tenth, ninth, eighth, seventh, and sometimes the sixth dorsal ver- tebrae, by five or six tendons, shorter and thicker in the lower, longer and more slender in the upper part. Each of them re- ceives fleshy fibres which constitute a fusiform bundle, at first round and thick, then thin and narrow, and which are terminated by other tendons, flat, and larger than those of the origin, to the num- ber of five, six, seven," or eight, which attach themselves to the lower and lateral part of the spinous processes of the three, four, or five first dorsal vertebrae, and of the two last cervical. Some of them have the superior tendons bifurcated or even divided into three or four branches, and attaching themselves to several spinous processes at once, intermingling with those of the neighbouring fas- ciculi. 867. The deep portion or multifidus spines, consists of from twenty-five to twenty-seven bundles. They arise separately from three or four tubercles of the sacrum, which correspond to the arti- cular processes, from the sacro-iliac ligament, from the backmost part of the crista ilei, the articular processes of the lumbar ver- tebrae, transverse processes of the dorsal, and articular proces- ses of the four last cervical vertebrae, by conical tendons, whose divergent fibres, after a short course, furnish the fleshy body, which ascends obliquely inwards, widening and becoming thicker, and is m a great measure confounded with the neighbouring bundles. 1 nese muscular fasciculi are much more distinct in the loins and neck, than in the back and behind the sacrum. Other tendons proceed mternally from these fleshy bodies, and attach themselves to the lower edge of the spinous processes of the sacrum, of all tlic lumbar and dorsal vertebrae, and six last ceryical, in such aACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. inanncr that each of them is dispersed over several vertcbr.x- by f;isciculi of different lengths, and terminates all at once at the third, fourtl), and fifth vertebrae above that from which it arises. Each of the spinous processes also receives at the same time tendons from three or four of the fleshy bundles which are beneath it. Pretty frequently also in the neck, other deeper bundles proceed from the transverse process of one vertebra to the spinous process and lower edge of the lamina of the one immediately above. 858. The posterior surface of all these muscles is covered, in the neck, by the complexus, the deep cervical artery, and the pos- terior branclics of the cervical nerves ; and in the back and loins, by the longissimus dorsi. The anterior surface covers the lamin;e of the vertebrie, their transverse and articular processes, and the liganienta flava. The inner surface is applied upon the spinous processes, the intcrspinales cervicis, and the dorsal and lumbar in- terspinal ligaments. 859. These muscles have nearly the same uses as the sacro- lumbalis and longissimus dorsi; but have also some peculiar to themselves. In the standing .posture, they balance the vertebral column upon the pelvis, by their sacral and lumbar fasciculi, >vhich, by contracting, furnish also solid points of support for the dorsal and cervical fasciculi. Moreover, by acting on one side, they produce a slight lateral inflection with rotation of the vertebral column ; or they may also impress motion of rotation on any parti- cular vertebra, according as an individual fasciculuij acts by itself. OF THE INTEIISFTNALES CKttVlCIS, 860. The Interspinales cervicis are twelve in number, and oc- cupy, in two parallel rows close to each other, the intervals be- tween the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae, from that of the atlas and axis, to that which exists between the last vertebra of the neck and the first of the back. Each space contains two. They are so many thin, flat, quadrilateral fasciculi, arising, by short aponeuroses, from the sides of the lower edge of the spinous process of the vertebra above, and terminating in the same manner at the upper edge of the vertebra below. Their outer surface is covered by the multifidus spina}; the inner is separated by cellu- lar tissue from that of the opposite muscle. 861. The interspinales cervicis bring the spinous processes near each other, and thus contribute to the extension of the neck, and, consequently, to the projection of the bead backwards. The interspinales muscles of "the loins are very indistinct; in the back they may be said to be wanting. 4-MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 257 OF THE inter-tuansvehsales colli. 862. The Inter-transversales Colli are small, quadrilateral, thin, flat bundles, placed two and two in the intervals of the trans- verse processes of the neck, excepting between the first and second, where there is only one. They are distinguished into anterior and posterior; the former are six in number, the latter five. The two muscles of each interval are attached separately, the one to the anterior, the other to the posterior edge of the groove, which is ob- served on the transverse process below. They then ascend paral- lel to each other, and separated by the anterior branches of the cervical nerves, to be attached to the lower part of the transverse process above ; these insertions take place by means of short apo- neurotic fibres. The anterior inter-transversales colli are covered anteriorly by the rectus capitis anticus major. The posterior are covered behind by the splenius, transversalis colli, and sacro-lum- baUs. 863. These muscles draw the transverse processes of the neck toward each other, and contribute to the lateral inflexions of that part of the body. OF THE INTEIl-TRANSVERSALES LUMBORUM. 864. These muscles, which are all fleshy, and are ten in num- ber, five on each side, resemble the preceding in their general dis- position, only they are less distinct, and are not placed in two rows, each inter-transverse space containing only one. The first occu- pies the interval which exists between the transverse processes of the first lumbar, and the last dorsal vertebra : and the last occurs between those of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. Their posterior surface corresponds to the sacro-lumbalis; the anterior to the quadratus lumborum. Their lower and upper edges are at- tached to the corresponding edges of the neighbouring transverse processes, by means of very short aponeurotic fibres. 865. These muscles bend the lumbar region of the vertebral column laterally, or raise it when it is inclined to the opposite side. They act, however, but feebly, on account of their weakness, and the closeness of their points of attachment and termination. OF THE RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MAJOR. 866. This muscle, which is elongated, flat, triangular, and much broader above than below, is situated behind the articulation of the head with the vertebral column. It is attached by short aponeu- roses, above the obliquus capitis inferior, to the tubercle of the spinous process of the axis, whence it ascends outwards and a little258 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. backwards, to terminate in a radiating manner, under the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, between the rectus minor and obliquus superior. 867. Its posterior surface is covered by the complexns and ob- liquus superior. The anterior corresponds to the occipital bone, the posterior arch of the atlas, the posterior atlanto-axoidal liga- ment, the rectus minor muscle, and the vertebral artery. 8G8. It extends the head directly, when it acts in conjunction ■with its fellow, obliquely when by itself, in which case it produces a motion of rotation by which the face is turned to the same side. OF THE RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOU. 860. It is situated before the rectus posticus major, and has nearly the same form, but is shorter. It is attached to the tuber- cle of the posterior arch of the atlas by a short tendon with radiat- ing fibres, from whence it proceeds nearly in a vertical direction, becoming broader toward the occipital bone, where it is inserted into the impressions observed near its crest, and below its lower curved line, not far from the occipital hole. 870. Its posterior surface, which is inclined downwards, is co- vered by the complexus, from which it is however separated by much fiit, and by the preceding muscle. The anterior surface covers the occipital bone, the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament, and the vertebral artery. 871- It inclines the head backward upon the atlas. OP THE OBLIQUUS CAPITIS INFERIOR. 872. Elongated, rounded and fusiform, it is attached by indis- tinct aponeurotic fibres to the tubercle of the spinous process of the axis near the rectus major; it then proceeds backwards, out- wards and upwards, and is inserted to the lower and back part of the summit of the transverse process of the atlas, by means of aponeurotic fibres, which are also indistinct. Its posterior surface is covered by the complexus and trachelo-mastoideus. The atite* rior is applied upon the lamina of the second vertebra, the poste- rior axoido-atlantal ligament, and the vertebral artery. 873. It impresses a rotatory motion upon the first vertebra, vrhich turns the face toward its own side. OF THE OBLIQUUS CAPITIS SUPERIOR. 874. It is situated on the sides and behind the articulation of the head, and is an elongated and flat muscle, narrower below than above. It arises by a sort of small tendon from the summit of theMUSCLES OF THE HEAD. 259 first trarifeVCTse procbss iof tlie 'ncck, before the preceding, with' . which it is a little united. It then ascends backwards and inwards, i becoming broader, and arrives beneath the outer part of the supe- rior curved line of the occipital bone, and sometimes at the mastoid [process of the temporal, where it is fixed between the splcnius and rrectus capitus posticus major, by pretty distinct aponeurotic fibres. Mts posterior surface, which is inclined downwards, is covered by tthe com plexus, the trachelo-mastoideus, and by the splenius. The ( anterior passes over the occipital bone, the vertebral artery, and I the attachment of the rectus capitis posticus major. 875. It extends the head, inclming it to its own side. 876- The above recti and obliqui muscles are exposed imme- ildiately on removing the upper extremity of the complexus, but, :iare covered with a quantity of cellular substance, which must be premoved; while doing so, the head should be bent forwards for i the recti, the atlas rotated on the axis for the obliquus inferior, and lithe head twisted as much as possible on the atlas, for the obliquus ^superior. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. MUSCLES OF THE CEANIUM. Of the Epicranial Aponeurosis. 877- This name is given to a broad fibrous expansion, adhering tjtrongly to the integuments, and loosely attached to the pericra- liaium by a lax cellular tissue, which is destitute of adipose sub- utance; it covers the whole upper part of the head. The fleshy Bbres of the frontal, occipital, and avu-icular muscles terminate in it. ttts fibres, which are very distinct, white and parallel posteriorly, nre m the rest of its extent greyish, interwoven and indistinct, in- jomuch that it often appears to degenerate into cellular tissue, rhey are also frequently divided into bundles, and leave intervals: ..)f greater or less size between them. OF THE FRONTALIS.* 878. The Frontalis is a membranous muscle, of an irregularly [uadrilateral form, covering the forehead, to the skin of which it trongly adheres. Its fibres, which are short, and directed ob- iquely outwards towards the temple, become longer, parallel, and V" middle, to be afterwards shortened more internally, ?fiere they are interwoven a httle with those of the opposite side. nJonuZ^^T^^^ 'lescribe this muscle with the following, under the general i.ime ol Occcjnto-Jroiitali,, or L'jiicraniui.ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 260 Infcriorly they seem to unite with the pyramidalie nasi, palpchralis, and corrugator supercilii. Its upper edge, which is continuous with the epicranial aponeurosis, describes, towards the fronto-pa- rietal suture, a curve, whose convexity is directed backwards, and is sometimes sinuous. 879. Its anterior surface is covered by the integuments; the posterior rests upon the os frontis, a little upon the temporal and corrugator supercilii muscles, and upon the vessels and nerves which come out of the orbit to be distributed over the forehead. 880. It brings forward part of the integuments of the cranium, wrinkles the skin of the forehead transversely, and may contri- bute to open the eye by its union with the orbicularis palpe- brarum. OF THE OCCIPITALIS. 881. Tlie Occipitalis, which resembles the preceding, but a little less adherent to the skin, is narrower and more regularly qua- drilateral. It is situated at the posterior part of the cranium, be- hind the mastoid process, and above the upper curved line of the occipital bone. It is attached by short aponeurotic fibres to the outer part of that line, and the neighbouring region of the tem- poral bone, above the splenius and sterno-cleido-mastoideus. Like the frontalis, it terminates in the epicranial aponeurosis. It is covered by the integuments and some nervous filaments, and lies upon the occipital and temporal bones. 882. Its action is less marked than that of the frontalis. It pulls backward a part of the skin of the head, without wrinkling it much, and stretches the common aponeurosis. 883. The epicranial aponeurosis, with the frontalis and occi- pitalis muscles, are always difficult to be dissected, because they adhere so closely to the skin, and so loosely to the pericranium. [ Perhaps the best plan is, to expose the muscles first, and proceed 1 from them to the aponeurosis ; while doing so, care must be taken, i by inclining the edge of the scalpel towards the skin, not to cut| through the subjacent parts. ' To expose the frontalis, make an incision through the skin pa- rallel with the eye-brow, but a little above it, and, from the middle of this one, another upwards to the crown of the head : the skin is to be carefully dissected off on each side of this latter incision, using the forceps until a large enough flap is obtained for holdinp with the fingers. To expose the occipitalis, an incision is to be made from above the mastoid process to the crown of the head, and, if the integu-j mcnts have not been previously cut in dissecting the muscles ol the neck, another at right angles with the commencement of it. Bv this incision- the occipitalis may be exposed, obserNnng the sam(MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. 261 precautious as with regard to the frontalis. By extending these incisions, tlic whole of the epicranial aponeurosis may be dissected. OF THE SUrERIOR. AUllIS. (Attollens Aurivulam.) 884'. This muscle is situated on the temple, above the ear. It is thin and membranous, broad above, narrow below, and of a tri- angular form. It is attached by its summit to the fore and inner part of the fibre-cartilage of the ear, on the convexity which is formed by the upper part of the concha, and ascends from thence, in a radiating manner, to the epicranial aponeurosis, where it termi- nates. It is entirely fleshy, excepting at its summit, where there are observed some fibrous parts. 885. Its outer surface is covered by the skin, while the inner covers the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle. Its posterior edge is very short and oblique. The anterior is confounded with the next muscle. 886. It raises the ear, and stretches the epicranial aponeurosis. OF THE ANTERIOR AURIS. {Prior AuriculcB.) 887. It is of the same form as the preceding muscle, but less apr parent, and is situated on the temple, before the ear. Its summit is attached to the fore part of the helix, and from this point its fibres proceed, separating considerably from each other, to termi- nate on the outside of the epicranial aponeurosis, near the frontal muscle. 888. Its outer surface is covered by the skin; the inner is ap- pUed upon the temporal muscle and artery. Its upper edge is con- founded with the preceding muscle, while the lower is lost in the cellular tissue above the zygomatic arch. B89. It carries the ear forwards and upwards. OF THE POSTERIOR AURIS. {Musculi Retrahentes Auriculam.) B90. This m fib 890. This muscle consists of one or more small bundles of fleshy fibres, thin, flat, or fusiform, rather irregular, and situated behind the ear. They arc attached by short aponeuroses to the mastoid process, whence tlicy proceed horizontally forwards to terminate at tiie lower part of the convexity formed by tlie concha of the car.ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. by means of aponeurotic fibres or small tendons. They arc covered by the integuments, and are separated from the temporal bono by cellular tissue. 891. This muscle, which has no connexion with the epicranial aponeurosis, carries the ear backwards. 892. Whilst dissecting these muscles, the external ear should be drawn downwards^ by means of hooks, for the supevior uuris; backwards, for the anterior auris ; and fm-tvards, for the -poste- Tior auris. MUSCLES OF THE FACE. OJF THE ORBICULARIS PALPEBBAKUM. 893. The Orbicularis palpebrarum surrounds the base of the i Orbit, and occupies the greater part of the upper and lateral region i of the face. It is broad, thin, and circular, and is slit transversely • in the middle for the aperture of the eyeUds. It has three distinct points of origin internally for its fleshy fibres : 1st, at the ascend- , ing process of the upper maxillary bone, and internal orbitar pro- i cess of the frontal; 2dly, at the anterior edge of the lachrymal groove and the neighbouring part of the base of the orbit; 3dly, at the two sides and fore part of a small tendon, about half a line broad, and two lines long, stronger toward its point of attach- ment than the place where it terminates; this tendon proceeds transversely outwards, from the anterior edge of the lachrymal groove, to the internal commissure of the eyelids, where it bifur- cates to be continued with each of the fibro-cartilages, situated in their substance. Posteriorly, this tendon adheres intimately to a thin aponeurosis, which covers the lachrymal sac, and also gives rise to some fleshy fibres, and was formerly called the rejiected tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum. After originating in this manner, the upper and lower fibres of the muscle proceed, in opposite directions, to the upper and under J parts of the base of the orbit, and following its curvature, unite at I the outside of the external commissure of the palpebrje. The mid- I die fibres, which are less distinct, much less curved, and always I very pale, are distributed in the substance of both eyeUds, and I also unite below the outer commissure by a tendinous line, some- H times of considerable size. All these fibres describe concentric i curves, whose centre corresponds to the aperture of the eye- lids, where they are much shorter. Those which are nearest the li circumference are' almost circular; the others describe a sort of > ellipse, and the more central do not even go so far as the commis- sures of the palpebra^ 894. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the skin, to which it is intimately united above, while below it is sepa- rated by fat; and in the place which corresponds to the eyelids,MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 2G3 is in connexion with a very delicate lanainar cellular tissue. The I posterior surface is applied superiorly upon the corrugator super- . cilii, to which it adheres ; lower down, upon the ligamentum latum and fibro-cartilage of the upper eyelid; externally, upon the ex- I ternal orbitar process, and the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle; I below, upon the cheek bone, the zygomatic muscles, the levator ] labii superioris, the levator labii superioris aloeque nasi, from which i it is separated by the facial vein, and upon the ligament and the t fibro-cartilage of the lower eyelid; internally, upon the ascend- i ing process of the superior maxillary bone, and the lachrymal 1 sac. Its circumference is confounded, above and below, with the I pyramidalis nasi; then a little more outwards, with the anterior ( edge of the frontalis (878). At its lower part, it is free, and some i irregular bundles of fibres are detached from it, which are lost in I the cellular tissue of the cheek, and describe curves whose convexity i ia below; some of them unite with the zygomaticus minor. ,. 895. The orbicularis palpebrarum carries the eyelids toward I each other, bringing them over the fore part of the eyeball, ' upon wliicli it applies them, wrinlding them more or less. It also 1 depresses the eyebrow at the same time that it raises the cheek, . and renders it more prominent. It determines the course of the I tears toward the inner angle of the eye. The cessation of its ac- l tion allows the eyelids to open. It is the antagonist of the levator palpebrjE superioris. 896. To dissect this muscle, a circular incision, through the skin, should be made around the eye about an inch from the edges • of the eyelids. The skin at the upper part is to be raised, dissect- ing from above downwards, and following the curved direction of the fibres from the internal angle of the eye to the outer. The skin at the lower part is tp be raised by dissecting from below up- wards, and using the same precautions. OF THE CORUUGATOR SUPERCILII. 897- The Carrugator Supercilii is a short and thin muscle, which describes the same curve as the superciliary arch of the fron- tal bone, on wliich it lies. Internally, it is attached toward the nasal prominence of the same bone by an extremity some- times simple, but most commonly divided into two or three por- tions. It terminates in a pointed form, about the middle of the orbitar arch, where it is confounded with the frontalis and orbicu- laris palpebrarum. Its anterior surface is covered by these two muscles, and, a little inwards, by the pyramidalis nasi. The pos- terior surface covers the frontal bone, superciliary artery, and trontal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. 898. It draws towards the nose the skin of the eyebrows, the hairs ot which It raises so as to shade the eye. It acts especially in the dcprcssmg passions.264f ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 899. This muscle is exposed by cutting through the lower fleshy fibres of the frontalis muscle, and throwing them with the upper fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum aside. OF THE I'YIIAMIDALIS NASI. 900. This muscle, which many anatomists regard as an appen- dage of the frontalis, with whose fibres it is interlaced at its upper part, covers the nasal bones. The two pyramidal muscles are k united above, and only separate towards the middle of the nasal i bones, to terminate in a diverging rhanner, in a membranous tissue t rather cellular than fibrous, which occupies the sides of the nose, > and also receives the fibres of the triangularis nasi. Each of ) them is a slender and triangular fasciculus confounded^externally I with the orbicularis palpebrarum. 901. The anterior surface of the pyramidalis nasi is covered ( by the skin ; the posterior is applied upon the corrugator super- j cilii, the frontal bone, the fronto-nasal suture, and the ossa nasi. 902. It contributes very little to the motions of the nose, and t can only serve to give the frontalis muscle a fixed point, at the t moment when it brings forward the integuments of the cranium. < 903. For the dissection of the pyramidalis nasi, make an inci- t sion through the skin of the nose, from its root to its lower and i middle part, then raise the skin carefully. OF THE ORBICULARIS ORIS. 904. This muscle is formed by fibres which exist in the sub- stance of either lip, and by the terminations of the zygomatic!, levatores labii, levatores anguli oris, depressores labii iuferioris, i levatores menti and buccinators, which are interlaced in a very complicated manner, and are incorporated with its proper fibres. These latter correspond to the free edge of the hps ; they are concentric, curved, and divided into two planes, one of which be- longs to the upper, the other to the under hp. Viewed in con- nexion, they present an oval form, and intersect each other at their two commissures. _ j 905. This muscle is covered anteriorhj by the skin, to which it firmly adheres. The posterior surface is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, to which it is more loosely attached; it is also in connexion with the labial glands. Its free circumference is invested by the red membrane of the hps. Its great circumfe- rence is continuous on all sides with the muscles which we are go- ing to enumerate. Superiorly and in the middle, it is attached by some fibres to the lower part of the septum of the nose. 906. This muscle brings the lips toward each other, and con- tracts the aperture of the mouth, which it carries forward, makingMUSCLES OF THE FACE, «• - 265 it represent a sort of rim with radiating wrinkles. It acts in sue-' ' tion, in playing upon musical instruments, &c. It also acts as an antagonist to all the other muscles of the lips. 907. As this is the muscle with which most of those of the face are connected, it should be dissected first. For this purpose, the mouth and cheeks are to be stuffed with baked hair, and the lips sewed together. The muscle being thus stretched, a circular incision is to be made round the mouth, at some distance from the edge of the lips, and the skin raised by dissecting round the mouth, in the direction of the fibres. By dissecting away the skin in the direction of the different muscles which proceed to the lips, they will be easily exposed. OF THE THIANGULARIS NASI. . > (Compressor sive dilator nasi.) 908. This muscle is thin, flat and triangular, and is situated upon the sides of the nose. It arises internally of the fossa canina by a very short and narrow aponeurosis, from which proceed in a diver- gent manner, the fleshy fibres, which issuing from beneath the leva- tor labii superioris alaeque nasi, cover the back of the nose, describ- ing a curve whose convexity is directed upwards. The superior fibres which are longer, ascend, and the inferior, which are shorter, are horizontal; they gradually degenerate into a rather loose aponeu- rotic expansion, which covers the nose, adheres to it, and is con- tinuous with the pyramidalis nasi and the muscle of the opposite side. One of its portions is attached to the fibro-cartilage of the wing of the nose. 909. Its anterior surface is covered by the skin, and a little by the levator communis muscle; the posterior is applied upon the superior maxillary bone, and upon the lateral cartilage of the nose. 910. Anatomists have attributed entirely opposite uses to this muscle. Its true action is to draw the wings of the nose outwards, and thus to dilate the nostrils. This muscle is exposed by detach- ing the inner part of the following. OF THE LEVATOR LABII SUPEUIOllIS NASI. 911. This muscle is a thin triangular fleshy bundle, contracted at its upper part, and broader below. It is situated on the sides of the nosG. It arises above from the outer surface of the ascend- ing process of the superior maxillary bone, beneath the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum, as well as from the anterior edge of the lachrymal groove and lower part of the base of" the orbit, by short aponeuroses, succeeded by the fleshy fibres, which des>ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ^66 pending obliquely outwards in a diverging manner, are partly attached to the fibrous membrane, fibro-cartilage, and even skin of the wing of the nose, and partly lose themselves in the upper lip, passing before the orbicularis oris. 912. Its anterior surface is placed beneath the skin, to which It adheres intimately below. At its upper part alone, it is con- cealed by a portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum and hy the labial vein. The posterior surface covers the preceding muscle, the as- cending process of the superior maxillary bone, the edge of the le- vator labii superioris, the depressor ala? nasi, a part of the orbicu- laris oris, and some branches of the infra-orbitar nerve. 913. It raises the upper lip and the wing of the nose, which it also draws a little outwards. OF THE LEVATOR LABII SUPEIIIORIS. 914. This muscle is thin, flat, rather short, and of a very irre- gularly quadrilateral form. It is situated at the middle and inner part of the face, beneath the edge of the orbit. It is attached above the infra-orbitar foramen, over an extent of about an inch, to the malar and upper maxillary bones, by short aponeurotic fibres, pretty frequently divided into two, and sometimes into three fasci- culi. From thence it descends, contracting, downwards and in- wards, to the corresponding lip, where it is confounded with the orbicularis oris, between the nose and the commissure. 915. Its anterior surface is covered at its upper part by the or- bicularis palpebrarum and labial vein, and below by the skin, to which it strongly adheres. The posterior surface is in connexion with the levator anguli oris, from which it is separated by the infra- orbitar vessels and nerve, as well as by a great quantity of adipose tissue. It also covers the depressor labii superioris et alai nasi. Its inner edge is often confounded with the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi; and the outer frequently united to the zygomaticus minor. 916. It raises the upper lip, carrying it a little outwards. OF THE LEVATOR ANGULI ORIS. ( Musculus caninus.) 917. This is a small elongated flat muscle, broader and thinner above than below, attached, beneath the infra-orbitar holer, by short iiponeuroses, to the fossa canina, from which it descends obliquely outwards to the commissure of the lips, where it seems to be con- tinuous with the triangularis, although some of its fibres are inter- faced with those of the orbicularis oris, zygomaticus major, and buccinator muscles.MUSCLES OF THE FACE. i267 918. Its anterior surface is covered above by the preceding muscle, and the infra-orbitar vessels and nerves, and below by the zygomaticus minor and skin. The posterior ssurface covers the fossa cauina, the mucous membrane of the mouth, and buccina- tor. 919. It raises the commissure of the lips and carries it inwards. OF THE ZYGOMATICUS MAJOR. 920. This muscle is situated obliquely at the fore part and on the sides of the fiice. It is elongated, slender, rounded, and is at- tached by aponeuroses, below the outer surface of the malar bone, hear its posterior angle; whence, becoming a little broader, it descends inwards and forwards, and terminates at the commissure of the lips, where it is continuous with the levator anguli oris, de- pressor anguli oris, buccinator and orbicularis, sometimes bifur- cating. 921. Its anterior surface is concealed above by the orbicularis palpebrarum, and farther down by the skin, from which it is often separated by an enormous quantity of fat. The posterior surface covers the malar bone, the masseter and buccinator muscles, the labial vein, and a more or less considerable mass of adipose tissue. 922. It raises the commissure of the lips, which it carries back- wards and outwards. It acts principally in laughing. OF THE ZYGOMATICUS MINOR. 923. This muscle does not occur in all subjects. It is situated internally of the preceding and above it, is flat, elongated, and very thin. It arises from the outer surface of the malar bone, and sometunes even seems to be detached from the orbicularis palpe- brarum, and descends more or less obliquely inwards, terminating in the levator labii superioris, or in the orbicularis oris. 924. Its anterior surface is covered by the skin and orbicularis palpebrarum. The posterior covers the malar bone, the levator anguli oris, and the labial vein. 925. It raises the upper lip and draws it outwards. OF THE DEPRESSOll LAEII SUPEIIIORIS AL^QUE NASI. 926. This is a small fleshy bundle, somewhat irregular, placed beneath the wing of the nose and behind the upper lip. It arises, by short aponeuroses, near the anterior nasal spine, from a small iossa, whence it ascends in part toward the posterior region of the ■wmg of the nose, and is partly confounded with the levator labii superioris alocque nasi and the orbicularis oris. Internally, its^8 ACTIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. fibres are vertical, externally oblique. They are covered by those of the levator labii superioris alaiquc nasi, and by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and are applied upon the superior maxil- lary bone. 927. It depresses the wing of the nose. 928. This muscle is exposed by everting the upper lip, and raising the mucous membrane on the side of its fa?num. OF THE DErRESSail ANGULI GUIS. (Triangularis Labiorum.) 929. This muscle, which is thin, flat, and triangular, is situated at the lower part of the face, arising from the external maxillary line, between the masscter muscle and the mental hole, by short aponeurotic fibres, succeeded by fleshy flbres, some of which ap- pear to come from the platysma myoides. These fibres ascend toward the commissure of the lips, those in the middle vertically, the anterior obliquely backwards, and the posterior from behind forwards. At the summit of the muscle, they are incorporated with the zygomaticus major and orbicularis oris, but more espe- cially with the levator anguli oris. 930. The outer surface adheres strongly to the skin. The in- ner covers the platysma myoides, buccinator and depressor labii inferioris, to which latter it is united. 931. It lowers the commissure of the lips, and acts especially in grief. OF THE DEPRESSOR LAMIl INFERIORIS. (Quadratus Menti. ) 932. It is situated to the inside of the preceding muscle, and is thin and quadrilateral. It arises from the external oblique line of the inferior maxillary bone, and ascends in the lower lip, where it is confounded with the orbicularis oris. Its fibres, which are pa- rallel, and seem to be continuous with those of the platysma myoides, are directed obliquely upwards and inwards, uniting in the most intimate manner internally and above with those of the opposite side, and internally and below with those of the levator menti, while externally and below they are interlaced with those of the preceding muscle. 933. Its anterior surface is covered by the depressor anguli oris and by the skin, to which it strongly adheres. The posterior surface is applied upon the lower jaw, the mental nerve and ves- sels, and the orbicularis oris and levator menti. 934. Tliis muscle depresses the lower lip.269 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. OF THE LEVATOR LABII INFERIOUIS. (^Levator Mentl) 935. Tliis muscle is situated between the two deprcssorcs labii inferioris. It is short, thick, and conical. It is attached by its summit to the fossa observed on the side of the symphysis of the chin, under the alveoli of the incisors, where it presents a small tendon. Its fibres diverge from this point, and are inserted into the skin of the chin, to which they strongly adhere, and where they produce the small hollows that are generally observed on that part. 936. It is covered above by the mucous membrane of the mouth ; internally is separated from that of the opposite side by cellular tissue ; externally, it is contiguous with the depressor labii inferi- oris and orbicularis oris ; below, it lies upon the jaw, and is cover- ed anteriorly by the integuments. 937. It raises the chin, and pushes the under lip a little up- wards. Its upper fibres also serve to invert the lip. 938. Like the depressor labii sviperioris this muscle is dissected, by everting the under lip, and raising the mucous membrane on the side of the fraenum. OF THE BtTCCINATOR. 939- The Buccinator, of which the cheek is especially formed, is much larger in glass-blowers and persons who play on wind in- struments than in other individuals. It is flat, thin, and quadri- lateral, and is situated in the interval between the two alveolar borders. It is attached above to the posterior part of the upper alveolar border, from the last tooth to the second small grinder; below, to the same part of the lower alveolar border ; in the mid- dle, to an aponeurosis which descends from the summit of the in- ner wing of the pterygoid process, and which receives on the other side fibres from the constrictor pharyngis superior. From these different origins the fleshy fibres proceed toward the commissure of the lips, but following different directions : the upper descend- ing, the lower ascending a little, and the middle fibres passing ho- rizontally forwards. They all meet at the commissure, where a marked interlacing takes place between the upper and lower, the former passing into the under lip, the latter into the upper, where they are confounded with the fibres of the orbicularis oris. 940. This muscle is covered by an extremely thick layer of fat, without which the cheek would appear hollow, and which even forms in the middle of the latter a sort of ball, appearing as if se- parated from the neighbouring parts. By tlais fat, its externalACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 270 stirface is separated posteriorly from the coronoid process, and from the lower part of the temporal muscle; and in the middle, from the masseter. Anteriorly, it is covered by the zygomaticus major, platysma myoides, and triangularis muscles, by the skin, labial artery and vein. A kind of whitish membrane, formed of a fibrous cellular tissue, also covers it in its whole extent, adhering intimately to it, and prevents the buccal glands from being imme- diately applied upon it posteriorly. The inner surface is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth. Opposite the third molar tooth, it is obliquely traversed by the duct of the parotid gland. 941. It draws the commissure of the lips backwards, and con- tributes to mastication, by keeping the food between the teeth. If the mouth is filled with air which distends the cheeks, it com* presses it and drives it out, as in the action of blowing, sounding a trumpet, &c. 942. The anterior part of the buccinator muscle may be imme- diately shown, by removing the cellular and adipose tissue which covers it; but, at its origin, it can only be exposed by removing the ramus of the lower jaw, or by dissecting it from within outr wards. or THE MASSETEU.* 943. The Masseter lies upon the outer surface of the lower jaw. It arises from the two anterior and outer thirds of the inferior edge of the zygomatic arch, from the posterior part of the same edge, from the inner surface of the arch, and at the same time a little from the internal aponeurosis of the temporal muscle. These ori- gins take place in a distinct manner; the first, by a very strong, broad, and thick aponeurosis, which covers the outer svu-face of the muscle to beyond its middle part, and is divided into several digitations which are interposed between its fleshy fibres ; the se- cond, by small aponeurotic bundles, which are much shorter ; the third by small fibrous planes of still less extent. The fleshy fibres which come from these three points follow different directions; the first, which constitute the principal part of the muscle, pass ob- liquely downwards and backwards, to be inserted at the outside of the angle of the lower jaw, by small aponeurotic laminae ; the se- cond descend vertically, and are attached a little higher ; the third proceed obliquely downwards and forwards to terminate on the out- side of the coronoid process by other aponeuroses. 944. The external surface of this muscle is covered posteriorly by the parotid gland; below, by the platysma myoides; in the middle by Steno's duct, the facial nerve, and the transverse facial artery; anteriorly and above, by the orbicularis palpebrarum and zygomaticus major. All the other parts of this surface are in con- * Metr ue/ixi; cotncdo.MUSCLES OF THE FACE. tact with the skin. The internal surface covers the ramus of the jaw, the tendon of tlic temporal muscle, and the buccinator, from which it is separated by a great quantity of fat. 945. The masseter raises the lower jaw, and acts much during mastication. 94G. This muscle is dissected from above downwards, reversing, forwards and backwards, the parts covering its external surface. To stretch its fibres, the lower jaw should be drawn downwards. OF THE TEMPORAL OR CROTAPHITE MUSCLE, 947. The Temporal (Temporalis), is a broad triangular mus- cle, thin above, narrow and thick below, which fills the whole temporal fossa. It is inclosed, as it were, in a sort of sheath, formed internally by several of the bones of the cranium, and ex- ternally by an aponeurosis, which is attached to the whole of the curved line of the temples, to the posterior and superior edge of the malar bone, and to the upper edge of the zygomatic arch. This aponeurosis is of a violet tint above, where it is membranaceous, and pearly white below, where it is thicker and covered by a large quantity of fibrous cellular tissue, to which it intimately adheres. It is even there divided into two laminfe which contain in their in- terval a certain quantity of fat. The fleshy fibres take their origin from the whole extent of its inner surface, and from the periosteum of the temporal fossa, as well as from the small ridge which separ- ates the latter from the zygomatic fossa. They all proceed oblique- ly to the two surfaces of another aponeurosis occupying the middle of the muscle, broad, radiated and triangular like it, and becoming gradually thicker as it descends. From its position, it separates the fleshy fibres into two planes, an outer and an inner, the former rather thin, the latter much thicker. Opposite the zygomatic arch, it separates from the fleshy fibres, and is converted into a very strong tendon, which descends vertically towards the coro- noid process of the inferior maxillary bone, which it embraces in its whole extent, excepting at the outside, where the masseter is in- serted. 948. The external surface of the temporal muscle is covered by the epicranial aponeurosis, the superior and anterior auricvdar muscles, orbicularis palpebrarum and masseter, the superficial tem- poral vessels and nerves, and the zygomatic arch. The internal «w^/aee is appUed upon all the bones which form the temporal iossa, the internal maxillary artery, the pterygoideus externus and buccmater muscles, from which it is separated by much fat. The npper edge of this muscle is curved; the anterior extends from the external orbitar process of the frontal bone, to the anterior edge ot the coronoid process of the lower jaw. The posterior edge, wjiich IS at first attached to the horizontal root of the zygomatic272 ACTIVE OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. process, is reflected from above downwards over the base of that process, to; proceed to the posterior edge of the coronoid process. 949. The temporal muscle strongly, raises the lower jaw, lowers the upper a little, and presses the teeth against each other. The posterior portion draws the jaw backwards, when it has been car- ried forward by the action of the external pterygoid muscles. 950. The dissection of this muscle is to be performed by remov- ing the parts which cover its external surface (948) ; by this the aponeurosis is exposed, Avhich is now to be removed by dissecting from above downwards in the direction of the fibres of the muscle, which should be stretched by depressing the lower jaw. OF THE PTERYGOIDEUS INTERNUS. 951. This is a strong and thick muscle, situated internally of, and a little behind, the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone. It arises from the whole pterygoid fossa, and particularly from the inner surface of the outer wing of the pterygoid process, by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, which partly pass in the form of pretty strong fasciculi among the fleshy fibres, and are partly applied over the inner surface of the muscle. It descends backwards and out- wards, after receiving fibres from the middle groove of the upper surface of the palatine tuberosity, and some others from the outside of the summit of the outer wing of the pterygoid process. It then becomes thinner, and terminates on the inside of the angle of the jaw by aponeuroses, equally long and distinct with those of its origin, which are attached to the more or less prominent ridges that are observed in this place. 952. Its inner surface covers, at its upper part, the circum- flexus palati and constrictor pharyngis superior, and inferiorly the sub-maxillary gland. The outer surface lies internally upon the branch of the lower jiiw, much in the same manner as the mas- seter does externally. It is separated from that bone above by an interval, in which are found the lingual and dentar nerves, the in- ferior dentar artery, and internal lateral ligament of the temporo- maxillary articulation. 953. When the two muscles act simultaneously, the jaw is rais- ed and carried a little forwards. If one only contracts, it carries it a little obhquely toward the opposite side. When the lower jaw is fixed, they depress the upper. OF THE PTEUYGOIDEIJS EXTERNUS. 954. This muscle, which is short, is situated in the zj^gomatic fossa. It has two origins, one from the outer surface of the ptery- goid process and from the palatine tuberosity, the other from the lower part of the zygomato-tcmporal aspect of the sphenoid boneMUSCLES OF THE ORBIT. (122), iinmccllately beneath the upper edge of the sphcno-maxillary fissure. These attachments are formed by aponeuroses, which ad- vance as far as the middle part of the muscle ; the internal maxillary artery often passes between them, in an interval filled with cellular tissue. From thence the muscle is directed outwards and back- wards, becoming gTadually thinner, and is inserted into a small fossa at the anterior surface of the neck of the condyle of the jaw, and into the fore part of the circumference of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage (579). 955. Its outer surface is in contact with the temporal muscle, and most commonly with the internal maxillary artery. The inner surface corresponds to the pterygoideus internus, the inferior max- illary nerve, the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxUlary articulation, the middle meningeal artery, and sometimes the in- ternal maxillary artery. The upper surface touches the upper part of the zygomatic fossa, and the deep temporal and masseteric nerves. 956. The outer pterygoid muscle draws forward the condyle of the jaw and the fibro-cartilage of the articulation, moving the chin in the opposite direction. When the two act together, the jaw is drawn directly forwards. 957. The pterygoid muscles are most easily dissected from within, but they may be exposed from without by removing the zygomatic process, if this has not been already done, then cutting the coronoid process near its base and drawing it away along with the temporal muscle; after this, saw through the lower jaw at the anterior edge of the masseter, cut the external lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation and draw it outwards; by this means the muscles will be so exposed, as to enable the dissector to clean them and examine their connexions. MUSCLES OF THE ORBIT. OF THE LEVATOR PALPEBR^E SUPERIORIS. 958. This muscle is long, slender, thin, and depressed, much broader anteriorly than posteriorly, and accompanies the rectus oculi superior. It is attached, by short aponeuroses, to the me- ningeal sheath of the optic nerve, and by a small tendon to the lower surface of the small wing of the sphenoid bone, not far from the optic foramen, from which it is only separated by the rectus superior. From these origins, it is directed horizontally forwards, until it arrives at the upper part of the eye-ball, when it curves downwards, expanding and gradually losing its red colour, to descend as far as the fibro-cartilage of the upper eyelid, to the upper edge of which it is attached by a very thin and membraneous^274< ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. aponeurosis, which sends some fibres to the outer part of the orbit, and contributes to the formation of the palpebral ligament. 959. Its upper surface is in contact, posteriorly, with the vault of the orbit, and with the frontal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. More anteriorly, it is covered by much adipose cellular tissue ; ami at its foremost part, the palpebral ligament separates it from the orbicularis palpebrarum. Its inferior surface is in connexion posteriorly, with the rectus superior, and anteriorly, with the tunica , conjunctiva. 960. It raises the upper eyelid, and draws it backwards within the orbit. OF THE RECTUS OCULI SUPERIOR. (Attollens Oculum). 961. It is situated under the levator palpebraj superioris, and has the same form as that muscle, but is a little shorter. It is attached, posteriorly, between it and the optic foramen, to the pro- cess of Ingrassias and fibrous sheath of the optic nerve, ming- ling there a little with the rectus internus; it then proceeds hori- zontally forwards to the upper part of the eye-ball, where it degenerates into a thin aponeurosis, which transmits a part of its fibres to the sclerotic membrane. 962. This aponeurosis, as well as that which terminates toward the eye the other three recti, is separated from that organ by a smaU indistinct synovial capsule, the walls of which are soft, and as it were downy. 963. Its upper surface is covered by the levator palpebrse su- perioris, from which it is separated by some nervous filaments, anc^ by the membrana conjunctiva; the inferior surface rests, poste- riorly, on the optic nerve, the ophthalmic artery, and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, and, anteriorly, upon the eye it- self. 964. It raises the eye. OF THE RECTUS INFERIOR. (Depressor Oculi). 965. This muscle is of the same form as the preceding, and lies upon the floor of the orbit. It arises posteriorly from a tendon common to it with the internal and external recti, and pro- ceeds horizontally towards the ball of the eye, on which it ter- minates in the same manner as the rectus superior, and two fol- lowing muscles.MUSCLES OF THE ORBIT. 1 9O6. Its inferior surface is separated from the floor of the orbit by a quantity of adipose tissue, and covered anteriorly by the conjunctiva. The upper surface is in connexion with the optic nerve, a branch of the third pair of nerves, and the eye. 967. It is the antagonist of the rectus superior, drawing the eye downwards. OF THE llECTUS INTERNUS. (Adductor Oculi). 968. It resembles the two preceding muscles and the following, and occupies the internal region of the orbit. Posteriorly, it is at- tached to the small tendon of which we have spoken, and a little to the margin of the optic hole, thence it proceeds horizontally for- wards to the inner side of the eye. Its internal surface corre- sponds to the orbit; the external to the optic nerve. 969. It carries the eye inwards. OF THE RECTUS EXTERNUS. (Abductor Oculi). 970. It is situated at the outer side of the orbit, and arises from the tendon already mentioned, and outer part of the cir- cumference of the optic hole, by short aponeuroses. Between these two origins pass the third pair of nerves, sixth pair, and nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The muscle then pro- ceeds horizontally outwards and forwards, to the outer part of the eye. It corresponds by its external surface to the perios- teum of the orbit, and to the lachrymal gland; by its internal surface to the optic nerve and sixth pair, as well as to the lenticu- lar ganglion. 971- Its action is to draw the eye outwards. 972. There results from the description of the four recti muscles of the eye, that they have all nearly the same form, and agree in possessing the following characters in common ; 1st, three of them, the inferior, outer, and inner, arise posteriorly from the same small tendon which is attached near the pituitary fossa, at the inner extremity of the sphenoidal fissure, and which, after travers- ing the latter, divides into three portions, distributed one to each of them; 2dly, their fleshy fibres, which are at first parallel, after- ■wards diverge. 9/3. Besides their position and relations to the surround- ing parts, the recti are distinguished from each other by various characters. The external is longer, and the internal shorter, than the others. The upper is the thinnest, the inner the thickest.276 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. The outer, which is more curved than the rest, receives a pair of nerves for itself The inner alone proceeds directly forward; the others are oblique, especially the outer. 974. When these muscles act together, they draw the ball of the eye into the bottom of the orbit. By contracting successively in pairs, they impress upon it all the intermediate motions to those we have already mentioned, and make it perform a sort of cir- cumduction. OP THE OBLiaUUS SUPERIOR OCULI. 975. The ohliquus superior is a slender, rounded, fusiform mus- clie, much longer than any of the preceding, but thinner and nar- rower. It is situated at the upper and inner part of the orbit, and reflected upon itself, about the middle of its course. It arises behind, by short aponeuroses, and near the optic foramen, from the prolongation of the dura mater which lines the orbit. It is there confounded a little with the insertion of the levator palpebrte superioris. It then proceeds horizontally to the internal orbitar process, passing beneath the internal orbitar foramina. When ar- rived there, it degenerates into a slender and rounded tendon, sur- rounded by a kind of cellular sheath, which is soft and loose ; it is engaged in a cartilaginous ring, which converts the depression ob- served upon the frontal bone at this place into a canal, and whose two extremities are attached to the bone in a moveable manner by very short fibrous ligaments. In th-e interior of this pulley is a synovial capsule which is reflected over the tendon, and accom- panies it fo" some way, forming around it a very distinct and close sheath; the tendon is curved from above downwards, and from within outwards at an acute angle. It then proceeds backwards and downwards between the rectus superior and ball of the eye, and is converted into a radiated aponeurosis which continues to de- scend over the outer and posterior part of the eye-ball, where it terminates, near the entrance of the optic nerve, confound- ing a portion of its fibres with the sclerotic membrane. 976. This muscle is placed between the orbit, the optic nerve, the superior and internal recti muscles, and ball of the eye. 977- It carries the ball of the eye forwards and inwards, making it experience a rotatory motion, which directs the pupil downwards and inwards. . OF THE OBLiaUUS INFERIOR OCULI. 978. The ohliquus inferior, which is situated at the anterior and under part of the orbit,"is shorter and less rounded than the pre- cedin.":? muscle. It is attached to the inner and fore part of the or-277 MUSCLES OF THE NECK. bitar surface of the superior maxillary bone, a little to the outside of the lachrymal groove, whence it is directed backwards and out- wards, curving upwards upon the convexity of the eye, between it and the rectus externus; it then degenerates into an aponeurosis which terminates in the sclerotic membrane, at the distance of two lines from the entrance of the optic nerve. 979. Its inferior surface rests upon the floor of the orbit; the upper corresponds to the eye-ball, and rectus inferior. 980. It carries the eye-ball inwards and forwards, and di- rects the pupil upwards and outwards. When it acts along with the preceding muscle, the eye is carried forwards and inwards, which counterbalances the effort made by the united recti muscles. 981. In order to dissect the muscles of the orbit, the roof and a part of the outer wall of it require to be removed; this may be done by sawing the orbitar arch, on the outside of the fossa to which the cartilaginous pully of the superior oblique is attached, and then the margin of the orbit a little below the union of the external orbitar process of the frontal bone with the malar bone. These sections being effected, a blow with a hammer will detach the piece of bone comprehended between them, and the upper wall of the orbit, which is very thin, may be removed by strong pincers. The muscles are now to be cleaned by removing the surrounding, cellular and adipose tissue. MUSCLES OF THE NECK. OF THE PLATYSMA MYOIDES. (Lafissimus Colli.) 982. This muscle has the appearance of a very thin fleshy mem- brane extended over the fore and lateral part of the neck, from the upper part of the thorax to the lower part of the face. It is of a qua- drilateral form, broader above and below than in the middle. Its fibres originate in the cellular tissue which covers the upper part of the deltoides and pectorahs major, and sometimes even, so far down as the fourth rib. From being at first scattered, they are brought nearer each other, and ascend obliquely inwards, the plane they form on the sides of the neck assuming some degree of thickness. The two muscles thus converge; at the middle of the base of the jaw, they expand a second time. Their more anterior fibres, which are the longest and largest, intermingle beneath the symphysis of the chin, and terminate in the skin of that part. The middle fibres are fixed to the external oblique line of the lower jaw, and to the base of that bone. Several of them pass across those of the depressor anguli oris to be continued into tne quadratus mcnti. or ascend to tlic commissure of the lips. I iie posterior arc in part incorporated with the depressor anguli278 ACTIVE OliGANS OF LOCOMOTION. oris, and in part lost in the cellular tissue of the cheek. The latter sometimes ascend to the orbicularis palpebrarum, or direct themselves toward the ear, covering the trapezius a httle ; but the last of them, which are much shorter than the rest, do not reach so far as the jaw-bone. They are also frequently strengthened by a thin muscular plane, (Musculus risorms of Santorini), which, arising before the parotid gland, or aponeurosis of the masseter muscle, proceeds horizontally toward the angle of the mouth. 983. The external surface of the platysma-myoides is covered by the skin, from which it is separated by a dense cellular tissue, con- taining in general little fat. The inner surface covers at its lower part the deltoides and pectoralis major, as well as the clavicle; in the middle, the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, omo-hyoideus, sterno- hyoideus, sterno-thyroideus, thyro-hyoideus, digastricus and mylo- hyoidcus, the external jugular vein, the carotid and superior thy- roid arteries, and the maxillary gland. At the upper part, it lies upon the body of the lower jaw, part of the parotid gland, the mas- seter, buccinator, depressor anguli oris, levator menti, and zygo- maticus major muscles, and the labial artery. 984. It depresses and carries outwards the commissure of the lips ; lowers the skin of the cheek and that of the neck, which it wrinkles transversely; assists in lowering the under jaw ; and may also raise the skin which covers the upper part of the chest. 985. For the dissection of this muscle put a block under the shoulders of the subject, and turn its face opposite to the side which is to be dissected. Make an incision through the skin a little below the clavicle, and parallel with it, and another in the same direction along the base of the lower jaw ; these two incisions are to be joined by another, perpendicular to them, extending from the middle of the one to the middle of the other; the flaps are now to be dissected off, the one forwards and the other backwards. The cellular tissue between the skin and the muscle is very dense, and is generally called the superficial cervical fascia. * OF THE STEKNO-MASTOIDEUS. (Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus.) 986. This muscle is long, flat, about two inches broad, narrow- er in the middle than at its extremities, bifurcated below, and si- tuated obliquely upon the anterior and lateral parts of the neck. The two branches of its bifurcation are separated from each other by an interval filled with cellular tissue. The inner or anterior, which is thicker and narrower than the other, arises from the fore part of the upper extremity of the sternum, by a tendon which ascends very high upon the fleshy fibres. The outer, which is • Vide Allan Burns' Surgical Anatomy of the head and neck.MUSCLES OF THE NECK. sometimes divided into several portions, arises by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, from the inner and upper part of the clavicle, over an extent which varies in different subjects. These two por- tions of the muscle follow different directions: the first ascends obliquely backwards and outwards, and covers the second, which is nearly vertical. After thus crossing each other they remain for some time distinct, but are at length incorporated, so as to form a single bundle, terminated by a broad and thin aponeurosis posteriorly, where it is attached to the outside ef the upper curved Une of the occipital bone, narrow and thicker anteriorly, where it is inserted into the mastoid process. At the union of its two por- tions, or a little above it, the sterno-mastoideus is traversed oblique- ly by the spinal accessory nerve. 987. Its outer surface is covered nearly in its whole extent by the platysma myoides, excepting at its upper part, where it lies under the skin and parotid gland. Between it and the platysma myoides are observed the external jugular vein, and some nervous filaments of the superficial cervical plexus. Its inner surface is applied inferiorly upon the sterno-clavicular articulation, the ster- no-thyroideus, sterno-hyoideus, and omo-hyoideus muscles, the in- ternal jugular vein, the trunk of the carotid artery, the pneumo- gastric nerve, the cervical plexus, and the sympathetic nerve. Above, it corresponds to the scalenus, levator anguli scapulie, sple- nius, and digastricus muscles, and to the spinal accessory nerve. Its anterior edge is very close below to the muscle of the opposite side, but very widely separated above. Its upper and lower parts are pretty thick, but in the middle it is thin. The posterior edge is thin, and a little concave. 988. This muscle carries the head forwards, inclines it to its own side, and makes it perform a rotatory motion which turns the face to the opposite side. When the two muscles act together, the head is bent directly, and in this case the thorax requires to be pre- viously fixed below by the recti abdominis. 989. The head being slightly inclined backwards, and face turned to the opposite side, the dissector proceeds to expose this muscle by cutting through the platysma myoides, and other parts which cover its outer surface, in the direction of its fibres, and re- versing them. This muscle being exposed and examined, may be cut through at the middle, and the upper portion thrown up- wards, the lower downwards. When this and the platysma my- oides are removed, no other dissection is required for the following muscles but the removal of cellular substance from their sur- faces. OF THE OMO-HYOIDEUS. 990. The Omo-hyoideus (Scapula hi/oideiis), is a long, slender, flattened, and very narrow muscle, situated obliquely on the sides280 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and fore part of the neck. It arises below, by aponeurotic fibres, longer before than behind, from the upper edge of the scapula, behind the coracoid notch (428), and often from the ligament which converts the latter into a hole. It ascends forwards and inwards, becoming narrower, passes behind the clavicle, sometimes attach- ing itself to its posterior edge, crosses the direction of the sterno- mastoideus, and, behind, it is converted into a very thin and nar- row tendon, of variable length, always more distinct before than behind. It then becomes fleshy again, increases its breadth, and ascends nearly parallel to the sterno-hyoideus, to terminate by very j, short aponeuroses on the sides of the lower edge of the body of the | hyoid bone. 991. Its outer surface is covered by the trapezius, platysma myoides, stcrno-mastoideus, and the clavicle. The inner cor- responds to the two scaleni, the anterior branches of the infe- rior cervical nerves, the trunk of the carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the superior thyroid vessels, and the sterno-hyoideus | and stcrno-thyroideus muscles. 992. This muscle lowers the hyoid bone, carrying it a little back- wards and to a side. When it acts along with its fellow, it lowers i the bone directly and carries it backwards. i 993. The inferior extremity of this muscle cannot be exposed, | until the clavicle has been removed. OF THE STERNO-HYOIDEUS. 994. The Sterno-hyoideus, which is placed at the fore part of the neck, and represents a long narrow band, arises behind the clavicular extremity of the sternum, from the posterior sterno- clavicular ligament, and also sometimes from the cartilage of the first rib. It ascends obliquely inwards, contracting a httle, and approaching that of the opposite side, as far as the middle of the larynx. It then directs itself a httle outwards, and terminates at the lower edge of the body of the hyoid bone, internally of the preceding muscle. It commonly presents, at a variable height, an aponeurotic intersection more visible before than behind, somewhat tortuovis, and often only existing on the inside. Its various mser- tions are effected by means of small aponeuroses. 995. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the clavicle, the sterno-mastoideus, platysma-myoides, and omo-hyoi- deus muscles, and by the skin. The posterior is applied upon the sterno-thyroideus, crico-thyroideus and thyro-hyoideus mus- cles, the thyro-hyoid membrane, the thyroid body, and the su- perior thyroid vessels. A small synovial bursa exists between it and the crico-thyroid membrane. ' 996. It depresses the hyoid bone, and consequently the larynx, . and thus furnishes a fixed point to the depressor muscles of the jaw.281 MUSCLES OF THE NECK. OF THE STERNO-THYROIDEUS. 997- This muscle, which is of the same form as the preceding, and situated behind it, but a little shorter and broader, arises from the upper part of the internal svirface of the sternum, opposite the cartilage of the second rib, whence it ascends, directing itself a httle outwards, and contracting, to the thyroid cartilage, on the obhque ridge of which it terminates by short aponeuroses. It also sometimes presents, at its lower part, an oblique or transverse apon- eurotic intersection. 998. Its anterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoideus, stemo-mastoideus, and orao-hyoideus muscles. The posterior covers the subclavian and internal jugular veins, the trunk of the carotid artery, the trachea, the thyroid body and its vessels, the crico-thyroideus muscle, and a part of the constrictor pharyngis inferior. 999- It acts upon the thyroid cartilage in the same manner as the preceding muscle upon the hyoid bone. 1000. It is exposed by the removal of the preceding. OF THE THYE.0-HY0IDEUS. (Hyo-thyroideus.) ^ 1001. It is of a quadrilateral form, very short and thin, and situated at the middle and fore part of the neck upon the larynx. It is often continuous with the preceding by its lower edge, which is attached to the obUque ridge of the thyroid cartilage, and consequently inchned downwards and inwards. It ascends from thence parallel to the muscle of the opposite side, and terminates at the lower edge of the body of the hyoid bone, and at the anterior half of the outer edge of its great horn. Its anterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoideus, omo-hyoideus, and platysma my- oides. The posterior lies upon the thyroid cartilage and the thyro- hyoid membrane. Its use is to bring the larynx and hyoid bone toward each other. OF THE DIGASTRICUS.* (Biventer MawillcB.') 1002. This muscle is situated on the lateral, upper and anterior parts ot the neck, beneath the under jaw. It is thick and fleshy at Its extremities, slender and tendinous at the middle, where it is • A<(, duo; yarl^Q, venter i two-bellled.282 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. bent upon itself. It arises posteriorly, by aponeurotic fibres, from ! the mastoidal groove of the temporal bone, and descends obliquely inwards and forwards, at first broader and thicker, but becoming | gradually thinner, and changing into a pretty strong rounded tendon, about two inches long, which passes through the lower part of the stylo-hyoideus, but sometimes merely behind it. At the hyoid bone it is received into a kind of aponeurotic ring, which is attached to its upper edge, and furnished internally with i a small synovial bursa, a line or two in breadth and of vari- i able length. Then a broad and thin aponeurosis is detached from the lower edge of the tendon, which here changes its direction, i and is bent upon itself. It descends before the mylo-hyoideus, | contracts firm adhesion to it, and is also attached to the body of the , hyoid bone. The muscle then ascends forwards and inwards to- ward the base of the jaw, becomes a second time fleshy and thick, approaches that of the opposite side, and is inserted into a fossa situated upon the sides of the symphysis of the chin, by aponeu- rotic fibres, which are sometimes interlaced witli those of the other muscle. 1003. Its external surface is covered posteriorly by the trache- lo-mastoideus, splenius and stcrno-mastoideus ; in the middle, by the maxillary gland, which is lodged in the angle formed by the tendon ; anteriorly, by the platysma myoides. Its inner surface ' lies upon the stylo-hyoideus, stylo-glossus, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the external and internal carotid, the labial and lingual arteries, the internal jugular vein, the hypo-glossal nerve, the hyo- glossus and mylo-hyoideus muscles. 1004. This muscle depresses the under jaw, or raises the os hy- oides and carries it forward. Its posterior portion appears to assist in raising the upper jaw, by acting upon the skull. OF THE STYLO-HYOIDEUS. 1005. This is a long and slender muscle, placed at the upper and lateral part of the neck. An aponeurosis, which is consider- ably prolonged upon the fleshy fibres, attaches it to the styloid process, near its base, and is separated from the latter by a small synovial bursa. It descends thence inwards and forwards, follow- ing the direction of the posterior belly of the digastricus; it becomes broader, and then generally bifurcates, in a more or less distinct manner, to give passage to the tendon of that muscle. Uniting its two portions again, it is inserted at the lower part, and on the sides of the body of the hyoid bone, by short aponeurotic fibres. 1006. Its outer surface is covered by the digastric muscle. The inner is in relation with the external carotid, the labial and lingual arteries, the internal jugular vein, the stylo-glossus, stylo- pharyngcus, and hyo-glossus muscles, and the hypo-glossal nerve.MUSCLES OV THE NECK. 1007. It raises the hyoicl bone, and consequently the larynx, .carrying it at the same time backwards and to a side. When the -two muscles act together, the hyoid bone is raised directly and • carried backwards. OF THE MYLO-HYOIDEUS. 1008. This muscle is broad, thin, flat, and of a truncated trian- gular form. It is situated at the upper and fore part of the neck, behind the lower jaw. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the internal oblique line of the inferior maxillary bone, between the last molar tooth and the mental process. Its anterior fibres, which I are very short, proceed obliquely downwards and inwards, and are incorporated with those of the opposite muscle, along a sort of tendinous raphe, which descends from the symphysis of the chin to the hyoid bone, and degenerates below into a thin aponeuro- sis united to that of the digastric muscle. The other fibres, which become longer the farther back they are situated, are less and less oblique, so as ultimately to become nearly vertical; they terminate by aponeuroses, at the lower and fore part of the body of the hyoid bone. 1009- The outer surface of the mylo-hyoideus, which inclines downwards and forwards, is covered by the digastricus and platys- ma myoides, and by the sub-maxillary gland. The inner covers the genio-hyoideus, genio-glossus, and hyo-glossus muscles, the sub-lingual gland, the duct of the sub-maxiUary gland, the pro- longation of it, and the lingual nerve. 1010. It raises the hyoid bone and carries it forward, or de- presses the lower jaw. 1011. This muscle is dissected by removing the parts, covering its outer surface, (1009) whilst its fibres are stretched. OF THE GENIO-HYOIDEUS. 1012. This muscle is situated behind the preceding. It is thin, short, flat, narrower above than below. It arises from a small ten- don inserted into the lower genial process (249), and descends backwards to be attached to the middle of the anterior surface of the body of the os hyoides. Its anterior surface, which is in- clined downwards, is covered by the mylo-hyoideus; the posterior 18 applied upon the genio-glossus and hyo-glossus. Its inner edge 18 contiguous to that of the opposite side, and often incorporated Wltu it. 1013. The action of this muscle is to raise the hyoid bone, car- rymg It forward, or to depress the jaw. 1014. Cut through the rnpM by which the two mylo-hyoidei muscles are jomcd to each other, and detach them on each side to284 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. show this muscle, in the direction of whose fibres the dissection is to be carried on. OF THE HYO-GLOSSUS. 1015. The hyo-^glossus is a thin, broad, quadrilateral muscle, situated at the upper and fore part of the neck. It arises from .three different points of the os hyoides, on which account it has been described by Albinus as consisting of three different muscles. The first, (Cerato-glossus), is attached by short aponeurotic fibres to the upper surface of the great horn of the hyoid bone. It as- cends a little obliquely from behind forwards, contracting in itf progress, toward the lower and lateral part of the tongue, where it is continuous with a portion of the fibres of the stylo-glossus, after having passed between its two bundles, and finally terminates in the dermis of the mucous membrane. The second portion (Basio- glossus) which is not so broad but thicker, covers the precedin<i portion a little at its upper part, and is separated from it below by the lingual artery ; it arises from the upper part of the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone, and ascends a little oblique- ly backwards and outwards. Lastly, the third portion (C/iondro- flossus) originates from the small horn of the same bone, as well as the cartilage placed between the body and the large horn, and ascends upon the sides of the root of the tongue, where it is confounded, like the basio-glossus, with the lingualis and genio- glossus, without our being able to trace it to the tegumentary mem- brane. 1016. The outer surface of this muscle is covered above by the stylo-glossus, with which it is connected; a little farther down, by the mylo-hyoideus, the great hypo-glossal nerve and submaxil- lary gland; and still farther down, by the genio-hyoideus, stylo- hyoideus and digastricus. The inner surface is in connexion with the constrictor pharyngis medius and genio-glossus muscles, the lingual artery, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 1017- The hyo-glossus lowers the base of the tongue, or raises the hyoid bone when the tongue is fixed. When it acts on one side only, it incUnes the tongue towards the same side. 1018. A part of the lower jaw being removed, the tongue drawir out of the mouth, and the parts covering its 07iter surface (1016) removed, the hyo-glossus will be exposed in its whole extent. OF THE GENIO-GLOSSUS. ! 1019. The Genio-glossus is a triangular radiated muscle, trans- versely flattened, and situated between the tongue and low.er maxillary bone. It'arises from the upper tubercle of the gonial process, by a small but very strong snort tendon, which is moreMUSCLES OF THE NECK. 285 prolonged externally than internally, and from which proceed the leshy fibres, cUverging and following different directions, but al- nost always perpendicularly to the axis of the tongue. The upper ibres, which are the shortest, are at first horizontal, but on arriv- no- at the lower part of the tongue, curve upwards and forwards to each its point. The middle fibres, which are less curved, are con- bunded on the side with the lingualis muscle. The inferior are nuch longer, and descend obliquely backwards to lose themselves it the base of the tongue, or even to be attached in part to the iummit of the small horn of the os hyoides, or continued into ;he constrictor pharyngis medius. There results from this arrange- nent that the muscle represents a triangle whose base is attached ;o the tongue, where its fibres are interlaced with those of the lin- fualis, stylo-glossus, constrictor pharyngis superior, constrictor me-' iius, and hyo-glossus. At the place where the two genio-glossi ouch each other behind, there is observed a small bundle of fibres, vhich ascends towards the middle ligament of the epiglottis, to be nserted at the dorsal surface of that organ. 1020. The external surface of the genio-glossus is covered by he sublingual gland, and the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, lingualis, md mylo-hyoideus muscles. Its inner surface is in contact with hat of the opposite side, and even incorporated with it below and jehind. Its lower edge corresponds to the genio-hyoideus; the •ipper, to the mucous membrane of the mouth. 1021. The contraction of the inferior fibres of this muscle carries he toiigue and hyoid bone forwards, after having previously raised he latter. The superior fibres pull it backwards, and restore it to ts natural position ; while the middle fibres hollow its dorsal sur- ace into a groove. 1022. The muscle is most conveniently exposed by cutting out I piece of the lower jaw, if this has not been done for the preced- jig muscle, then drawing the tongue upwards and forwards to ;tretch its fibres, then the parts covering its outer surface (1020) ire to be removed, dissecting always in the direction of its fibres. OF THE STYLO-GLOSSUS. 1023. The Styln-glosstis is narrow above, broad and thin below, nd arises chiefly from the stylo-maxillary ligament, which seems )cculiarly intended for it. It is in fact attached to nearly the whole interior edge of that hgament and lower half of the styloid process, by a thin aponeurosis. It then expands, and descends orwards and inwards, to be partly lost upon the edge of the tongue, -ncl partly continued into the Mngualis, hyo-glossus and genio- ;lossus muscles, after being divided into two and sometimes into hree bundles. 1024. Its outer surface is covered by the digastric muscle, the ungual nerve, the submaxillary gland, and the mucous membraneACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 286 of tlie mouth. The inner covers posteriorly the constrictor pha- ryngis superior, hyo-glossus and lingualis. 1025. The stylo-glossus carries the tongue upwards, backwards, and to a side, when it acts alone ; but when it contracts at the same time with the other, the tongue is carried directly upward and backwards. The tongue should be drawn forwards and to the opposite side, while this muscle is being dissected. OF THE LINGUALIS. 1026. The Lingualis is a small irregular bundle, entirely com- posed of fleshy fibres, lying under the sides of the tongue, between the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus, which are on the outside, and the genio-glossus, which is within. It is elongated, thicker poste- riorly than anteriorly, and incorporated in its lateral parts withi the muscles just mentioned. Its posterior extremity loses itself in the base of the tongue ; the anterior is prolonged as far as the tip of that organ. Its inferior surface is lined anteriorly by the mu- cous membrane of the mouth. The upper, confounded with the! fleshy and complicated texture of the tongue. 1027. It shortens the tongue and depresses its point. 1028. Divide from before backwards a cellular layer which se- parates the genio-glossus from the stylo-glossus and hyo-glossus, dissect outwards the two latter muscles, and the hngualis will be ex- posed. MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX AND PALATE. or THE CONSTRICTOR PHAllYNGIS INFERIOR. 1029. This is the largest and longest of the muscles of the pha rynx. It is membraneous, broad, and of an irregular quadrilatera form. It arises below, sometimes from the first ring of the trachea by a small number of fibres only, but always from the outer par of the cricoid cartilage, the small horn and the obUque ridge of th( thyroid cartilage, behind the crico-thyroideus and sterno-thyroideus From these different points of attachment, its fibres proceed back- wards, inwards, and upwards, so much the shorter the lower thej are, and becoming more vertical the higher their situation. In thi median line, they are incorporated with those of the opposite raus cle by a kind of raphe. 1030. Its outer surface is covered externally by the sterno-thy] roideus, the thyroid body and trunk of the carotid artery : pQ teriorly, it is connected with the rectus capitis anticus major a longus coUi muscles, and with the anterior vertebral ligament, b; very loose cellular tissue without fat. The inner surface is coveiMUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. 287 cd by the constrictor medius above; by tlie palato-pharyngosus and stylo-pharyng£eus muscles, and the mucous membrane of the pha- rynx, in the middle ; and by the thyroid and cricoid cartilages bo- low. The upper edge, which is very oblique, forms an extremely acute angle with that of the opposite side, and ascends more or less high, sometimes to near the occipital bone. The lower edge, which is shorter, is nearly transverse ; it is connected with the commence- ment of the oesophagus, and allows the inferior laryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve to pass under it anteriorly. OF THE CONSTRICTOR PHABYNGIS MEDIUS. 1031. This muscle, which is also membraneous, and nearly tri- angular, arises from the retiring angle formed by the union of the large and small horns of the hyoid bone, and from the whole extent of these two bony appendages, as well as from the stylo-hyoid liga- ment. The inferior fibres, which are shorter, are directed down- wards and backwards; the middle fibres are transverse ; and the superior, which are longer, ascend obliquely. They are all inter- . laced with those of the opposite side, forming at the posterior part of the pharynx a raphe, whose inferior extremity, which is very ; much attenuated, is concealed by the preceding muscle, while the ; upper, which is also very acute, is attached to the basilar process by a kind of aponeurosis. Some of the fibres of this muscle are frequently continuous anteriorly with those of the genio-glossus. 1032. The constrictor medius is covered, in its outer surface, by the hyo-glossus and lingual artery externally, and by the con- strictor inferior behind and below. In the rest of its extent, it is : united by cellular tissue to the muscles of the anterior part of the cervical vertebrae, and to the anterior vertebral ligament. The in- ner surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the stylo-pharyngeus, palato-pharyngeus, and constrictor superior. OF THE CONSTRICTOIl FHARYNGIS SUPERIOR. 1033. Membraneous and broad like the others, but still thinner, and of an irregularly quadrilateral form, it arises externally from a considerable number of different parts : 1°. from the loy^er half of the edge of the internal wing of the pterygoid process ; 2°. from an aponeurosis which is common to it with the buccinator, and which extends from the pterygoid process to the posterior part of the in- ferior alveolar arch; 3°. from the extremity of the myloid line (249;) 4°. from the sides of the base of the tongue, between the stylo-glos- sus and hyo-glossus muscles. It sometimes even arises a little from the tuberosity of the palate bone, and levator palati muscle, or the stylo-pharyngeus, and from the styloid process. The fleshy fibres ot the first origin descend a little backwards and presently ascendACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 288 towards the base of the cranium, so as to form a sort of arch. They are attached to a thin yet firm aponeurosis (the cephalo-pha- ryngeal)^ which is attached to the basilar process, but only by its extremities, so as to leave an empty space between the bone and its middle part. The other fibres proceed in a transverse di- rection, to be interlaced with those of the opposite muscle in the middle of the posterior part of the pharynx. 1034<. The outer surface of this muscle is covered posteriorly by the constrictor medius, and laterally is in connexion with the stylo-glossus, stylo-pharyngaeus, the internal carotid artery, the in- ternal jugular vein, the pneumo-gastric, hypo-glossal and spinal accessory nerves, and several filaments of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. These different parts are contained in a triangular space, filled with cellular tissue, which occurs between the constrictor pharyngis superior and pterygoideus in- ternus. Its inner surface covers the palato-pharyngaeus and le- vator palati mollis, and is lined by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. 1035. From the description of these muscles, it will be seen that they all three cover each other, in such a manner that the lower only remains visible in its whole extent, and they also all unite in the middle of the pharynx with those of the opposite side by a sort of raph6. 1036. The constrictors of the pharynx contract that portion of the digestive canal when it is filled with alimentary substances. The constrictor medius moreover raises the os hyoides and la- rynx, carrying them backwards, and the inferior raises a little the larynx only. OF THE STYLO-PHAKYNG-^EUS. 1037- The Stylo-pharyngcBus is narrow above, broad and flat below, and of an elongated form. It is situated on the side and back part of the pharynx. It arises by short aponeurotic fibres, from the inner part of the styloid process of the temporal bone, near its base, and descends inwards and backwards toward the pha- rynx, passes under the constrictor medius, expands, confounds the greater part of its fibres with those of the other muscles of this region, and sends some to the thyroid cartilage and hyoid bone. 1038. Its Older surface is covered by the stylo-hyoideus, con- strictor pharyngis medius, and external carotid artery. The inner is in connexion with the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the membrane of the pharynx, and the constrictor superior and palato-pharyngiEUs muscles. 1039. This muscle shortens the pharynx by raising its lower part. It also raises the larynx. 1040. In order to dissect these muscles of the pharynx, it is ne- cessary, after having removed the skull-cap and brain, to ctftMUSCLES OF THE PALATE. 289 he oesopliagiis and trachea opposite the upper part of the sternum, ,nd separate tliem from the anterior part of the cervical vertebrae, \y cutting the loose cellular tissue by which they are connected to t;. then, with a saw, remove that portion of the head situated an- sriorly to the occipital foramen, which, with the pharynx attached 0 it, is thus obtained separate. All that remains to be done is to stuff the pharynx and oesopha- ■us with hair, and to remove the cellular tissue, vessels, and nerves rith which they are surrounded. OF THE CIIICUMFLEXUS PALAfl. 1041. The Circumflescus Palati (Peristaphylinus* Externus), s found in the substance of the velum of the palate, and is an elon- gated, thin, transversely flattened muscle, bent in the middle. It .rises, by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, from the scaphoid fossa f the pterygoid process (114), the fore and outer part of the fibro- lartUage of the Eustachian tube, and the parts in the neighbour- lood of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, as far as its spine, ^'rom these origins it descends vertically along the posterior edge f the inner wing of the pterygoid process, and turns under the look by which it terminates, after having degenerated into an iponeurosis, which is wrinkled upon itself at the moment of thia eflection, and kept in place by a small ligament. A small ;ynovial capsule facihtates its motions. After this, it proceeds lorizontally inwards, is expanded in the velum palati, before the evator palati mollis, unites with its fellow, and terminates at the ransverse ridge, which is observed upon the inferior surface of the lorizontal portion of the palate bone (211). There it sends off a )rolongation to a dense and compact membrane, which seems to ceep the velum palati firm at its upper part. 1042. The fleshy portion of this muscle, which is fusiform, is covered, eocternally, by the pterygoideus internus. Its inner lurface is applied against the levator palati mollis and constrictor iharyngis superior, and against the inner wing of the pterygoid )rocess. Its aponeurotic portion is covered anteriorly, by the nucous membrane of the velum palati. Posteriorly, it is con- lected with the palato-pharyngeus. 1043. This muscle stretches the velum palati horizontally, and nay dilate the Eustachian tube, as Haller supposes. OF THE LEVATOR. PALATI MOLLIS. (Feristaphylinus Internus.) 1044. Although this muscle is slender, it is yet stronger than ;he preceding, and is of an elongated form, round above, broader " Tlij*', circd, proj/i ; 2rufuKn, uvula. U^90 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and flat below. It is situated on the sides of the posterior ape tures of the nasal fossae. It arises by short aponeuroses, from th under surface of the petrous process, before the external orifice the carotid canal (177)5 and from the neighbouring part of th Eustachian tube. From thence it descends somewhat oblique! backwards and inwards, becomes broader, and terminates at tli' middle part of the velum palati, becoming confounded with that ( the opposite side, the levator uvulae, and a little with the palato pharyngeus and the aponeurosis of the circumflexus palati. 1045. Its outer surface corresponds above to the circumflexuy palati, and below to the palato-pharyngeus and constrictor pharynl gis superior. The inner is lined above by the mucous membrau' of the pharynx, and below by that of the velum palati. 1046. It raises the velum palati so as to apply it against th' posterior apertures of the nasal fossae. OF THE LEVATOn UVULAE. {Azygos Uvulce.) 1047. This is a small elongated fusiform fleshy bundle, whicl occupies the substance of the uvula, and is sometimes single although in most cases distinct on both sides. It arises froii the guttural spine and aponeurosis common to the two circuni > flex muscles, and descends vertically to the tip of the uvula. It i connected anteriorly with the levator palati mollis, and coverti behind by the posterior membrane of the velum palati. It raise and shortens the uvula. OF THE PALATO-PHARYNG^EDS. 1048. This is a membranous muscle, broader at its extremitic < than its middle part, placed vertically in the lateral wall of thi I pharynx and in the velum palati. From its origins being veiy dis ■ tinct from each other, it may be divided into three portions, whicl "Winslow has described as so many separate muscles. The first o upper {Peristaphylo-pharyngcBus), is attached to the posterior edg of the palatine vault, and to the aponeurosis of the circumflexu palati, confounding itself in the middle with that of the opposite side. It is broad and thin, and descends posteriorly in the velun palati. The second or middle portion (JPharyngo-staphyUnns) r occupies the posterior pillar of the velum palati, and seems by it union with that of the opposite side, and with the aponeurosis 0 the circumflexi palati muscles, to form a sort of arch above tin tonsils : it is very narrow. Both are continuous inferiorly witl the third or lower portion (Thyro-stophylbms), which is lateralis flattened, while the others were so from before backwards, ancDEEP MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 291 "hich descends vertically on the side of the pharynx, sending some bras to the thyroid cartilage, and intermingling with the stylo- haryngfEus, lower, and middle constrictors of the pharynx. It is reader than the middle portion. 1049. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the lembrane of the velum palati, and by the levator palati mollis ■ bove; by the constrictors of the pharynx below. The anterior 'trface is in contact with the aponeurosis of the circumflexus pa- iti above, and with the mucous membrane of the pharynx below. 1050. When the two muscles act together, they lower the velum alati, while at the same time they raise and shorten the pharynx, t is in deglutition that they principally act. OF THE CONSTRICTOR ISTHMI FAUCIPM. 1051. This is a small fleshy cord, very thin, somewhat flattened, nd rather irregular, which is situated in the anterior pillar of the ielum palati, between the membrane of the palate and constric- ■)rpharyngis superior, before the tonsil. Its lower extremity loses ;self in the base of the tongue. The upper, which is narrower, is acorporated, in the velum palati, with the palato-pharyngeus and -ircumflexus palati muscles. This muscle lowers the velum palati, >-nd raises the base of the tongue. 1052. Dissection. To expose the muscles of the velum palati, he pharynx should be slit up behind, and detached from the basi- ir process of the occipital bone. Clean the surfaces thus exposed, nd then remove the mucous membrane: from the posterior surface f the velum palati, to show the azygos uvulae; from the posterior art of the pterygoid processes for the circumflexus and levator pa- iti, the former of which is to be traced round the hamular process ato the substance of the velum; from the posterior pillar of the auces for the palato-pharyngeus, aiid from the anterior pillar for he constrictor isthmi faucium. DEEP MUSCLES OF THE NECK. OF THE XONGUS COLLI. 1053. The Longus Colli is a flat, narrow, elongated muscle, )roadcr below than above, and in the middle than at the extremi- •les, lying on the anterior and lateral part of the bodies of the ver- ebra;, from the atlas to the third dorsal vertebra inclusive. Ft is 1?^*^° fasciculi which are in a manner superimposed upon •ach other: one of these is superior, directed obliquely outwards, extended trom the anterior tubercle of the atlas, where it takes its29^ ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. origin by aponeurotic fibres, to the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebras, at the fore part of which it ter- minates by small aponeuroses. The other fasciculus is inferior ; it descends vertically from the body of the axis and that of the third cervical vertebra, and from the anterior tubercle of the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra, from which it rises by aponeuroses, as far as the bodies of the last four cervical vertebrae and three first dorsal, to which it is attached by more or less distinct aponeurotic fibres, which are also inserted into the fibro-cartilages and base of the transverse processes. 1054. Its anterior surface is covered by the rectus capitis anti- cus major, the pharynx, the carotid artery, the pneumo-gastric nerve, and the communicating cords of the cervical ganglia and the oesophagus. The 'posterior surface covers the vertebras to which it is attached, as well as their fibro-cartilages. Opposite the body of the two first dorsal vertebras, its outer edge is separated from the scalenus anticus by a triangular interval, which lodges the verte- bral artery and vein. Its tipper extremity is confounded with tliat of the muscle of the opposite side. 1055. The aponeuroses, which give origin to this muscle, or terminate it, are prolonged before the fleshy fibres or even in their substance, and the latter, which are placed obliquely between them, are very short, notwithstanding the general length of the muscle. 1056. The longus colli feebly bends the cervical vertebras on each other, and on the dorsal vertebrae. If the upper portion acts by itself, and on one side only, it determines a rotation of the atlas upon the axis, and consequently of the head upon the neck. OF THE RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MAJOR. 1057. This muscle, which is flat, elongated, and much broader and thicker above than below, lies upon the anterior and lateral part of the cervical vertebrae. Four small thin and flat tendons, fixed by a pointed extremity to the anterior tubercles of the sixth, fifth, fourth and third transverse processes of the neck, and so much the larger the higher they are, give origin to the fleshy fibres of this muscle, which are united into so many imbricated bundles, behind which they are more or less prolonged. To these bundles there is frequently joined another which comes from the longus colli. They all proceed from below upwards and from without inwards, becoming broader in their progress, and mingling toge- ther, terminate, that of the fourth tendon at the basilar surface, near the occipital hole, the three first successively and in the order of their origin, at the posterior surface of a pretty strong, broad and thin aponeurosis, which is prolonged downwards upon the an- terior surface of the muscle, and attached to the basilar surface also, in front of the fleshy fibres arising from the last tendon.DEEP MUSCLES OF THE NECK. S93 1058. Its anterior surface corresponds to tlie carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the pneumo-gastric nerve, the superior cervi- cal ganglion, and the pharynx. The posterior surface covers the longus coUi and rectus capitis anticus minor, the articulations of the occipital bone with the atlas, and of the atlas with the axis, and the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. Its inner ege is united to the longus colli by cellular tissue. The outer edge is free above. 1059. This muscle bends the head upon the neck, directly, if it .cts in conjunction with that of the opposite side, and laterally, if it acts by itself It seldom has any influence upon the motions of the vertebral column, which however is the case in jugglers who balance the body upon the head. OF THE RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MINOR. 1060. It is situated behind the preceding muscle, and has nearly the same form, but is much shorter and narrower. It arises below, from the fore part of the lateral mass and of the trans- verse process of the atlas, by aponeurotic fibres prolonged to a considerable distance in the fleshy fibres. From thence it as- cends, becoming broader, to the anterior margin of the occipital hole, and the cartilaginous substance which unites the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone with the basilar process. It terminates behind the rectus anticus major, and a little more externally, by thin aponeuroses. It is concealed by that muscle, and covers the atlanto-occipital articulation. Its action is to bend the head slight- ly upon the neck. OF THE RECTUS CAFITIS LATERALIS. 1061. This muscle appears to be analogous to the intertransver- sales colli, (862) and might even be considered as the first of them. It is thin and flat, and of an elongated square form. It is attach- ed inferiorly, by a small tendon, to the upper and anterior part of the transverse process of the atlas, whence it ascends vertically to the occipital bone, to terminate at an impression which it pre- sents behind the jugular fossa. Its anterior surface is covered hy the internal jugular vein, the posterior corresponds to the ver- tebral artery. 1062. It inclines the head laterally and forwards. 1063. The pharynx and the vessels and nerves of the neck be- ing removed, the cellular tissue, covering the anterior surface of these muscles, is to be dissected away, when the rectus capitis an- ticus major will be seen in its whole extent; this is to be removed o expose those parts of the longus colli and rectus capitis minor which are covered by it.294 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF THE SCALENUS ANTICUS. 1064. The Scalenus Anticus is a long flat muscle, simple and broader below, narrow and divided into several portions above, si- tuated upon the lateral and inferior part of the neck. It is at- tached by a tendon which expands over the fleshy fibres, to the outer surface and upper edge of the first rib, toward the middle of its length, and ascends a little obliquely inwards and backwards, dividing immediately into four fleshy tongues connected by their neighbouring edges, and giving rise to as many small tendons, the upper of which are most distinct. Each of them is inserted, by means of these tendons, into the anterior tubercle of one of the transverse processes of the neck, from the third to the sixth in- clusive. 1065. Th,e anterior side of this muscle is covered below by the subclavian vein; higher up, by the transverse and ascending cervical arteries, the phrenic nerve, and the omo-hyoideus and sterno-mas- toideus muscles. Its posterior side forms with the next muscle a triangular space, broad below, contracted above, in which are lodged, inferiorly, the subclavian artery, and superiorly, the branches of the cervical nerves, which form the brachial plexus. Its inner side is separated from the longus colli by the vertebral artery and veins. 1066. This muscle bonds the cervical portion of the spine late- rally and forwards. It also assists in inspiration, by raising the first rib. OF THE SCALENUS POSTICUS.* . 1067- Longer and larger than the preceding, but of the same form, and placed farther back, the scalenus posticus arises below from the outer sxurface of the first rib, from a rough impression which is observed behind the passage of the subclavian artery, and from the upper edge of the second rib. These two origins take place by aponeurotic fibres, which are prolonged to a great distance among the fleshy fibres. The second origin is sometimes wanting, and is always smaller than the first. The muscle which is here separated into two distinct bundles, soon unites, although it is sometimes separated in its whole length, ascends a little obHquely inwards and forwards, and terminates by six small tendons, of which the superior are the longest, on the posterior tubercles of the last six transverse processes of the neck. It is observed, in some cases, that a small bundle proceeds from the portion attached to the axis to ascend to the transverse process of the atlas. * This includes what is generally described as the Scalenus nicdim and Spakmis fOiticus.MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. 1068. Between the two scaleni there, is commonly found a small Ifleshy bundle which proceeds from the upper edge of the first rib, bto the transverse processes of the seventh and sixth vertebrae, or Cthat of the seventh only. It is placed behind the subclavian artery, wnd before the anterior branches of the two last cervical nerves. TThis is the scalenus minimus of Soemmering. 1069. The anterior side of the scalenus posticus corresponds to ttie preceding muscle, from which it is separated below by the sub- cdavian artery, and above by the anterior branches of the cervical merves. The posterior side, which is very narrow, is in connexion mith the sacro-lumbaUs, transversalis coh, splenius, and levator an- ^uli scapulae. The inner covers the first external intercostal mus- ccle at its lower part, and at the upper, the summits of the last six ttransverse processes of the neck, and between them the posterior iintertransversales muscles. Lastly, the outer side, which is broad Ibelow, and narrow above, is covered by the serratus magnus below ; iin the middle, by the transverse cervical artery, the skin, a great 1 number of lymphatic ganglia, and nervous filaments of the cervical ]plexus; at its upper part, by the sterno-mastoideus muscle. 1070. This muscle has the same uses as the scalenus anticus, I but draws the vertebral column a little backwards. 1071. The upper part of the scaleni may be exposed at the I same time as the preceding muscles, but their lower part cannot be shown until the clavicle has been removed. MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. or THE PECTORALIS MAJOR. 1072. The Pectoralis major is a very large, flat muscle, of a tri- angular form, with rounded angles, much narrower and thicker externally than internally. It is situated at the fore part of the tho- rax, and before the axilla. It arises from the inner half of the cla- vicle, from the anterior surface of the sternum, the cartilages of the true ribs, excepting the first, and over an extent so much the larger the lower these attachments are, from a smaU part of the bony portion of the fifth rib, and lastly, from an aponeurosis which forms a continuation of that of the abdomen. 1073. The part which arises from the clavicle is attached to that bone by short aponeurotic fibres; but, upon the sternum, there are observed longer aponeuroses, which are thin, with loose radiat- ing fibres, interlaced with those of the opposite muscle. At the iowest part, the insertions of the pectoralis major are intermixed with the obliquus abdominis externus, and sometimes with the rectus. 1074. Succeeding these different aponeurotic attachments, which aescribe internally a sort of curved line of great extent, the fleshy hbres approach each other, proceeding outwards, and following a fiitterent direction. Those of the clavicle, which are the shortest,^6 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, aire a little inclined downwards, and constitute a bundle, thick at its commencement, and separated from the rest of the muscle by a cellular line. Those which arise from the upper part of the ster- num, and from the cartilages of the five first ribs, are a little longer, and proceed horizontally. Lastly, the lower, which are the longest, proceed obliquely upwards, and approach the more to the vertical direction the lower they are. 1075. These fleshy fibres, by gradually converging toward each other, render the muscle very narrow and thick at its outer part. There they cover each other, in such a manner, that the upper are placed more superficially than the lower; and give rise to a tendon, which fixes the muscle to the humerus. This tendon, much broader than it seems to be at first sight, is folded upon itself from befoi-e backwards, and from below up- wards, and is thus composed of two laminte, placed one before the other, separated above, and united below. The posterior lamina, which is broader, receives the inferior fleshy fibres of the muscle, which cross the direction of the superior fibres. Above, it sends off" an aponeurotic prolongation, which ascends before the bicipital groove of the humerus to unite, upon the larger tuberosity of that bone, with the tendon of the supra-spinatus, and it sends into the same groove a fibrous lamina, confounded with that detach- ed from the tendon of the teres major and latissimus dorsi. ■ The two laminae of the tendon of the pectoralis major, are at first separated by cellular tissue, but afterwards intimately unite, and are inserted together into the anterior edge of the bicijiital groove, sending off from their lower edge a considerable number of fibres to the brachial aponeurosis. 1076. The anterior surface of the pectoralis major is covered above by the platysma myoides, at the middle by the correspond- ing mamma, and in the rest of its extent by the skin. Its posterior surface covers, from within outwards, a part of the anterior sur- face of the sternum, the cartilages of the true ribs, and a part of their bony portion, the thoracic vessels and nerves, the subclavius, the pectoralis minor, inter-costales externi, serratus magnus, rectus abdominis and obliquus abdominis, muscles. Toward the hollow of the axilla, this surface is in contact with a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue, with lymphatic ganglions, the axillary ves- sels, and the nerves of the brachial plexus. Close to its insertion Hito the humerus, it passes before the coraco-brachiaUs and biceps. It is separated from all these parts by a layer of cellular tissue, which becomes so much the thicker the nearer it is to the axilla. The inner edge of the pectoraUs major is mterlaced with that of the opposite muscle as far as the ensiform cartilage, and is then gradually lost in the linea alba of the abdomen. Its upper edge is contiguous externally with the deltoid muscle, from which it is se- parated by an interval broader above than below, and in which the cephalic vein is lodged in the midst of cellular tissue. Lastly, its inferior edge^ which is thin internally, and much thicker externally297 MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. and at the upper part, forms, above, the anterior edge of the hol- low of tlie axilla. 1077. The pectoralis major has two very different modes of ac- tion. It moves the arm, or contributes to respiration by acting upon the ribs. When the arm is hanging by the side of the body, it carries it inwards and forwards ; -when it is raised, it lowers it; when in rotation outwards, it turns it inwards. Its clavicular bun- dle entering into action by itself, shghtly raises the humerus. The opposite effect is produced by its lower fibres, which also depress the tip of the shovdder. On the other hand it acts upon the thorax, when the humerus is fixed. It then draws the ribs and sternum upwards, which ren- ders it a muscle of inspiration. It can even raise the trunk upon the hmbs, as in the action of seizing the branches when one is chmbing a tree, &c. 1078. Before commencing the dissection of this muscle, a block is to be put under the shoulders of the subject, and the arm drawn out from the side of the trunk. An incision is now to be made through the skin, in the middle line from the upper part of the sternum to the ensiform cartilage, and another from the middle of this one obliquely outwards to the upper and fore part of the arm ; two flaps are thus formed, which must be dissected, the upper one from below upwards, and the low- er from above downwards, always following the direction of the fibres. The cellular and adipose tissues, and the mammary gland in the female, are to be removed along with the skin. OF THE PECTORALIS MINOK. 1079. The Pectoralis minor is situated at the upper and fore part of the thorax, behind the preceding muscle ; it is thin, flat, triangular, and much smaller than it. It is attached by its base, which is directed inwards, to the upper edge and outer surface of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, by three or four thin and rather broad aponeurotic laminae, continuous with the fibrous plane that covers the external intercostal muscles ; the lowest of these digitations is also the largest. On leaving these aponeuroses, the fleshy fibres ascend convergingly upwards and outwards, so that the muscle becomes gradually narrower at the same time that it increases in thickness. Towards the axilla, they give rise to a tendon, much sooner apparent anteriorly and below than posteriorly and above, which is attached to the anterior part 0 the mner edge of the coracoid process as far as its summit, mV*^ unites with the coraco-brachiahs and biceps. Iv 110. The anterior surface of the pectoralis minor is covered by the pectoralis major. There is a layer of adipose cellular tissue etwecn them, in which some of the thoracic vessels and nerves areACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. S98 contained. Frequently a very small portion of this surface extends beyond the pectoralis major, and is covered by the skin. Its pos- terior surface is applied upon the ribs, the external intercostal muscles, the serratus magnus, the axillary vessels, and the brachial plexus. Its upper edge is shorter than the lower. 1081. The pectorahs minor draws the shoulder forwards and downwards, and carries the lower angle of the scapula backwards. It may act upon the ribs in the same manner as the pectoralis ma- jor. 1082. This muscle is exposed on raising the preceding. OF THE SUBCJLAVIUS. 1083. The Subclavius is a small round muscle, shghtly com- pressed from before backwards, slender at its extremities, which are tendinous, and bulging in the middle, which is fleshy. It is extend- ed obliquely at the upper and fore part of the thorax, between the cartilage of the first rib and the clavicle. It originates from the cartilage and sometimes even from the osseous part of the rib, be- fore the costo-clavicular ligament, by a flat tendon, which, after be- ing prolonged behind the fleshy body, loses itself in its interior. It then ascends obliquely outwards and backwards, and is lodged in the groove which is observed at the lower surface of the clavicle. It then terminates by aponeurotic fibres, which proceed outwards to the coraco-clavicular ligament, and frequently to the coracoid process itself. 1084. The anterior surface of the subclavius muscle is covered by the pectoralis major. Between them, however, there is seen a thin aponeurosis, of a variable and irregular form, which is only absolutely connected with the bony parts, and descends from the clavicle and coracoid process towards the first rib. Its poste- o'ior suiface is applied upon the axillary vessels and the nerves of the brachial plexus; it corresponds to a triangular space, circum- scribed by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus and trapezius. Its lower edge is free, and separated from the first rib by the axillary vessels and brachial plexus; the upper is fixed to the clavicle in its two outer thirds. 1085. This muscle lowers and carries forward the clavicle, and consequently the tip of the shoulder. It can also, by an opposite action, raise the first rib. 1086. This muscle is dissected by removing the parts covering its anterior surface (1084). OF THE SEKllATUS MAGNUS. IO87. The Senatus rnaxjnus, which is situated on the sides of the thorax, partly concealed by the shoulder, is very broad, thm,MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. 299 flat, and of an irregularly quadrilateral form. It is terminated an- teriorly by a curved and dentated edge, formed of fleshy digitations attached to the outer surface of the iirst eight or nine ribs, by as many small tendinous or merely aponeurotic cords. These digitations are not ahke; the first, which is very short, broad, thick, and distinctly separated from the others, is attached to the lower part of the outer surface of the first rib, to the upper part of that of the second, and to an aponeurosis placed between them ; it is sometimes confounded with the scalenus posticus; the second is broad and thin, and arises from an oblique line upon the second rib; the third and fourth are a little narrower, and are attached to the corresponding ribs, upon similar ridges running obliquely from above downwards, and from behind forwards. The last digi- tations, which are narrow and so much the longer the lower their situation is, originate together from the outer surface and upper edge of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs, and intermingle with the digitations of the obliquus externus abdominis. 1088. Each of these digitations furnishes to the body of the muscle a more or less distinct bundle. The union of these bun- -dles, which are distinctly separated below by intervals filled with adipose tissue, seems to give rise to a division of the muscle into three portions. The first of these portions, which is superior, thick, narrow, and short, comes from the first two ribs, and ascends to the posterior angle of the scapula, where it terminates by unit- ing with the levator anguli scapulae. The middle portion, which is broad and thin, proceeds, in a horizontal direction, from the second, third, and fourth ribs, to the vertebral edge of the scapula, where it is inserted by short aponeuroses, between the rhomboideus and subscapularis. The third or inferior portion, which is thick, broad, radiated anteriorly, and contracted posteriorly, ascends obliquely from the last digitations towards the lower fourth of the same edge, and the inferior angle of the scapula, on the anterior surface of which it particularly terminates. 1089- By its external surf ace, the serratus magnus is in relation at its lower and fore part with the skin ; posteriorly and below, with the latissimus dorsi, but higher up with the subscapularis ; above and before, it is covered by the two pectoral muscles, the axillary vessels, and the brachial plexus. By its inner surface, it is applied upon the first seven or eight ribs, the corresponding external in- tercostals, and a portion of the serratus posticus superior. 1090. The motions which the serratus magnus may induce are of ^0 kinds: the one belonging to the scapula, the other to the thorax. When the three portions act simultaneously, it moves the scapula lorwards ; its first portion contributes to the depression of the tip the shoulder; while its lower portion, on the contrary, raises it, oy drawmg the inferior angle of the bone forwards, and enters espe- cially into action when heavy burdens are raised. If the scapula nas been originally fixed by the trapezius, rhomboideus, and leva-ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 300 tor anguli, it becomes a muscle of inspiration, by drawing the ribs outwards and upwards. 1091. To dissect this muscle, cut the clavicle through in the middle, and separate the axillary margin of the scapula from the side of the thorax, the pectorales muscles being previously raised. The surface of the muscle is now to be cleaned, by removing the cellular substance covering it. OF THE INTERCOSTALES EXTERNI. 1092. These muscles arc eleven in number, and situated in the intercostal spaces, from the vertebral column to the union of the ribs with their cartilages. They are thin, and borrow their form and breadth from each of the spaces which receive them. Their fibres, which seem to be continued anteriorly by very delicate aponeuroses, whose fasciculi are prolonged as far as the sternum, are attached above to the outer lip of the lower edge of the rib above, and posteriorly to the transverse process of the vertebra with which that rib is articulated. Tendinous bundles are pro- longed between them, and multiply their points of insertion. They descend from thence obliquely inwards and forwards, and terminate at the upper edge of the lower rib, partly in the periosteum and partly in small aponeuroses with which they are interlaced. Those of the upper intercostal muscles are less oblique than those of the lower, and they are more so posteriorly than before. 1093. Their outer surface is covered by the two pectoral muscles, the serratus magnus, obliquus externus abdominis, serratus posti- cus, superior and inferior, sacro-lumbalis, and longissimus dorsi. The inner surface covers the pleura from the tuberosity to the angle of the ribs. In the rest of its extent, it is applied upon the corrrespending internal intercostal muscle, from which it is sepa- rated by a thin layer of cellular tissue, and above by the intercos- tal vessels and nerves. OF THE INTERCOSTALES INTERNI. 1094. These are also eleven in number, and correspond to the external intercostal muscles inform and breadth, differing however in only extending from the angle of the ribs to the sternum. Their fleshy fibres are equally intermingled with aponeuroses ; but they descend obliquely backwards, and are inserted above into the inner lip of the lower edge of the ribs and their cjirtilages, and below into the inner part of the upper edge of the ribs and cartilages. They arc less oblique than those of the external intercostal muscles. 1095. Their (niter surface is covered by the preceding muscles, and is in connexion with the intercostal vessels and nerves. The301 MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. i7iner is lined by the pleura, and a thin layer of a nearly fibrous cellular tissue. 1096. The intercostales externi and interni have the same uses; they raise or depress the ribs, in the motion of inspiration or ex- spiration, according as the upper or lower rib is the point from which they act. OF THE LEVATORES COSTARUM, BREVIORES ET LONGIORES.* 1097. Each rib receives from the summit of the transverse pro- cess situated above that with which it is articulated, a small, flat, thin, triangular fleshy bundle. These small muscles, to the num- ber of twelve, form a series which extends along the posterior part of the trunk. They are directed obliquely downwards and forwards, and attached by aponeuroses intermingled with the fleshy fibres, to the upper edge of the rib below, and occasionally to that of the next, by means of an appendage which passes over the posterior costo-transverse ligament. The upper are smaller and thinner than the lower. 1098. There are also observed, in various places of the inner surface of the thorax, small muscular planes, which vary much in respect to number, size, and situation. They descend obliquely backwards from one rib to that which is beneath, or to that which follows it. They have been designated by the name of Infra- costales. -f- 1099. These small muscles assist in raising the ribs, and are therefore subservient to inspiration. 1100. The external intercostal, and levatores costarum muscles are exposed, when the different muscles, by which they are co- vered, are removed. The internal intercostal muscles may be dissected from without by raising the external intercostal, or from within by opening the thorax and raising the pleura. OF THE TRIANGULARIS STERNI. 1101. The Triangularis Sterni {Sterno-costalis) is a thin, triangular, flat muscle, situated within the thorax, behind the car- tilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs. It arises from the edge of the ensiform cartilage and sternum, up to the articulation «f that bone with the fourth cartilage, by means of aponeurotic nbres which are prolonged a great way among the fleshy fibres. * rem thence it ascends outwards, to be attached by so many dis- tinct digitations to the cartilages of the ribs mentioned, as well to tornn^lf'i ^' ^"ys'' "nd Chaussier consider these as appendages of the external in- leiooscai muscles, nplu!'*'^^/"."^'^''^^ '"'^^ considered by Albinus, Beyer and Chaussier as ap- pendages of the internal intercostal muscles. '302 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. their edges as to their inner surface. These (ligitations are so much the broader and less ascending, the lower they are observ^- ed. The variations which this muscle presents are extremely nu- merous. 1102. Its anterior surface is covered by the cartilages of the four last true ribs, the inner intercostal muscles, and the internal mammary vessels. The posterior surface rests upon the pleura, and in a small part of its extent upon the diaphragm. Its inferior edge or base is contiguous to the transversalis abdominis. 1103. It draws the cartilages of the ribs, to which it is attached, backwards, inwards, and downwards, and is consequently subser- vient to exspiration. 1104. To dissect this muscle, the thorax is to be opened by cut- ting the ribs at the union of their anterior third with their two pos- terior thirds. The triangularis sterni is found behind the sternum and the cartilages of the ribs and is exposed by removing the parts covering the posterior surface (1102.) MUSCLES OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. OF THE ENVELOPING APONEUROSIS OF THE SUPEKIOR EX- TREMITY. 1105. A fibrous sheath, varying in strength and closeness in the different parts of its extent, surrounds aU the muscles of the upper extremity from the shoulder to the hand. The place where it ori- ginates cannot be precisely determined. It is evidently confound- ed with the cellular tissue in the arm-pit, before and behind which it proceeds as far as the tendons of the pectoralis major (1075) and latissimus dorsi (805). The deltoid muscle does not appear to be covered by it; it seems only to be detached from its humeral ten- don ; but beyond that muscle it is continuous with an aponeurosis which ascends to the spine of the scapula, covering the infra-spina- tus. From these different points of origin, to the elbow joint, this sheath bears the name of brachial aponeurosis. It descends along the arm, which it closely envelopes, is separated from its muscles by nerves, vessels, and much cellular tissue, adheres nevertheless to the different fibrous laminae which separate the br^chiaUs inter- nus from those which surround it, sends off near the elbow some prolongations into the subcutaneous cellular tissue, is inserted by two bundles into the external and internal condyles, and conti- nued before and behind over the fore-arm. It is very delicate, transparent, and cellular in several places; it also however presents oblique, longitudinal, and transverse fibres, which cross each other in various directions. Of all the aponeuroses of the limbs, it is the least capable of resistance. Its outer surface is covered by the skin, by cellular tissue, and by the superficial veins, nerves, and lymphatics of the arm; it appears to form very thm sheaths for303 MUSCLES OF THE SUPERIOll EXTREMITIES. tliesc cliffercnt organs. Its inner surface is applied upon all the jnuscles of the arm, and the bundle of vessels and nerves which descends along its inner and fore part. 1106. From the elbow to the hand, the fibrous sheath of which we are speaking is called the Jnti-brachial Aponeurosis, or Apon- eurosis of the Fore-arm. It is evidently continuous with the pre- ceding portion, and receives moreover anteriorly a lamina detached from the tendon of the biceps (114-7), laterally bundles of fibres arising from the outer and inner condyles, and posteriorly a pro- longation of the tendon of the triceps (1154). Between the inner condyle and olecranon, it sends off a transverse band which binds the two attachments of the flexor carpi vdnaris, and under which passes the ulnar nerve, which even receives a sort of sheath from it. The portion of it which covers the anconeus is very thick and does not adhere. The sheath descends along the fore-arm, and ar- riving at the wrist, is continued into the two annular ligaments, and is traversed by the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and pal- maris longus. It is also separated externally from the skin by nerves and by venous and lymphatic vessels. It sends between them, and especially above, bundles of fibres which pass into the dermis, forming areolae and arches in which the branches of the superficial venous and nervous plexus of the fore-arm pass. It covers all the superficial muscles of the fore-arm, to which it ad- heres above by the different fibrous partitions, which exist be- tween the pronator teres and flexor carpi radialis, the flexor digi- torum sublimis and palmaris longus, the palmaris longus and flexor carpi ulnaris, the extensor digitorum communis and extensor minimi digiti, the extensor minimi digiti and radialis longior, the radialis longior and extensor carpi ulnaris, the latter muscle and anconeus; it is free below and externally; on the inner side it is inserted into the whole inner edge of the ulna. It is denser and stronger than the brachial aponeurosis; but its fibres are much less distinct at the fore and outer part, than internally and behind. These fibres have no constant direction, but cross each other in all directions, and leave between them small quadrilateral open- ings which are traversed by blood vessels. 1107. Before the bend of the elbow, and the prolongation of the biceps muscle, there is observed a plane of very superficial fibres, which descend inwards, and are eftaced about the upper fourth of the fore-arm, to become transverse. This plane divides, above, into two laminfE, one of which passes between the biceps and bra- chialis internus, while the other forms a sheath around the median nerve and vein. OF THE ANNULAR LIGAMENTS OP THE WRIST. 1108. Anterior Annular Ligament {Ligamentum annulare (mterms). This is a strong and broad fibrous band, of a quadri-ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 304> lateral form, broader transversely than from above downwards, ex- tended at the fore part of the carpus, and converting into a canal the groove which that part presents. It is attached externally to the fore part of the trapezius and scaphoides, and furnishes inser- tions to the abductor, opponens, and flexor brevis of the thumb. Internally, it is attached to the pisiform bone, the process of the os unciforme, and a ligament which descends from the one to the other (692.) It affords some points of origin to the opponens minimi digiti, and receives a prolongation of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Its upper edge is continuous with the aponeurosis of the fore-arm; the lower is confounded with the palmar aponeurosis. Its anterior surface is covered by the tendon of the palmaris longus, which is intimately united to it by the palmaris brevis muscle, the skin, and the ulnar nerve and vessels. The posterior surface contributes to the formation of a canal, in which the tendons of the two common flexors and the median nerve pass; it also covers the flexor carpi radialis and flexor longus poUicis. The fibres of this tendinous band are very numerous, transverse, and very close upon each other. 1109. Posterior Annular Ligamerd {Ligamentum annulare pos- terius). This is placed behind the wrist-joint, where it is extended transversely over the fibrous sheaths of the extensor ossis meta- carpi, and extensor primi internodii pollicis, the radial extensors, extensor secundi internodii polUcis, extensor communis digitorum, extensor proprius indicis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. It belongs much more than the preceding to the aponeu- rosis of the fore-arm, and must not be confounded with these; sheaths, which it only serves to cover. Its fibres are transverse, parallel, and very white; they are traversed by blood-vessels. They are attached on the one hand to the outer and lower part of the ra- dius, and terminate on the other, at the lower part of the ulna, and at the external region of the os pisiforme. This ligament is much weaker than the anterior. OF THE PALMAR APONEUllOSIS. 1110. This aponeurosis, which is extremely dense and strong, covers the palm of the hand. It is of a triangular form, broader below than above. It seems to arise above from the expansion of the tendon of the palmaris longus, but also receives fibres from the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, (1108,) and four or five oblique bundles detached from the lower part of the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The fibres of which it is composed descend, be- coming smaller and diverging, to the lower part of the metacarpus; there, they separate, and form four isolated slips, connected by new transverse fibres. These slips bifurcate towards the articula- tions of the metacarpal bones and phalanges, for the passage of the flexor tendons, each of the branches of their bifurcation twistsMUSCLES OF THE SHOULDKll. 305 backwards, and loses itself in the transverse and inferior metacarpal lio-ameut, forming with it and the connecting transverse fil)res, holes which are traversed by the lumbricales. The two lateral edges of this aponeurosis give attachment to two very thin and transparent prolongations which cover, externally and intcr- aally, the muscles of the tuumb and little finger. Its anterior t iurface is connected with the dermis by numerous fibres, and ad- heres to an adipose tissue disposed in small rounded masses. The msterior surface lies over the flexor tendons, the lumbricales, and :l;he vessels and nerves of the palm of the hand. MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. OF THE DELTOID MUSCLE 1111. The Deltoid muscle, so named on account of its resemb- ang the Greek letter A, forms what is called the top of the shoulder, tt is thick, flat, triangular, broader above than below, curved upon self to embrace the shoulder joint, whence it descends to the outer idde of the arm, as far as its middle. It is composed of seven Jeshy bundles, separated by grooves more or less deep accord- ing to the individual, and divided into two orders. Those of the r.rst order, to the number of four, are broad and fleshy above, ontracted below, and terminate by strong tendons. One of them, titrengthened behind by a transverse fibrous band which unites ihe acromio-coracoid ligament to the pectoralis major, arises "(Tom the outer third of the anterior edge of the clavicle, by small pponeuroses, and descends obliquely outwards. Another is insert- dd externally into the acromion by various aponeurotic fasciculi, ' Vhich are more or less prolonged in or over the fleshy fibres; it lescends vertically. The two last proceed from the posterior edge 'fthe spine of the scapula, where they are attached by means of m aponeurosis which unites with those of the trapezius and infra- pinatus, and are directed obliquely downwards and forwards. The •undies of the second order, to the number of three, are placed in he interval of these latter, between which they seem to ascend, to erminate in a point at the commencing aponeurosis. All these lifferent bundles, which are themselves formed of fleshy fibres dis- posed in secondary bundles, are united below into a very strong nangular tendon, broad and thick, little apparent externally, but Prolonged to a great length upon the inner surface of the muscle, "nexQ each bundle furnishes a portion to it; this tendon is attach- ed to the deltoid impression of the humerus, over an extent of about m inch and a half. At its termination, it is embraced by a bifur- ation of the brachialis internus (1141). 1112. The outer surface of the deltoid muscle is convex, and I ."^^"^cd by the skin and platysma myoides above. The inner snr^ I 'ice, which is concave, is applied from behind forwards, and from IACTIVE OltCANS OF LOCOMOTION. above downwards, upon the infra-spinatus, teres minor, and triceps extensor inuscles, the tendon of the supra-spinatus, the acromio- coracoid ligament, the sub-scapularis, pectoraUs minor, biceps, and coraco-brachiaUs muscles, the coracoid process, the capsule of the joint, the upper third of the outer surface of the humerus, the cir- cumflex nerve and vessels, and the tendon of the pectoralis major. Between the upper part of the deltoid muscle and the subjacent organs, the cellular tissue forms a sort of loose and very flexible- piembrane. The posterior edge of the muscle is very thin above, and very thick below. The anterior is separated above from the pectoralis major by a cellular interval occupied by the cephah( vein, (IO76) ; and below is parallel to the outer edge of the bi- ceps. 1113. When the shoulder is fixed, the deltoid muscle raises the arm directly, or carries it at the same time forwards or backwards, according to the direction of the bundles which act. When the arm is raised, its posterior fibres can lower it. If the arm is fixed, it depresses the shoulder. OF THE SUPllA-SPINATUS. 1114. The (iupra-spinatus is situated at the posterior and up- per part of the shoulder in the fossa supra-spinata. It is long, thick, triangular, pyramidal, broader within than without; and is kept in position by a very thin aponeurosis, which arising on the one hand from the whole length of the upper lip of the spine of the scapula, is attached on the other, behind the upper edge of that bone, and to the upper part of its inner edge. The fleshy fibres arise from the posterior part of this aponeurosis, and from the two inner thirds of the fossa supra-spinata by short tendinous fibres. They proceed outwards, converge towards each other, and are inserted obliquely round a broad aponeurosis, which, after being long concealed among them, contracts, becomes thicker, and entirely emerges from them, passing under the coraco-acromial ligament. It then forms a strong tendon, more apparent internally than externally, almost always united to that of the infra-spinatus. Separated by the long portion of the biceps from that of the subscapuJaris, this tendon curves a little over the shoulder joint, becomes identified with its fibrou.' capsule, and is attached to the upper surface of the large tuberosit\ of the humerus. 1115. The 'posterior surface of this muscle is covered by tin trapezius and deltoides, and by the coraco-acromial ligament. Tht anterior is applied upon the fossa supra-spinata ; from which it i separated, in its outer third, by niucli cellular tissue, and by tlu supra-scapular vessels and nerve. It also corresponds to the cap sule of the shoulder joint, the omo-hyoidcus muscle, and the cora coid ligament (652).MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. 307 1116. It assists the deltoid muscle in raising the arm. If the arm is fixed, it acts upon the scapula. OF THE INFRA-SPINATUS. 1117- This muscle is situated in the fossa, observed on the pos- terior surface of the scapula beneath its spine. It is broad inter- nally, narrow externally, thick and triangular, and kept down posteriorly by a thin aponeurosis, which is prolonged below over the teres minor, to be inserted into a bony ridge between that muscle and the teres major, is attached above to the spine of the scapula, where it is continuous with the insertions of the trapezius and del- toides, and internally to the spinal edge of that bone, and at length loses itself externally upon the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Its fibres cross each other, and are very apparent. Some of the fleshy fibres come from this aponeurosis internally ; but the greater num- ber arise from two inner thirds of the fossa infra-spinata. Of these fibres, the upper proceed horizontally outwards, and the rest ascend more, and are longer the lower their position is. They go to a broad aponeurosis concealed beneath them, situated nearer the posterior surface of the muscle than the anterior, which, towards the hu- merus, becomes a strong and thick tendon, which is attached to the middle surface of the large tuberosity of that bone, after being iden- tified with the fibrous capsule of the articulation, and in part incor- porated with those of the supra-spinatus and teres minor. 1118. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered external- ly by the deltoid muscle, internally by the trapezius, below by the latissimus dorsi, in the middle by the integuments. The anterior surface covers the fossa infra-spinata, from which it is separated, in its outer third, by much cellular tissue, and by the superior scar- pular nerve and vessels. It is also applied upon the capsule of the shoulder joint. Its lower edge, which is inchned obliquely upwards and outwards, is connected internally with the teres major by an aponeurotic partition, which presently divides into two laminae, one passing oetween the teres major and minor, the other between the infra^spinatus and teres minor. The edge is then confounded ■with the teres minor, as far as the middle of its length. 1119. When the arm is lowered, the infra-spinatus turns it out- wards by rotation. When raised, it draws it backwards. OV THE TERES MINOR. 1120. The Teres Minor is an elongated narrow muscle, flatten- ea trom above downwards in its inner half, and from behind for- wards m the outer. It is situated beneath the preceding, and auses trom a rough triangular surface, which limits the fossa infra- spmata near the axillary edge of the scapula, and from two apo-ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 308 neurotic lamina? which separate it from the teres major and infra- spinatus. From thence, it ascends obhqucly outwards, in com- pany with the infra-spinatus, to which it is often united. Its fleshy fibres terminate, near the humerus, on the anterior surface of a Hat tendon which commences by aponeuroses on the posterior surface of the muscle, and is inserted into the inferior surface of the great tuberosity, where it is united with the capsule of the joint. Some of the lower fibres are directly attached to the humerus, beneath the great tuberosity. 1121. Its posterior side is covered by the deltoid muscle and the skin. The anterior covers the dorsal scapular artery, the long portion of the triceps, the fibrous capsule of the joint, and a smaU portion of the scapula. The upper side is broader internally than externally ; it is connected, in the former direction witli the infra- spinatus muscle. The lower is connected internally with the teres major, from which it is afterwards separated by the long portion of the triceps. 1122. The teres minor has the same uses as the infra-spinatus. OF THK TERES MA,IOR. 1123. The Teres Major is a long flat muscle, broader than the preceding, beneath which it is situated. It arises by short aponeu- rotic fibres, from a quadrilateral surface which terminates the fossa infra-spinata inferiorly, and from fibrous partitions that are met with between it and the subscapularis on the one hand, and the infra-spinatus and teres minor on the other. From thence its fleshy fibres, which are all parallel, proceed obliquely outwards running along the teres minor; then twisting upon themselves, se- parate from that muscle, and give rise to a broad and flat tendon, more distinct below than above, and before than behind. This tendon, which is abovit an inch broad, follows the direction of the muscle, is applied by its anterior surface upon that of the latissi- mus dorsi, (805), unites with it, and is attached to the ^posterior edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus, in the manner Vijiich we liave already described. 1124. Its posterior surface is covered internally by the latissi- mus dorsi, and in the middle by the skin. Externally, it corres- ponds to the humerus and the long portion of the triceps. The anterior surface is in connexion with the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and with the axillary vessels and brachial plexus. Its lower edge, which is covered by the integuments, forms with the latissimus dorsi the posterior edge of the hollow of the axilla. The upper edge, which is united to the teres minor internally, but separated from it in the middle by the long portion of the triceps, corresponds externally with the sub- scapularis muscle, and the circumflex vessels and nerve. 1125. This muscle rotates the humerus inwards. When its ac-MUSCLES Ol- THE SHOULDER. S09 tion is combined with that of the latibsimus dorsi and pcetorahs major, it applies the arm against the thorax. It is consequently 1 an antagonist of the two preceding muscles. 1126. We have aleady several times made mention of the axilla or arm-pit, of which the teres major, as we have just said, forms the posterior edge. The cuvilla is the angle or cavity that lies be- neath the junction of the arm with the shoulder, and is li- mited before by a portion of the pectoralis major, and behind by a part of the latissimus dorsi. The form of this cavity varies in the ({different positions of the arm. The skin by which it is lined is soft and delicate, covered with hairs, and attached to the adjacent iparts by a loose filamentous laminar tissue, capable of great exten- sion. It is filled with sebaceous foUicles which furnish an excre- ttion, having a strong smell, and more or less coloured. Beneath the skin, and in the midst of the adipose tissue, there are seen se- veral lymphatic ganglia, nerves, and vessels, which it is of great iiimportance to knoAv. OF THE SUBSCAPULAlllS. 1127. The Subscapularis is a very thick triangular muscle, which occupies the whole of the subscapular fossa, from the three i nferior fourths of which it arises, both from its periosteum, and rrom three or four aponeurotic partitions between the fleshy fibres, »which are themselves attached to the oblique bony ridges presented py the scapula at this place. Some of its fleshy fibres also come rTom another aponeurotic septum, placed between it and the pre- ceding muscle. They are disposed into five or six distinct bundles ^hich converge together, and proceed outwards, the upper horizon- tally, and the lower more and more obliquely. They are attached oto the two surfaces of a broad and flat tendon, which appears to we its first origin to the aponeurotic partitions of the muscle; ithis tendon contracts and becomes thicker, and terminates at the WfiiaU tuberosity of the humerus by embracing it. It adheres hstrbngly to the capsule of the joint, which presents beneath it a ■true opening (655), so as there to be in immediate contact with >the synovial membrane of the articulation, above which there fre- quently occurs another smaller hole, which communicates with it. ^oine of the lower fibres of the muscle are attached directly to the humerus, beneath its small tuberosity. 1128. The anterior surface of the subscapularis, which is con- cave mtcrna'lly, and convex outwards, is separated from the serra- tus magnus, with which it forms the hollow of the axilla, by a very thick layer of cellular tissue (1089). Its outer part corresponds to brachial plexus, axillary artery, and coraco-brachialis, biceps, ^"1 ,f^ ^"''^ muscles. Its posterior surface covers the scapula, mu beyond that bone it is in connexion with the teres major and310 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the long portion of the triceps. Farther on, it covers the capsule of the shoulder joint. 1129. When the arm is separated from the body, the subscapu- laris draws it toward it. When in its natural position, it can turn it inwards, and when raised, depresses it. It also strengthens the articulation. 1130. Dissection of the Muscles of the Shoulder. The deltoid being the most superficial, must be exposed first; for this purpose, separate tlie extremity from the trunk, and bend the arm towards the axillary margin of the scapula ; make an incision through the skin from the upper part of the shoulder to the outer and middle part of the arm, and dissect off the skin and cellular tissue towards the anterior and posterior margins of the muscle. When examined, the attachments of the deltoid are to be re- moved from the spine of the scapula, the clavicle cut through at its middle, the conoid and trapezoid ligaments divided, and the acromion, where it unites with the spine of the scapula, sawn through : aE these parts, the deltoid, the acromion, and the outer half of the clavicle, are now to be thrown downwards, when, The supra-spinatus may be dissected by removing the tra- pezius from the upper lip of the spine of the scapula, if still adhe- rent ; The infra-spinatus and teres minor, by dissecting off, in the di- rection of their fibres, the aponeurosis which covers them; The teres major, by removing that part of the latissimus dorsi and skin with which its posterior surface (1124) is connected ; and The subscapularis, by removing from it the parts with whicli it is in connexion by its anterior surface (1128). MUSCLES OF THE ARM. OF THE CORACO-BUACHIALIS. 1131. This muscle is long, thin, flat, and narrow, especially ai its extremities, and is situated at the upper and inner part of the arm. It arises from the summit of the coracoid process, betweer 1 the short head of the biceps and the pectoralis minor, with whicl it is united; this origin takes place by means of an aponeurosis which also belongs to the short portion of the biceps, is extendec before their common fibres, then interposed between the tw( muscles, and separates into two portions, one for each of them. I is from the posterior surface of this aponeurosis that the fleshy fi bres arise. In their upper third they are incorporated with thos' 1 of the biceps, but afterwards separated, and descend obliquel; backwards and outwards, forming a bundle which increases in siz to its middle part. W^ien arrived near the humerus, they termi natc in an aponeurosis, at first concealed among them, then ap pearing externally, move distinct within and above, than below an311 MUSCLES OF THE ARM. \ ithoiit, and fixed to the middle part of the inner surface and edge ftlic humerus, between the brachialis internus and triceps. It is mited to the latter muscle. 1132. The coraco-brachialis is generally, though not always, traversed at its middle part by the external cutaneous nerve. Its antenor surface is covered by the deltoid, pectoralis major, and biceps. The posterior is applied upon the subscapularis muscle, the united tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, the axil- lary artery, the external cutaneous and median nerves, and the brachial artery. 1133. Bursa Mucosa. There is a bursa mucosa between the fibrous capsule of the shoulder joint, and the place of union of the short portion of the biceps and ccwaco-brachialis. 1134. It carries the arm forwards and inwards, and raises the humerus a little. When the latter bone is fixed, it turns the scapula by separating its" lower angle from the chest. '< OF THK BICEPS FLEXOll CUBITI. 1135. This muscle is situated on the fore and inner part of the arm. It is long, much broader and thicker at its middle part than at the extremities, and is divided above into two portions. The outer is longer, and arises from the upper part of the edge of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, by a very long, slender, flattened ten- don, continuous with the glenoid ligament (657). This tendon turns over the head of the humerus, becoming broader, crosses the arti- culation obliquely inwards, and advances to the interval between the two tuberosities, surrounded by a sheath which is furnished by the synovial capsule (658). It then becomes rounded, contracts, and enters the bicipital groove, still accompanied by the synovial membrane, and kept down by a prolongation of the fibrous cap- sule ; emerging from this groove, it continues to descend verti- fially, expands, and gives rise to fleshy fibres. The second or in- ner portion, which is shorter, is attached to the summit of the cora- coid process, along with the coraco-brachialis muscle, as we have already said (1131). It descends a little outwards, approaching the other, and becomes fleshy much sooner than it. 1136. The two fleshy bundles of the muscle are fusiform, and longer covered by the tendinous fibres externally than internal- ly ; they approach each other as they descend, soon come into con- tact, unite by a very thin cellular line, and are at length intimately mcoriiorated toward the lower third of the arm, sometimes higher and sometimes lower. The bundle which results from this junc- tion continues to descend, diminishing in size, and near the elbow jomt is converted into a tendon, which makes its appearance a little sooner on the outside than internally ; at first broad and thin, it IS in a great measure concealed by the fleshy fibres. When fairly emerged from them, it becomes narrower and rounded, turns «bh<iucly outwards, and furnishes by its inner edge a pretty broadACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 312 fibrous prolongation, which proceeds downwards and inwards to join the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, before the brachial artery and pronator teres. It then sinks between the supinator longus and pronator teres, and on arriving beneath the elbow, twists upon it- self to terminate by embracing the bicipital tuberosity of the ra- dius, at its back part. 1137. The anterior surface of the biceps is covered above by the deltoid and pectoralis major; in the rest of its extent, by the brachial aponeurosis and the integuments. The posterior surface rests upon the humerus, the coraco-brachialis and brachialis inter- nus muscles, and the external cutaneous nerve. Its inner edge is united above with the coraco-brachialis ; in the middle and below, it is accompanied by the brachial artery. 1138. Bursa Mucosa. A thin, very loose bursa mucosa, ge- nerally containing a good deal of moisture, invests the outer sur- face of its lower tendon, the fore part of the bicipital process and neck of the radius, is engaged in a notch of the circumference of the supinator brevis, and contributes much to facilitate the motions of the muscle. 1139. The biceps flexor bends the fore-arm on the arm, supi- nates the hand when it is prone, or bends the arm upon the fore- arm when the latter is fixed. Lastly, it may bring the humerus and scapula closer together, and strengthens the shoulder joint by means of the tendon of its long portion. PF THE BRACHIALIS INTEUNUS. 1140. This muscle is deeply seated at the lower and fore part of the arm, before the elbow-joint. It is flat, broader in the middle, and at its upper part than below. It arises from the outer and in- ner surfaces of the humerus, over a space extending from the del- toid impression to near the elbow-joint, and is also attached along the inner edge of that bone, to an aponeurotic partition which separates it from the triceps extensor, and along its outer edge close to the supinator longus. From these origins it descends nearly vertically, increases to its middle part, then becomes a little thinner, passes obliquely inwards over the elbow joint, and termi- nates at the rough impression beneath the coracoid process of the ulna, by a broad and thick tendon, which commences by several portions at a considerable distance above the joint, in the substance of the muscle, especially on the outer side, and sends some fibres to the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The middle fibres of tliis muscle are vertical, and longer than the inner or outer, which are directed obliquely outwards or inwards. All the fibres, moreover, are shorter in proportion to their depth. 1141. Its anterior surface is covered above by the brachial apo- neurosis and the skin ; below and externally, by the supinator lon- gus, which is lodged in a depression which it presents ; at the mid-MUSCLES OF THE A KM. lidle by the biceps muscle and the external cutaneous nerve; in- iternally, by the brachial artery, the median nerve and the pronator uteres. The posterior surface covers the lower part of the luinic- rrus, and its articulation with the bones of the fore-arm. Its icppcv extremity presents a notch which embraces the tendon of the del- toid muscle. (1111.) 1142. This muscle bends the fore-arm upon the arm, or the lat- tter upon the former. OF THE TRICEPS EXTENSOR. 1143. This muscle, which occupies the posterior part of the ; arm, is elongated, flat, thicker in the middle than at its extremities, i and divided at its upper part into three portions. Of these, the middle {caput longum seu anconeus lotiyus'), which is longer and I larger than the others, arises from the highest part of the outer I edge of the scapula, over an extent of about an inch, immediately under the glenoid cavity, by a flat tendon, which separates into two , aponeuroses, an outer, which is shorter, and an inner, which ex- tends much farther downwards. The fleshy fibres of this portion of the muscle, arising from the outer and back part of the tendon just mentioned, form a bundle, v>'hich, at first flat and thin, de- scends vertically between the teres major and teres minor, behind the shoulder joint, then increases in size, and is united to the outer portion about the upper third of the arm, and to the inner about its middle. The outer portion, {caput externum seu anconeus externus,) which is not so long or so thick as the middle, and is broader be- low than above, arises, by a pointed extremity, from the upper part of the outer edge of the humerus, beneath the great tuberosi- ty of that bone. Its fleshy fibres, which descend obliquely back- wards and inwards, and are so much the shorter the lower they are, come moreover from the outer edge of the humerus over a lareer extent, and from an aponeurotic partition, common to them with those of the deltoid muscle and brachialis internus. The inner portion, {caput breve seu inter7ium,) which is shorter than the outer, but of the same form, commences under the ten- don of the teres major and latissimus dorsi by a sharp and elon- gated extremity, which is attached to the inner edge of the hume- rus, and receives additions in succession from an aponeurosis which eovers it above, from the posterior surface of the humerus, and a fibrous partition which separates it from the brachialis internus. Its fleshy fibres descend backwards and outwards. 1144. After their union, these three portions of the muscle form a thick and broad bundle, concave before for embracing the hume- rus, and terminate by a very strong tendon, also broad and thick, which is attached to the posterior and upper part of the olecranon, • over a considerable extent of surface. This tendon commences byACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 314 twio aponeuroses : the outer broad and tliin, with longitudinal and parallel fibres, arises behind the muscle, towards its middle part, and sends downwards a fibrous prolongation to the aponeurosis of the fore-arm ; the inner, which is narrower but thicker, descends in the substance of the muscle from the point of junction of its three portions, after liaving even extended for some time along the anterior surftice of the lower part of the middle portion. 1145. Besides the fleshy fibres furnished to it by each of the three portions, the common bundle receives a great number of others, which arise along the lower third of the posterior surface of the humerus, to near the olecranal cavity, and descend obUquely backwards upon the anterior surface of the tendon. The outer side of the tendon and of its aponeurotic origins serves for the in- sertion of several others, wliich come from about the lower fourth of the outer edge of the humerus, where they leave between tliem a small aperture for the passage of the musculo-spiral nerve, and its accompanying vessels, and which appear to form a particular mus- cle, separated from the rest of the outer portion by a line of cellular tissue. They are short, have little obliquity, and are even almost transverse below, where they are parallel to the superior fibres of the anconeus. Lastly, at its inner part, this same tendon is also furnished with fleshy fibres which come from the lowest part of the inner edge of the humerus. 1146. The posterior surface of the triceps extensor is convex, and covered above by the teres minor and deltoid, and in the rest of its extent, by the brachial aponeurosis and the skin. The ante- terior surface covers the sub-scapularis, teres major, andlatissimus dorsi, above. It is united to the fibrous capsule of the shoulder joint by cellular tissue. At its lower part, it is in connexion with the posterior surface of the humerus, to which it is attached, ex- cepting at the place where the musculo-spiral nerve and the colla- teral vessels pass. Lastly, at its lowest part, it is applied upon the posterior surface of the elbow joint. 1147. The triceps extensor acts in opposition to the biceps and brachialis internus, extending the fore-arm upon the arm, and in certain circumstances the arm upon the fore-arm. When the fore- arm is extended, its long portion carries the arm backwards. It may also sometimes move the scapula upon the humerus. 1148. The muscles of the arm are dissected by removing the superjacent skin and aponeurosis, moving the scalpel in the direc- tion of their fibres, and placing the arm in such a position, that the muscle which is being dissected may be on the stretch, thus, for the muscles of the fore part of the arm, the arm should be bent towards the scapida, and the fore-arm extended ; for the muscles of the back part of the arm, the opposite position is necessary.MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. 315 MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. Anterior and siiperjicial Region of the Fore-Arm. OF THE PRONATOR TERES. 114)9. This muscle is extended obliquely at the upper and ante- rior part of the fore-arm. It is rather short, broad at its com- mencement, then thicker, and at last obviously contracted, but still broader than thick. It arises from the inner condyle by a tendon •which is common to it with the flexor carpi radiahs, palraaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digitorum sublirais; from the coronoid process by another small distinct tendon, which permits the median nerve to pass between it and the first; from an aponeurotic septum which separates it internally from the flexor carpi radialis ; from a similar partition placed between' it and the flexor subhmis, and lastly, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. Its fleshy fibres, ■which are aU parallel, descend from thence obliquely outwards, to the middle of the outer surface of the radius, where they are at- tached by means of a broad and thick tendon, at first concealed in their substance, and afterwards expanded in the form of a mem- brane over their anterior surface. 1150. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered, in its two upper thirds, by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm and by the skin; in the lower thii'd, by the supinator longus, the radial nerve and vessels, and the radial extensor muscles. The posterior sur- face covers the brachialis intemus and flexor sublimis muscles, as weU as the median nerve and ulnar artery. Its outer edge is se- parated above from the supinator longus, by a triangular space in which are lodged the tendon of the biceps, the brachial artery and the median nerve ; inferiorly, it is parallel to the anterior edge of the supinator brevis, which it covers a little. 1151. The pronator teres turns the radius upon the ulna from without inwards, and thus turns the hand prone. If the radius is kept back by the supinator muscles, it can bend the fore-arm upon the arm, or the latter upon the former. OF THE FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS. 1152. This muscle, which is long, fusiform, thick and fleshy above, thin and tendinous below, is situated internally of the pro- nator teres. It arises above from the inner condyle by the common tendon of which we have spoken (1149) ; anteriorly, from the apo- neurosis of the fore-arm ; posteriorly, from an aponeurotic septum which separates it from the flexor sublimis, and wliich afterwards descends some way upon its posterior surface; externally and in-316 ACTIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. tcrnally, from two similar partitions which separate it, in these two directions, from the pronator teres and palraaris longus. Its fibres form a bundle, large in the middle and slender at its ex- tremities ; they descend a little outwards, and near the upper third of the fore-arm, terminate upon a tendon, which at first con- cealed among them, afterwards separates, descends in the original direction of the muscle, passes before the wrist-joint, then enters, behind the abductor and opponens pollicis, a groove of the trape- zium, in which it is retained by a ligamentous sheath and by a small prolongation of its own fibres, and at length, sinking back- wards and outwards, is attached to the fore part of the upper ex- tremity of the second metacarpal bone, becoming broader at its in- sertion. This tendon, which is narrow and round below, is broad and thin above, and sooner separated from the fleshy fibres an- teriorly than at its back part. 1153. The anterior surface of the flexor carpi radialis is covered externally by the supinator longus, and in the rest of its extent, by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The posterior is applied upon the flexor digitorum perforatus, flexor longus pollicis muscles, and the wrist joint. Its two edges are connected above with the pro- nator teres and palmaris longus. 1154. Synovial Bursa. The fibrous sheath which keeps its tendon in the groove of the trapezium seems to come from the extremity of the radius, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, and from the outer edge of the groove. It is attached to the inner edge of the latter, to the trapezoides and second metacarjial bone, where it is continuous with the insertions of the neighbouring muscles. This sheath contains an elongated synovial membrane which is reflected over the tendon, and frequently rises above it. 1155. This muscle bends the hand upon the fore-arm, turning it a little inwards. When the hand is fixed it bends the fore-arm upon it. OF THE PALMAK IS LONGUS. 1156. This muscle is often wanting in one or other arm, some- times in both. It has the same form as the preceding, internally of which it is situated, only it is thinner and more slender. It arises above from the inner condyle by the common tendon; be- hind, externally and internally, from aponeurotic partitions which that tendon sends between it and the flexor perforatus and flexor carpi radialis ; anteriorly, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The small bundle formed by its fleshy fibres descends vertically along the middle part of the fore-arm, and is terminated by a thin, flat, very slender and very elongated tendon,* which loses itself in the upper part of the palmar aponeurosis, after sending some fibres to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. • The form of this muscle is sometimes diffcreiit, comraejiciug by a long and slcn- dcr tciidou and terminating l)y a flcsliy belly.MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. 317 1157. Its anterior surface is covered by the aponeurosis of the ;.ic-arm. The posterior covers the flexor perforatus. Its two does are united above, the one with the flexor carpi radialis, the thcr with the flexor perforatus. 1158. It stretches the pahnar aponeurosis, and bends the hand the fore-arm, or the fore-arm on the hand. OF THE FLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS. 1159. Situated internally of the preceding muscles, at the fore ai t of the inner edge of the fore-arm, long, thin, flat, semi-penni- irm (791), broader above than below, this muscle arises from the jiner condyle, by means of the common tendon, and from the inner side of the olecranon; between these two origins the ulnar icrve passes, covered by an aponeurosis which goes from the one lO the other. It also takes origin, externally, from a short apo- eurotic septum which separates it from the flexor perforatus; in- jrnally, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, which presents for iihis attachment very distinct and strong fibres, proceeding to hke posterior edge of the ulna, and there fix the muscle over a Treat extent. From these difierent points the fleshy fibres descend, hhe outer nearly vertically, the inner obliquely forwards and out- -ards. The first terminate at the upper extremity, the others Jong the whole posterior surface of a tendon which runs for a long idme upon the inner and fore part of the muscle, after being at first concealed in its substance. This tendon becomes free only at the yowest part of the fore-arm, and is inserted into the pisiform bone, oecoming a little broader. At its termination, some fibres are detached from it, of which one set descends before the abductor and flexor minimi digiti, while the others pass before the vilnar ar- r,ery, to be continued into the upper part of the anterior annidar i^igament of the wrist. 1160. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the faponeurosis of the fore-arm; the posterior covers the flexor per- >rorans, the ulnar artery and nerve, and the pronator quadratus. tits outer edge is united above with the flexor perforatus, from hfhich it is separated below by an interval, where the ulnar nerve wnd vessels are seen. 1161. It bends the hand upon the fore-arm, inclining it a little lt"towards the ulna. When it contracts at the same time with the J^'^^^Dsor carpi ulnaris, it draws it directly towards the mesial line. Of" THE FLEXOR DIGITORUM SUBLIMIS Oil PKRFOBATU.S. 11G2. This muscle is elongated, very thick and flattened, and is raituated on the fore-arm between the preceding muscles and tlie ■nexor perforans. It is simple above, but separates into four ten-ACTIVE ORGANS OP LOCOMOTIOiN. SIS dons below. It arises from the inner condyle, by means of the common tendon; from the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint, and from the coronoid process of the ulna, by pretty long , aponeuroses ; from two aponeurotic partitions which exist between i it and the flexor carpi ulnaris internally, and the pronator teres, | palmaris longus, and flexor carpi radialis, anteriorly. From these different points there proceeds a rather thin fleshy bundle, which descends a little obliquely outwards, and receives another broad thin, and flat muscular plane, which comes from the anterior edge of the radius, where it is attached by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, between the supinator brevis and flexor longus pollicis. The muscle then increases in breadth and thickness, and is frequently still more augmented by another portion, which arises separately from the inner condyle; it descends vertically, and soon divides into four portions, which proceed, one to each of the last four fin gers. Two are anterior, united to each other by their edges, and belong to the middle and ring fingers; two posterior, one for the fore finger, the other for the little finger ; the latter is the smallest, while that of the middle finger is the broadest and thickest. They are all terminated by tendons proportioned to their size, which are connected together, and with those of the flexor perforans by loose cellular tissue. 1163. Each of these tendons commences very high upon th fleshy portion to which it corresponds. That of the middle fingei extends along its outer and posterior side, and receives the fibres which arise from a part of the common tendon, and from the ante- rior edge of the radius ; it is accompanied by them until clos to the anterior annular ligament of the carpus. That of the rin' finger, which is at first concealed in the substance of its fleshy portion, afterwards appears at its fore part, but pretty low, and receives the fibres from a part of the common tendon and the aponeurotic septum, which separates the flexor perforatus from thi . flexor carpi ulnaris. The tendon of the little finger also commence; i very high on the anterior surface of its fleshy portion, which come; | from a tendinous intersection placed in the substance of the muscle like that of the fore-finger; but the latter descends much farthei . on the tendon. I 1164. These four tendons pass into the groove which the anterioi surface of the carpus presents, and are there kept down by the an ) nular ligament, beneath which they separate from each other to de ♦ scend into the palm, behind the palmar aponeurosis, and before th( tendons of the flexor perforans and the lumbricales. They thei enlarge a little, are enveloped by a loose cellular sheath, and en gaged toward the heads of the metacarpal bones, between partition formed by the palmar aponeurosis, and are lodged in a groove whicl the anterior surface of the phalanges presents, where they arc re tained by a peculiar fibrous sheath. ' Before arriving at these sheaths, the tendons exhibit the aj: pcarance of a middle longitudinal division, and present posterioriMUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. 319 ,. sort of concave channel, which receives the corresponding ten- vlons of the flexor profundus; but, towards the lower part of the ; tirst phalanges, they actually split in the middle to afford a passage •.to these latter, and divide into two portions, which separate at first, then turn and approach each other, so as to form anteriorly a se- i ond channel, which is filled by the tendon of one of the portions (t' the flexor profundus. These two portions unite towards the ar- ticulation of the first and second phalanges, and send off" to each (ither small fibrous bands which regularly cross each other. Last- ly, they separate again, contract and terminate on the sides of the anterior surface of the second phalanx, a little beneath its middle part. At the moment of their first separation, these portions are at- tached to the anterior surface of the metacarpal phalanges by two pretty long and very slender ligamentous bridles. Sometimes there lis only one. 1165. Synovial Bursa of the carpus. It is spread out, on the I one hand, upon the tendons of the two common flexors of the (fingers, and of the flexor longus pollicis, and upon the median t nerve, which it embraces and seems to unite into a common bundle ; ;and, on the other hand, upon the anterior surface of the carpal I bones and the posterior surface of the annular ligament, above and I below which it forms a sort of cul-de-sac. It sends a considerable I number of replications between these different parts, and contains ' very little synovia. 1166. Fibrous sheaths of the Fingers. The sheaths which we I have just mentioned, form with the anterior surface of the pha- 1 langes, a true canal, half bony and half fibrous, which lodges the I tendons of each of the portions of the two flexor muscles. They 1 commence beneath the inferior metacarpal ligament' (699), from which several fibres are sent off"to join them, and terminate at the ' extreme phalanx by interlacing with the expansion of the tendon I of the flexor profundus, being in their whole extent attached along the edges of the phalanges. The anterior surface is covered by the skin, and collateral vessels of the fingers; the posterior is i smooth, and lined by a synovial membrane. The tissue of these sheaths is very compact; they are formed of interlaced trans- verse fibres, of a pearly colour, and very thick at the middle of the first and second phalanges, but opposite their articulation, dis- ■ appear entirely, so as to leave the synovial membrane exposed. • The latter proceeds from the wall of the sheaths over the tendons, forming above and below very distinct culs-de-sac, and having en- veloped these tendons, is reflected posteriorly to tlie anterior sur- face of the phalanges by a triangular repUcation, formed of two la- inina! placed back to back. The separation which exists between - two terminal slips of the tendons of the flexor perforatus, is fill- ed by prolongations of the synovial membrane, ik M The awferior OT<r/flrtf of the flexor perforatus is covered by the pronator teres, flexor carpi padialis, and pulniuris longus, theACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 320 aponeurosis of the fore-arm, the annular ligament, the palmar apo- neurosis, the fibrous sheaths of the fingers, and lastly, by the ten- dons of the flexor profundus. Its posterior surface covers the flexor profundus, the flexor longus poUicis, the median nerve, the ulnar,artery, the lumbricales muscles, and the phalanges. 1168. This muscle bends the second phalanges upon the first, the latter upon the metacarpal bones, and lastly, the hand upon the fore-arm. It can also move the fore-arm upon the hand. Anterior and Deep Region of the Fore-arm. OF THE FLEXOR BIGITOEUIVI PROFUNDUS OK PEUFOllANS. 1169. This is a thick, flattened, elongated muscle, bent upon itself so as to ernbrace the ulna, simple and fleshy above, separated into four tendons below. It arises from the three upper fourths of the anterior surface of the ulna, and from the interosseous liga- ment, below the coronoid process, where it bifurcates so as to sur- round the insertion of the brachialis internus (1140) sending at the same time a prolongation over- the sides of the olecranon ; it also arises from the aponeurosis which goes from the flexor carpi ulna- ris to the ulna, and from the upper third of the inner surface of that bone. From these different origins, which are all aponeurotic, the muscle, thin at first, thicker in the middle, and becoming thin again, descends vertically, and divides into four portions, the three inner of which are not very distinct. Each of these portions is terminated by a tendon, at first very broad, and separated into several slips concealed in the substance of the fleshy fibres, and appearing upon their anterior surface toward the middle of the fore-arm. These tendons do not become free until near the annular ligament, under which they pass along with those of the flexor subUmis, into the palm, where they descend, separating from each other. At first round and giving rise to the lumbricales, they become broader towards the articulations of the first phalanges with the metacarpal bones, present traces of a longitudinal division, are engaged in the fibrous sheaths of the fingers, pass through the fis- sure in the tendons of the flexor perforatus, lodged in the channels which limit it above and below, and are at length inserted, previ- ously becoming flat, into the fore part of the third phalanges of the last four fingers, after being enveloped by the synovial membrane of the fibrous sheaths. 1170. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the flex- or sublimis and flexor carpi vdnaris muscles, the median and ulnar nerves, and the ulnar artery. The posterior surface is applied upon the fore and inner surfaces of the ulna, the interosseous liga- ment, the pronator quadratus, the anterior radio-carpal ligaments, the fore part of the metacarpus, the flexor brevis and adductor324 MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. pollicis, and the last two palmar interossei muscles. Its outer edge corresponds above to the anterior interosseous artery. 1171. This muscle bends the third phalanx upon the second, the latter upon the first, the first upon the metacarpus, and the hand upon the fore-arm, or the fore-arm upon the hand. OF THE FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS MANUS. 1172. This muscle is elongated, thin, flattened, thicker internal- ly than externally, and situated upon the radius, from the three upper fourths of the anterior surface of which it arises by short ■aponeurotic fibres, as well as from the neighbouring portion of the •interosseous ligament, and even frequently from the coronoid pro- cess of the ulna, by a particular prolongation, fleshy in the middle, '"nd tendinous at its extremities. The fleshy fibres, which are alt bUque and about an inch long, form a bundle which descends early vertically, and are inserted at the back part of a tendon, hich they accompany until opposite the pronator quadratus. This endon then becomes free and rounded, passes before the carpus, under the annular ligament, with the tendons of the two preceding muscles. It is there kept down by the synovial membrane which belongs to them (1165), and afterwards descends obliquely out- wards between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, then between the two sesamoid bones. It now passes into a fibrous sheath similar to that which we have described in the other fingers (1166), but whose fibres are very widely set, and much less dis- tinct ; it is there invested by a synovial membrane which keeps it in place, presents the trace of a longitudinal division, and termi- nates by being expanded over the anterior surface of the last pha- Janx of the thumb. 1173. The anterior surface of the flexor longus pollicis is co- vered by the flexor digitorum sublimis, flexor carpi radialis and su- pinator longus muscles, the radial artery, and the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. The posterior surface lies upon the radius, part of the interosseous ligament, the pronator quadratus, the wrist joint, the fore part of the carpus, and the flexor brevis pollicis. Its inner edge, which is much thicker than the outer, lies upon the flexor digitorum profundus. 1174. This muscle bendS the last phalanx of the thumb vipon jlie first, the first upon the corresponding metacarpal bone, and the latter upon the radius. It can also bend the hand upon the fore- arm, and the fore-arm upon the hand. OF THE I'UONATOR QUADRATUS. 175. The 'pronator quadratus is, as its name implies, of a *luaclrilateral form, thin and flat. It lies upon the lower part of the Y322 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. tore-arm, and arises by a very thin aponeurosis expanded over its inner third, from the lower fourth of the anterior edge of the ulna, . and the corresponding part of the anterior surface of that bone. From thence it is directed transversely outwards, and terminates at the fore part of the lower fourth of the radius by indistinct apo- neuroses. Its anterior surface is covered by the flexor digitorum profundus, flexor longus poUicis, flexor carpi radialis, and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and by the radial and ulnar arteries. The posterior surface covers the two bones of the fore-arm, and the lower part of the interosseous ligament. 1176. It turns the radius upon its axis from without inwards, and thus induces pronation of the hand. 1177- The superficial muscles of the anterior region of the fore- arm are exposed, by dissecting off the skin and aponeurosis cover- ing them, while they are stretched by keeping the fore-arm ex- tended on the arm, and the hand extended on the fore-arm. The deep muscles are exposed by the removal of the superficial. But the terminations of all these muscles cannot be seen until the palm of tl>e hand is dissected. Superficial Radial Region. OF THE SUPINATOU LONGUS. 117^^- This muscle, which is elongated, fusiform, flattened from before backwards in its upper fourth, and transversely in the rest of its extent, arises, by very short tendinous fibres, and over an ex- tent of about two inches, from the outer edge of the humerus, be- tween the brachialis internus and triceps extensor ; an aponeurosis placed between it and the latter muscle, also affords an attach- ment to it. From thence it descends vertically, at first increases a little in thickness, then becomes considerably thinner, and termi- nates by a flat tendon, which, at first lying upon its anterior sur- face, becomes free about the middle of the fore-arm. This tendon, which is thin and rather broad above, becomes thicker and narrower as it descends, runs along the outer edge of the radius, and is in- serted near the base of the styloid process of that bone, sending off a fibrous elongation, which lines the groove in which the exten- sor dssis metacarpi, and extensor primi internodii poUicis glide (1203). 1179. The anterior side of this muscle is covered by the skin, and aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The posterior covers the supinator brevis, extensor carpi radialis longior, pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor longus poUi- cis, and the radial artery and nerve. The inner side is applied above, upon the brachialis internus, and the radial nerve. 1180. When the hand is in pronation, this muscle supinatcs it. It also assists in bending the fore-arm upon tlic arm, or tl)e latter upon the foi incr.323 MUSeiiES OF THE FORli-ARM. OF THE EXTENSOR CAKPI UADIALIS LONGIOR. (Radialis Externus Longior.) 1181. This mviscle, nearly of the same form as the supinator lori- giis, beneath which it is situated, arises farther down, from the outer edge of the humerus, and from the aponeurosis which separates it from the triceps ; it also receives some fibres from the upper part of the outer condyle. It forms a bundle at first flat, then larger and rounded, which descends vertically on the outside of the fore- arm, and, about a third down the radius, terminates in a tendon at first thin and broad, then narrower and thicker, which at its lower part turns backwards, glides beneath the extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor primi internodii, pollicis, and covers the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis brevier, with which it is connected by cel- ,lular tissue. Both tendons enter a particular groove, formed behind the lower extremity of the radius, where they are fixed by the posterior annular ligament of the carpus. A synovial mem- brane, tolerably supplied with moisture, lines the groove, is reflect- ed over them, and descends nearly to their insertion. On emerging from this groove the two tendons separate. That of the extensor carpi radialis longior passes over the wrist joint, and is inserted at the posterior and outer part of the vipper extremity of the second metacarpal bone. 1182. The afiterior surface of this muscle, which is inclined outwards, is covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, the supi- nator longus, extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor primi inter- nodii, pollicis. The posterior covers the elbow joint, the su- pinator brevis, and extensor carpi radialis brevier muscles. At its upper part it is firmly united to the latter. 1183. It extends the hand upon the fore-arm, and the latter up- on the hand. OF THE EXTENSOll CAKPI RADIALIS BREVIOR. (Radialis Externus Brevior.J 1184. This muscle is precisely similar to the preceding, behind which it is placed. It arises from the outer condyle by means of the common tendon (1187), which sends an aponeurotic prolonga- tion over its inner surface, and an aponeurotic partition between it and the extensor communis digitorum. It descends in the same curection as the extensor carpi radialis longior, degenerates into a tendon of the same length and form, which passes into the same groove (1181), and is attached to the posterior, and outer part of tnc upper extremity of the third metacarpal bone.ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 1185. Its OM^er «M7y//6't'is covered above by the extensor carpi radialis longior and supinator longus, below by the extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor prirai internodii, polUcis muscles, the ten- don of the extensor secundi internodii poUicis, and the skin. The inner surface dovers the supinator brevis and pronator teres muscles, the radius, and wrist joint. Its posterior edge is intimately connected above with the extensor communis digito- rum. 1186. Its uses are the same as those of the extensor carpi ra- dialis longior. Posterior and Superficial liegion of the Fore-arm, OF THE EXTENSOR DIGITORUM G0MMUNI5. 1187- This muscle, which is long, round, fleshy and simple at its upper part, terminating below in four tendons, arises, above, from the outer condyle, by a tendon, common to it and the other three muscles of the same region, between which it sends prolongations ; internally, from a long aponeurotic parti- tion, sent off from that tendon, which separates it from the ex- tensor proprius minimi digiti; externally, from a shorter partition placed between it and the extensor carpi radialis brevior; poste- riorly, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. From these differ- ent origins, its fleshy fibres proceeding obliquely, form a bundle, at first thin, then thicker, and afterwards thin again, which des- cends vertically, and at the middle of the posterior surface of the fore-arm divides into four portions, at first united by cellular tis- sue, and terminated each by a tendon at first concealed by their substance, and accompanied by the fleshy fibres to near the wrist, particularly in those of the ring and little fingers. These four' tendons are placed beside each other, and are connected by a kind of soft and loose cellular membrane. They vary in size: that of the ring finger is the strongest and thickest; tlae next is that of the middle finger, and the little finger has the smallest. They pass along with the tendon of the extensor indicis in a groove, formed behind the carpal extremity of the radius, where they are kept down by the posterior annular ligament. Beneath this ligament, the tendons diverge, become broader, and proceed to the base of the metacarpal bones. The last three are commonly spHt longitudinally, and send small aponeurotic bands, varying in size, and more or less oblique, to each other. Opposite the articula- tions of the metacarpal bones with the phalanges, they contract and become thicker. They then become broad again, and receive the tendons of the lumbricales and mterossei, forming with them ai aponeurosis which covers the whole posterior surface of the fingers Towards their extremity, they divide into three portions, the mid.MUSCLES OF THE FORE-AUM. die of which passes behind the articulation of the first and second phalanges, to be inserted into the posterior surface of the latter, ■nhile the two lateral pass over the sides of the same same articu- lation, contracting and separating from each other ; they then ap- proach and re-unite, forming a flat tendqn which ig attached to the posterior and upper part of the last phalanx. 1188. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, with -jvhich it is intimately united. The anterior covers the supinator brevis, extensores poUicis, extensor indicis, the wrist joint, the posterior surface of the carpus, meta- carpus, and fingers, and the interossei dorsales muscles. Between its outer edge and the extensor carpi radialis brevior, is an interval in which the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi interno- dii pollicis are seen. 1189. Synovial Bursa. As they pass under the annular liga- ment, the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum are embrac- ed by a synovial membrane, but sparingly moistened, which sends several prolongations between them. 1190. This muscle extends the phalanges of the last four fingers upon each other, and upon the metacarpal bones, the hand upon the fore-arm, or the fore-arm upon the hand. OF THE EXTENSOIl PROPRIUS MINIMI DIGITI. 1191. This muscle is situated to the outside of the preceding^ jmd is as long, but extremely slender. It arises from the outer pondyle by the common tendon (1187), from the aponeuro- tic septum which separates it from the preceding muscle, from that which is placed, internally, between it and the extensor carpi ulna-, ris, and from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. Its fleshy fibres constitute a small fusiform bundle, which descends from without in- wards, and pass very obliquely to within a short distance of the carpus, on the anterior surface of a tendon at first concealed in their substance, and entirely free near the posterior annular ligament, which presents a fibrous canal for it, opposite the lower articulation of the radius and ulna ; this canal is directed obliquely down- wards and inwards, lined by a synovial capsule, and about two inches in length. Before passing into this canal, the tendon of the muscle divides into two portions, which remain contiguous and con- nected by cellular tissue; but towards the upper part of the me- tacarpus, again becomes single and enlarges. It then arrives at the little finger, to the phalanges of which it is attached, precisely m the same manner as those of the extensor communis, and is even united to the fourth tendon of that muscle by its outer edge. 1192. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the *P°"^"'^o«i8 of the fore-arm, and firmly attached to it above; aj; the back of the hand, it lies immediately under the skin. The anterior surface is applied upon the supinator brevis, extensoresACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 326 pollicis, and extensor indicis. Its outer edge is united above to tho extensor digitorum communis; the inner to the extensor carpi ulnaris. 1193. Conjointly with the fourth portion of the preceding mus- cle, this extends the little finger, and even the hand upon the fore-arm. OF THE EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARIS. 1194'. The extensor carpi ulnaris is a long fusiform muscle, situi ated internally of the back part of the fore-arm. It arises from the outer condyle by the common tendon, which sends a very long pro- longation over its anterior surface, from the aponeurotic septum placed externally between it and the extensor minimi digiti, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, and from about the middle third of the posterior edge of the ulna, below the anconeus muscle. From thence it descends at first a little obliquely inwards, and then ver-i tically behind the ulna, and presently degenerates into a tendoii sooner apparent behind than before, and concealed for some time in the fleshy fibres, which terminate upon it in the order of their origin, and accompany it to near the lower extremity of the bone, where it is engaged in a particular groove, under the posterior an- nular ligament. It passes behind the cuneiform bone, in a sort of fibrous canal, attached to that bone, the pisiform bone, the os un- ciforme, and the styloid process of the ulna, and lined by the syno- vial membrane scantily moistened. It passes under the abductor hiinimi digiti, enlarges a little, and terminates at the inner and back part of the upper extremity of the fifth metacarpal bone, whence it sends some aponeurotic fibres over the opponens minimi digiti. 1195. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by th6 aponeurosis of the fore-arm, to which it adheres above. The ante^ rior is applied upon the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and extensor proprius in-i dicis muscles, and upon the ulna. Its outer edge is united above to the extensor proprius minimi digiti; the imier is contiguous at its upper part to the anconeus. 1196. This muscle extends the hand upon the fore-arm, inclin- ing it a little upon the ulna. OF THE ANCONEUS.* 1197. This is short, rather thick, triangular muscle, frequent- ly confounded with the triceps extensor (1143), and placed behind the elbow joint. It arises from the outer condyle by a distinct tendon, broader and thinner below than above, and descending ' * 'AyKSv, cubitus.MUSCLES OF THE FOUE-AllM. pretty fur upon the outer edge of the muscle. The Heshy fibres arise from this tendon, and follow different directions. The upper, which are very short, and continuous with those of the triceps, are nearly transverse, and terminate by short aponeuroses at the out- side of the olecranon. The others, which are longer and more oWique the lower their position is, are inserted, also by short apon- euroses, into the upper fourth of the posterior edge of the ulna, and form a pretty sharp point below. 1198. The posterior surface of the anconeus is merely covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, without adhering to it. The anterior is apphed upon the articulation of the fore-arm, the an- nvdar ligament of ithe radius (668), the supinator brevis and the ulna. 1199. It contributes to the extension of the fore-arm upon the arm, or to that of the latter upon the former. Deep Radial Region of the Fore^arm. OF THE SUPINATOR BEEVIS. 1200. This muscle is broad, thin, and triangular. It embraces the head of the radius. It arises from the outer condyle by a broad and thick tendon, firmly united to the common tendon, of which we have spoken (1187), from the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint, from the annular ligament of the radius, and by pretty distinct aponeurotic fibres, form a longitudinal ridge which is observed upon the posterior surface of the ulna. Its commenc- ing tendon expands over the outer surface of the fleshy fibres, which are shorter and nearly vertical before, longer and more ob- hque the more posterior they are, and are all twisted round the ra^ dius, to the fore, outer, and back part of which tliey are attached by very distinct aponeuroses, deeply concealed in their substance. 1201. Its outer sicrface, which is convex, is covered anteriorly by the pronator teres and supinator longus muscles, and by the radial nerve and vessels ; in the middle, by the radial extensors ; posteriorly, by the extensor muscles of the fingers, extensor pro- prius minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris and anconeus. Its hi^ ner surface is applied upon the outer part of the elbow joint, and of the upper articulation of the radius and ulna, upon the ulna, the interosseous ligament, and the radius. Its posterior edge covers the upper part of the extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor se- cundi internodii poUicis. The anterior is notched above for the passage of the tendon of the biceps flexor, and is covered below by the pronator teres. These two edges unite, forming an acute an- gle, which is attached to the outer side of the radius, above the in- sertion of the latter muscle. 1202. The supinator brevis turns the radius upon its axis from before outwards, and brings the hand into supination.ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 328 Posterior and Deep Regio7i of the Fore-arm. OF THE EXTENSOll OSSIS METACAUPI POLLICIS. (Abdtictor Longus Pollicis Manus). 1203. This muscle lies obliquely at the back and outer part of the fore-arm. It is long, slender, and flat, broader in the middle, than at its extremities. It arises by a pointed extremity from the posterior surface of the ulna, beneath the supinator brevis, with which it is almost always united; then by short aponeurotic fibres, from a longitudinal ridge which is observed upon the poste- rior surface of that bone; and lastly, from a hne directed obliquely downwards and outwards, which the posterior surface of the radius* presents at its upper part, and from the interosseous ligament. Its fleshy fibres constitute a fusiform bundle which descends ob- liquely outwards behind the fore-arm, and terminate upon the posterior surface of a tendon, at first concealed among them, which they accompany to the inferior extremity of the radius: there, this tendon passes into a groove, formed on the outer side of the extremity in question, which is common to it and the extensor primi internodii poUicis. It is kept down by the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and its motions are facilitated by a synovial membrane, which commonly belongs also to the ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis, but sometimes a fibrous partition separates the two tendons. On issuing from this gi-oove, the ten- don divides into two or three portions, and goes to be inserted into the outer part of the superior extremity of the first metacarpal bone, occasionally sending a small prolongation to the abductor poUicis. 1204. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the supinator brevis, extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor minimi digiti, extensor communis digitorum, and extensor secundi internodii pol- licis, to which latter it is united. At its lowest part, it is in con- nexion with the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. Its anterior stirface covers a small portion of the ulna above; the interosseous ligament and the posterior surface of the radius, in the middle; the outer surface of that bone, the tendons of the radial extensors, the radial artery, and the wrist joint below. 1205. It carries the thumb outwards and backwards, and has the same action upon the hand. It may also contribute to supina- tion. OF THE EXTENSOR PHIMI INTERNODII I'OLLICIS MANUS. (Extensor Minor Pollicis Manus). 1206. Much shorter and thinner than the preceding, but of a329 jVlUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. similar form, this muscle arises beneath it, from a email portion of the ulna, from the interosseous ligament, and more especially from the posterior surface of the radius. Following the same direction, it degenerates, on the outer side of the fore-arm, into a slender tendon, more apparent externally than internally, which passes into a groove of the radius (1203) already described. On issuing from this groove, it separates from the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, descends behind the first metacarpal bone, becomes flatten- ed, and is inserted at the upper and back part of the first phalanx of the thumb. 1207- Its posterior surface is covered by the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor communis digitorum. At its lower part, it is in connexion with the aponeu- rosis of the fore-arm. Its anterior surface has the same connex- ions as those of the preceding muscle (1203), excepting below,' where it is applied upon the first metacarpal bone and its articula- tion with the thumb. 1208. It extends the first phalanx of the thumb upon the first metacarpal bone, and may afterwards draw the latter backwards and outwards. It also contributes to the supination of the hand. OF THE EXTENSOR SECUNDI INTEUNODII I'OLLICIS MANUS. (Extensor Major Pollicis Manus). 1209. This muscle is elongated, flat, fusiform, longer and larger than the preceding, and situated beneath it. It arises from about the middle third of the posterior surface of the ulna, and from a small portion of the interosseous ligament. It descends outwards, and terminates in a tendon which first appears behind, and is isolated near the lower extremity of the radius, where it passes un- der the posterior annular ligament, in a groove, directed obliquely like itself, and lined by a synovial membrane. When it has arriv- ed at the back of the hand, it becomes a little broader, passes over the tendons of the radial extensors, crosses their direction, descends at the posterior and inner part of the first metacarpal bone, joins the tendons of the extensor primi internodii pollicis near the articulation of that bone with the first phalanx, receives in the same place two aponeurotic expansions from the abductor and flexor brevis pollicis, becomes thicker, then enlarges a second time, and is inserted at the back part of the phalanx of the thumb. 1210. Its posterior surface is covered by the extensor carpi ul- naris, extensor minimi digiti, extensor communis digitorum, and ex- tensor indicis, and at its lowest part by the skin. The anterior surface lies upon the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor pnmi internodii poUicis, the two bones of the fore-arm, the interos- T"fi ^"^i^*^ joittt^ the tendons of the radial extensors, the first metacarpal bone, and the phalanges of the thumb. ItsACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. upper extremity is frequently united with that of the extensor ossis : metacarpi poUicis. 1211. It extends the last phalanx of the thumb upon the first, and, in other respects, acts as the preceding muscle. OF THE EXTENSOR PROPRIUS INDICTS. (^Indicator.) 1212. Similar in form to the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, tliis muscle arises, by short aponeuroses, from the posterior surface of the ulna, and from the interosseous ligament, a little beneath it,. and to the outer side. From thence it descends outwards, in- creasing a little in size at first, then becoming thinner; a tendon inclosed in its substance, becomes separated towards the posterior annular ligament of the wrist, unites with those of the extensor, communis digitorum, by means of a membraniform cellular tissue (1187), passes into the same groove with it, is embraced by the same synovial membrane, and, on arriving at the back of the hand,, is situated to the outside of that which the extensor communis sends to the fore-finger. It is incorporated with it behind the articula- tion of the second metacarpal bone, with the first phalanx of the fore-finger, to terminate in the manner indicated (1187-) 1213. Its posterior surface is covered by the extensor carpi ul- naris, extensor proprius minimi digiti, and extensor communis di- gitorum. The anterior lies on the ulna, the interosseous ligament, the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, the inferior extremity of the radius, and the back of the hand. Its upper extremity is confound- ed with that of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 1214. It extends the three phalanges of the fore-finger, and, in other respects, has the same uses as the other extensors. 1215. Remove the skin and aponeurosis from the outer and back part of the arm, and from the back part of the hand, but leave the posterior annular ligament; by this dissection the superficial mus- cles of the outer and posterior regions of the arm will be exposed. These must be detached in order to show the deep muscles. Whilst examining each muscle, the fibrous sheath through which it passes behind the wrist is to be slit up, so as to examine the re- flections of the synovial membrane from its inner surface upon tlie tendon. 3331 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. MUSCLES OF THE HAND. External Palmar Region. OF THE ABDUCTOE POLLICIS.* 1216. Short, triangular, flat, broader above than below, this muscle arises externally and by very short aponeurotic fibres from the anterior surface of the os scaphoides ; internally, from the up- per, anterior, and external part of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and sometimes from a prolongation of the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis (1203). From thence, it descends a little obliquely outwards. Its fibres converge toward each other, and terminate by a short and flat tendon, concealed at first in their substance, afterwards receiving a portion of the flexor brevis poUi-' cis, and going to be inserted at the outer edge of the upper extre-' mity of the first phalanx of the thumb, over the back of which it transmits some aponeurotic fibres to the tendon of the extensor se- cundi internodii pollicis. 1217. Its anterior surface is covered by a portion of the palmar aponeurosis and by the skin. The posterity)' covers the opponens, and flexor brevis, polhcis. 1218. It carries the thumb and first metacarpal bone outwards and forwards. OF THE OPPONENS POLLICIS. 1219. This muscle is also triangular, but thicker than the pre- ceding, imder which it is situated. It arises, internally, from the fore part of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, by very long aponeurotic fibres; externally, from the outer edge of the groove which the trapezium presents for the tendon of the flexor carpi ra- diaUs ; and posteriorly, from an aponeurotic septum interposed be- tween it and the flexor brevis pollicis. Arising from these different places, the fleshy fibres, which are so much the longer and more oblique the lower they are, proceed downwards and outwards, and terminate by short aponeuroses all along the outer edge of the first metacarpal bone, and sometimes partially on the tendon of the ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 1220. Its anterior surface is covered by the preceding muscle and by the skin. The posterior is applied upon the anterior annu- lar ligament of the wrist, the articulation of the trapezium with the first metacarpal bone (693), part of the anterior surface of the lat- ter bone, and the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. " Soemmering divides it into two distinct muscles, wliieh lie designates by (lie names ot AbduUores breves iwllicis inmus, iiilcrior el cxkrivr.332 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 1221. It impresses upon the first metacarpal bone a rotatory mo- tion, which opposes the thumb to the fingers. OF THE FLEXOR BllEVIS POLLICIS MANUS. 1222. Placed within and beneath the two preceding muscles, short, of a rather irregular form, and bifurcated at its two extremi- ties, this muscle has two separate origins. One arises anteriorly and externally, from the fore and under part of the anterior annular li- gament of the carpus, from the trapezium, and from an aponeuro- tic septum interposed between it and the opponens poUicis, The other origin, which is posterior, is from the lower part of the os magnum, from the upper extremity of the third metacarpal bone, and from the ligaments by which they are united. The two por- tions of the muscle descend outwards, separated at first from each other, but soon united behind the tendon of the flexor longus pol- licis, to which they afford a kind of longitudinal channel (1172.) Arrived at the lower extremity of the first metacarpal bone, they separate anew ; the outer is confounded with the tendon of the ab- ductor poUicis (1216), and is attached to the fore part of the up- per extremity of the first phalanx of the thumb, and to the outer sesamoid bone of its articulation ; the inner is united to the sum- mit of the adductor poUicis, and in like manner goes to be attached to the phalanx and to the inner sesamoid bone. These two inser- tions take place each by a pretty strong tendon. 1223. The anterior surface of the flexor brevis poUicis is co- vered, at the middle, by the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis ; internally, by those of the flexor profundus and by the first two lum- bricales; externally, by an aponeurosis, by the skin, and by the abductor poUicis. The posterior surface corresponds to the first metacarpal bone, to the first two dorsal and to the first palmar in- terossei, as well as to the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. Its outer edge is often confounded with the opponens poUicis, and the inner with the adductor. 1224. It bends the first phalanx of the thumb upon the first metacarpal bone, and the latter upon the trapezium. OF THE ADDUCTOR POLLICIS MANUS. 1225. This muscle, which is broad, thin, and triangular, is stiU more deeply seated than the flexor brevis. It arises from the three inferior fourths of the anterior surface of the third metacarpal bone, between two of the interosseous muscles, by short aponeuroses, to ■which the fleshy fibres succeed, which descend outwards converging, and terminate in a tendon united to that of the preceding muscle, and attached, along with it, to the inner and upper part of the first333 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. pluilanx of the thumb. It often sends a fibrous prolongation to the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 1226. Its anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor profundus, by the first two lumbricales, and by the skin. The posterior corresponds to the first three interossei, and also to the skin. 1227. This muscle carries the thumb inwards, and brings it near the other fingers. Internal Palmar Region. OF THE PALMARIS BREVIS. 1228. This name is given to four or five small bundles of mus- cular fibres which do not exist in all subjects, and which are met ■with immediately under the skin, at the inner and upper part of the palm of the hand. They are surrounded and separated by fat, have a transverse direction, and are parallel to each other. They arise from the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and from the inner edge of the palmar aponeurosis, and terminate in the chorion of the skin. They correspond to the skin anteriorly, and to the abductor and flexor muscles of the little finger, and the ulnar ar- tery and nerve, posteriorly. They vary much in their form, and their use is to increase the concavity of the palm by puckering the skin of the region which they occupy, and pushing it forwards. OF THE ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI. 1229. This is a long flat muscle, broader at its middle part than at the extremities. It arises from the anterior and inferior parts of the OS pisiforrae, by aponeurotic fibres, which are continuous with the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris. From thence it descends vertically along the inner edge of the fifth metacarpal bone, and is attached to the inner side of the upper extremity of the first pha- lanx of the little finger, by a tendon of variable length, which is ■united to that of the flexor brevis of the same finger, and sends some fibres to join the inner edge of the tendon of its extensors. 1230. Its anterior surface is covered by the palmaris brevis, by a very thin aponeurosis, and by the integuments. The jjosterior covers the opponens minimi digiti. 1231 It carries the little finger inwards and forwards, and se- parates it from the other fingers. OF THE FLEXOll BUEVIS MINIMI DIGITI. !• This muscle does not occur in all subjects, and when itSd^ ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. does exist, varies mucli in size, as well as in form. It is in ge- neral very thin, and narrow. It arises, by aponeuroses, from the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and the anterior edge of the process of the os unciforme, whence it descends a little out- wards, becoming narrower, to be united to the outer part of th6 tendon of the preceding muscle, and to terminate along with it. Its connexions are absolutely the same. It bends the first phalanx of the little finger, and draws forwards the fifth matacarpal bone. OF THE ADDUCTOll OSSIS METACARPI MINIMI DIGITI. (Opponens Minimi Digiti.) 1233. It has nearly the same form and disposition as the opj- ponens pollicis (1219), but its size is less. Having the same origins as the preceding muscle, its fleshy fibres, so much the longer and more oblique the lower they are, descend inwards, and terminate along the inner edge of the fifth metacarpal bone, by very distinct aponeurotic fibres. Its anterior surface corresponds to the abductor and flexor brevis of the little finger, and an apo- neurotic expansion, sent off by the tendon of the extensor carpi ul- naris (1194). The posterior surface, is applied upon the last in- terosseus muscle, the fifth metacarpal bone, and the tendon of the flexor subUmis, which goes to the Httle finger. It carries the fifth metacarpal bone forwards and outwards, and thus augments the cavity of the palm of the hand. Middle Palmar Region. OF THE LUMBKICALES.* 1234. The Lumhricales are four smaU, slender, elongated, fusi- form fleshy bundles, situated in the palm of the hand, and distin- guished into first, second, third, and fourth, according to their re- lative position, counting from without inwards ; they diminish in size in the same order. They arise towards the upper part of the hand, the first from the fore and outer part of the tendon of the flexor profundus, which goes to the fore-finger; the three follow- ing from the separation of the other tendons of the same muscle, so as to be attached to two of them at once. From thence they descend, following different directions ; the middle two vertical- ly, the outer outwards, and the inner inwards ; and when they have arrived at the outer side of the articulation of the metacarpal bones, with the first phalanges of the fingers, they become very " Lmihrkus, an earth-worm.MUSCLES OF THE HAND. 335 thin, and terminate by flattened tendons, which proceed behind the first phalanx, becoming broader, arc confounded with the tendons of the corresponding interossei, and go, along with them, to be lost in the outer edge of the tendons of the extensor digitorum commu- nis. These tendons vary much in their disposition; they fre- quently divide into two, and one of their branches is attached to the phalanx. 1235. Their anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the -flexor digitorum subhmis, by the palmar aponeurosis, and by the .collateral vessels and nerves of the fingers. The posterior surface hes upon the interossei, the inferior transverse metacarpal ligament, and the phalanges. 1236. They bend the fingers upon the metacarpus, carry them a httle outwards, and fix the tendons of the extensor communis di- gitorum. V OF THE INTEROSSEI. 1237. These muscles are seven in number; four are situated on the back of the hand, and only three in the palm. OF THE INTEIINAI^ OR PALMAtt INTEROSSEI. 1238. The first palmar interosseous muscle is thin and pris- matic, it arises from the two upper thirds of the inner side of the second metacarpal bone, and from the ligaments by which that bone is connected with the trapezoides. It is terminated by a ten- don, appearing sooner internally than externally, which is inserted into the inside of the upper extremity of the first phalanx of the in- dex, and to the extensor tendon of the same finger. Its anterior surface is covered by the flexor brevis and adductor pollicis. The inner corresponds to the second dorsal interosseous muscle. It carries the fore-finger inwards. 1239. The second palmar interosseous muscle, which is also pris- matic, arises from the two anterior thirds of the outer surface of the fourth metacarpal bone, and from the ligaments by which it is con- nected with the neighbouring bones. Its inferior tendon is at- tached to the outer side of the first phalanx, and of the extensor tendon of the ring finger. Its anterior surface is covered by the lumbricales and the tendons of the flexor profundus. It carries the ring finger outwards. 1240. The third palmar interosseous muscle is of the same lorm as the others, and is inserted into the two anterior thirds of the outer surface of the fifth metacarpal bone, and into the liga- ments by which it is connected with the os unciforme. Its tendon IS attached to the outside of the upper extremity of the first phalanx, «nd of the extensor tendon of the little finger. Its anterior sur~336 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. face is covered by the opponens minimi digiti; the outer corres- ponds to the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle. It carries the little finger outwards. OF THE EXTEUNAL OR DOUSAI. INTEIIOSSEI. 1241. The first is the largest of the interossei. It is of a triangular form, thin, and flat, and arises along the outer edge of the second metacarpal bone, and from the upper half only of the inner edge of the first, as well as from the ligaments which connect these bones with the trapezium. Between these two origins, there exists, superiorly, an interval through which the radial artery passes. The two fasciculi which arise from them unite afterwards 'into a single one, which terminates in a tendon partly attached to the outside of the upper extremity of the first phalanx, partly to the extensor tendon of the index. Its posterior surface is covered by the skin ; the anterior by the first lumbricalis, the flexor brevis and abductor poUicis, and by the skin. It draws the fore-finger outwards, and the first metacarpal bone inwards. 1242. The second dorsal interosseous muscle has the form of a triangular prism. It arises from the whole inner side of the se- cond metacarpal bone, behind the origins of the first palmar in- terosseous muscle, from which it is only separated by a very thin cellular line, and from the whole outer side of the third bone of the same region, as well as from the ligaments which connect these bones with each other and with the neighbouring bones. Its up- per ewtremity is perforated for the passage of an artery. The lower is terminated by a tendon, which, like the preceding, is at- tached to the outer side of the first phalanx of the middle finger, and of its extensor tendon. Its posterior surface, which is very broad, is covered by the skin and the tendons of the extensor musclei? of the fore-finger, as well as by an aponeurosis which passes from the second metacarpal bone to the third. The ante- rior surface is very narrow, and concealed under the flexor brevis and adductor pollicis. It carries the middle finger outwards. 1243. The third dorsal interosseous muscle has the same form as the preceding. It arises from the inner side of the third meta- carpal Ijone, and from the posterior part of the outer side of the fourth, as well as from the ligaments by which they are connect- ed. At its upper part it is bifurcated for the passage of an ar- tery. Below, it terminates, like the others, in a tendon which is attached to the inner side of the upper extremity of the first pha- lanx, and of the extensor tendon of the middle finger. Its posterior surface is covered by the skin and tendons of the common ex- tensor of the fingers. It carries the middle finger inwards. 1244. The fourth dorsal interosseous muscle is triangular and prismatic, and arises from the whole inner side of the fourth meta- carpal bone, and from the posterior part of the outer edge of theMUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 337 fifth, as well as from the ligaments by which they are connected. Its upper eivtremittj is traversed by an artery ; the lower terminates in a tendon which is attached to the inner side of the ring finger. Its posterior surface is covered by an aponeurosis which goes from the fourth to the fifth metacarpal bone, by the extensor tendons of the little finger, and by the skin ; the anterior is concealed above, beneath the interosseous muscle of the little finger, and appears 'below, between it and the second palmar interosseous muscle. It carries the ring finger inwards. 1245. From their connexions with the tendons of the extensors of the fingers, the interossei and lumbricales may contribute to ex- tend the fingers. 1246. To dissect the muscles of the hand, make a longitudinal incision through the skin along the middle of the palm, another 'transverse one at the roots of the fingers and incisions along the fore part of the fingers. Dissect off the skin from the palm, so as to expose the palmar aponeurosis and the palmaris brevis muscle, and from the fore parts of the fingers, to show the sheaths of the tendons. Raise the thin aponeurosis from the external palmar re- gion to show the muscles of the thumb, the superficial of which must be raised to expose the deep. Raise the thin aponeurosis from the internal palmar region to show the muscles of the little finger ; and, from the middle palmar region, the strong part of the palmar aponeurosis to expose the tendons of the flexors of the fingers, the course of which along the fore part of the fingers may be seen, by slitting up the sheaths, when the synovial membranes of these parts will also be exposed. The tendons of the flexor su- blimis are to be removed to show the origins of the lumbricales, which are to be traced round the radial sides of the fingers to the extensor tendons. The tendons of the flexor profundus being re- moved, the internal interossei may be examined ; and the extensor tendons being removed from the back of the hand, the external interossei wiU be brought into view. MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1247. The Abdomen is an oblong cavity, of variable size, con- vex before, especially below, concave behind and on the sides, and situated under the thorax. It contains the principal viscera of the body, and is divided into several regions, which we shall make known as we proceed.* Of the Abdominal Aponeurosis. 1248. Along the middle part of the abdomen, from the ensiform " Sec the articlt; Pcvitonoum in a subsequeiit jmrt. ZACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 338 cartilage to the symphysis of tlie pubes, there is a strong tendi- nous cord, called L'mea alba, whose lateral limits are not well de- termined. It is broader above than below, and occupies the inter- val between the two recti muscles of the abdomen, presenting about its middle, a cicatrix, named the umbilicus, which is its firmest point. This cicatrix closes up an opening which in the foetus gave passage to the urachus and the parts which constituted the umbi- lical cord. It is deeper and more distinct the older a person is, and adheres strongly to the integuments, so that in fat people, it appears much more sunk than in others; its circumference, which is thick and very hard, is irregularly quadrilateral, and formed of four jilanes of albugineous fibres bent upon themselves, and cross- img each other at their extremities. Between these four planes is the trace of the aperture, which is very close, but yet allows a probe to penetrate obliquely downwards between the peritoneum and the anterior wall of the abdomen. 1249. The Linea alba, whose use is to limit the motions of the thorax backwards, to prevent it from separating too far from the pel- vis, and to furnish a fixed point to the abdominal muscles for their contractions, is connected to the right and left, for the latter pur- pose, to two aponeurotic laminae, situated the one before the other. 1250. The more superficial of these lamina? passes before the rectus abdominis, and having arrived at its outer edge, divides into two other laminae, the posterior of which united to a deeper la- mina, furnishes points of attachment to the obliquus internus ab- dominis, while the anterior affords similar attachment to the obli- quus externus. Behind them, but in their lower fourth only, is another lamina, which belongs to the transversus abdominis. 1251. The lamina which belongs to the obliquus externus is thin, elongated, less broad above than below, contracted in the mid- dle, so as to terminate by its concave edge outwards. It occupies the whole anterior part of the abdomen, and is thicker and more elastic the lower it is examined. Above the umbilicus, it is tran- sparent and formed of fibres running obliquely outwards and up- wards, which are confounded, near the base of the thorax, with the lower insertions of the pectoraUs major. At the upper and outer part, these fibres are manifestly intersected at right angles by other Tcry distinct fibres passing obliquely inwards and upwards. Be- neath the umbilicus, the fibres are much stronger, and form an opaque layer which no longer permit the fleshy bodies situated un- der it to be distinguished. They are disposed in small bands, pa- rallel to each other, passmg obliquely upwards and backwards, so that the aponeurosis has the appearance of being merely warped, but about the distance of an inch and a half from the pubes it forms an interlaced tissue; there, other small bands cross the di- rection of the first in various ways, most of them however being transverse (Linem transnerscB) and proceed as far as the superior and anterior iliac spine ; several of them are curved, their convexi-MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. ty being directed downwards. The aponeurosis then divides inter- nally into two bands, the upper of which is curved, broader and thinner, and is inserted upon the edge of the angle of the pubes, intercrossing with that of the opposite side, and becoming incor- porated with the fibres of the symphysis pubis, and the suspensory ligament of the penis ; while the other, which is inferior, straight, less broad, but thicker and stronger, descends obliquely forwards and inwards, above the femoral notch, and terminates at the spine of the pubes. These two bands have generally been called the pillars -of the ingtiinal ring, because from their separation results the aperture of that name. It is rather triangular than elliptical, sometimes oval, directed obliquely downwards and inwards, situated above the pubes, broader below than above, where it terminates in a point which is truncated by the lineae transversae. The size of the in- guinal ring varies in different individuals; but it is always more dilated, situated less laterally, and more elevated in man than in woman. In the former, it gives passage to the spermatic cord and cremaster muscle ; in the latter, to the round ligament of the ute- rus. The aponeurotic lamina of the obliquus externus abdominis ter- minates, at the lowest part, by a very thick, large and strong fold, fixed on the one hand to the anterior and superior iliac spine, and on the other to the angle, crest, and spine of the pubes. It is to the second of these latter insertions, which takes place by a falci- form aponeurotic expansion, that the name of Gimbernafs Ligcu ment is now commonly given. The fold in question is much more distinct internally than externally, and is longer in the female than, the male; it is commoidy designated by the name of Pouparfs Ligament or Crural Arch. It converts into a hole the great notch which the anterior edge of the os innominatum presents, and thus forms the anterior side of an aperture which appears triangular when it is examined behind, after the peritoneum has been removed, and whose inner side is formed by the horizontal branch of the pubes, and the outer by the tendon of the united iliaeus and psoas muscles. This aperture, which is closed internally by Gimbernafs Liga- ment, is traversed by the tendon just mentioned, the femoral vessels, and the crural nerve ; it is larger in the female. Lastly, the crural arch, is continued, in the inguinal region, inferiorly and anteriorly into the fascia lata, by a superficial fibrous lamina. ; . In its whole extent, this lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis presents quadrilateral apertures of variable diameter, throvigh which "vascular and nervous branches pass from the fleshy layer of the ab- domen to the integuments. 1252. The deep lamina which separates from the edge of the imea alba, passes before the peritoneum and behind the rectus inuscle, but only in the three upper fourths of its extent, and is also divided into two laminae opposite its outer edge. One of these lamina?, the more superficial, which is almost immediatelyACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. S40 united to the posterior division of the preceding lamina, forms a thin aponeurosis, much broader above than below, on the outside of which are inserted the fleshy fibres of the obliquus internus. The other joins by its inferior edge a small separate lamina, which exists before the lower fourth of the rectus muscle (1250), and thus constitutes a semicircular aponeurosis, whose convex edge, which is directed outwards, gives attachment to the fleshy body of the transversus muscle, and whose anterior surface is, for a con- siderable length, confounded with the lamina of the obliquus in- ternus. OF THE OBLIQUUS ABDOMINIS EXTERNUS. 1253. The obliquus abdominis extei'nus is one of the largest muscles of the body. It is a fleshy membrane, irregularly quadri- lateral, curved backwards, and occupying the side and fore part of the abdomen. It arises posteriorly from about the two anterior thirds of the outer edge of the crista ilii, by short aponeurotic fibres, continuous with those of the fascia lata; anteriorly, it comes from the superficial lamina of the abdominal aponeu- xosis, (1251). The fleshy fibres of the first origin ascend nearly Vertically, and are attached to the inferior edge of the last three ribs by digitations, covered by those of the latissimus dorsi, with which they are interlaced, (805). Those from the aponeu- rosis, so much the shorter and more oblique the higher they are, are continuous with the preceding, and proceed to the lower edge of the fifth and sixth ribs, where they seem to join the pecto- rahs major, and the outer surface of the seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs, where they are attached by very distinct digitations, longer and broader than those of the three last ribs, whose upper edge is attached to a ridge running obliquely downwards and backwards, which also gives insertion to the serratus magnus, so that there is a distinct interlacing here also, (1089). Their summit is very elon- gated, and terminates in a small tendon at the lower edge of the rib. All the digitations of the obliquus externus form together a curved line, the concavity of which is turned downwards, because the attachment of the highest takes place very near the cartilage of the rib to which it belongs, and those of the next digitations, as far as the fifth, inclusively, separate more and more, to approxi- mate gradually again in the last, so that the last of aU is attached to the lower edge and the summit of the cartilage. 1254. The outer surface of this muscle, and the aponeurotic la- mina to which it is attached, is separated fi-om the integuments by the fascia supeificialis, a membrane extending over the abdomen, and downwards over the front of the thigh. This fascia, which is chief- ly composed of condensed cellular membrane, can only be shown distinctly in thin subjects. Being extended over the inguinal andMUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 341 crural apertures, it consequently forms one of the layers to be cut through in the operations for inguinal and crural hernice. The outer surface of the external obUquc is frequently covered at the back part by the latisshnus dorsi; at other times, there exists be- tween these two muscles a triangular space in which the obliquua internus appears a little. Its inner surface covers the anterior part of the last seven or eight ribs and their cartilages, the corres- ponding intercostal muscles, and the obliquus internus. 1255. This muscle compresses the abdomen, depresses and car- ries backwards the ribs, acts in strong expiration, and makes the thorax perform a rotatory motion which turns it to the opposite side. It draws up the trunk, when it has been bent backwards, or maintains it in its natural erectness. When the two muscles act together, they bend the thorax directly. If they take their fixed point in the thorax, as when one is lying on his back, they raise the pelvis and inferior extremities. 1256. To dissect this muscle and the abdominal aponeurosis, first stretch them by putting a large block under the loins of the subject, then make the following incisions through the integuments, one along the linea alba from the ensiform cartilage down to the pubis, and another from the middle of this one, obliquely upwards towards the anterior and inferior part of the osseous portion of the first false rib; there are thus two flaps formed, the superior of which is to be dissected upwards, and the lower downwards. If the dissector wishes to show the superficial fascia, he first raises the skin merely, and the fascia afterwards from the surface of the muscle and aponeurosis. OF THE OBLIQUUS INTERNUS ABDOMINIS, 1257. The ohliquus internus is broad, thin, and irregularly quadrilateral, like the externus, beneath which it is extended; It is attached to the upper and posterior part of the crural arch to near the inguinal ring, to the three anterior fourths of the in- terstice of the iliac crest, between the obliquus externus and trans- versus muscles, and to a thin and pretty broad aponeurosis, with fibres running obliquely outwards and upwards, situated behind the inferior bundle of the sacro-spinalis muscle, and before the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi, from which it cannot be separat- ed, continuous also above with that of the serratus posticus infe- rior, and attached to the last spinous processes of the loins, to the sacrum, and to the most remote part of the iliac crest. The fleshy nbres which succeed this aponeurosis are not very numerous; tney ascend almost vertically, and terminate by very short aponeu- ^°w \ ? ^^^^ cartilage of the last rib. Those wftich have their origin from the crest of the ileum, pass obliquely ypwards and forwards, and their obliquity, as well as length, increases the more anteriorly they are examined, so that when close34}^ ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. to the superior and anterior spinous process of the ileum, they are ahnost horizontal. The posterior fibres terminate by short aponeu- roses, at the lower edge of the cartilages of the eleventh, tenth, and ninth ribs, where they are confounded with the intercostal muscles in their interval; and the others are distributed along the middle lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis, (1252). Lastly, the fleshy fibres which rise from the crural arch, descend inwards, and also terminate in the same lamina. About eight lines from the summit of the inguinal ring, the spermatic cord passes under them, and is accompanied through the ring by some of their fibres, under the name of Cremaster muscle. I'his disposition is observed only in the male. 1258. The internal oblique is covered in its outer surface by the external oblique, and posteriorly by the latissimus dorsi. Its in- ner surface is apphed upon the sacro-spinalis and transversus abdo- minis. 1259. It has the same uses as the preceding. 1260. The external oblique is to be removed to show the inter- nal, by detaching the digitations of the former from the ribs, and crest of the ileum, and cutting through the superficial lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis from the anterior and superior spinous process of the ileum, towards the linea alba. The external ohlique is then to be dissected off downwards and forwards, in the direction of the fibres of the internal oblique. That part of the abdominal aponeurosis, below the incision from the spinous process to the linea alba, is to be thrown downwards to show the lower fibres of the internal oblique and the origin of the cremaster, also the inguinal canal. OF THE TRANSVERSALIS ABDOMINIS. 1261. This muscle is nearly of the same form as the last de- scribed, and situated behind it. It arises above from the inner surface of the cartilages of the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and -tenth ribs, by digitations which are interlaced with those of the diaphragm ; then from the greater part of the lower edge ef the eleventh and twelfth, by very distinct tendinous fibres; inferiorly, from the three anterior fourths of the inner lip of the crest of the ileum, to the inside of the obliquus internus, and from the two outer thirds of the crural arch, by short aponeurotic fibres. At the mid- dle, its fleshy fibres arise from an aponeurosis which proceeds back- wards, dividing into three lamina?, the anterior of which is very thin, and passes before the quadratus lumbovum to be attached to the base of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae ; the middle lamina, which is thicker, glides behind this muscle, before the common origin of the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi, to terminate at the summit of the same processes ; while the third or posterior lamina, which is confounded with the aponeurosis of tl\eMUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 343 obliquus internus, is inserted into the summits of the spinous pro-- cesscs of the loins. From these different points of attachment, the fleshy fibres pro- ceed horizontally forwards and inwards, towards the deepest lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis, (1252). The middle fibres are the longest; the rest gradually decrease upwards and downwards^ Some of the upper are inserted into the xiphoid cartilage. 1262. The fleshy portion of this muscle is covered externally by the obliquus internus, and, internally, is separated from the peritoneum by the fascia transversalis, the anatomical relations of which are most important; in it exists the opening by which the spermatic vessels pass from within the abdominal cavity, to be lodged in the inguinal canal, previous to their passage through the external inguinal ring. The opening in the fascia has been called the internal ring, it being seated deeper than the other. Between the cartilages of the last three ribs, the transversalis is continuous with the diaphragm; and, near the ensiform cartilage, with the triangularis sterni. The spermatic cord simply glides tinder the lower edge of this muscle, without traversing its fibres, at about an inch from the place where it passes under the obUquus internus. Now, from what we have said of the connexion of this cord with the three muscles of the abdomen, we see that it is lodged in a true canal (inguinal), from two to three inches long, directed obhqviely from the iliac region towards the pubes, the inner extremity of which corresponds to the point where the cord passes through the opening in the fascia transversalis, and the outer to the aperture of the lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis which belongs to the ob- hquus externus. The canal is formed anteriorly by the superficial lamina of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and the lower margins of the internal oblique and transversalis; posteriorly by the fascia transversalis, and the aponeurosis to which the two last muscles are attached internally; inferiorly, by Poupart's ligament and Gimbernafs; superiorly, the inguinal canal is bounded by the apposition of its anterior and posterior walls. 1263. The transversalis abdominis contracts the belly, and brings forward the ribs to which it is attached. 1264. The internal oblique is to be removed from the surface of the transversalis, by detaching it from the crest of the ileum, at which place, the line of separation between the two muscles is in- dicated by some branches of the circumflex iliac artery and vein. ■I he body being laid on its side, and raised by a block put under It, between the ileum and ribs, the dissector now proceeds to raise the internal oblique, by dissecting transversely in the direction of the fibres of the transversaUs. Olf THE RECTUS AnnOMINIS. 12G,5. This is a long, flat, and pretty thick muscle, broaderACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 344 above than below, extended vertically, like a fleshy band, on each side of the linea alba, from the pubes to the base of the thorax, and contained in a kind of fibrous sheath, formed by the two prin- cipal laminae of the abdominal aponeurosis. The anterior lamina is, as we have said, composed of two laminae above, and three below. The posterior, which is entirely wanting below, has only two. The rectus muscle arises by two tendons which are attached to the symphysis of the pubes, and rarely to the bone itself. One of these, the internal, is slender, and interlaced with that of the op- posite side in the median line ; the other, which is external, broader and stronger, comes from the outer part of the upper edge of the symphysis. Both ascend converging, and soon unite to give rise to the fleshy fibres. These ascend vertically towards the thorax, but are interrupted from space to space, in their passage, by apo- neurotic intersections, whose number varies from three to five. There are always more of them above than below the umbilicus; when there are three, one is situated at the level of that cicatrix, and the other two above it; if there happen to be four, one of them is below it; lastly, if there are five, three are above and two be- neath it. They are all transverse, and have a zig-zag direction; but their breadth and length are not the same. They frequently intersect the muscle only in a half or third of its breadth; their anterior part is much more distinct than the posterior, and adheres intimately to the lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis which forms the anterior wall of the sheath ; they are also frequently oblique. We have still to remark that the muscular fibres which arise from an inferior intersection, do not all terminate in that which is placed immediately above, but that a great number of them pass behind it without being interrupted, and on to a more remote intersection. There results, however, from such an ar- rangement, that these fibres are evidently much shorter than the muscle itself. Arrived at the base of the thorax, the rectus abdominis divides into three portions, the inner of which is pretty thick, but not verv broad, and is attached to the costo-xiphoid ligament, and to the'lower and fore part of the cartilage of the seventh rib, near the sternum ; the middle, which is broader and thinner, is attached to the lower edge and anterior surface of the cartilage of the sixth rib, near its middle ; and the outer, which is broader and thinner, terminates at the lower edge of the cartilage of the fifth, by very distinct aponeurotic fibres. 1266. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered above by the aponeurosis of the pectorahs major, and in the rest of its ex- tent, by the anterior lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis, except- ino- at its lowest part, where the pyramidalis muscle is commonly met with. The posterior surface covers the cartilages of the last three true ribs, part of those of the first two false, the ensiform cartilage, the posterior lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis, theIMUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. S45 internal mammury and epigastric arteries, and inferiorly, the peri- toneum. 1267. The rectus muscle bends the thorax upon the pelvis, or the pelvis upon the tliorax. It compresses the abdomen from be- fore backwards, &c. 1268. To expose the rectus muscle, cut through the anterior wall of its sheath by the side of the linea alba, and reverse it from within outwards, dissecting in the direction of the fibres of the muscle. The tendinous intersections are intimately connected with the sheath; a little care is therefore necessary when separating these parts. OF THE PYKAMIBALIS. 1269- The Pyramidalis is a small elongated, rounded, triangu- lar bundle, which does not always exist, and is placed in the median line of the body, at the lower and fore part of the rectus. Sometimes there are two pyramidal muscles on each side; at other times this arrangement is met with only on one side. Fre- quently they are very short and indistinct; and sometimes of considerable dimensions; they also vary much in other respects. They arise from the symphysis of the pubes, and from a little of the neighbouring part of the bone, by short aponeurotic fibres, which ascend converging toward each other, being only separated by the linea alba, in which they terminate by a slender and elon- gated tendon. The inner fibres are vertical, and shorter than the outer, which are oblique. 1270. The pyramidalis is applied posteriorly upon the rectus, and covered anteriorly by the abdominal aponeurosis. 1271. It appears to assist the rectus in its action, by fixing its tendon. It stretches the linea alba and abdominal aponeurosis. This muscle is exposed at the same time as the rectus. OF THE DIAPHIIAGM.* 1272. The Diaphragm {Septum Transversum), is a single, very broad, and membraneous muscle, situated obliquely be- tween the thorax and abdomen, which it separates. Its figure 18 nearly circular, although it is a httle more extended in the transverse direction, than from before backwards. It is fleshy at Its circumference, apofieurotic in the middle, and forms a kind of elliptical arch, mobile and flexible, but not symmetrical, although placed in the median line of the body, which is a singular A<«^j«y^a, f,i,p(,„r,^ a pavtition ; S/a, inti-r; (p^arffu, vMxdo.ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIONT. 346 case in the system of muscles under the influence of the cerebral nerves. 1273. We have said that the centre of the diaphragm was oc- cupied by an aponeurosis, to which the fleshy fibres are at- tached. This aponeurosis, called the Cordiform Tendon, is of considerable breadth ; it is distinctly notched behind towards the vertebral column, and anteriorly is three lobed, on which account it has been compared to a trefoil leaf. Of the three lobes of this aponeurosis, the middle is the largest, the right is a little less, and the left the smallest. Some variations, however, are observable in this respect. ] 274. The fibres of the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, which are larger in men than in women, and more distinct in old than in young persons, are all of different lengths and directions. In their general disposition, however, they are radiated, proceeduig from the posterior notch to the circumference of the lobes; but they are interlaced many times with each other, and with more superficial and looser planes of fibres, which occur at the upper and under surfaces of the muscle, and describe nearly transverse curves, an arrangement which is especially evident on the right side. They are white and shining, with a pearly and satiny lustre, and are denser toward the upper surface of the aponeurosis than toward the lower. Between the right and middle lobes, near the vertebral column, is an aperture of a square form, with unequal sides; it gives pas- sage to the vena cava inferior, to which it adheres pretty strongly. Its anterior side is the shortest, and not very distinct from the right, which is the longest. Each of its sides is formed by a par- ticular layer of aponeurotic fibres, which are interlaced with the neighbouring layers at its extremities. 1275. Besides this aperture for the vena cava inferior, there fre- quently occurs a hole for the diaphragmatic vein, and one or two other holes for the venae cavae hepatica;, which are all formed in the cordiform tendon. 1276. The fleshy fibres proceed from the whole circumference of this aponeurosis, to be directed forwards, laterally, and back- wards. 1277. The anterior fibres, which are very short and not nume- rous, are directed downwards and forwards, to the xiphoid cartilage, where they terminate by short aponeurotic fibres. Between these fibres and those which come from the cartilage of the seventh rib, there is a triangular interval with its base below, by which the cellular tissue of the thorax communicates with that of the abdo- men. The size of this interval varies much, sometimes it is wanting. 1278. The lateral fibres are the most numerous. They arise from the right and left lobes, and proceed, diverging and curving toward the circumference of the base of the chest, to be attached to the inner surface of the last six ribs, by digitations which are 5347 MUSCLES OF THE CHEST. interlaced with those of the transversalis abdominis. The first of these digitations is attached to the outer half of the posterior sur- face, and of the upper edge of the cartilage of the seventh rib; the second, which is the longest of all, is inserted into the corres- ponding parts of the eighth rib; the other four, which become gradually shorter, are moreover slightly attached to the bony por- tion of the four last ribs. Of these lateral fibres, the posterior, which are the shortest, terminate in an aponeurotic bundle, extended between the extremity of the last rib and the base of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra. It has been named the Ligamentum arcuatum Diaphragmatis, and is nothing else than the upper edge of the anterior lamina of the aponeurosis of the transversaUs abdominis, which shghtly covers the quadratus lumborum and the last inter- costal nerve. Lastly, in the two last intercostal spaces, the diaphragm is con- tinued by common aponeurotic fibres, into the transversalis abdo- minis. 1279- The posterior fibres, proceeding from the posterior notch of the aponeurosis (1273), are directed in small numbers to a sort of aponeurotic arch, extended from the base of the transverse pro- cess of the first lumbar vertebra to the body of the second, under which the upper part of the psoas muscle passes. But they vinite for the most part into two thick bundles, which are named the Pillars or Crura of the Diaphragm. Of these crura the right is longer, broader, and thicker, and situated nearer the middle hne of the vertebral column; it is attached to the bodies of the four first lumbar vertebrae, by as many tendinous digitations. The left, which is narrower, shorter, more slender, and situated more to the side, is only attached to the bodies of the three first lumbar vertebrfE. These two crura leave at first between them a con- siderable separation, which constitutes a narrow, oblong aperture, a httle broader before, situated toward the middle of the vertebral column, all fleshy in its circumference, through which the cesopha- gus and pneumo-gastric nerves pass from the thorax to the abdo- men. Immediately after, there is detached from each of them a fleshy bundle, which is interlaced with that of the opposite side ; the anterior bundle, which descends from the left crus to the right, IS the larger. These two bundles complete the lower part of the oesophageal aperture, and form the upper part of another open- ing of a parabolic form, situated between the two crura, which gives passage to the aorta, vena azygos, and thoracic duct. This aperture, which is situated more posteriorly and more to the left than the preceding, is further distinguished from it by having its njargin aponeurotic and continuous with the tendons of the crura. On Its sides and behind, are spaces left between the fleshy fibres, tor the passage of the splanchnic nerves. 12»0. "Ihe upper or thoracic surface of the diaphragm is convex and mchncd backwards. Its middle part is strongly connectedACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 34<8 with the pericardium, and corresponds to the mediastina. Its sides, which are lined by the pleura, support the base of the lungs. Anteriorly, it covers the triangularis sterni; on the sides, the inter- costales interni, and posteriorly, the aorta psoas magnus and qua- dratus lumborum. Its inferior or abdominal surface is concave in its wlwle ex- tent, and a little inchned forwards ; but its concavity is not regu- lar, being always greater to the right than to the left, which appears to arise from the presence of the liver ; in the middle it is nearly plain. Posteriorly, the kidneys, the supra-renal capsides, the pan- creas and the duodenum ; on the right side, the liver ; and on the left, the spleen and stomach are connected with it. In the rest of its extent, it is covered by the peritoneum, whence it re- sults that the muscle is placed between two serous membranes, but not furnished with a special envelope, as Bartholin has asserted. On these two surfaces there are vessels and nerves of consider- able size, which belong particularly to the diaphragm. The circumference of the diaphragm corresponds, anteriorly, to the ensiform cartilage, and the triangularis sterni; on the sides, to the ribs and internal intercostal muscles; posteriorly, to the vertebral column, the aorta, the thoracic duct, and the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles. 1281. The diaphragm separates the thorax from the abdomen, and serves to support the viscera which these great cavities con- tain. But it also performs motions, which, by varying the dimen- sions of these cavities, have the greatest influence upon many func- tions. When it contracts, the convexity which it forms in the tho- rax disappears ; its fibres, from being curved, become straight; the aponeuretic centre acquires more obliquity ; the thorax is thus enlarged, and the abdomen diminished; it is therefore in this case essentially a muscle of inspiration; and, in ordinary circumstances, it is even the only one that acts to produce inspu'ation. If its contraction is carried farther, it draws the ribs toward the vertebral column, which diminishes the transverse diameters of the thorax. When it relaxes, on the other hand, it resumes its former dimen- sions, ascends in the thorax, forms there the same arch, compresses the lungs, and thus contributes to expiration. Duruig contrac- tion, the lateral parts of the diaphragm descend much more than the middle part, which is retained by the pericardium and medias- tinum. During the same action, the oesophagus is compressed, because the aperture through which it passes is entirely fleshy; but this does not happen to the vena cava, vena azygos, aorta and thoracic duct, the circumference of their apertures being aponeurotic. The motions of the diaphragm also produce various remarkable phenomena, as sighing, yawning, coughing, sneexing, laughing, sobbing, and hiccup, which are all more or less connected with the motions of inspuration and expiration. It is also subservient to smell in the action of snuffing odoriferous effluvia, and contributes349 MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. to the formation of tlic voice in crying, singing, &c. By constant- ly pressing upon the abdominal viscera, it subjects them by its mo- tions of elevation and depression to a tossing which is favourable to their functions. It also contributes essentially, when it contracts ,-trongly, to vomiting, the excretion of the feces and urine, and the expulsion of the foetus. 1282. Before this and the four following muscles can be dissect- ted the abdomen must be opened and the viscera removed. To dissect the diaphragm, put a large block under the loins, and t then proceed to raise the peritoneum and cellular tissue covering i its under surface, beginning at the margin of the thorax and dis- : secting towards the central tendon; the crura are next to be dis- : sected and the interlacing of these fibres examined. Lastly, the ; structure and situation of the different apertures should be studied. OF THE aUADRATUS LUMBORUM. 1283. This is a flat, pretty thick, irregularly quadrilateral mus- cle, situated in the loins, upon the sides of the vertebral column, and in the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is attached below, by aponeurotic fibres, and over an extent of about an inch, to the mid- dle and posterior part of the iliac crest, as well as to the ilio-lumbar ligament, and by some transverse fibres, to the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra. The fleshy fibres which come from the OS innominatum ascend to the last rib, and terminate in nearly the whole length of its inferior edge. Those which arise from the ligament proceed upwards and inwards, and terminate in four aponeurotic slips, continuous at their edges, and attached to the fore part of the base of the first four transverse processes of the loins. Frequently the aponeuroses at the commencement of the muscle, are kept down inferiorly by other fibres, arising from the fifth of these processes and directed transversely outwards. Frequently also, a distinct fleshy plane proceeds from the third or fourth of thera, ascends outwards, and loses itself in the rest of the muscle. 1284. The anterior surface of the quadratus lumborum is co- vered above by the diaphragm, and, in the rest of its extent, by the anterior lamina of the aponeurosis of the transveralis abdominis, and by the psoas magnus : it corresponds to the kidney and colon by the intervention of other parts. Its posterior surface is separated from the sacro-spinalis by the middle lamina of the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis. 1285. This muscle inclines the loins to one side ; it lowers the last nb, and is subservient to expiration, being an antagonist of the scaleni muscles in this respect. It can also raise the haunch. 1286. The quadratus lumborum is dissected by removing the parts covering its anterior surface (1284).ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 350 OF THE PSOAS PARVUS. 1287- The Smaller Psoas does not always exist. It is situated to the outer and fore side of the psoas magnus, over which it is ap- pUed, and is flat, thin, and narrow. Its upper extremity is attach- •ed by short aponeuroses, to the lower part of the body of the last dorsal vertebra, and to the fibro-cartilage which separates it from the first lumbar vertebra, and it sometimes sends a small tendon to the transverse process of the twelfth vertebra of the back. The fleshy fibres, which do not form more than the upper third of the length of the muscle, cease opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, after forming a bundle which is directed outwards and downwards, and are replaced by a flat tendon which becomes broader as it de- scends, and which turns over the psoas magnus, passing to its inner part. This tendon, which occupies of itself two-thirds of the ex- tent of the muscle, terminates at the ilio-pectineal eminence (398), and the neighbouring part of the body of the pubes, sending to the iliac fascia a broad and thin membraneous prolongation, which covers the iliacus and psoas magnus. 1288. The anterior surface of the psoas parvus is covered above by the diaphragm, afterwards by the renal vessels and nerves, and by the peritoneum, and below by the external iliac artery. The posterior surface is united in its whole extent to the psoas magnus by cellular tissue. 1289- When the two smaller psoae act simultaneously, they bend the vertebral column on the pelvis, or the latter upon the vertebral <;olumn. If only one of them contract, the same motion takes place, but obliquely. In standing, they prevent the trunk from falling backwards. OF THK PSOAS MAGNUS. 1290. The Psoas magnus is situated on the side of the vertebral column at its lower part, and along the upper strait of the pelvis, extending to the upper and fore part of the thigh ; it is larger than the preceding, and is never wanting. It is of an elongated form, and thicker in the middle than at the extremities; it is rounded at its middle part, but at its upper is thin and flat, and tendinous at the lower. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the lateral and inferior part of the body of the last dorsal vertebra, from a small portion of the posterior extremity of the twelfth rib, from the side of the bodies of the four first lumbar vertebrae, from the fibro-cartilages which se- parate them, and from the base of the corresponding transverse processes. Between the latter insertion and the others^ there is a space in which are lodged the branches of nerves, which concur to form the lumbo-abdominal plexus. The fleshy body forms at its351 MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. upper part a flat and nearly vertical bundle, which becomes round- ed as it descends, and afterwards directs itself towards the sides of tlie upper strait of the pelvis, where it gives rise, near the crural arcli, to a very strong tendon. This tendon is placed at the inner side of the muscle before being totally separated from it, and is even concealed among its fleshy fibres, until close to the lumbar vertebrae. It receives, by its outer side, the fleshy fibres of the iliacus internus, passes under the crural arch, in the notch observ- ed between the Uio-pectineal eminence and the anterior and inferior iliac spine, descends inwards and backwards, over the capsule of the femur, and terminates by embracing the trochanter minor. 1291. The external surface of the psoas magnus, which is at the same time anterior, corresponds : that part of it which is above the crural arch, to the diaphragm, the kidney, the iliac fascia, and the psoas minor when it exists. Below the arch this surface becomes entirely anterior, and is covered by the cellular tissue of the bend of the groin, then by the crural artery and the corresponding vein. , Its inner surface, which is applied upon the sides of the bodies of the lumbar vertebras, and upon those of the corresponding interver- tebral fibro-cartilages, is yet separated from these parts by the lum- bar nerves and vessels ; it leaves between it and the fifth lumbar vertebra a triangular interval, filled with cellular tissue ; then, be- coming narrower, it is in contact with the external iliac vein and the tendon of the psoas parvus, and descends parallel to the pecti- neus, from which it is separated, at the lowest part, by the internal circumflex vessels. Its posterior surface is applied above upon the quadratus lumborum, from which it is separated by the lumbar nerves, and the anterior lamina of the aponeurosis of the transver- sus abdominis. Farther down, it is connected with the os inno- minatum, and the capsular ligament of the hip joint (7070 1292. Synovial Bursa. A loose synovial membrane, of great extent, but scantily supplied with synovia, forming a sort of bag which descends to near the small trochanter, separates the branch of the pubes and the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, from the tendon of the psoas magnus, which it embraces behind. 1293. The psoas magnus bends the thigh on the pelvis, direct- ing the point of the foot a little outwards. It acts, especially in the standing posture, by retaining the body when it tends to fall back- wards, and can even bend the pelvis and vertebral column on the inferior extremity. This flexion is direct when the muscles of both sides contract at the same time, but it is obhque if only one acts. This muscle performs a principal part in walking. OF THE ILIACUS INTEUNUS. ■ 1294;. This muscle lies in the iliac fossa, from which it borrows Its name. It is broad and thin above, thick and narrow below, tri- angular and radiated. It arises, by very small aponeuroses, from about the upper three-fourths of the iliac fossa, the inner lip of theACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 359 two anterior spinous processes of the ileum, the ileo-lumbar ligament, andthe two anterior thirdsof the inncrlip of the iliac crest. From these points its fibres converge and descend, the inner, which are very short, vertically, the outer more and more obliquely ; the latter are the longest. They are all successively inserted into the outer edge of the tendon of the psoas magnus, which they accompany to the small trochanter (1290), passing with it under the crural arch. 1295. Its anterior surface, which is concave above, and convex below, is covered, above the crural arch, by the iUac fascia, above which is the peritoneum, and by the crccum to the right, and the sigmoid flexure of the colon to the left. The portion of this sur- face which is below the arch, corresponds externally to the sarto- rius ; internally, to the pectineus and the crural vessels and nerves ; anteriorly, to the cellular tissue of the fold of the groin, which se- parates it from the crural aponeurosis. Its posterior surface co- vers the iliac fossa, the upper extremity of the rectus muscle, and the hip joint. 1296. It bends the thigh upon the pelvis, or the latter upon the thigh, and acts powerfully in maintaining the body in the erect posture. ■• 1297- The psoas magnus and iliacus internus, which issue unit- ed through the crural arch, are covered and kept in their place in the iliac fossa by an aponeurotic lamina, called the iliac fascia, in which the tendon of the psoas parvus is confounded, when that muscle exists, hiferiorly and externally, along Poupart's liga- ment this fascia is continuous with the transversahs fascia, which is situated behind the transversalis muscle, so that nothing can pass from the abdomen to the upper part of the thigh in any part of the space comprised between the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ileum and the eminentia ileo-pectinea. The femoral vessels lie on the surface of the iliac fascia, and have to pass to the thigh; to allow of their passage the connexion be- tween the iliac fascia and fascia transversalis ceases at the ileo- pectineal eminence; the latter continues attached to Poupart"'s liga- gament, the former is attached to the crest of the pubes, passes be- fore the pectineus muscle, is prolonged into the hollow of the groin, and there continued into the deep lamina of the fascia lata. A passage is thus afforded for the femoral vessels, the upper orifice of which is bounded, anteriorly by Poupart's ligament, posteriorly by the crest of the pubes, where it is covered by the iliac fascia, inter- nally hy Gimbernat's ligament, externally by the edge formed where the iliac fascia ceases to be connected with the transversalis fascia. It is through the inner part of this opening, on the inside of the femoral vessels, that crural hernia protrudes. The inferior orifice will be spoken of when the fascia lata is described. The iliac fascia is continued into the pelvis under the name of pelvic fascia. 1298. The lower part of the psoas magnus and iliacus cannot b» exposed until the dissection of the muscles of the thigh.MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 353 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. OF THE SPHINCTEK ANI. (Constrictor Ani.) 1299- This is an oval membraneous muscle which surrounds the anus. It is attached to the tip of the coccyx by a sort of cellular tendon, from which two fleshy bundles arise, which, passing round the sides of the anus, unite again before it to form a fleshy point which is partly confounded with the accelerator urinje, and part- ly expanded in the cellular tissue. The fibres of this muscle are concentric and semi-elliptical, and interlaced with each other in the median line, forming acute angles. In the female, its anterior portion is much more rounded than in the male. 1300. Its inferior surface is covered by the skin. The upper corresponds to the levator ani, from which it is almost every where separated by cellular tissue, but with which it is intimately con- founded near the rectum. Anteriorly, it also unites in part with the accelerator urinae and transversus perina?i. 1301. This muscle closes the anus, and wrinkles the surrounding skin. In the male, it draws the bulb of the urethra backwards. Genital Region. IN MAN. OF THE ERECTOR PENIS. {Ischio- Cavernosus.) 1302. This is a small elongated flat muscle, broader in the mid- dle than at its extremities, which surrounds the origin of the cor- pus cavernosum. Fixed to the inner side of the sciatic tuberosity, it ascends forwards and inwards, and degenerates into a white and strong aponeurosis, which is identified, beyond the level of the bulb of the urethra, with the fibrous membrane of the corpus ca- vernosum, over which it is applied by its outer surface, which moreover corresponds to the ramus of the ischium, while its inner surface is in connexion with the transversus perinasi and accelerator unnse, from which it is separated by much adipose cellular tissue, together with vessels and nerves. It draws the root of the penis downwards and backwards. 2 a354 ACTIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF THE ACCELKRATOK URIK.B. ■ {Bulbo-Cavernosus.y 1303. This muscle is long, flat, broader behind than before, and situated in the perineum, beneath the bulb of the urethra and the root of the penis. It arises between these parts and the anus, where it is confounded with the transversus perina^i, sphincter ani and levator ani. It is at first separated from its fellow only by a tendinous Hne, but afterwards separates from it anteriorly, proceed- ing outwards, and leaving an interval in which are seen the canal of the urethra, and a portion of the corpus cavernosum. Its fibres, which are nearly transverse, and very short behind, oblique and longer before, terminate, the first on the sides of the bulb of the urethra, the others below the corpus cavernosum, where they are incorporated with its membrane. ' 1304. The upper surface of this muscle covers the bulb, and the commencement of the spongy portion of the urethra, as well as the corpus cavernosum. The lower is covered by the skin, the sphincter ani, and the erector penis, from which it is separated by much cellular tissue. 1305. This muscle compresses the posterior part of the canal of the urethra, which it carries backwards and upwards. It ac- celerates the ejection of the urine and seminal fluid. OF THE TEAN.SVEESUS PEllIN^I. 1306. This is a small flat, thin, irregular muscle, varying much in form, more commonly triangular, sometimes composed of seve- ral separate bundles, and situated at the posterior part of the pe- rinaeum. It is pretty frequently wanting in women. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the inner part of the tuberosity and the jfairaus of the ischium, above the erector penis and root of the cor- .pus cavernosum, directs itself inwards and a little forwards, and terminates at a tendinous line placed between it and its fellow, being also in part confounded with the accelerator urina? and sphincter ani, and in the female with the constrictor vaginae also. Some- .times all its fibres unite with the accelerator urinse; they are al- ways longer behind and below, than before and above. 1307- The anterior surface of the transversus perinasi, which ■ is inclined downwards, corresponds to the erector penis and accele- rator urinoe, and a mass of cellular tissue, which fills up their in- terval. The posterior surface is covered by the levator ani, from which it is separated by much cellular tissue, and externally by the deep branch of the internal pudic artery.MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 355 1308. It concurs with the accelerator urina?, to compress the 8 urethra; and with the levator ani, it supports the lower part of I the rectum and tlic bladder. 1309. For the dissection of the muscles of the perineum, in the rmale, place the subject in the same position as for the lateral ope- r ration of hthotomy. Distend the lower part of the rectum with \ hair, introduce a staff into the urethra and bladder, and draw the ! scrotum and penis forwards and upwards; then make an incision t through the skin along the raphe, from the posterior part of the s scrotum to the anterior part of the anus, and another from each t tuberosity of the ischium to the same pomt, also one around the' ! anus. Dissect around the anus in the direction of the latter in-- I dsion to show the sphincter; dissect outwards, the skin on each ■ ! side of the raphe to show the accelerator urinas and the erector • penis; dissect in the direction of the incision from the tuberosity I of tlie ischium to the fore part of the anus, to expose the transver- i tfaUs perinei. These muscles of the perineum are covered by con- I densed cellular tissue, which is called theper^ineal fascia. IN WOMAN. OF THE ERECTOR CLITORIDIS. (Ischio-Cavernosus ). ■ 1310. It presents nearly the same arrangement as in the male, but is much smaller. It arises by aponeuroses, from the tuberosi- ty of the ischium, and terminates by embracing the cavernous bo- dy of the clitoris, to the erection of which it appears to contribute. OF THE CONSTRICTOR VAGINAE. 1311. This muscle forms a sort of fleshy ring, much more dis- tinct in young women than such as have borne children. It is fonned of two planes of fibres, which arising, so to speak, from the proper tissue of the vagina, are interlaced, between the anus and vulva, with the sphincter ani and transversus perinaei, and frequent- ly receive a bundle from the internal region of the sciatic tubero- sity. They turn on either side around the orifice of the vasfina, aegcnerate into an aponeurotic tissue, and lose themselves in the fibrous membrane of the cavernous body of the clitoris. This muscle contracts the orifice of the vagina, which it em- braces. . dissection of these muscles, the body is to be put ^" J^J"^ position as for the preceduig, and the vagina distend- ed. Make an incision along the ramus of the ischium, and dissect the skin and adipose tissue inwards; within the ramus of the ischi- um will be found the crus of the clitoris, with its erector mus cle350 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and around the commencement of the vagina, the constrictor va- gm:v. These muscles may also be dissected from within by remov-r ing the mucous membrane of the vulva. i MUSCLES OF THE PELVIS. OF THE LEVATOR ANI. 1313. This muscle completes the lower wall of the abdomen,; forming, at the lower part of the pelvis, a sort of concave floor, which sustains the inferior part of the rectum and the bladder,, around which it constitutes a kind of cincture, which also embraces, the commencement of the urethra, and the vesicula3 seminales. It; is thin, membraneous, irregularly quadrilateral, broader above than below, and arises, by short aponeurotic libres, from the inferior and. posterior part of the symphysis pubis, from the ileum, from above, the upper.region of the obturator internus, from the sciatic spine,, and from the pelvic fascia,* which is, as wc have said, continuous with the iliac fascia. These different origins, which are continu- ous with each other, are only a little interrupted, toward the ob- turator hole, for the passage of the obturator nerve and vessels. The middle and anterior fleshy fibres descend from without inwards <md from before backwards; they unite behind and beneath the rectum, with those of the opposite side, and envelope that intestine in a radiating manner; some of the more anterior seem to be at- tached to the prostate gland, or confounded with the sphinc- ter ani; others, proceeding from the angle of union of the corpora" cavernosa of the penis with the urethra, expand posteriorly over the bulb of that canal. The posterior descend inwards, and ter-, minate below the sides of the coccyx, forming a tendinous line. 1314. The Older surface of this muscle corresponds to the la- mina of the pelvic fascia, which covers the obturator internus, to the glutneus maximus and transversus perinrei, as well as to the fat which surrounds the anus. Its inner surface corresponds anteri- orly to the bladder and prostate gland, and to the inner lamina of the pelvic fascia, and embraces the lower part of the rectum. Its posterior edge is continuous with the coccygeus muscle. 1315. In the female, this muscle adheres strongly to the vagina, before arriving at the rectum. It is weaker than in the male, and its fibres, especially the posterior, are less curved. 1316. This muscle raises and carries forward the rectum, which it compresses, at the same time that it resists the action of the dia- phragm and abdominal muscles. It also favours the ejaculation of the spermatic fluid, and the expulsion of the urine. In the female, it contracts the vagina a little. • The pelvic fu.scia divides into two layer."! at this place, the otilcr one covers the inner surface of the obttirator intcrmis musclr, the iiiiirr one is reflected towards the necU of the bladder ; it is to tlm outer surfticc of the latter, .just where it is se|iaTatcd from the former, that the mu.scle in question is attached.357 MUSCLES OF THE INFEIIIOH EXTREMITIES. OF THE COCCYGEtJS. 1317. The Coccygetis (ischio-coccygeus) is of a triangular form, thin, and Hat, and concurs, witli the preceding, behind and above which it is phiced, to form the floor of the abdominal cavity. At- tached to the inside of the sciatic spine, it descends enlarging to be attached to the whole edge of the coccyx, and the lower part of the lateral surface of the sacrum ; it is even prolonged a little upon the anterior surface of that bone. This muscle is a mixture of fleshy and aponeurotic fibres, which seem to be confounded in an intimate manner with those of the anterior sacro-sciatic ligament. It fre- quently receives, from the lower part of the sacrum, a small bundle, (the Curmtor coccygis of Soemmering) thin, slender, descending over the middle of the coccyx, and uniting with the two muscles at once. 1318. Its posterior surface, which inclines downwards, is cover- ed by the two sacro-sciatic ligaments. The anterior corresponds to the rectum and the cellular tissue which surrounds it. 1319- It retains the coccyx, and prevents it from being turned backwards during the excretion of the feces. Its motions are not very decided. 1320. To show the levator ani, it is necessary to remove the is- chium, by sawing it through below its spine on the one hand, and ■where it joins the ramus of the pubes on the other : the outer sur- face of the muscle is thus exposed, and may be easily dissected, by filling the cavity of the pelvis with a towel, to make it project out- wards. The coccygeus is found lying on the fore part of the small sacro- sciatic ligament. MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. DF THE ENVELOriNG APONEUllOSIS OF THE INFERIOR EXTKE- MITY. 1321. The inferior extremities, like the superior (1105), are en- veloped in their whole extent, by a very distinct fibrous sheath, placed between the muscles and integuments. This aponeurotic sheath is called: in the thigh, the Fascia lata; in the leg, the Aponeurosis of the Leg. 1322. Fascia lata. This is the strongest aponeurosis in the body- It is very thick at the outside of the thigh, but less so anteriorly and posteriorly, and still thinner at the inner side ; it IS formed of fibres crossing each other in different directions, and perforated by a great number of holes for the passage of nerves and vessels. ° Its upper and fore part, called the iliac portion, is at;-ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. tached to Pouparfs ligament; the upper and inner part, call- ed its pubic portion, passes upwards, behind this ligament on the fore part of the pectineus muscle, to the ileo-pectineal line, from whence it is continued into the iliac fascia (1297). Where these two portions cease to be continuous, that is, at the inner part of the thigh, below Poupart's hgament, there is an opening, by which the saphena vein is transmitted to join the femoral vein. Tliis opening is semilunar, with its concavity upwards ; its outer cornu is continuous with a falciform edge, presented by the iliac portion of the fascia lata at this place. By this falciform edge^ whose concavity looks downwards and inwards, the iliac portion seems to terminate abruptly; but this is only apparent, for it is reflected backwards upon the sheath of the femoral vessels. This falciform edge is rendered indistinct by the presence of a thin reti- culated membrane, called the cribriform fascia, which extends from it to the pubic portion of the fascia lata, in front of the sheath of the femoral vessels, to which it adheres. It is through one of the openings in this fascia that crural hernia protrudes. Posteriorly, the fascia lata has indistinct origins from the sacrum and coccyx, from whence it is expanded over the glutseus maximus, and in the perineum, having the appearance of a very fine cellular web. Externally, it is attached to the outer lip of the iliac crest, then descends upon the glutseus medius, to which it affords points of attachment; it is here much more distinct. Internally, and still above, it is continuous with the ligament of the symphysis pu- bis, and with the periosteum of the sciatic tuberosity, and the os- seous branch which connects that eminence with the symphysis of the pubes. In the rest of its course, it is inserted into the whole length of the outer lip of the linea aspera of the femur, by a la- mina firmly united to the vastus externus ascending between it and the short portion of the biceps. This lamina also receives, in a distinct manner, a very great number of fibres from the tendon of the gluta^us maximus. After being thus fixed, the aponeurosis in question envelopes the muscles of the thigh, and separates externally into two distinct laminae, the outer and thinner of which covers the tensor vaginae muscle, while the other, which is thicker, sinks under it, and pro- ceeds to the fibrous capsule of the hip-joint, and the curved tendon of the rectus femoris. Beneath the extensor muscle, these two la- minas unite, and constitute a very thick and solid band, which de- scends vertically along the outer part of the thigh, being continuous at its edges with the rest of the aponeurosis. Inferiorly, the aponeurosis is confounded around the knee with that of the leg. It also unites with the tendons of the extensor muscles, and is attached to the two tuberosities of the tibia, but especially to the outer. 1323. The outer surface of the fascia lata is separated from the integuments by a thick layer of adipose cellular tissue, blood ves- sels, lymphatics, and nerves. It sends around each of them a fi-MUSCJLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. S59- brous lamina, which envelopes them in a mdre or less irregular manner; and there are detached from it on all sides a considerable number of small filaments, which lose themselves in the chorion of the skin. Its irmer surface covers a portion of the iliacus and psoas muscles, and of the crural artery and vein, the sciatic nerve^ popliteal artery, and all the superficial muscles of the hip and >;high. It is separated from all these parts by adipose tissue. It gives attachment to some fibres of the glutaeus mcdius. 1324. Aponeurosis of the Leg. This is thinner than the apo-^ peurosis of the thigh; like it, its fibres also cross each other in dif- ferent directions, but at the lower part of the leg, are almost .all transverse. It is very strong and dense anteriorly, and thin in the other directions. It is continuous above with the crural apo- neurosis ; but it also arises from the head of the fibula, and from /several fibrous expansions detached from the tendons of the I triceps extensor, sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles. •From thence it descends around the leg, attaching itself to the whole extent of the anterior and internal edges of the tibia, and sending downwards and backwards a pretty thick partition, which passes before the tendo Achillis, and behind the muscles of the deep, and posterior layer of the leg, to ascend, between them and the soleus, to the middle of the leg, where it gradually loses itself. 1325. Below and before, this aponeurosis is continuous with the anterior annular ligament of the tarsus. Posteriorly, it gra- dually disappears towards the heel. Externally, it is inserted into the sheath of the tendon of the peronei ; and internally, to the in- ternal annular Ugament. Its outer surface is covered by the in- teguments, by adipose tissue, blood vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. .The inner is applied upon the superficial muscles of the leg, and gives attachment above to the tibialis anticus, extensor communis -digitorura and peroneus longus. Inferiorly, it sends a prolonga- tion between the two latter-. OF THE ANNULAR LIGAMENTS OF THE TARSUS. 1326. Anterior Annular Ligament. This is a quadrilateral fibrous bundle, extended transversely over the ankle, much thicker externally than at its inner part, and embracing the tendons of the ■extensors of the toes, and of the tibialis anticus and peroneus ter- iiua. It is attached to the fore part of the superior depression of the calcancum, where it is immersed in the cellular tissue, and from whence it is directed inwards. It soon divides into two la- mmae for the purpose of embracing the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum and peroneus tertius, beyond which these la- minae unite, to separate again for the tibiahs antic^8 and extensor poilicis. Lastly, it terminates at the fore part of the malleolus in- ternus, scndmg a very distinct prolongation to the os naviculare360 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and inner edge of the plantar aponeurosis. Its anterior surface IS covered by the skin. The posterior is applied upon the tendons just mentioned, the anterior tibial nerve and vessels, and a small part of the extensor brevis digitorum pedis. Its upper edge is continuous with the aponeurosis of the leg. The lower sends over the back of the foot a thin and indistinct aponeurotic lamina, which gradually loses itself, towards the toes, in the cellular tis- sue ; this is commonly designated by the name of dorsal aponeUr^ rosis of the foot. 1327. Internal Annular Ligament. It is broader, and less re- gularly defined than the other, and descends from the fore part of the malleolus internus to the posterior and inner part of the calca- neum, forming, with that bone, a canal which contains the sheath of the tendons of the tibiahs posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and flexor pollicis, as well as the plantar vessels and nerves, and a great quantity of adipose tissue. Above, it is continuous with the tibial aponeurosis; below, it gives attachment to the adductor pollicis, and is covered by the skin. OF THE PLANTAR APONEUHCSIS. 1328. The Plantar Aponeurosis is stronger and denser than the palmar (1110), to which it has a considerable resemblance in other respects. It is of a somewhat triangular form, and divided into three portions, a middle, thicker, and broader, and two lateral, which are very thin, and applied upon the muscles of the great and small toes. It is attached, posteriorly, where it is very strong, to the posterior and inferior eminences of the calcaneum, directs itself forwards, becoming broader, by the separation of its fibres, sends two partitions between the superficial muscles of the sole of the foot, furnishes them with points of attachment, and, towards the fore part of the metatarsus, divides into five slips, each of which subdivides into two others; these ascend upon the sides of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations, with whose ligaments they are intimately confounded, and by their separation give passage to the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toes. The upper surface of this aponeurosis is in connexion with the muscles of the sole of the foot. It furnishes insertions to the adductor pollicis, abductor minimi digiti and flexor brevis commu- nis digitorum. Its inferior surface sends many fibres to the chorion of the skin, and rests upon a dense adipose tissue, which consists of small conglomerated masses.MUSCLES OF THE INFEUIOU EXTliEMITiES. 361 MUSCLES OF THE FORE AND LATERAL PARTS OF THE THIGH. OF THE TENSOR VAGIN-E KICMOUIS. ( Tensor Fascice Latce.) 1329- This muscle, which is situated at the upper and outer part of the thigh, is flat, broader and thinner below than above, and arises externally from the anterior and superior iliac spine, be- tween the sartorius and glutaeus medius, by a very short tendon, more prolonged before than behind. The fleshy fibres descend nearly vertically, diverging as they proceed, and about three inches below the great trochanter terminate in a separation of the two laminae of the fascia lata. 1330. Its Older surface is covered by a thin lamina of the fascia lata. The inner is separated by another, from the rectus femoris and vastus externus; it also covers the glutaeus medius and glu- tasus minimus a little. Its anterior edge, is parallel above to the sartorius, and separates from it below. The posterior is united above to the glutaeus medius. 1321. This muscle rotates the thigh inwards, and carries it out- wards, separating it from the other. Its principal action, however, is to stretch the aponeurosis by which the muscles of the thigh are .'enveloped. OF THE SARTORIUS. 1332. The sartorius is the longest muscle in the human body, and resembles a band, a little broader at its middle than at the extremities, lying obliquely along the inner part of the thigh. It arises, by a short tendon, equally expanded over its two surfaces, from the anterior and superior iliac spine, between the tensor vaginae femoris and iliacus, and a little from the notch which separates the two anterior spines of the ileum. From thence It descends, becoming broader, obliquely inwards and backwards, as far as the upper third of the thigh ; it then proceeds vertically, pre- serving the same breadth to the inferior third; and lastly, opposite the knee, it contracts, and passes obliquely forwards and outwards, to the inner part of the upper extremity of the tibia, where it is in- serted by a pretty long flat tendon, whose anterior edge, arising very high upon the fleshy fibres, is confounded with the portion of the fascia lata which surrounds the knee, while the posterior cori- tnbutes to form the aponeurosis of the leg. At its lower extremi- ty, this tendon expands into a strong aponeurosis which jiasscs over the tendons of the semi-tcndinosus and gracilis, vmiting with them, and terminates upon the tibia before them.ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 362 1333. Its anterior surface is covered by the fascia lata. The posterior is applied, from above downwards, upon the united psoas magnus and iliacus internus, the rectus femoris, vastus intcrnus, adductor longus, adductor magnus and graciUs muscles, the crural artery about the middle of the thigh, and, at i^s lower part, the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Its inner edge forms above with the adductor longus, a triangular space, in which is lodged the crural artery, with the vein and nerve of the same name. 1334. It bends the leg upon the thigh, and brings its inferior extremity toward that of the opposite side, so as to make them cross each other ; by continuing to act, it bends the thigh upon the pel- vis. If the leg cannot be bent, it draws the whole inferior extre- mity upon the pelvis, turning it outwards in rotation. It prevents the pelvis from falling backwards, or bends it upon the thigh. OF THE RECTUS FEMOllIS. 1335. The Rectus Femoris, (yp"\ter prior mmculi quadricipi- tis femoris,) is an elongated muscle, flattened at its extremities, slightly rounded and broader at the middle, and exactly fusiform. It lies vertically at the anterior part of the thigh, and arises from the iliac bone by two tendons. One of them is straight and em- braces the anterior and inferior spine of that bone; the other, which is longer, broader, and curved, turns round the edge of the cotyloid cavity, to the upper part of which it is attached, sending some fibres into the capsule of the articulation. These two tendons after a short passage, unite into a single tendon, which descends vertically, and almost immediately expands into an aponevirosis, ■■ which occupies the fore part of the upper third of the muscle, and gives rise posteriorly to the fleshy fibres. These form a vertical and bulging bundle, and are inserted successively into the fore part of another aponeurosis, which lies upon the posterior surface of the muscle, from the place where the other terminates. This aponeu- rosis, after becoming narrower and thicker, separates and forms a flat tendon, which is confounded with those of the three following . muscles. r, 1336. The anterior surface is covered by the fascia lata, and by the iliacus and sartorius muscles; the posterior is applied upon the hip joint, the external circumflex vessels, and the cruralis. 1337. It extends the leg upon the thigh, or the thigh upon the leg. If the leg is extended, it bends the thigh upon the pelvis, or the pelvis upon the thigh. When one is standing, it fixes the . pelvis, and prevents it from falling back.MUSCLES OF THE INFEIlIOIl EXTREMITIES. 365 OF THE VASTUS EXTERNU8. ( Venter enternus mmculi quadricipitisfemoris.) 1338. This muscle is thicker above than below, and attached to the base and fore part of the great trochanter, as well as to the outer hp of the linea aspera, and, together with the glutaeus maxi- mus, to the ridge by which it is connected with the great trochan- ter, by a broad aponeurosis, expanded over its outer surface to near the middle of the thigh, thick and dense at its upper part, thin and with separated fibres below. The fleshy fibres of the muscle arise from the inner surface of this aponeurosis, and another aponeurotic lamina placed between it and the short portion of the biceps, and from the outer surface of the femur. They are directed obliquely downwards and forwards, and longer above than below, where they become nearly transverse. The last fibres even, take their origin from the two upper thirds of the line which descends to the outer condyle of the femur. They form together a mass, broader and thicker at its middle part than at the extremities, which is at first separated from the cruralis by a thin layer of cellular tissue, but which is presently so confounded with it, as to be no longer se- parable. OF THE VASTUS INTERNUS. 1339- The Vastus internus. (Venter internus m. guadricipitis femoris,) is not always very distinct from the following muscle, and is much smaller than the preceding; it appears more bulky below than above. It is attached to the anterior and inferior part of the base of the small trochanter, and to the inner lip of the linea aspera, by a less broad, and less thick aponeurosis than that of the vastus externus, and which also descends to the middle of the thigh. The fleshy fibres come fi-om the inner surface and anterior edge of this aponevirosis, as well as from the inner surface of the femur, and from the two upper thirds of the ridge which descends to the inner condyle. They are directed obliquely downwards, forwards, and outwards ; the upper are longer than the lower; which latter are confounded along the linea aspera with the adductor muscles, and united to them by an aponeurosis traversed by vessels. OF THE CRUEAIiTS. 1340. The Cruralis, (Venter posterior m. quadricipitisfemoris,) arises from the fore part of the base of the neck of the femur, along the oblique ridge which proceeds from the great to the small tro- fchanter, and from the three upper fourths of the anterior surface of the body of the femur. Its fleshy fibres form a mass which de- scends, increasing in size, and which, at first isolated, soon becomes364f ACTIVE ORGANS OF EOCOMOTION. confounded with the two preceding muscles, but first with the vas- tus internus. 1341. These three muscles, the vastus externus, the vastus internus, and cruralis, are thus united by very broad apo- neuroses. One of these commences very high upon the inner sur- face of the first: the other rises about the same level upon the outer surface of the second, and the last appears toward the middle of the anterior surface of the third. They approach each other as they descend, become intimately united, and form a tendon at first broad and thin, afterwards narrower and thicker, and at last con- founded with that of the rectus femoris (1335), with which it is inserted into the whole upper part of the patella, sending oft" late- rally two fibrous expansions which embrace that bone, and are at- tached to the tuberosities of the tibia, along with portions of the fascia lata. The fleshy fibres of the vastus internus accompany it to very near the patella. 1342. The anterior surface of the vastus externus is covered above by the tendons of the glutaaus minimus and glutaeus maxi^ mus ; farther down, by the fascia lata and its tensor muscle, and at its lowest part, by the short portion of the biceps. The anterior surface of the cruralis is in connexion with the iliacus and rectus femoris, and with the external circumflex vessels. The fascia lata, the crural artery, and the sartorius muscle are applied upon the anterior surface of the vastus internus. The posterior surface of these muscles covers the whole surface of the body of the femur, from which it is separated below by a considerable quantity of adipose cellular tissue, and the knee joint.* 1343. These muscles contribute powerfully to extend the leg. upon the thigh, and the latter upon the former. OP THE GllACILIS. 1344. The Gracilis, which is situated on the inside of the thigh, is a long, flat, thin miiscle, broader above than below. It arises, over a space of about two inches, by aponeuroses much longer before than behind, from the anterior surface of the body of the pubes, close to the symphysis, from the ramus of that bone* and of the ischium. From thence it descends vertically on the inside of the thigh, contracts rapidly, and when near the knee, is terminated by a slender and rounded tendon, which commences on the posterior edge of the muscle at the middle of the thigh, and is accompanied anteriorly by fleshy fibres as far as the knee. There it becomes free, passes behind the inner condyle of the femur, en- larges, descends from behind forwards over the upper and inner " A few detached muscular fibres, frciiuently found under the lower part of the cruralis, and attached to the capmk of the knee-joint, have been described by some authors as a separate muscle, under the name of Siihcrurmii! or aitic.ularis gciw. When the knee is extended, it seems to draw up the capsule of the joint from betweeu the end of the bones. Vide yoeinra. loc. cit. torn. Hi. p. 300.365 MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. ■part of the tibia, unites -with the tendon of the senii-tendinosus, and is attaclied to the bone behind that of the sartorius (1332). JBy its posterior edge it sends a fibrous expansion to the aponeu- rosis of the leg. 1345. Its inner surface is covered by the fascia lata, and be- low by the sartorius. The outei' covers the adductor and semi- membranosus muscles, and the internal ligament of the knee joint. 1316. The gracilis bends the leg upon the thigh, or the thigh iipon the. leg. If the leg is extended, it brings the thigh towards that of the opposite side, &c. OF THE PECTINEUS. 1347. This is an elongated, flat, triangular muscle, broader above than below, situated at the upper and fore part of the thigh. It arises by extremely short aponeuroses, from the upper edge of the pubes, between the spine of that bone and the ileo-pectineal eminence. It descends from thence obliquely outwards and back- wards, contracts, and when it has arrived opposite the small tro- chanter, turns upon itself to be inserted by means of a flat tendon^ which forms sooner before than behind, into the ridge which de- scends from that process to the linea aspera, immediately beneath the insertion of the psoas magnus and iliacus internus. 1348. Its anterior surface is covered by the fascia lata, and the crural vessels and nerves. The posterior lies upon the body of the pubes, the hip joint, the obturator externus and adductor brevis muscles, and the obturator vessels and nerve. Its inner edge is a little covered by the long adductor; the outer is parallel to the psoas. . 1349. The pectineus muscle bends the thigh upon the pelvis. It brings it toward that of the opposite side, or turns it outwards in rotation. It also bends the pelvis upon the thigh or keeps it in its natural position. OF THE ADDUCTOR, LONGUS. 1350, This is a long, flat, thick, triangular muscle, broader be- low than above, situated before the other two adductors, at the inner and upper part of the thigh. It arises, by a narrow but strong tendon, from the spine, the anterior surface and sym- physis of the pubes. It is prolonged for a long time under the form of an aponeurosis, over the inner edge of the fleshy body, which descends obliquely outwards and backwards, becoming broader and thicker as far as its middle part, but which then be- comes thinner, to terminate between two aponeurotic laminae unitmg into a single one, attached to the middle part of the mtersticc of the linea aspera, over a space of about three inches, be- tween the vastus internus and adductor magnus, with which it is 3ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 366 firmly united. This aponeurosis sends some fibres to tlic tendon of tlie latter muscle, which concur, with it, to form an.aperture tlirough which the crural artery passes. 1351. The anterior surface of the adductor longus is covered by the fascia lata, the sartorius, and the crural artery. The pos- terior covers the other two adductor muscles, and is firmly united to them below. Its outer edge is parallel to the pcctineus muscle; the inner is concealed by the gracilis, 1352. It brings the thigh toward that of the opposite side, bends it a little, and carries it outward by rotating it. When one stands upon a single foot, it keeps back the pelvis. OF THE ADDUCTOR BREVIS. •I - 1353. This muscle is placed behind the preceding, and is lesa voluminous than it; it is triangular, flattened from within out- wards in its upper third, and from before backwards in its two lower thirds, and rises, by short aponeuroses, from almost the whole space which separates the symphysis pubis from the obturator hole, whence it descends outwards and backwards, becoming broader and thinner, to be inserted, by a less developed aponeurosis than that of the preceding muscle, traversed by the perforating arteries, into the middle part of the linea aspera, for a space of about three inches, proceeding from the small trochanter. At this insertion, the ad- ductor brevis is incorporated with the adductor longus, adductor magnus, and the pectineus. 1354. This muscle is covered anteriorly by the preceding, and by the pectineus. Posteriorly, it is applied upon the adductor magnus. Internally, it is connected with the gracilis, and exter- nally with the tendon of the psoas magnus and iliacus internus, and with the obturator externus. . 1355. Its uses are the same as those of the preceding muscle. OF THE ADDUCTOR MAGNUS. * ■ 1356. This muscle is triangular, like the other adductors, but of much greater extent, filling nearly the whole inner and back part of the thigh. It arises, by a broad and thick tendon, which sends an aponeurosis behind its fleshy fibres, from the base of the tuberosity of the ischium, and by short aponeuroses froni the ra- mus which unites that eminence to the symphysis pubis. The fleshy fibres which arise from these different origins become longer in proportion as they are examined more internally. The upper are nearly transverse, and frequently seem to form a distinct mus- • Soemmering comprehends the three adductors under the name of Musculus tri. cepi femorit.367 MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. cle. They come from the ramus of which wc have just spoken, i and are attached to the upper fourth of the linea aspera of the fe- ] mur, and to the ridge which unites it to the great trochanter, pass- 1 ing before the rest of the muscle. The middle fibres, which are ! longer and more oblique, terminate in the three inferior fourths of I the linea aspera, by a pretty long aponeurosis, which is confound- 1 ed with tlie insertions of the two other adductors, and is perforat- I ed by several apertures for the perforating arteries ; but, at the I end of the linea aspera, it bifurcates in such a manner, that one , of its portions ends in a point between the vastus internus and the : short head of the biceps, while the other proceeds towards a ten- don, which terminates the vastus internus. Between these two portions, there exists an interval which is traversed by the crural artery and vein, and which represents a canal entirely fibrous. Lastly, the inner fibres, which are very long and nearly vertical, are inserted into a tendon which commences very high upon the inner edge of the muscle, sends a fibrous prolongation before the crural artery, unites with the aponeurosis of the adductor longus, and is attached to the tuberosity of the internal condyle of the femur, where it is incorporated with the inner edge of the vastus: internus. ' 1357. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the two preceding, by the sartorius, and by the crural artery. The posterior covers the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, biceps, and glutaeus raaximus muscles, and the sciatic nerve. The inner edge, which is much thicker above than below, is in connexion with the fascia lata, the gracilis and sartorius muscles. 1358. This muscle brings the thigh powerfully toward that of the opposite side, keeps the pelvis in its natural position, and has the same uses as the other adductors. • 1359. To dissect the muscles of the fore and lateral parts of the thigh, place the subject on its back, and put a block under the pelvis. Make an incision through the skin along the outer part of the thigh from the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium, to the knee, and other two, from the extremities of this one to the inside of the thigh ; these incisions being made, dissect the skin inwards from the surface of the fascia lata. The next part of the dissection is to remove the fascia from the outer surface of the tensor vaginae femoris, (1330) and from that of the sartorius (1333), dissecting in the direction of their fibres. This being done, bend the leg upon the thigh and raise the fascia from the anterior surfaces of the rectus (1336) and vastus externus and in- ternus (1342). Next cut through the rectus and sartorius in their middle; the former, to show the cruralis, and the latter to make way for the examination of the gracilis, pectineus and adductors. 10 dissect which muscles, the leg is to be extended on the thigh, and the latter abducted, the gracilis is exposed by raising the aponeuro- sis covering its inner surface (1345) ; the pectineus, on the outer edge ot winch the lower extremity of the psoas and iliacus (1291)ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIOX. 368 will be found, by removing tlio crural vessels and pubic portion,of. the fascia lata. Cut the gracilis and proceed to the examination of the adductors. The adductor longus first presents itself on the removal of the fascia lata; the anterior surface of the adductor brevis (1354) is seen on raising the preceding and the pectineus ; the anterior surface of the adductor magnus is next to be dissect- ed, but to perceive all its connexions, it also requires to be examin- ed from behind, during the dissection of the muscles of the poste- rior part of the thigh. MUSCLES OF THE HAUNCH. OF THE GLUT.EUS MAXIMUS. 13G0. This muscle which is broad, very thick and quadrilateral, is what especially forms the hip. It is attached above by short aponeurotic fibres to the posterior part of the crest of the ileum to an vuieven, convex, and narrow portion of the outer surface of the same bone, (390), to the posterior sacro-iliac ligament, on which it is continuous with the aponeurosis of the sacro-lumbalis and latissimus dorsi, (832, 805) ; in the middle, to the inequalities of the posterior surface of the sacrum, to the circumference of the notch which terminates the sacral canal, and to the lateral parts of the coccyx, as far as the summit of that bone ; externally and in- feriorly, to the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament. The fleshy fibres from these different places, collect into very distinct fasciculi, sepa^ rated from one another by lines filled with cellular tissue. All these fasciculi, which are parallel to each other, and longer the nearer they are to the lower part of the muscle, descend obliquely outwards and forwards, towards the great trochanter. The upper fasciculi terminate at the upper part of a tendon, very thick and narrow below, broad and thin above, and so incorporated externally with the fascia lata, as to be inseparable from it. This tendon, as it descends, receives the other fleshy fibres in succession along its posterior edge, from the level of the great trochanter, and is after- ^ wards inserted, in an extent of about three inches, into a rough im- pression, which proceeds from the base of the great trochanter to the linea aspera of the femur, and into the upper part of that line, between the adductor magnus and vastus externus. 1361. The posterior surface of the glutaeus maximus is imme- diately covered by a very thin lamina of the fascia lata, and con- nected with the skin by a layer of extremely thick adipose tissue. The anterior surface is applied upon the os innominatum, the sa- crum, the coccyx, the common origin of the sacro-lumbalis and lon- gissimus dorsi, the glutaeus medius, pyriformis, gemelli, obturator intcrnus, and quadratus femoris muscles, the sciatic nerve, the tu- ber ischii, the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament, the upper extremity of the biceps and scmitendinosus, the great trochanter, and the ad--MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 3G9 lifuptor magnus and vastus cxternus muscles. Its upper ed(p:, 'Inch is very thin, is connected with the glutiuus medius by a pro- ongation of the foscia lata. The loiver edge is the longest of all, ^nd free of adhesions. The outer is united in its whole extent . 0 the fascia lata. 1362. Synovial Bursa. It is very thin, oval, always well sup- hlied with synovia, and very frequently furnished with replications 11 its interior. It is expanded upon the outer surface of the tro- ihanter, the neighbouring portion of the vastus externus, and the inner surface of the tendon of the glutasus maximus, the motion of Irhich it facilitates. 1363. The glutJBUs maximus extends the thigh vipon the pelvis. Mid the pelvis upon the thigh. It rotates the thigh outwards, and cots very powerfully in standing and progression. OF THE GLUT/EUS MEDIUS. 1364. The Glutceus medius is a broad, strong, radiated, trian- ijular muscle, much thinner than the preceding, under which it is :iartly situated. It arises by short aponeurotic fibres from the luuter surface of the os innominatum, between the two curved lines, rrora a kind of aponeurotic arch which prevails along the inferior uurved line, from the three anterior fourths of the iliac crest, and TTom the inner surface of the portion of the fascia lata which de- scends from the superior and anterior iliac spine. Proceeding from ■'these different points, the fleshy fibres descend converging, and fol- lowing different directions, the anterior, which are short, obliquely backwards, the middle, which are longer, vertically, and the poste- rior, which are still longer, obliquely forwards. They terminate upon the two surfaces of a broad aponeurosis, which is concealed for some time in their substance, and is longer posteriorly than anteriorly. This aponeurosis contracts and becomes thicker as it descends; it -is left by the fleshy fibres towards the great trochanter, where it is converted into a tendon thinner before than behind, which is in- serted into the whole upper edge of that eminence, prolonging it- self a little upon its fore and outer part, and uniting with the glu- tasus minimus. 1365. Its outer surface, which inclines a little backwards, is co- vered in its posterior half by the glutJEUs maximus, and in its ante- rior by the fascia lata. The inner surface is applied upon the OS mnominatum, the glutaeus minimus and pyriformis muscles, and the gluteal artery. Its anterior edge is connected above with the tensor vaginas femoris, from which it is separated below by an interval, in which there occur a great quantity of cellular tissue and tranches of the external circumflex artery. The posterior edge is, at Its upper part, parallel to the pyriformis muscle, whose direction It crosses below. The two tendons are here separated by a syno-370 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. VSGG. This muscle draws the thigh outwards. By its anterio part, it rotates the femur inwards, imd in the contrary directioi by the posterior part. It also acts in standing, and in progresi sion. OF THK GLUTEUS MINIMUS. 1367- The Glutcxus minmms is smaller than the medius, and situated under it. It is a flat muscle, of a triangular form, with radiating fibres. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the inferioi curved line of the os innominatum, and from the anterior region oi its crest, beneath the glutsEus medius, as well as from the whol^ space comprised between these parts and the edge of the cotyloid cavity. Proceeding from thence, the fleshy fibres converge, and' descend, the middle ones, vertically, the anterior and posterior, obliquely. The middle and posterior go to the inner siirface of a broad aponeurosis, whose outer part receives some bundles from the glutiEus medius, which is accompanied by the anterior fibres of the glutseus minimus as far as the great trochanter, where it is con- A'crted into a strong and thick tendon, which embraces the anterior region of that eminence. A small synovial capsule, in most cases, favours its motions, 1368. The outer surface of this muscle, which is inclined back- wards, is covered by the preceding in the greater part of its extent, and a little, posteriorly, by the pyriformis. The mwer aurface covers the os innominatum, the fibrous capsule of the hip joint, and the curved tendon of the rectus femoris. Its upjjer edge is convex ; the anterior is a little connected below with the glutseus medius ; the posterior is covered above by the pyriformis, to which it is parallel below. 1369. Its uses are the same as those of the preceding muscle. OF THE PYRIFOKMTS. 1370. This muscle is of an elongated conical form, flattened from before backwards. It is situated in the pelvis, and at the up- per and back part of the thigh, and arises by digitations fi-om the anterior surface of the sacrum, to the outside of the anterior sacral holes, and in the spaces by which they are separated from' each other ; it is also attached to the lower part of the great sacro-' sciatic ligament (628), and to the upper and back part of the ileum. " From thence it proceeds outwards and a little downwards, con-' tracts, issues from the pelvis by the sciatic notch (408), runs' along the glutaeus medius and glutasus minimus, and terminates by a tendon, which is at first broad and concealed by the fleshy fibres, appears sooner before than behind, and is separated from the tendon of the glutaeus medius by a synovial bursa (1365), itMUSCLES OF THE INFEllIOIl EXTREMITIES. 371 <is confounded by its lower edge with the tendon of the gemellus tsuperior, and inserted, above the latter muscle, into the digital icavity of the great troclianter (495). Sometimes the pyriforniis is ;]split longitudinally, in which case a branch of the sciatic nerve >passes between its two portions. 1371. In the pelvis, its anterior surface is covered by the rcc- t^tum, the sciatic plexus, and hypo-gastric vessels. After emerg- iiing from that cavity, it is applied upon the os innominatum, the c capsule of the hip-joint, and the glutJEUs minimus. Its 'posterior f surface is covered by the sacrum and the giutaeus maximus. Its \ I tipper edge corresponds internally to the glutoeal artery, and ex- t ternally to the giutaeus medius and glutagus minimus. The lower (edge corresponds, internally, to the small sacro-sciatic ligament, sand externally, to the gemellus superior, from which it is at first s separated by the sciatic nerve. 1372. This muscle rotates the thigh outwards. It may also 1 make the pelvis turn upon the thigh. OF THE GEMELLUS SUPERIOR. 1373. Elongated, flattened, broader and thicker at its middle part than its extremities, it arises from the outer lip of the sciatic spine, then proceeds transversely outwards, is confounded with the tendon of the obturator internus, and inserted at the upper part of the inner surface of the great trochanter. Its posterior surface is covered by the sciatic nerve and glutasus maximus; the anterior covers the os innominatum, and the capsule of the hip joint. It rotates the thigh outwards, and draws it from the other. OF THE GEMELLUS INFERIOR. 1374. It has the same form, connexions, and uses as the pre- ceding muscle ; but is attached on the one hand to the upper and back part of the tuber ischii, and, on the other, in the digital eavity of the great trochanter, above the obturator extemus (1380), The two tendons of the gemeUi unite behind that of the obturator- internus, so as to present a kind of groove for it. OF THE aUADRATUS FEMORIS. 1375. This muscle is situated transversely at the posterior and upper part of the thigh. It is thin, flat, and quadrilateral, and arises, by pretty long aponeurotic fibres, from the outer side of the sciatic tuberosity before the semi-membranosus. It then proceeds horizontally, between the gemellus inferior and adductor magnus, to the lower part of the posterior edge of the great trochanter,37'2 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. where it is inserted by aponeuroses, which are also pretty long. Its posterior surface is covered by the sciatic nerve, and by the glu- tJEUs maximus, semi-membranosus, and adductor magnus muscles. The anterior covers the obturator externus, the extremity of the tendon of the psoas magnus, and the posterior part of tlie small trochanter, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa. Its uses are the same as those of the gemelli.* OF THE OBTURATOK INTEKNUS. 1376. This muscle is almost entirely situated within the pelvis. It is flat and triangular, and reflected upon itself as it emerges from the pelvis, to proceed to the upper and posterior part of the thigh. It arises, by rather indistinct aponeurotic fibres, from the posterior surface of the pubes, within and above the obturator hole, from the obturator ligament (638) excepting towards the aperture through which the obturator vessels and nerve pass, where it is connected with a small fibrous arch, and from the bony surface which separates the obturator hole from the sciatic notch, immedi- ately beneath the upper strait of the pelvis. Arising from all these points, the fleshy fibres converge, and descend to below the sciatic spine. But before they reach that point, four or five dis- tinct, isolated, tendinous slips, occupying at first the interior of the muscle, appear upon its outer surface, approach each other, and at length turn outwards over the edge of the small sciatic notch, as over a pulley, where they are lodged each in a small groove in- crusted with cartilage. On emerging from the pelvis, these slips unite into a thick and flat tendon, which is horizontal, separated from the fleshy fibres, situated between the two gemelli, confound- ed with their tendons and inserted along with them, into the cavity of the trochanter, between the pyramidalis and obturator externus. 1377- The outer surface of this muscle is applied within the pelvis against the os innominatum and obturator ligament. Ex- ternally of that cavity, it is covered by the sciatic nerve and glutte- us maximus. Its inner surface corresponds to the outer lamina of the pelvic fascia (1313), and passes over the capsule of the hip joint. 1378. Synovial Bursa. Where the obturator muscle turns over the sciatic notch there is a synovial capsule, plentifully mois- tened, which covers the cartilage with which that notch is incrust- ed, and is reflected over the slips of the tendon, and a little over the outer surface of the muscle, especially at its outer part. 1379. It rotates the thigh outwards, and abducts it. * Nonnunquam deest. Soemm. 1. c. torn. iii. p. ?86. Albiniis Hist. muse. liom. p. 530. .Je I'ai vu manquer cliez un sujet doiit les luuscles jumoaux avuieiU uiie force extraordinaire. Meckel op. cit. Tom. ii. p. 195.MUSCLES OF THE INKEUIOR EXTREMITIES. OK THE OBTURATOR liXTERNUS. 1380. Situated .at the upper and inner part of the thigh, and t)f tlie form of a flattened conoid, this muscle arises from the lamina of the OS inuominatum which limits the obturator hole anteriorly, and from the inner part of the anterior surface of its ligament. From thence, it descends outwards, becoming narrower, then as- cends behind the neck of the femur, where its fleshy fibres termin- ate upon a tendon, which comes from several slips that had existed in the substance of the muscle, contracts, becomes thicker, and is inserted into the cavity of the trochanter beneath the inferior ge- .mellus, after contracting strong adhesions with the capsular liga- .ment of the hip joint. 1381. Its anterior surface,, which is inclined downwards, is covered by the pectineus, the adductors, and quadratus. The pos- terior is applied upon the os innominatum, the obturator ligament, from which it is separated by cellular tissue externally, and upon the fibrous capsule of the hip-joint. Its upper edge corresponds internally to the obturator nerve and vessels. The lower edge is placed, also internally, above the attachment of the adductor mag- nus. 1382. This muscle rotates the thigh outwards, and draws it to- wards the other. 1383. For the dissection of the muscles of the haunch, put the subject on its belly, and place a block under the pubes, so as to ;.bend the thigh on the pelvis; then make a longitudinal incision 'through the skin along the sacrum, and another from the middle of this one obliquely downwards to a little below the trochanter major, at which point turn the incision right downwards for the space of two inches. The skin, fat, and thin fascia covering the muscle being thus cut through, they are to be dissected upwards and downwards from the incision in the direction of the fibres of the muscle, which are stretched by rotating the foot inwards. By re- moving the upper flap entirely from the dorsum of the ileum the anterior part of the gluteus medius, which is covered by the fascia lata, will be exposed. The upper and anterior edge of the gluteus maximus is inti- mately connected with this fascia, great care is therefore necessary in raising it, which may be done, first, by separating this connex- ion, then dissecting it off' from the surface of the gluteus medius, detaching it at the same time fi-om its origins from the posterior part of the crest of the ileum, and from the sacrum. The muscle is now to be thrown down towards its insertion into the thigh, when the gluteus medius and the rotating muscles of the hip will come mto view. The fascia covering the anterior part of the gluteus medius be^- mg raised, this muscle will be wholly exposed; it may now be re,, moved to show the gluteus minimus. 4^7'!' ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION." The pyriformis, gemelli, tlie tendon of the obturator internus and quadratus femoris are to be freed from cellular tissue, and se- parated from each other, but the obturator internus cannot be all L examined until a section of the pelvis is made, wlien the attach- ! ment of the pyriformis to the sacrum will be also seen. To see the obturator externus : the inferior part of the psoas, the pectine- us, and the adductors, require to be raised from the fore part of the thigh, and the quadratus femoris from the back part. MUSCLES OF THE POSTERlOfl PART OF THE THIGH. OF THIC BICEPS FI.EXOR CRUKIS. - 1384. The Biceps (Biceps femoris) is simple below, and sepa- rated above into two bundles : of these, one is longer and rounded, f and attached to the upper and outer part of the tuber ischii by a tendon, common to it and the semi-tendinosus (1387), which after- wards degenerates into an aponeurosis extending to the middle of the thigh ; this bundle descends from thence outwards, becoming larger, and is incorporated with the other bundle, which is shorter, flattened, quadrilateral, broader at the middle than the extremi- ties, and attached by .short aponeuroses to a large portion of the outer lip of the linea aspera, between the adductor muscles and vastus externus, from which it is separated by a lamina of the fas- cia lata. The two portions of the muscle are connected by means of an aponeurosis, commencing very high upon the first, and ter- minate in a common tendon, which is accompanied very low by the fibres of the second. This tendon bifurcates to be inserted in- to the top of the fibula, embracing the lower extremity of the ex- ternal lateral ligament of the knee joint (717)- The anterior branch of this bifurcation, which is smaller than the other, sends off a prolongation which passes over the tipper articulation of the tibia and fibula ; the posterior branch contributes to the formation of the aponevirosis of the leg. 1385. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the glutosus maximus and fascia lata. The anterior lies upon the semi-membranosus, vastus externus, and adductor magnus muscles, the sciatic nerve, the femur, and the external lateral hgament of the knee. The long portion moreover covers the short, which is applied upon the external superior articular artery, and the external " head of the gastrocnemius. Its inner edge concurs with the semi- membranosus muscle (1391) to form the ham. 1386. This muscle bends the leg upon the thigh, or the latter upon the leg. Its long portion is capable of extending the thigh upon the pelvis, pr of keeping the pelvis erect. It also rotates the leg outwards..AlUSCLES OF THE INl'KRlOlt EXTREMITIES. 3^5 OK THK SEMI-TKNDINOSUS. lo87- This muscle is very long, slender, tendinous, and round- rd below ; thin, fleshy, flattened, and broader above. It is extend- ed obliquely at the back part of the thigh, and arises behind the semi-membranosus, from the tuberosity of the ischium, by a mem- braneous tendon, which, for the extent of about three inches, is L'ommon to it and the long portion of the biceps. The fleshy fibres ;rise from the anterior surface of this tendon, and descend in a converging manner a little obliquely inwards; the bundle which they form, contracting and becoming thicker; when it has arrived at the middle part of the tliigh, after being generally traversed by an aponeurotic intersection, it changes into a tendon, at first con- cealed among the fleshy fibres, then appearing at the inner side, and at length becoming free, slender, and round, which descends behind the inner side of the knee joint, between the internal head of the gastrocnemius and semi-membranosus, turns forward upon the tibia, becomes broader, and is united to the posterior edge of the tendon of the gracilis, as well as with the inner surface of that of the sartorius (1332), to terminate with them upon the tibia. J 388. Its posterior surface is immediately covered by the fascia lata, and a little at its upper part by the glutaeus maximus. The anterior is apphed upon the semi-membranosus and adductor mag- nus. 1389- A bursa mucosa occurs between its upper part and the biceps and semi-membranosus, and another .at its lower part between the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and its tendon united with those of the sartorius and gracilis. 1390. It bends the leg, and turns it inwards by rotation. It also bends the thigh upon the leg. In standing it keeps the pelvis erect, and sometimes even contributes to draw it backwards. OF THE SEMl-MKMBllANOSUS. 1391. Placed beneath the preceding muscle, flat, thin, narrow, and aponeurotic in its upper third, broader, thicker, quadrilateral, and fleshy in the rest of its extent, excepting at the very lowest part, where it is rounded, this muscle arises from the tuber ischii, behind the quadratus and before the semi tendinosus and biceps, by a flat tendon, whose outer edge is much thicker than the inner, which descends very low upon the outer and back part of the fleshy ^ody, to be afterwards concealed in its substance. The fleshy nbres are short and parallel, and directed oWiquely inwards; they form a pretty long bundle, thin at its extremities, and thick in the middle, and terminate successively in a tendon which oc- cupies their inner edge. This tendon, which is isolated behind the knee joint, thick and round, is contiguous anteriorly with that376 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. of the external head of the gastrocnemius, from which it is sepa- rated by a synovial capsule, and divides into three ])ortions: the outer, which is thin and narrow, ascends obliquely backwards and outwards upon the synovial capsule of the knee joint, which it con- tributes to strengthen, and is attached above the outer condyle of the femur; the middle portion, which is broad and thick, is at- tached to the back part of the internal tuberosity of the tibia, and sends a very distinct a])oneurotic exptmsion over tlie popliteus; the inner portion, which is larger and rounded, descends from be- hind forwards over the internal tuberosity of the tibia, and is in- serted into it. It is contained by a fibrous sheath which is lined by a very delicate synovial membrane. 1392. Its posterior surface is covered by the biceps and semi- tendinosus, and by the fascia lata. The anterior covers the quadra- tus, from which it is separated by a bursa mucosa, the adductor magnus and internal head of the gastrocnemius, the popliteal artery, and the knee joint. Its outer edge is accompanied by the sciatic nerve, and concurs with the biceps to form the cavity of the ham. The inner edge is partly covered by the gracihs and the fascia lata. 1393. Its uses are the same as those of the preceding muscle. 1394. The biceps, scmitendinosus, and semimembranosus muscles arc exposed, first by removing the skin covering the fascia lata of the back part of the thigh, then dissecting the latter off from the surface of the muscles in question, which are stretched by bending the thigh on the pelvis and extending the leg. MUSCLES OP THE LEG AND FOOT. Anterior Region of the Leg. OV THE TIBIALIS ANTICUS. 1395. The tibialis antieus is a long, thick, fleshy muscle, of the form of a triangular prism above, slender and tendinous below. It arises from the external tuberosity and upper half of the outer surface of the tibia by short aponeurotic fibres, from the upper and fore part of the interosseous Ugament, from an aponeurotic parti- tion which separates it from the extensor digitorum, and from the upper part of the inner surface of the aponeurosis of the leg. From these origins it descends obliquely inwards and forwards, becoming at first a little thicker and then diminishing ; when it has arrived below the middle third of the leg, it terminates by a flat and pretty strong tendon, which existed for a long time among the fleshy fibres, and upon their anterior surface, into which they are inserted like the barbs of a feather into its shaft. This tendon de- scends before the anterior extremity of the tibia, passes over the ankle joint, is engaged in a sort of groove of the anterior annular ligament of the tarsus, where it is invested by a small synovialMUSCLES OF THE INFERIOIl EXTREMITIES. 377 I bursa, proceeds from behind forwards, and from witliout inwards , over the back of the foot, becomes broader, and arrives at the inner I side of the internal cuneiform bone, where it divides into two por- tions : the posterior of which is larger, slides over the bone by means of a small synovial membrane, and is inserted at its base ; while the other, which is anterior and smaller, is attached to the inner and lower part of the posterior extremity of the first meta- tarsal bone. 1396. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the tibial aponeurosis to which ,it adheres above, by the annular liga- ment of the tarsus, and by the dorsal aponeurosis of the foot; the inner is applied upon the outer surface of the tibia; the outer corresponds to the extensor communis digitorum above, and the extensor proprius pollicis below, from which it is separated poste- riorly by the anterior tibial nerve and vessels. Its posterior edge covers the interosseous ligament, the tibia, the tibio-tarsal articula- tion, and the upper and inner part of the tarsus. 1397- The tibialis anticus bends the foot upon the leg, and directs its point inwards at the same time that it raises its inner edge. It also bends the leg upon the foot, and prevents it from -falling backwards in the standing posture. OF THE EXTENSOR PROPKIUS POLLICIS PEDIS. 1398. This muscle is fleshy, broad, thick, and transversely flat- tened above, slender and tendinous below, and is situated to the outside of the preceding. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the fore part of the inner surface of the fibula, over an extent of five or six inches proceeding from the lower part of its upper third, and from the neighbouring region of the interosseous ligament (730). From thence, the fleshy fibres descend forwards parallel to each other, forming a bundle which is broader in the middle than at its extremities; they are all about two inches in length, and termi- nate successively upon a tendon which separates from them toward the ankle, passes into a particular groove beneath the annular liga- ment of the tarsus, runs along the inner edge of the foot, slides over the first phalanx of the great toe, with which it is connected by two fibrous expansions, and is at length inserted into the last phalanx, over which it is expanded. This tendon, which is broader near its insertion and upon the tarsus than in the rest of its course, IS surrounded by a synovial capsule whilst passing under the annu- lar ligament. 1399. The inner surface of this muscle corresponds to the tibialis anticus, and to the anterior tibial nerve and vessels. Tlie outer surface is applied against the extensor communis digitorum. Its anterior edge is concealed above between the tibialis anticus and extensor digitorum, and covered below by the tibial apon- eurosis and the skin. The posterior edge lies upon the fibula, theACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 378 interosseous ligament, tlic tibia, the anterior tibial artery, the ankle joint, and the back of the foot and great toe. 1400. This muscle extends the last phalanx of the great toe upon the first, and the latter upon the first metatarsal bone. It also bends the foot upon the leg, or the leg upon the foot. OF THE EXTENSOR LONGUS COMMUNIS DIGITORUM I'EDIS. 1401. Elongated, thin, transversely flattened, simple and fleshy above, divided into four tendons below, this muscle arises from the external tuberosity of the tibia, between the tibialis anticus and peroneus longus, from the two aponeurotic partitions which sepa- rate it from each of these muscles, from the anterior ligament of the upper articulation of the tibia and fibula, ('J2']), from the in- terosseous ligament, from the fore part of the fibula over a space of five or six inches, and from the tibial aponeurosis at the upper part of its inner surface. The fleshy fibres proceeding from these different insertions follow various directions. The upper are ver- tical, the lower more and more oblique ; they form a mass which descends obliquely inwards, and is larger in the middle than at its extremities; they are all inserted into a tendon which is at first concealed in their substance, and appears upon their anterior sur- face about .the middle of the leg, being accompanied by them pos- teriorly as far as the annular ligament of the tarsus. Long before arriving there, the fleshy fibres and the tendon are divided into three contiguous portions, which pass beneath it in a groove in- vested Avith a very distinct synovial capsule, which is common to them with the tendon of the peroneus tertius (1404). At this moment, the inner portion bifurcates, so that upon the back of the foot there are perceived four tendons which separate from each other, directing themselves toward the four last toes, and crossing the direction of the extensor brevis digitorum ; the inner is ob- viously stronger than the others, and the outer frequently receives ci fibrous prolongation from the tendon of the peroneus brevis. Arrived upon the upper surface of the phalanges, the first three are united with the inner edge of the tendons of the extensor brevis digitorum, and they are all strengthened by a prolongation of the tendons of the lumbricales and interossei. They then become broader, and form a sort of aponeurosis which covers the whole up- per surface of the toes, dividing and terminating precisely in the same manner as the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum manus (1187). , . 1402. The anterior edge of this muscle is covered by the tibial aponeurosis to which it adheres above, the annular ligament of the tarsus, and the skin. The posterior covers the fibula, the inter- osseous ligament, the tibia, the ankle-joint, the extensor brevis di- gitorum, and the toes. The inner corresponds to the tibialis anti- cus and extensor proprius pollicis, and is united above with theMUSCLES 0¥ THE INFEllIOU EXTREMITIES. 379 ti former. The outer is confounded above with the peroneus longus, ( at the middle with the peroneus brevis, and below with the pcro- D neus tertius. 1403. It extends the three phalanges of the last four toes, and t bends the foot on the leg, or the leg on the foot. OF THE PERONEUS TERTIUS. - 1404. This muscle does not exist in all subjects. It is situated ; at the anterior and inferior part of the leg, and is of an elongated i form, thin and compressed. It arises from the lower third of the I fore part of the fibula, the interosseous ligament, and an aponeu- I rotic partition which separates it from the peroneus brevis. From thence it descends a little inwards, confounded in a great part of : its extent with the preceding muscle, and degenerates into a ten- don which lies at first upon its anterior surface, then becoming isolated, passes under the annular ligament of the tarsus, in the same groove with those of the extensor communis, turns outwards on the back of the foot, crosses the course of the extensor brevis digitorum pedis, becomes broader, and is converted into an apon- eurosis which is inserted at the outer edge of the posterior extre- mity of the fifth metatarsal bone, and into the neighbouring part of its body, sending a prolongation to the outer tendon of the pre- ceding muscle. 1405. The outer surface of this muscle, which is directed a little forwards, is covered by the aponeurosis of the leg; the inner is confounded with the extensor communis digitorum. It covers in the foot the extensor brevis digitorum pedis and the first metatar- sal bone. Its posterior edge is applied upon the fibula and inter- osseus ligament, and is vmited with the peroneus brevis. 1406. It bends the foot upon the leg, raising its outer edge. It may also bend the leg on the foot. Dorsal Region of the Foot. OF THE EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM PEDIS. ,; 1407. This is a broad flat muscle, thin and fleshy behind, ter- minated anteriorly by four tendons. It arises from the upper sur- face of the calcaneum, before the groove which lodges the tendon of the peroneus brevis, from the external ligament of the calca- neum and astragalus (746), and from the annular ligament of the tarsus (1326), proceeds forwards and inwards, increasing in breadth, and soon divides into four portions, the two inner of which arc larger and shorter. Each of these portions is terminated by a thm and flat tendon, at first concealed among the fleshy fibres, but afterwards isolated. These tendons cross the direction of those of380 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the extensor longus, passing under them, and traversing the meta- tarsus obliquely. The first, on arriving at the articulation of the metatarsus with the phalanx of the great toe, becomes broader and is inserted at the upper part of the posterior extremity of its first phalanx. The other three pass over the upper surface of the first phalanges of the second, third, and fourth toes, and join the outer edge of the tendons of the extensor longus muscle to termi- nate along with them. (1401). 1408. The upper surface of this muscle is covered by a very thin aponeurotic lamina, extended over the back of the foot, and by the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum pedis. The inj'e- rior surface covers the tarsus, the metatarsus, the interossei dor- sales muscles, and the phalanges. 1409. It extends the first four toes, and directs them a little outwards. 1410. The muscles of the anterior part of the leg and dorsum of the foot are dissected, first by removing the skin from the apo- neurosis covering them, and then this latter from their surfaces. The muscles of the leg are now to be separated from each other, and the tendons of the extensor communis longus digitorum remo- ved from the back of the foot, to show the extensor brevis. Pei'oneal Region. OF THE I'EEONEUS LONGUS. , 1411. The Peroneus longus is placed at the outer part of the leg, and under the sole of the foot. It is very long and narrow, fleshy and of the form of a triangular prism above, terminated be- low by a slender tendon. It arises from the upper part of the ti- bial aponeurosis, the upper third of the outer surface of the fibula, a small part of the tibia, two aponeurotic partitions which are placed between it and the soleus and flexor longus pollicis, on the one hand, and the extensor communis digitorum on the other. It descends at first a little obliquely backwards, enlarging in the mid- dle, and is terminated by a tendon which commences very high upon its outer and anterior side, and only becomes free about two thirds down the leg. This tendon continues to run along the fibula, directing itself however a little backwards, and behind the external malleolus enters a groove, common to it with that of the peroneus brevis, in which it is kept down by a ligamentous bridle: the synovial capsule which it contains is common to the two tendons, to the ligamentous bridle itself, the inner surface of the external lateral ligament (738), and the groove of the fibula. Beneath the malleolus it quits the tendon of the peroneus brevis, and passes into a groove on the outer surface of the calcaneum, where it is again kept down by a particular fibrous sheath, but lined by the same synovial membrane, wliich forms a cul-de-sac to^MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 381 wards the os cuboidcs. It tlxen turns over the side of that bone, penetrates into the deep groove which it presents, and is there bound down by another ligamentous sheath, which also contains a distinct synovial membrane. It then directs itself inwards and for- wards, and is inserted upon the lower and outer part of the poste- - Tior extremity of the first metatarsal bone. A sesamoid bone is often met with in its substance, to the outside of the os cuboides, . and another is occasionally observed behind the malleolus externus, or along the calcaneum. 1412. In the leg, the outer surface of the peroneus longus is covered by the tibial aponeurosis; the iriiier is applied upon the t fibula, and the extensor digitorum communis and peroneus brevis; t the posterior corresponds above to the soleus, and is united below to the flexor longus poUicis. The various relations of this tendon have already been sufficiently noticed. 1413. It extends the foot on the leg, turning its point outwards, i aiid raising its outer edge. It also acts upon the leg, which it ex- I tends upon the foot. OF THE PERONEUS BllEVIS. 1414. It has the same form as the preceding muscle, but is not • so long. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the lower half of 1 the outer surface of the fibula, and from two aponeurotic partitions, ' which separate it anteriorly from the peroneus tertius and ex- I tensor communis digitorum, and posteriorly from the flexor lon- gus digitorum. It descends a little obliquely outwards, and, at : the lower part of the leg, degenerates into a tendon which had I commenced very high upon its outer side. Behind the malleolus I externus, the tendon enters a groove, common to it and the pero- ; neus longus (1411), in passing through which it becomes broader. ' On emerging, it contracts, becomes rounded, leaves the tendon of I the peroneus longus, passes above it over the outer surface of the ' calcaneum, where it is separated from it by a fibrous partition, be- < cotnes broad a second time, and is inserted at the upper part of the ' posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, frequently sending a prolongation to the extensor tendon of the little toe. 1415. Its outer surface is covered by the peroneus longus and I tibial aponeurosis. The inner covers the fibula, and corresponds I to the extensor digitorum communis and peroneus tertius, and at I Its lowest part to the flexor longus poUicis. The synovial mem- ' ^rane which envelopes its tendon and that of the preceding muscle 1 behind the malleolus, is prolonged into the particular sheath which i contains it alone opposite the calcaneum, so that it seems bifur- v Gated at its lower part. 1416. It extends the leg and foot mutually upon each other, I raising the outer edge of the latter a little. 1417. To expose the two peronei muscles, continue the last dis- * section to the outside of the leg and foot, separate the peroneus iongus trom the peroneus brevis, and trace the tendon of the latterACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 3S2 to its insertion, but the tendon of the former cannot be followed until the dissection of the sole of the foot. Posterior and Super^cial Region of the Leg. OF THE GASTI10CN£MIUS. 1418. The Gastrocnemius* {Gemellus)^ is composed of two fleshy masses, called the outer and inner heads, resembling each other in form, separated above, and united below by means of a common aponeurosis. Their direction is nearly vertical, and their form approaching to elliptical; they are convex behind, flat before. The inner is always larger, and descends lower than the outer. The latter arises from the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, by a pretty strong tendon-f- which descends on the outer edge of the muscle over an extent of about two inches, and then degene- rates into an aponeurosis which descends very low upon its pos- terior sui-face. The inner arises from the back and upper part of the inner condyle of the femur, by a broader and thicker tendon, - which descends upon its inner edge, and becomes, in like manner, converted into an aponeurosis. The fleshy fibres arise from these two tendons and their aponeuroses ; they are rather short, pass ob- liquely downwards and forwards, and terminate successively on the posterior surface of a broad aponeurosis, which is at first divided so as to correspond to each bundle, and then becomes simple, and imites them with each other and with the soleus, but much sooner externally than internally. 1419- By their separation, the two heads contribute to the for- mation of the hollow of the ham. The inner is covered above by the semi-membranosus, and in the rest of its extent by the apo- neurosis of the leg, which entirely covers the outer. Their an- terior surface is applied above upon the condyles of the femur, and the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, which lines their tendons a little. The outer is in connexion at this place with the popliteus, and the inner with the semi-membranosus, from which it is separated by a small synovial bag of an oval form, and plen-' tifully supplied with moisture, the popliteal artery, and the popli- teus and plantaris muscles : In the rest of its extent, the anterior surface of the gastrocnemius lies upon the soleus. OF THE SOLEUS. 1420. The Soleus X\\ is broad and thick in the middle, con- tracted at the extremities, and of an oval form. Three distinct " Var\hz> venter ; xvh/^n, cms. f Non raro tendo ventris externi os sesamoides excipit. Soemin. De Corp. Hum. Fab. torn. iii. p. 306. + Solea, sole, a species of flounder. _ II Tliis and the preceding muscle form the vwsculus sura of Soemmermg, wnicli pniicipiilly forms the cnlf of (lie leg.383 MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. aponeuroses give rise to its fleshy fibres, whicli are very numerous. The first, wluch is broad and thin, is attached to the upper ex- tremity of the fibuhi, and to its outer edge; it descends very low upon the outer edge of the anterior surface of the muscle. The second is a kind of fibrous arch, whose convexity is directed down- wards, imder wliich the popliteal vessels pass ; it unites the pre- ceding aponeurosis to the third, which is attached to the posterior oblique hne of the tibia, and the middle third of the inner edge of that bone, and is expanded over the inner and fore-part of the muscle. From these origins, the fleshy fibres descend in a con- 'verging manner, and terminate successively at the fore-part of a broad and thin aponeurosis which extends over their posterior sur- face, almost from their upper extremity, and sends into their inte- 'rior a sort of fibrous partition or raphe, into which they are insert- ed, like the barbs of a feather into the shaft. Inferiorly, this apo- ;neurosis unites with that of the gastrocnemius, and contributes to •form the tendo Achillis. 1421. The posterior surface of the soleus is covered by the gas- ,^trocnemius and plantaris, and by the aponeurosis of the leg. Its anterior surface covers the peroneus longus, popliteus, flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, and tibialis posticus mus- cles, a portion of the posterior surface of the fibula, and the popli- teal, posterior tibial, and fibular vessels. 1422. Of the Tendo Achillis. It results from the union of the jinferior aponeuroses of the gastrocnemius and soleus which we have just described. Narrower and more rounded in the middle than at its extremities, broader at its upper than its lower part, formed of very distinct fibres, it descends vertically behind the lower part of the leg, where it forms a remarkable prominence. It "slides over the upper half of the posterior surface of the calcaneum, by means of a cartilaginous surface and a synovial capsule, and is inserted into its lower half. It is covered posteriorly by the skin; anteriorly, it is separated from the muscles of the posterior and deep region of the leg by a great quantity of adipose cellular tis- sue, and receives fleshy fibres from the soleus until near the cal- caneum. 1423. The gastrocnemius and soleus extend the foot upon the 'eg, and the leg upon the foot. The gastrocnemius by itself can bend the leg and thigh on each other. OF THE PLANTARIS. 1424. This muscle, which is wanting in some subjects, is long, tnin, narrow, and extremely slender. It arises by a small tendon, behmd the outer condyle of the femur, from the posterior ligament ot the knee joint, and from the tendon of the outer head of the gas- trocnemius. It forms behind the joint a small rounded and coni-' cal tleshy bundle, which descends obliquely inwards, and, afterACTIVE ORGANS OF. LOCOIVIOTION. 1. c. torn. iii. p. 308. passing along a space of two or three inches, terminates in a tliin and narrow tendon, which passes between the soleus and gastroc- nemius, and about the lower fourth of the leg, adheres to the in- ner side of the tendo Achillis, which it accompanies to the calca- neum, where it is inserted by expanding. 1425. Its posterior surface is covered by the gastrocnemius and the skin ; the anterior is applied upon the knee-joint, its posterior ligament (719), the popliteal vessels, and the popliteus and soleus muscles. 1426. This muscle extends the foot on the leg, or the leg on the foot. It may also contribute to bend the leg on the thigh. OF THE POPLITEUS. 1427. This muscle is situated at the upper and back part of : the leg, and behind the knee-joint. It is short, Hat, nearly trian-'u gular, and arises, by a thick and strong tendon, upwards of an ; inch in length, from the anterior part of a depression that is observed upon the tuberosity of the outer condyle of the femur, beneath the attachment of the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. This tendon, which is embraced anteriorly by the I synovial membrane of that articulation, adhering to the external; • semilunar cartilage, is converted into an aponeurosis which descends ; for some extent on the fore part of the muscle, and is afterwards • concealed among its fleshy fibres. The latter, -which are so much ' the longer and more oblique the lower they are, are dh-ected down- wards and inwards, and terminate on the posterior and superio;'^ s triangular surface of the tibia, on the inner edge of that bone, and ' on a thin aponeurosis, detached from the tendon of the semi-mem- ' branosus (1391), which covers it posteriorly. ' • , 1428. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the • gastrocnemius and plantaris muscles, the popliteal vessels, and the » posterior tibial nerve. The anterior is applied upon the articula- > tion of the tibia and fibula, the tibialis posticus muscle, and the tibia. Its outer edge, which is longer than the inner, is connected': above by a thin membrane with the upper part of the fibula and j the soleus. 'S 1429- This muscle bends the thigh and the leg upon each ) other, and draws the point of the foot inwards, making the tibia turn upon its axis.*"!" * Winslow affirms thattlie popliteus does not assist in bending the knee-joint; of the correctness of this opinion every anatomist may judge, by i-oinparing what I have said when describing the anatomy of the thigh-bone, with tlie reasons assigned, by that great anatomist in his " Anatomical Exposition." -j- Duplex visus est. Fabricius ab'Aquapendbnte de motu locali auimalium, Cap. de gressu, in Ej. Opp. omnib. anat. et physiolog. Lips. 1687. P. 359. Soemni.MUSCLES OF THE INFEUIOR EXTREMITIES. 'iS5. 2 c Posterior and Deep Region of the Leg. OF THE FLEXOU COMMUNIS LONGUS DJGITOllUM I'HDIS. 1430. This muscle, which is extended at the back part of the lileg and beneath the foot, is long, Hat, broader in the middle than 4at its extremities, fleshy and simple above, and terminated by four t tendons below. It arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, e extending from its upper oblique line to its lower fourth, and f from an aponeurotic partition which is common to it with the tibia- lis posticus and flexor longus pollicis. From thence it descends obhquely inwards, at first increasing a little in size, and then dimi- t nishing. Its fleshy fibres are all inserted in succession, upon the s sides of a tendon which prevails for some time internally and pos- t teriorly, and which toward the lower part of the leg is abandoned \ by them. The tendon then passes behind the malleolus inter- I nus, in a groove common to it and that of the tibiaUs posticus, f from which it is however separated by a fibrous septum, and behind 1 which it is placed. These two tendons are kept down in this place by a sort of ligamentous sheath, fixed to the groove of the tibia, t the malleolus internus, the astragalus, and under the small tuber- (osity of the calcaneum; internally of this sheath, two distinct • synovial capsules are met with, one for each tendon. The whole ^ apparatus is continued under the arch of the calcaneum, where the I tendon sinks to advance again obliquely from behind forwards and : from within outwards, under the arch of the foot, crossing at first ; thf direction of the flexor longus pollicis, under which it lies, and ( communicating with its tendon by a fibrous slip. There it begins I to become broad, and present traces of four divisions ; and there also it gives attachment to its accessory muscle. Farther on, it divides into four tendons, thin and slender compared with the size of the toes to which they belong, which separate from each other, give origin to the lumbricales muscles, issue from above the plantar aponeurosis opposite the articulations of the metatarsal bones and phalanges, enter beneath the toes into a fibrous sheath precisely similar to that of the fingers (1166), which also receives the ten- dons of the flexor brevis digitorum pedis, pass through the slits in these tendons opposite the middle of the first phalanges, and are attached to the posterior and inferior parts of the third phalanges of the last four toes. 1431. In the leg, the ^os^enoj' surface of this muscle is covered by the soleus muscle, the tibial aponeurosis, and the posterior tibial artery. The anterior covers the tibia and the tibialis posticus musde. Its outer edge is connected with that muscle, and with the flexor proprius pollicis. In the foot, it is in connexion, by the infi>Hor surface of its tendons, with the adductor pollicis, flexor brevis digitorum, and abductor minimi digiti muscles, and with the386 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. plantar nerve; and by the upper swface, with tlie deep-seated muscles of the sole of the foot. 1432. Its uses are to bend the three phalanges on each other, and the toes on the metatarsus, and to extend the foot on tlie leg. It acts much in standing. OF THE TIRIALIS POSTICUS. 1433. Elongated, Hat, much thicker above than below, and some- what of the form of a triangular prism, this muscle bifurcates at its upper part to allow a passage to the anterior tibial vessels. Thff outer and smaller branch of this bifurcation, arises from the inner and back part of the fibula ; the other, which is larger, is attached to the oblique line of the tibia, to its posterior surface, and to the interosseous ligament. From thence the muscle descends at firsfr nearly verticiilly and afterwards a little inwards, successively re- ceiving fibres which come from an aponeurotic septum, placed be- tween it and the flexor communis digitorum and flexor proprius poUicis ; it increases in size to its middle part, and diminishes far- ther down. It terminates at length by a tendon which commences pretty high upon its inner and fore side, and which, after becom- ing free, passes into the groove formed behind the malleolus inter- nus, as we have already mentioned (1430), where it increases much in breadth, to bo inserted at the lower and inner part of the OS scaphoides, and by a prolongation into the base of the internal cuneiform bone. The portion of this tendon which passes under the head of the astragalus contains a sesamoid bone. 1434. The anterior surface of this muscle covers the fibula, the. tibia, a large extent of the interosseous ligament, and the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament (749). The posterior surface is co- vered by the soleus, flexor longus digitorum, and flexor proprius pollicis muscles, and by the malleolar fibrous sheath (1430). 1435. It extends the foot upon the leg, raising its inner edge. It also extends the leg upon the foot. OF THE FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS. 1436. Fleshy, thick and flattened above, of the form of a trian- gular prism in the middle, slender and tendinous below, and situ-, ated at the back part of the leg and under part of the foot, this muscle arises from the two lower thirds of the posterior surface of ( the fibula, from the interosseous ligament, and from two aponeuro^ j tic pal-titions which separate it from the two preceding muscles on ' the one hand, and on the other from the peroneus longus and pe- roneus brevis. It descends vertically behind the fibula, becoming | larger as far as its middle, and then contracting again. Arrive^ at the lower part of the leg, it terminates by a tendon at first con-.MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 387 cealcd amon"- its fleshy fibres until'opposite the ankle joint. There, it becomes nearly horizontal, enters a groove formed behind the in- ferior extremity of the tibia (509), and the posterior surface of the lastragalus (519), where it is kept down by a hgamentous sheath [ hned^by a synovial bursa, which accompanies it under the arch of '. the calcaneum in a particular depression; it is there placed to the oouter side of the tendon of the flexor communis digitorum. This ^tendon, which was at first broad, becomes narrower as it leaves th6 tl fleshy fibres, passes over that of the flexor communis, communi- ccates with it (1430), proceeds over the inner edge of the foot, be- t tween the two portions of the flexor brevis polUcis, passes between t the two sesamoid bones of the first articulation of the metatarsal t bones and phalanges, opposite which it enlarges, to penetrate into t the fibrous sheath of the great toe, which is similar to that of the t thumb (1172), in which it is enveloped by a synovial membrane. lAt the entrance of this sheath, it contracts, presents traces of a I longitudinal division, and is expanded at its extremity, which is I attached to the lower and posterior part of the last phalanx of the 1 great toe. 1437- In the leg, the posterioi- surface of this muscle is covered I by the soleus and the tibial aponeurosis. The anterior is ap- ] pUed upon the fibula, the tibialis posticus and flexor longus com- j I munis muscles, the interosseous ligament and the tibia. Its tendon i is surrounded by synovial membranes behind the ankle joint and I under the great toe, and by the flexor brevis pollicis under the sole I of the foot. 1.1438. This muscle bends the second phalanx of the great toe 1 upon the first, and the latter upon the corresponding metatarsal I bone. It increases the concavity of the sole of the foot, and ex- I tends the foot and the leg upon each other. . 1439- When dissecting the muscles of the posterior part of the 1 leg, extend it upon the thigh, and bend the foot on it, then make an incision along the middle of the back of the leg from between the condyles of the femur to the heel, and dissect off" the skin from the surface of the fascia, which is itself to be removed to show the gastrocnemius; this muscle being examined, it is to be removed by cutting through the heads of it about two inches below their ori- gin from the femur, when the popliteus and soleus will be brought into view, also the plantaris, if present. The next stage of the dissection is, after examining the connexion of the gastrocnemius and soleus to the tendon AchiUis, to detach the soleus, which, with the gastrocnemius, is to be thrown aside. The deep muscles may now be examined by removing the thin I layer of fascia which covers their surface. At first sight only two I muscles are seen, the flexor longus digitorum internally, and the I flexor longus pollicis externally; this is because the tibialis posti- ' cus IS covered by the flexor longus digitorum as far as the ankle I jomt: the farther examination of these muscles must be delayed until the dissection of the sole of the foot.388 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. OF THE ABDUCTOR POLLICIS PEDIS. 1440. This muscle is situated at the inner part of the sole of the foot. It is long, Hat, larger posteriorly than anteriorly, and arises from the posterior, internal, and inferior part of the calcaneum, by pretty distinct aponeuroses, especially above ; from an aponeuroti partition which separates it from the flexor brevis digitorum ; from the internal annular ligament of the tarsus, and from the posterior part of the plantar aponeurosis. From these different origins, the fleshy fibres proceed forwards and a little inwards, and are inserted successively and very obliquely upon the upper surface of a tendon which they conceal for some time, which afterwards appears be- neath them, unites with the inner portion of the flexor brevis (1454), and is attached to the lower and inner part of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, adhering strongly to the liga- ments by which it is connected with the first metatarsal bone. 1441. Its inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis, to which it intimately adheres behind.' The upper surface is covered by the accessorius and flexor brevis pollicis muscles, the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, tibialis anticus, and tibialis posticus, and by the plantar vessels and nerves. 1442. It carries the great toe inwards, and bends it a little. OF THE FLEXOR UUEVIS DIGITORUM PEDIS. 1443. This is a flat elongated muscle, much narrower and thicker behind than before, where it is divided into four portions. It arises from the posterior and inferior part of the calcaneum, between the abductor pollicis and abductor minimi digiti, from which it is separated by two aponeurotic partitions, from which, as well as from the plantar aponeurosis, some of its fibres also arise. From thence it directs itself forwards, increases at first in size, then diminishes, and at the middle of the sole of the foot, divides into four distinct bundles, the inner of which are the largest. These bundles successively cover each other from within outwards, and are each terminated by a tendon, which appears sooner above than below. These tendons advance beneath the heads of the metatar- sal bones, pass between the shps of the plantar aponeurosis, are engaged along with those of the flexor longus in the fibrous sheath placed under the toes, split to allow them to pass (1430), exactly in the same manner as those of the flexor sublimis of the fingers (1164), and are inserted, by two slips, upon the sides of the se- cond phalanx of each of the last four toes. 1444. Its inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis, withMUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 389 rVhich it is intimately connected behind. The upper surface is ^covered by the lumbricales and accessory muscle of the flexor Jongus, by the plantar vessels and nerves, and by the tendons of Ithe Hexor longus. Its inner edge is connected posteriorly with the 1 abductor poUicis, from which it is separated anteriorly by the ten- ddon of the flexor longus, and by a portion of the flexor brevis of tithe great toe. The outer edge is united posteriorly with the ab- (iductor minimi digiti, and contiguous anteriorly to the flexor bre- vvis minimi digiti. 1445. It bends the second phalanges of the toes upon the first, a and these upon the metatarsal bones. It also augments the con- (cavity of the arch of the foot. ix ;> OF THE ABDUCTOIl MINIMI DIGITI PEDIS. ' 1446. It lies beneath the outer edge of the foot, and is long, t flat, broader and thicker posteriorly than anteriorly. It arises : from the inferior surface of the calcaneum, on the outside of the flexor brevis digitorum, by short aponeurotic fibres; from a fibrous partition which separates it from the flexor brevis digitorum; from the plantar aponeurosis, and from the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, by a tendon, which is continuous with that aponeurosis. From thence, it advances beneath the inferior sur- face of that bone, diminishing in size. Its fibres then terminate successively upon a tendon which is inserted into the outside of the corresponding extremity of the first phalanx of the little toe. 1447- Its inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis, to which it is strongly united behind. The upper is covered by the accessorius muscle, the inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, the ten- don of the peroneus longus, the posterior extremity of the fifth me- tatarsal bone, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti, which is seen an- teriorly between its inner edge and the flexor brevis communis, which is united to it beliind. 1448. It carries the little toe outwards, and bends it a little. OF THE MUSCULUS ACCESSOHIUS. 1449. It is situated at the back part of the sole of the foot, and IS of a quadrilateral form, flat and thin. It arises by means of aponeurotic fibres, and by two distinct bundles, from the lower and inner surfaces of the calcaneum, whence it proceeds forwards and a little inwards, in a horizontal direction. Its fibres, which are all parallel, terminate on the outer and upper part of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum pedis, near the point where it cUvides. . frequently present there an aponeurosis prolonged upon their inner edge, while that by which they are attached to the calcaneum is more distinct at their outer edge. Its inferior surface coversACTIVE OIIGAWS OF LOCOJ\JOT10N. 390 the abductor polhcis, flexor brevis digitorum, and abductor minimi digiti, as well as the plantar vessels and nerves. The upper .sur- face IS covered by the calcaneum, the inferior and superficial calca- neo-cuboid ligament (756), and by the extremity of the abductor mmimi digiti. This muscle serves as an auxiliary to the flexor longus, and rcc- tihes its obliquity. OK THE LUMUUICALES. 1450. Similar in form, number, and disposition to those of the. hand (1234), these four small muscles extend from the tendons of the flexor longus to the last four toes. The first, M-hich is the longest and largest, arises from the inner edge and upper surface of the flexor tendon of the second toe; the other three, which di- minish successively in volume from within outwards, arise from the interval which the four tendons of the flexor longus leave between them at their separation. They all proceed horizontally forwards, diverging a little, and terminate each by a tendon, appearing at first on one of their surfaces and afterwards becommg isolated, which passes between the slips of the plantar aponeurosis, runs along the inner edge of the last four metatarso-phalangeal articula- tions, and is at length inserted into the inner and lower part of the base of the flrst phalanx of each of the last toes, sending a thin aponeurosis to their extensor tendon, in the same manner as in the hand (1234). 1451. Their inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis. The upper lies beneath the adductor pollicis, transversus pedis, and the interossei plantares. 1452. They carry the toes a little inwards, and contribute to bend the first phalanges, and extend the second and third. Of THE TKANSVEKSUS PEDIS. 1453. This muscle is thin, long, and flat, and extends trans- versely beneath the heads of the last four metatarsal bones. It is about an inch in breadth, and arises, by distinct and fasciculated aponeurotic fibres, from the ligaments of the last four metatarso- jphalangeal articulations; there result from this, four small parallel slips, more distinct behind than before, which unite together, and are attached, along with the adductor pollicis, to the outer edge of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Its inferior surface covers the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, the lumbricales, and the collateral nerves and vessels of the toes. The 7ipper surface corresponds to the interossei. This muscle carries the great toe outwards, and brings nearer to each other the heads of the metatarsal bones.MUSCI^tS OF THE lNFh:UIOIi KXTRLMITIES. ^91 Ok- TllK KhliXOll BllliVlS rOLLlClS VEUIS. U54. Short, thin, and narrow posteriorly broad thick and In- ductor polhcis It ^'''^^l^'^^ cuneiform bones and their hga- i;:^; ;;^t"elS:r:t;^anin^^^ . lengtl. wh.d. vtends nearly over the whole of its upper surface Several of its iSretJo tL tvom the aponeurotic partition which separa es it ,hbres also f/''^/"'™ " . .{..q. Tj^^ all short and oblique, rStlwX^ing /bundle wh^h i_ m :Se presents at its under surface a groove for lodging the tendon of Ve flexor longus poUicis (1436), and divides into two portions, "I tt unTted by cellular tissue, and afterwards isolated: the in- iuer unites with the tendon of the abductor poUicis tennmates a ong ^kh It at the first phalanx of the great toe, and is ^^oreoyer at- tached to the inner sesamoid bone of the articulation^ 1 he outer portion, which is thinner, and confounded with the adductoi po li- dl is inserted along with it into the lower and outer part ot the ba^se of the first phalanx of the great toe, and the outer sesamoid I'Ji'^Vts inferior surface rests upon the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis,"the plantar aponeurosis, and the abductor pol icis with which it is partly confounded. The upper surface has above Tthe tendon of ^the peroneus longus and the first metatarsal bone. Its outer edge is united anteriorly with the adductor polhcis 1456. It bends the first phalanx of the great toe upon the lust metatarsal bone. OF THK ADUUCTOK. rOLLICIS. 1457. This muscle is situated to the outside of the preceding, at the middle and anterior part of the sole of the foot; it is short thick, and of the form of a triangular prism. It arises by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, from the inferior surface of the os cu- boides, from the ligamentous sheath of the peroneus longus and from the posterior extremity of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, as well as from the ligaments by which they are connected. Increasing at first in size, and then diminishing, it proceeds from thence fonvards and inwards, is confounded with the outer portion of the preceding muscle, (1454), and, a Uttle farther on, with the transversus pedis (1453), to be attached along with them to the outer and under part of the first phalanx of the great toe, and its outer sesamoid bone, by an aponeurosis which occupies its interior surface. 1468. Its in/c'rio/-sicte covers the flexor longus digitorum, the accessorius muscle, the lumbriculcs, and the plantar aponeurosis.392 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. The inner side corresponds to the flexor brevis pollicis, the tendon of the peroneus longus, and the outer edge of the first metatarsal bone. The oufer edye is in connexion with the interossci and ex- ternal plantar artery. 1459. It carries the great toe outwards, and bends it a little. OF THE FLEXOR BUEVIS MINIMI DIGITI. 1460. Short, thicker in the middle than at its extremities, and situated internally of the preceding, this muscle arises, by aponeu- roses prolonged over its inner surface, from the under part of the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the Hga- mentous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. From thence it directs itself horizontally forwards, and is inserted, by apo- neurotic fibres appearing upon its under surface, into the lower and outer part of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Its inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis and the abductor minimi digiti; the upper is covered by the fifth metatarsal bone and by the last plantar interosseous muscle. It bends the first phalanx of the little toe. OF THE INTEllOSSEI PEDIS. 1461. The interossci of the foot are similar in number, form, and disposition to those of the hand (1237). belong to the three middle toes, and one to the little toe : the great toe has none. Four are situated on the back of the foot, and three on the sole. OF THE INTERNAL OR PLANTAR INTEROSSEI. 1462. The Jirst internal interosseous muscle (adductor digiti tertiiJ, is of the form of a triangular prism. It arises from the two lower thirds of the whole inner surface of the third metatarsal bone, and from the ligaments by which it is united inferiorly to the tarsus. Its fleshy fibres are inserted upon the outer surface, and a little upon the inner edge of a tendon which terminates, like those of the preceding muscles, at the inner side of the third toe. The upper side of this muscle is placed between the third meta- tarsal bone and the abductor of the second toe. The lower side is applied upon the transversus pedis and abductor pollicis. 1463. The second internal interosseous muscle {adductor digiti quarti), is flattened, and situated beneath the interosseous space to which it belongs. It arises from the lower part of the inner ;surface of the fourth metatarsal bone, and from the ligaments by 4-MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. ^93 Mmh it is connected with the tarsus ; its tendon is inserted upon bHc inner side of the fourth toe. 1464. The third internal interosseous muscle (adductor quinti Mgiti), arises a little from the fibrous sheath of the peroneus lon- ims, and from the two inferior thirds of the inner surface of the idfth metatarsal bone, and terminates on the inner surface of the iiifth toe, by a tendon which the fleshy fibres accompany as far as ]the articulation. OF THE EXTEIINAL Oil DORSAL INTEROSSEI. -1465. Thejirst external interosseous muscle (adductor diglti eecundi), is the largest of the interossei of the foot; its form is that bf a triangular prism. It arises from the whole extremity of the nrmer side of the second metatarsal bone, and from the outer side of :he posterior extremity of the first. The latter portion is separated ifrom the first by an interval in which the anterior tibial artery ipasses. Its fleshy fibres are attached to the two sides of a tendon L-concealed in their substance, and which they accompany to the ex- ttremity of the metatarsus; this tendon is partly inserted into the irinner side of the base of the first phalanx of the second toe, and jpartly upon the corresponding extensor tendon. Its upper sur- fiface is covered by the skin. The inferior corresponds to the nadductor pollicis; and its sides are applied upon the first two me- t tatarsal bones. 1466. The second external interosseous muscle, (abductor digiti .^ sectmdi,) arises from the whole outer side of the second metatar- >.sal bone, and from the upper part of the inner side of the third ; it ii:is terminated by a tendon, which has the same insertions on the ■'outer side of the second toe, as the adductor on the inner. Its I upper surface is covered by the skin, by a thin aponeurosis which goes from the second to the third metatarsal bone, and by the ex- tensor tendons of the toes. The lower surface corresponds to the adductor pollicis. 1467. The third external interosseous muscle, (abductor digiti tertii,) arises from the whole outer side of the third metatarsal bone, from the upper part of the inner side of the fourth, and from " the ligaments by which they are united, and terminates by a ten- : don precisely similar to those of the other interossei. Its upper • surface is covered by an aponeurosis which goes from the third to ; the fourth metatarsal bone. The lotver covers the transveisus pedis and the tendons of the flexor muscles. 1468. The fourth external interosseous muscle, {abductor digiti qiiarh,) arises above from the inner edge of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the whole outer surface of the fourth, and termi- nates on the outer side of the fourth toe. 1469. The motions which the interossei of the foot impress up-ACTIVE OIIGANS OF LOCOIMOTION. on the toes are bimilar to those which the interossei of the hand make the fingers perform (1245.) 1470. For the dissecfAun of the mnscles of the sole of the foot^ place the foot on its dorsal surface, iix it firmly to the table, and draw the toes from each other. Make an incision through the skin, along the sole of the foot from the heel to the roots of the toes, where a transverse one is to be made, from which others are to be drawn along the middle of the lower surfaces of the toes; these in- cisions being made, the dissector is now to proceed to dissect ofl* the flaps formed by them, in order to expose the plantar aponeu- rosis and the tendinous sheaths of the toes. Raise the thin aponeurosis from the inner and outer parts of the sole to show the abductors of the great and little toes; then cut across, very carefully, the middle part of the plantar aponeurosis about its middle, and dissect it forwards and backwards to show the flexor brevis digitorum. These three muscles being examined, they are to be cut through about the middle part of the foot, and their anterior parts dissected forwards, their posterior, backwards, to show the tendons of the tibialis posticus, flexor longus poUicis and flexor longus digitorum, with its accessory muscle. Cut through the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, and examine the connexions of the lumbricales and the transversus pedis, also slit up the sheath, and examine the tendon of the peroneus longus. The remaining muscles, the flexor brevis pollicis, adductor pol- licis, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the interossei are now to be isolated from each other by removing the cellular tissue connecting them.S[)5 ARTICLE SECOND. ORGANS OF THE VOICE. OF THE LARYNX AND ITS APPENDAGES. GENEKAL DISPOSITION. 1471. The laryruv* is a symmetrical apparatus, formed of se- veral pieces moveable on each other 5 it is situated in the middle line of the body, at the upper and fore part of the neck, above the trachea, with whose cavity it communicates, and below the hyoid bone, to which it is connected by ligaments, and opposite which it opens into the back part of the mouth. The pharynx se- parates it posteriorly from the vertebral column, and muscles are interposed between it and the skin anteriorly. Cartilages, ligaments, muscles, glands, membranes, vessels, and nerves, enter into the composition of the larynx. This apparatus is destined to give passage to the air in the act of respiration, and to impress upon it certain modifications which constitute the voice. Its dimensions vary in different individuals, and are not always proportional to the stature. It is observed, however, to be always larger and situated lower in the male than in the female. OF THE DIFFERENT PARTS WHICH ENTER INTO THE COMPOSITION OF THE LARYNX. Of the Cartilages of the Larynx. OF THE THYROin-f- CARTILAGE. 1472. This is the largest of the cartilages of the larynx, of which It occupies the anterior and lateral parts. It is of greater extent in the transverse than the perpendicular direction, and is broader above than below ; it seems formed by the junction of two quadri- 'atcral laminjE, which, uniting in the middle line of the neck, produce an angle, open behind, and more or less prominent " Aasfi/T-g, Gr. Caput Aqicra: Arleria:, ha,t. ©ujia/, Hculuiny a shield.396 ORGANS OF THE VOICE. before, where it is almost always perceptible beneath the integu- ments. Its anterior surface presents, in its middle, the longitudi- nal prominence just mentioned, which is more marked above than below; on its sides are two slightly concave surfaces, inclined out- wards, obliquely traversed behind by a ridge, which descends for- wards, from the posterior edge to near the lateral third of the low- er edge. This line gives attachment to the sterno-thyroideus and thyro-hyoideus muscles, which cover the greater part of the carti- lage ; behind it, is a small surface in contact with the constrictor pharyngis inferior, which is inserted into it (1029), and sometimes a hole which gives passage to blood-vessels. The posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage presents in the middle a retiring angle, into which the ligaments of the glottis and the thyro-arytenoid muscles are inserted. On its sides, two plain surfaces, directed backwards and inwards, give attachment, below, to the crico-thyroid muscles, and correspond in part to the crico- arytenoidei laterales. Its upper edge, which is longer than the others, and deeply notched in the middle, especially in the male, gives attachment in its whole extent, to the thyro-hyoid membrane. The lower edge is divided into three notches, the middle of which is larger, the two lateral a little contracted; the first is separated from the others by two more or less prominent tubercles, in which the two oblique la- teral ridges terminate. This edge gives attachment, in its middle part, to the crico-thyroid membrane, and on its sides to the muscles of the same name. The two jjosterior edges, which are rectilinear, rounded, and pretty thick, give attachment to some fibres of the stylo-pharyngei and palato-pharyngei muscles. They terminate above, each by a prolongation which is called the Great Horn of the thyroid carti- lage ; this appendage is more or less elongated, inclined backwards and inwards, narrower at the middle than its extremities, and terminated by a small head which is connected, with the extremity of the great horn of the hyoid bone, by a round ligament. Be- low they also present, each a smaller eminence, pretty thick, rounded, and curved inwards. This is the Small Horn of the thyroid cartilage ; its summit, which is blunt, presents at its inner side a small smooth surface, somewhat concave, which is articulated with a similar surface of the cricoid cartilage. OF THE CUICOID* CAIITILAGE. 1473. This is thicker than the other cartilages of the larynx, and represents a kind of ring, occupying the lower part of that or- gan, which is much higher behind than before. Its external surface, which is very narrow anteriorly, gives attachment there to the crico- • K{««5o;, annulus, a ring.397 CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. thyroidei muscles; on the sides it becomes broader, is a little co- vered by the thyroid cartilage, and presents above, a small rounded eminence, convex and polished at its summit, to be articulated witli the small horns of that cartilage; posteriorly, it becomes still broader, and presents a quadrilateral plane, at the middle of which a longitudinal prominence separates two depressions, into which the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles are inserted. Its inner surface is hned by the mucous membrane of the larynx. Its upper cir- cumference is obhquely cut in its two anterior thirds, where it gives attachment to the crico-thyroid membrane; its posterior third, which is more elevated, is horizontal, and presents two smooth con- vex surfaces, incUned backwards and outwards, which are articulat- ed with the base of the arytenoid cartilages; to the fore part of these surfaces the lateral crico-arytenoid muscles are attached. Its inferior circumference which is horizontal, and placed at the same level in its whole extent, is cimvex before, and a little notched at the sides, and is connected, by a membrane, to the first ring of the trachea. OF THE ARYTENOID CARTILAGES.* 1474. They are two in number, and are situated at the upper and back part of the larynx, above the cricoid cartilage, the level of which they surpass a little on the inner side. They are smaller than it, and have the form of a triangular pyramid, a little twisted upon itself from before backwards. Thevc posterior surface, which is concave, gives attachment to the arytenoideus muscle; the an- terior, which is a little concave below, and convex above, corre- sponds to part of the arytenoid gland, and gives attachment to the thyro-arytenoidei muscles, and the ligaments of the glottis; the inner, which is narrow, flat, and vertical, is invested by the mucous membrane of the larynx, and in contact with that of the opposite side. These three surfaces are separated by as many prominent and sharp edges, the anterior of which presents several inequalities. The base of these cartilages presents, posteriorly, a concave and, smooth articular surface, inclined downwards and inwards, and connected with that which the upper circumference of the cricoid cartilage presents ; this surface is limited externally by a rounded tubercle, to which the crico-arytenoideus lateralis and crico-aryten- oideus posticus muscles are attached; anteriorly it presents a larger eminence, of a triangular form, sometimes isolated from the rest of the cartilage, which gives attachment to the hgament of the glottis. The summit of the arytenoid cartilage is very thin and sharp; the mucous membrane envelopes it, and it is generally surmounted by a small cartilaginous body, (Corniculurn laryngis • 'A^vruimiln;, of the form of a funnel.398 ORGANS OP THE VOICE. of Soemmering) isolated, moveable, and of a very irregular and va- riable form. 1475. The different cartilages of the larynx are precisely simi- lar in their structure ; they are solid and thick, of a greyish co- lour, and of a perfectly homogeneous tissue. They are invested by a kind of fibrous perichondrium. They have a very great ten- dency to become ossified, and when this is the case, they present small cellules in their interior like the bones of the skull. The arytenoid cartilages ossify more rarely than the others, and are on- ly observed in that state in very advanced age. When ossification of the cartilages of the larynx takes place, it commences in the cricoid cartilage, by two germs, one on each side; in the thyroid cartilage, on each of its posterior edges, and frequently also on its superior processes ; in the arytenoid carti-. lages on the base. OF THE EPIGLOTTIS.* 1470. The Epiglottis is a fibro-cartilage, situated at the upper part of the larynx, behind the base of the tongue. Its form is oval, its colour a pale yellow, its tissue very elastic, its thickness greater below than above, and at the middle than at the sides ; its large extremity is free, broad, and curved a little upwards on the side next the tongue; the small extremity is contracted, directed downwards, and connected with the notch in the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage by a dense bundle of ligamentous fibres, embraced anteriorly by the gland of the epiglottis ; sometimes it is divided into three distinct portions. The Ungual surface of the epiglottis, which is inclined upwards, concave from above downwards, and convex transversely, is covered above by the mucous membrane of the- mouth ; inferiorly, it is connected with the hyoid bone and the base of the tongue ; a longitudinal line seems to divide it into two halves. Its laryngeal surface, which is directed downwards, is concave and convex in the opposite direction of the preceding, and covered by the mucous membrane of the larynx. These two surfaces, the latter especially, are covered with a gi-eat numbey of depressions like pin holes, which contain mucous follicles ; some of these depressions are true holes, which vary in size, but have very regular and rounded margins, and pass through the epiglottis directly, and never obHquely. They are observed towards the lower part. Several of these apertures also transmit nervous fila- ments. . The direction of the epiglottis is liable to vary m the different circumstances of life. It is vertical in the most common state, but becomes horizontal when the food passes from the mouth into the oesophagus. * •£«•<, upon; Vxurnu the glotti?.LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. 399 The epiglottis is rarely ossified. When this happens, it pre- sents a multitude of small bony nuclei, irregularly disseminated, and separated by very visible areolae. Of the IJgameiits of the Larynx. OF THE THYUO-HYOIU AKTICULATION. 1477- The thyroid cartilage is connected at its upper edge with the hyoid bone by means of a broad yellowish membrane, {mem- hrana thyro-hyoidea), thicker in its middle part than at the sides, rather cellular than fibrous, covered on its anterior surface by the thyro-hyoidei, sterno-hyoidei, and orao-hyoidei muscles, and lined on the posterior by the mucous membrane of the larynx, and the base of the epiglottis, from which it is separated by the gland of that name. The upper edge of this membrane is attached to the posterior surface of the body and great horns of the hyoid bone; and the lower, to the whole length of the upper edge of the thy- roid cartilage. The great horns of this cartilage are connected with the extrem- ity of those of the hyoid bone by two round fibrous cords, about an inch long, and almost always containing two or three cartilaginous grains. OF THE CIUCO-THYROin ARTICULATIONS. 1478 In the middle and anteriorly, the thyroid cartilage is con- nected with the cricoid by the Crico-tliyroid Membrane; this membrane is distinctly fibrous, of a yellowish colour, thick, especi- ally at the middle, perforated with several small apertures, which give passage to blood-vessels. It is attached to the two anterior thirds of the upper circumference of the cricoid cartilage, and fixed, on the other hand, to the middle part of the lower edge of the thyroid cartilage, on the sides of which it is gradually con- founded with the mucous membrane of the larynx, which it strengthens. Its anterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoidei and crico-thyroidei muscles, and is traversed in a transverse direc- tion by a small artery. The posterior surface is invested by the mucous membrane of the larynx. On the sides, the small horns of the thyroid cartilage are articu- lated by arthrodia with the cricoid cartilage, by means of small smooth surfaces, covered by a loose and pretty humid synovial membrane. Two ligaments, an anterior, which descends for- wards from the small horn over the cricoid cartilage, and a pos- terior, which ascends backwards from the same point, towards the base of the arytenoid cartilages, where it is expanded, keep these400 ORGANS OF THE VOICE. parts in connexion. They are also kept down by several irregular fibres, which are less distinct. OF THE CRICO-ARYTENOID AllTICULATION. 1479. Each arytenoid cartilage is also articulated by arthrodia with the cricoid cartilage, by means of surfaces, which we have al- ready described, and which are invested by a synovial capsule, and strengthened by some ligamentous fibres. These fibres are larger internally and posteriorly, and there constitute a triangular bundle. OF THE THYRO-AUYXENOID AllTICULATION. 1480. In the inside of the larynx, there are observed two liga- ments, about two lines in breadth, thicker internally than external- ly, formed of elastic and parallel fibres, contained in a fold of the mucous membrane. They are extended horizontally, proceeding forwards, and a little inwards, from the anterior prominence of the base of each arytenoid cartilage, to the middle of the retiring angle of the thyroid cartilage, where they are interlaced with each other. They form the principal part of what is named the Vocal CordSy they are connected externally with the thyro-arytenoideus muscle, which they separate from the crico-arytenoideus lateralis. They are covered in the rest of their extent by the mucous membrane. 1481. Sometimes a fibrous bundle, passing transversely before the arytenoid muscle, extends from one of the arytenoid cartilages to the other. We have already pointed out the manner in which the epiglottis and the thyroid cartilage are connected, (I476). Of the Muscles of the Larynx, OF THE CIlICO-THYllOIDEI. 1482. These muscles are two in number, and situated on the sides and at the fore part of the lower portion of the larynx. Each of them is thin, quadrilateral, broader above than below, of- ten divided into two portions by an adipose line. It arises from the side and fore part of the cricoid cartilage, ascends obliquely backwards and outwards, and terminates at the lateral part of the lower edge of the thyroid cartilage, and at the anterior edge of its small horn, leaving above, between it and its fellow, an interval in which the crico-thyroid membrane is seen. Their onf error surf ace is covered by the sterno-thyroideus and constrictor pharyngis infe- rior muscles, and by the thyroid body. The posterior corresponds to the crico-thyroid membrane, and the crico-arytenoideus lateralis muscle.IMUSCLES of THI5 LAttVXX. 401 OF i'lIE CUTCO-AKYTENOIDEI POSTICI. 1483. These are also two in number, and situated at the back part of the larynx. Each of them is thin, flat and triangular, and arises from the longitudinal depression which is observed on either side of the posterior prominent line of the cricoid cartilage. Their fibres, which are shorter and nearly transverse above, and longer, and directed more obliquely outwards the lower they are, terminate behind the base of the arytenoid cartilage, between the crico-aiy- tenoideus lateralis and arytenoideus muscles. Their posterior sur- face is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The anterior lies upon the cricoid cartilage. jOF THE CHICO-AUYTENOIDEI LATEKALES. 1484. Each of these muscles occupies the side of the larynx ; it is thin, flat, and of a trapezoidal figure. Arising from the side of the upper circumference of the cricoid cartilage, it proceeds ob- liquely upwards and backwards, to be attached by short aponeu- roses, to the outer and forepart of the base of the arytenoid carti- lage, where it is confounded with the thyro-arytenoideus. Its outer surface is separated from the thyroid cartilage by cellular tissue. The mner is lined by the membrane of the larynx. OF THE THYKO-ARYTENOIDEI. 1485. These muscles are very thin, transversely flattened, broader before than behind, and of an irregular form. They arise from the middle and lower part of the posterior surface of the thy- roid cartilage, whence they proceed backwards and outwards, to be attached to the outer part of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, immediately above the preceding muscles. Their outer surface is covered by the thyroid cartilage and the membrane of the pharynx^ j^eir iniier surface is lined by the membrane of the larynx. OF THE AllYTENOIDEUS. I486. This is a single muscle, situated at the posterior and up- per part of the larynx, behind the two arytenoid cartilages. It is lormcd of several planes of fibres having different directions, which i«as caused it to be divided by many anatomists into several distinct niiiscles. Of these fibres, some (arytenoideiis ohliquus) ascend ob- liquely from the base of the right arytenoid cartilage towards the summit of the left; others follow the reverse direction ; and some, V^rytenoideus transversus) proceed, transversely from the middle 2d402 ORGANS OF THE VOICE. part of one of the cartilages to the same part on that of the oppo- site side. Certain oblique fibres may sometimes be followed in tlie substance of the mucous membrane, as far as the sides of the epi- glottis : they have been designated by some authors under the name of Aryteno-epiglottidei. Its posterior surface is invested b) the membrane of the pharynx, while the anterior is applied upoi; that of the larynx, and upon the arytenoid cartilages. Of the Mucous Memhrcme and Glands of the Larynx. OF THE COURSE QF THE MUCOUS MEMBKANE OF THE LARYNX. 1487- This membrane is continuous, at its upper part, in an ob- vious manner, with that which invests the interior of the mouth, and below, with that which lines the trachea and bronchi. Com- mencing at the base of the tongvie, it proceeds at first over the anterior surface of the epiglottis, where it forms three folds, which have erroneously been considered as ligaments. Of these folds, the middle one, which is more distinct than the others, ascends towards the summit of the fibro-cartilage, and is stretched when the epiglottis is depressed, while those which are upon tlie sides lose themselves on the edge of the epiglottis, and appear loose in all cases. Arrived at the circumference of this fibro-cartilage, the membrane of the larynx is reflected from above downwards ovet its posterior surface, lines it without forming folds, and penetrates into the larynx; but on the sides when it leaves the circumference, is applied upon itself so as to form, on either side, a fold which proceeds directly to each of the arytenoid cartilages, covering a part of the thyro-arytenoidei muscles. It is then continued back- wards and outwards into the membrane of the pharynx, and pene- trates inwards into the larynx. Towards the base of the arytenoid cartilages, it forms, on either side, another fold, which proceeds horizontally forwards towards the retiring angle of the thyroid car- tilage ; farther down, it lines a depression which is named the ven- tricle of the larynx {ventriculus laryngis) ; and still lower, it em- braces the thyro-arytenoid ligament, under which it covers the in- ternal surface of the cricoid cartilage and crico-thyroid membrane. OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE LARYNX. 1488. This membrane is of a rose colour, very different from the deep red tint which the mucous membrane of the mouth pre- sents. Although it is soft, spongy, continually moistened, and highly vascular, its tissue is yet in general very firm; this is espe- cially evident in the places where it is in contact with the carti- lages ; for there it is intimately united with their perichondrium.MEMBRANE OF THE LARYNX. 403 It contains in its substance a number of mucous follicles, whose narrow orifices are pretty easily perceived, especially on the infe- rior surfiice of the epiglottis, and in the ventricles of the larynx; but papilL-e are rarely observed, as in most of the other mucous membranes. The fluid which it secretes is less viscid and tena- cious than that of the pituitary membrane ; but it has more con- sistence than that which is furnished by the buccal membrane. OF THE PERIGLOTTIS, OR GLAND OF THE EPIGLOTTIS. 1489- This is a mass of small glandular grains, sometimes ag- glomerated, sometimes isolated, deeply immersed in a great quan- tity of very dense adipose cellular tissue, and occupying, at the lower part of the anterior surface of the epiglottis, a triangular space, limited anteriorly by the thyroid cartilage and thyro-hyoid membrane. In some subjects, this gland cannot be distinguished amid the adipose tissue which contains it; but in general, the foUicles of which it is composed, are seen forming small series which are prolonged as far as the edge of the epiglottis, and into the mu- cous folds which surround it, and occupying all the apertures which that fibro-cartilage presents towards its inferior extremity, to pour the product of their secretion over its laryngeal surface. OF THE ARYTENOID GLANDS. 1490. The form of these glands is commonly compared to the letter L ; they are lodged in the folds which the mucous membrane presents in passing from the epiglottis* to the arytenoid cartilages, and from these to the thyroid cartilage. They are formed by an agglomeration of small grains pretty much resembling the tissue of the lachrymal gland, their colour varies from gray to reddish white, and their tissue is compact and firm. Their vertical branch, which is rounded and considerably distant from the corresponding aryte- noid cartilage, is free in the aryteno-epiglottic fold. The horizon- tal branch runs along the fold which limits the ventricle of the larynx above, and is a little less prominent than the other. The angle which these two branches form by their union is connected with the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The excretory orifices of the arytenoid glands are only seen with «iuch difficulty. ^ Of the Lturynx, considered in General. 1491. This organ, considered as a whole, has in some measure le form of a reversed cone, the base of which is directed upwardsORGANS OF THE VOICE. towards tlie tongue, and the summit downwards towards tho trachea. Two surfaces and two extremities are distinguished in it. 1492. Eccternal surface of the Laryn.v.—It presents anteriorly the middle prominence of the thyroid cartilage, which is larger in the male than in the female; the two oblique surfaces placed on its sides; the ridge which traverses them behind ; a triangular surface which is covered by the constrictor pharyngis inferior; the small horns of the thyroid cartilage and their articulation Avith the cri- coid ;. the crico-thyroid membrane; the two muscles of the same name, and a part of the cricoid cartilage. Posteriorly, there are . observed on the outside of the larynx the arytenoid muscle ; the middle and posterior line of the cricoid cartilage, the posterior erico-arytenoid muscles; a vacant space placed on each side be- tween the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, broad above, narrow be- low, of greater extent in man than in woman, filled by adipose cel- lular tissue, and limited externally by the posterior edge of the thyroid cartilage, which is more prominent than the other j)arts of the larynx. 1493. Internal Surface of the Larynx.—It is hned in its whole extent by the mucous membrane. At its lower part, it is formed by the cricoid cartilage, and presents nothing remarkable. Towards the middle, on either side, it presents the Vocal Cords, or the /vi/e- rior Ligaments of the Glottis, which are formed by the thyro-ary te- noid ligaments invested by the mucous membrane (1480). Above the vocal cords are two elongated depressions, of a variable depth, extended from the thyroid to the arytenoid cartilages. Their aper- tilre, which is always open and of an elliptical form, is larger than their bottom, and directed inwards and a little upwards ; their bottom is covered by the thyro-arytenoideus muscle. They are named the Ventricles or Sinuses of the larynw. In man they are more deeply situated and more distant from the external aperture than in woman, because in him the arytenoid cartilages are longer and more elevated. They are themselves surmounted by a fold of the mucous membrane (1487) ; named by anatomists the Superior Ligament of the Glottis, which is parallel to the vocal cords. The interval comprised between the superior and inferior Hga- ments of one side, and those of the other, by which the air enters into the respiratory passages, or issues from them, is the Glottis.* This aperture, which is of an oblong form, its greatest diameter being from behind forwards, is about ten or eleven lines long in an adult man; posteriorly, where it is formed by the separation ex- isting between the anterior prominence of the Ijase of the two ary- tenoid cartilages, it is from two to three lines in breadth, but anteriorly much narrower in consequence of the approximation of the two ligaments by which it is formed. In the female, the dimensions of the glottis are a httle less; they also vary in dif- * Y\<uTTis of the Greeks.405 OF THE THYROID GLAND. ferent individuals, and even in the different circumstances of life, : from the motions which the arytenoid cartilages perform. 1494. The Inferior Eivtremity of the larynx, which is of greater extent in man than in woman, represents a circle pretty accurately [ traced, and formed by the lower circumference of the cricoid carti- iJage ; it is connected by a fibrous membrane with the first ring of I the trachea. Its upper extremity is much wider than the lower ; lit is formed anteriorly and on the sides by the upper edge of the : thyroid cartilage, behind the middle of which there is perceived the "triangular space occupied by the gland of the epiglottis, and closed ;iby a sort of fibrous membrane, thicker at the middle than the edges, attached to the posterior concavity of the body of the ihyoid bone, (276) and to the middle part of the epiglottis, beneath :!the place where the mucous membrane is reflected. Farther back, we find the epiglottis itself, and its different glosso-epiglottic and laryteno-epiglottic mucous folds; together with the superior aper- ture of the larynx, placed above the glottis, and formed laterally >by these latter folds, anteriorly by the epiglottis, posteriorly by the larytenoid cartilages. In its ordinary state it presents the figure of la triangle, the base of which is before and the summit behind. It as directed a httle obliquely backwards and downwards. This aper- ture must not be confounded with the glottis, situated beneath dt, (1493). 1495. The arteries of the larynx are furnished by the superior sand inferior thyroid; its veins discharge themselves into the cor- responding trunks; its lymphatics lose themselves in the infe- •lior jugular ganglia;* its nerves are derived especially from the pneumo-gastric nerves, and from the two superior cervical ganglia the sympathetic. Of the Thyroid Body. 1496. The Thyroid Body {Glandula thyroidea), is an organ respecting the uses of which we are totally ignorant, and which anatomists usually describe after the larynx, on account of its situa- tion ; for it covers the lower and anterior parts of that organ, as well as the first rings of the trachea. This body exhibits great dif- lerences in its size in different individuals, and at different ages in the same individual, without our being able to assign any reasons tor them; but, in general, it is larger in the child than in the aault, and in the female than in the male. It is more constant in s torm ; is composed of two oval lobes, flattened from before W- '^T' ^^"^^^^^ ^^lo^ t^an above, and having a more or less oDiique direction in different individuals. These two lobes are J-ometimes united in a great part of their extent; but in general woVJa'',Wirrvv!!T- ^y^'"'"' '^'"•'""t '*s t» uudcrstand by ll.o "ru gungUgn what is commonly caUcd a conglobate gland.406 ORGANS OF THE VOICE. are separated, and only connected with each other by a trans- verse cord, more or less broad and thick, which is named the Isthmus of the Thyroid Gland. This cord is sometimes want- ing, and has never the same appearance in two subjects, nor does It ever ascend as high as the larynx, which is embraced in the con- cavity of the crescent, which it forms in conjunction with the two lateral lobes. 1497. The anterior surface of the thyroid body, which is gene- rally convex over its whole extent, is covered in the middle by the sterno-thyroidei and sterno-hyoidei muscles, and on the sides by the latissimi colU, omo-hyoidei, and sterno-cleido-raastoidei. Its posterior surface, which is concave, is connected by a filamentous cellular tissue with the larynx and the first rings of the trachea. It also covers the crico-thyroidei, thyro-hyoidei, and constrictores pharyngis inferiores. Its posterior and lateral edges rest upon the trunks of the carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, the pneumo-gastric and recurrent nerves, the communicating cords of the cervical gangha, and that of the left side only, on the oesopha- gus. The superior thyroid arteries run along its upper edge, which is deeply notched in the middle. The lower edge, which is convex, is in like manner accompanied by arteries, and gives rise to large veins. The upper extremities of its lateral lobes are lodged between the thyroid cartilage and the trunks of the carotid arteries; the lower, between these arteries and the trachea. 1498. The thyroid body is not contained in any membrane. The cellular tissue by which it is immediately surrounded seems alone to supply it with an envelope, which is somewhat dense and never contains fat. * 1499. The proper tissue of the thyroid body is soft and spongy. Its colour varies much; most commonly it is of a brownish red, deeper in women and children, than in men and adults; sometimes it has a gray or yellowish tint. Its intimate texture is not yet well known: the greater number of anatomists liken it to that of the glands; and this body is in fact composed of several distinct lo- bules, agglomerated into lobes of greater or less size, whose inter- vals are occupied by a delicate cellular tissue, which never presents any adipose matter ; but it is in small quantity. An oily fluid 0 a yellowish colour seems to fill the areola; without being containe in particular cavities. Very frequently, however, there are 0' served disseminated here and there in the substance of the orgarj' vesicles swelled with a milky or colourless fluid, thick or thin * Ab inferiori margine ossis hyoidei medii aut latei-alis ssepissime in alterutro, si nistro praesertim latere, vel utnnqiie musculus aliquis ligamentosus %'enit (Leva glandulcc thyreohlccc), dimidinj circiter musciili hyotliyreoidci latitudinis, ciijus fib supra cartilagiiiem thyreoidenm ad mediam usque glaudulaK thyreoidcK partem por guiitur, et huie ipsi superstratiE scnsim evanescunt. Interdum fibra; nonnullaj mu cull cricothyreoidei ad earn appelluiit. Glaudulam thyreoideam per liunc muscul paulisper laryngem versus atque traclieam, per musculos autem sternothyreoideum fiternohyoideum et omohyoideum illas versus partes antrorsura tralii, facile seq tur. Soenim. Dc Corp. Hum. fab, iom, vi. p. 38.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 407 I transparent or opaque, which vary much in size and number, and ; sometimes are entirely wanting. 1500. The arteries of the thyroid body come from the external , carotid and subclavian arteries ; frequently the arch of the aorta : sends a separate branch to it. Its veins are very numerous, and i accompany the arteries, or issue from its lower edge. Its nerves , come from the pneumo-gastric nerves and sympathetic. Its lym- phatics lose themselves in the jugular glands. No appearance of . an excretory duct has ever been discovered in it. ARTICLE THIRD. ORGANS OF SENSATION. OF THE CENTRAL PAKT OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. ( Encephalon.* ) 1501. The central part of the nervous system, which is con- tained in the cavity of the cranium, and in the vertebral canal (72), is symmetrical and regular, proportionally larger in the child than in the adult, in man than in woman.-f- " It is divided longi- tudinally, and in the direction of the median line of the trunk, into two equal portions, the one right and the other left. But these portions, which in part of their extent are distinct, and separated by a more or less deep fissure, are in several places intimately united by laminae, forming reciprocal commissures." J It consists also of single parts placed along the median line. But, besides this longitudinal division, there are also fissures which divide the brain transversely, and permit it to be considered, for the facility of study only, as formed of four parts, very different from each other in size, situation, texture, and form. The first of these parts is the Brain proper, or Cerebrum, which occupies the greater part of the cavity of the cranium ; the second is the Cerebellum^ "which is much smaller, and lodged in the inferior occipital fossjie; the third, which is situated at the base of the cranium, is the Ce- rebral Protuberance; and the fourth is the Spinal Marrow. * Chaussier. Eyxi^aXof, from b t»j xiUaXj), placed within the head. t At birth, the weight of the brain forms the sixtli, seventh, or eighth part of that oi the wliolc body. In tlic full-grown man it is not more than about the tliirty-fifth part. Chauss. Kxpos. Somm. <ic la Structure de rEucunh, 1807. p. L. \ (.-buussier, Expos. Somm. p. 1G.408 ORGANS OF SENSATION. 1502. The brain is enveloped by three membranes, the outer of which is named the Dura Mater; the middle, the Tunica Araclmoidea ; and the inner, the Pia Mater. OF THE CEREBRUM, OR BRATN PROPER, CONSIJJEIIED WITH REFERENCE TO ITS EXTERIOR. , 1503. The Cerebrum, which is the largest portion of the cen-, tral part of the nervous system, occupies the whole upper part of the cavity of the cranium, extending from the forehead to the su- perior occipital fossos, and resting anteriorly upon the orbitar arches, in the middle upon the middle fossae of the base of the - cranium, and behind upon a fold of the dura mater, named the Tentorium, Cerehelli. Its form is that of an ovoid pretty uni- formly convex above, slightly compressed on the sides, and flat- tened beneath. Its large extremity is directed backwards, which corresponds to the figure of the cranium (306). 1504. There are distinguished in the brain a superior region^ convex and rounded, which corresponds to the bones of the vault of the cranium, and an inferior region, unequally rounded on the edges, flattened in the middle, and moulded upon the base of that cavity. 1505. Upper Surface of the Brain. It presents, in the me- dian line, a deep fissure (fissura longitudinalis) occupied by the Falx cerebri of the dura mater. Anteriorly and posteriorly, this fissure divides the brain in its whole height; but in the middle, it- is limited by a white lamina which is named the Corpus Callo~ sum. There results from this that the organ seems to be sepa- rated by it into two parts, a right and a left: these are the He- mispheres of the Brain, which have each the form of the fourth of an ovoid, are elongated from behind forwards, and present an inner surface, plain and vertical, corresponding to that of the opposite side, seeming continuous below and in the middle with the corpus callosum, on the upper part of which it forms a longitudinal slit, analogous to the ventricles of the larynx, in which branches of ar-. teries are lodged ; and an upper and outer surface^ which is con- vex and rounded. The whole surface of the cerebral hemispheres is remarkable for a great number of eminences, rounded on their edges, flexuous, undulated, penetrating each other by reciprocal inequalities, and having some resemblance to the disposition of the small intestine in the abdomen. These eminences are named the Convolutions of the Brain (Gyri), while the depressions by which they are se- parated are called Anfractuosities or Furrows {Anfractus seu Sulci). The number and size of the convolutions of the brain vary ex- ceedingly : they arc seldom found the same in the two lobes; in indivicluals of the same age, they arc sometimes very large, andOF THE CEKEBllUM. 409 sometimes very small; in general, they are of small size in foetuses and newly-born children. The anfractuosities are equally variable I in t. leir disposition ; they are always narrow, of about an inch in dept 1, sometimes very long, and sometimes very short. They are 1 hnefl by prolongations of the pia mater. Their direction is trans- > verse, longitudinal, or oblique; some of them are simple, but the . greater number present subdivisions in their course, and are con- ; tinuous with the neighbouring ones, while there are some which ] proceed towards the inferior surface of the brain. In these an- 1 fractuosities, there are deep-seated secondary prominences, which, ; arising from one convolution, are inserted into corresponding de- ] pressions formed upon the contiguous convolution. The convolu- I tions and anfractuosities of the brain do not, as Bichat remarks, ; at all correspond to the eminences and cavities of the inner surface I of the skull. 1506. Lower Surface of the Brain. This surface of the brain has been regarded by most anatomists as formed of several distinct regions, which they have named Lobes, and which occupy the base of the hemispheres. These lobes are three in number on each side: the anterior rests upon the orbitar arch ; the second or middle forms a considerable prominence below the level of the first, and fills the middle and lateral fosssE of the base of the cranium; the third, or posterior, is supported by the tentorium cerebelli, and presents a slight excavation. The base of the cerebrum presents first, at its fore part and in the median line, a fissure, which is the termination of the longitudinal fissure that separates the hemi- spheres. This fissure is only filled by the cerebral falx in its an- terior third, its two posterior thirds being occupied by the vascu- lar prolongations which pass from one hemisphere to the other; it is limited above by the anterior part of the corpus callosum, and separates from each other the two anterior lobes, whose plain, nearly triangular, and anteriorly contracted surfaces are observed on its sides. On each of these lobes there is a very deep rectili- near groove, which seems to be an anfractuosity separating two convolutions ; it is directed from behind forwards, and a little from without inwards, and lodges the trunk of the olfactory nerve. On the outside of this groove, are some anfractuosities and con- volutions less distinct than those of the upper region, and at its back part there is observed, on each side, between the anterior and middle lobes, a considerable angular transverse depression, which lodges one of the principal branches of the internal carotid artery, and is prolonged obliquely upwards and backwards upon the con- vex surface of the hemisphere, where it is lost in the neighbouring anfractuosities : this is the Fissura Sylvii, which corresponds to the posterior edge of the process of Ingrassias (116), and is con- tinued inwards and backwards, nearly at a right angle, into a longi- tudinal fissure, limited externally by the middle lobe, internally by t ic optic nerves and the crura cerebri. This second fissure allows l»e pia mater to puss into the lateral ventricles of the brain; but410 ORGANS OF SENSATION. it is closed by the arachnoid membrane ; posteriorly, it communi- cates with a transverse fissure, of which we shall presently speak. Towards the point of union of these two fissures, there is a whitish space {substayitia 'perforata antica,) perforated with several aper- tures which admit vessels of considerable size, thus presenting an arrangement of rare occurrence at the surface of the brain. This- white surface also presents some striae, and ascends towards the corpus callosum, with which it seems to be continuous. Between the two fissures of Sylvius, is the commissure of the optic nerves, from the upper surface of which there is seen to rise a grayish membrane, of a pulpy consistence and yet pretty firm, transparent and furnished with but few vessels, which closes the anterior extremity of the third ventricle, and proceeds to the ante- rior and inferior part of the corpus callosum. Behind the commissure of the optic nerve is a grayish tubercle, {Tuber cinereum), which is connected with these nerves, under which it sinks a little, and is prolonged posteriorly as far as the mammillary eminences, which are as it were enveloped by it. It forms a part of the floor of the third ventricle, and contains in its centre a small nucleus of white substance. From the middle of this tubercle, descends obliquely forwards the infundihulum, a sort of thin, slender, conical prolongation, of a reddish colour, which passes under the commissure of the optic nerves, and terminates by its summit, in a small soft body, lodged in the pituitary fossa of the sphenoid bone (115). It is not hollow internally, as several authors have supposed, and it is invested by an envelope furnished by the arachnoid membrane. The small organ in which the infundihulum ends, bears the name of Pituitary Gland or body, {hypophysis cerebri). Its structure and uses are not yet well known ; it is rounded and transversely elon- gated, and rests upon the dura mater, which surrounds it on all sides, excepting at its upper part, on which the arachnoid membrane is expanded. It does not present the uniform vascular structure peculiar to glands, but is evidently composed of two portions, in- timately connected, yet distinct. The first of these portions, which is the largest, is anterior; it is of a grayish yellow colour, convex before, notched behind, and of the form of a kidney. The poste- rior, which is smaller, is soft, pulpy, and impregnated with a whitish viscid fluid. The pituitary gland is traversed by some blood-ves- sels ; it sometimes contains small calculous concretions. The Mammillary or Pisiform Tubercles, {Corpora Albicantia,) are situated behind the gray substance from which the infundihu- lum takes its rise. They have the form and size of a pea, are white externally, of a gray colour within, and are vinited to each other by a small grayish band which is easily torn, and which con- tributes to form the floor of the third ventricle. It is in them that the anterior prolongations of the fornix end- Farther back, between the crura cerebri, there is a triangular excavation, the bottom of which, filled by white substance, alsoOF THE CEREBELLUM. Ill forms part of the floor of the third ventricle, and is perforated by ~ several apertures for vessels. It was called by Vicq d'Azyr, Sub- ' stantia perforata media. On the sides of these crura, are seen the middle lobes of the 1 brain, separated from the posterior by a groove directed obliquely 1 backwards, much less deep than the fissura Sylvii, and correspond- i ing to the upper edge of the petrous process of the temporal bone.. ] Both present anfractuosities and convolutions, which are less sinu- < ous than those of the upper surface of the hemispheres ; the depth < of the former does not equal half of that of the upper anfractuo- : sities. Between the posterior and middle lobes of one side and those of the other, is placed the cerebral protuberance, behind which oc-; curs the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, uniting the two cerebral hemispheres. Between this extremity and the upper surface of the protuberance, is a broad transverse slit, which leads into the third ventricle, the arachnoid membrane, and pia mater, and which contains the arachnoid canal and the pineal gland. To the right and left, it is continuous with another semicircular sUt, placed between the corpora fimbriata and the thalami of the optic nerves, at the bottom of a fissure which we have described, and which allows the pia mater to penetrate into the lateral ventricles. These three shts, thus united, establish a manifest communication between the exterior of the brain and its internal cavities, and Bi- chat gives them the general name of the Great Cerebral Fissure. Lastly, there is observed, at the backmost part, and in the me- dian line of the inferior surface of the brain, the termination of the longitudinal fissure, which lodges the end of the falx cerebri. OF THE CEREBELLUM, CONSIDERED WITH REFERENCE TO ITS EXTERIOR. 1507- The Cerebellum is less than a third of the size of the brain. Its weight, which varies much according to the different ages, is commonly, in the adult man, the eighth or ninth part of that of the brain, and the sixteenth or eighteenth in the new-born in- fant. Its form, which is symmetrical and regular, corresponds to that of the inferior occipital fossae, in which it is lodged. Its breadth is much greater than its height, and it may be compared to two depressed spheroids, placed beside each other on a horizon- tal plane, and confounded by a portion of their surface. It is of a reddish gray colour externally, and soft and proportionally hghter than the brain. Its surface presents an assemblage of gray lamina., {Fnlia Cerebelli,) from a line to a hne and a half thick, placed against each other, concentric, regular, more extended pos- teriorly, shorter before, separated by narrow grooves, which are Imed by the pia mater, and over which the arachnoid membrane passes. Of these laminae, some arc confined to the upper surfaceORGANS OF SENSATIOxV. 4J2 of the cerebellum, others to the lower surface ; they are not con- founded with each other, and none of them extends round the or- gan. Each lobe of the cerebellum commonly presents from sixty to sixty-five of these laminae, from thirty to thirty-five on its upper surface, and from twenty-four to thirty on the lower. But on se- parating these principal laminae, there are perceived many other similar in form, but smaller and thinner, entirely concealed in the grooves, and covering each other in part. Some of them are very short, and are scarcely a line or two in height; others are larger; but none of them reaches the surface of the cerebellum, and they are all attached by their base to one of the principal convolutions, of which they are in a manner so many ramifications. Chaussier says, that the number of these secondary lamina?, which is always very great, is subject to many individual variations. They would appear generally to amount to six or seven hundred. The principal lamina; themselves, although they are all separat- ed by a groove, unite together to the number of two, three, four, five or six, in such a manner as to divide the surface of the cere- bellum, into fasciculate lobules. These lobules are distinguished from each other by broader and deeper grooves, as well as by the disposition and direction of the laminae ; they are not parallel, but almost all intersect each other at a more or less acute angle. Their number is considerable, there being commonly sixteen, five supe- rior, two posterior, and nine inferior. 1508. Upper Surface of the Cerebellum. Flat, inclined ob- liquely backwards and outwards, and covered by the tentorium ce- rebelli, it presents on its fore and middle part, an elongated pro- minence, (^Processus Vermi/brmis superior), formed by the re- ciprocal crossing of the laminae of which the two lobes or hemi- spheres of the organ are composed. The whole of this upper sur- face is occupied by five fasciculate lobules, common to the two lobes, and disposed in transverse arched bands ; their convexity is directed backwards; they are only flexuous in the median Une, and are nearly of the same form. The first or most anterior, which is of less extent than the other, is more curved than they. Its laminae extend without interruption from one lobe to the other, and are only a little broader in the median line, where they form a pretty considerable prominence. The other four lobules are successively longer and less arched; their laminae seem interrupt- ed along the median line; some of them separate from one to unite with another, or are bent in such a manner as to form a sort of knot; others terminate at the bottom of a groove by an angular slip ; some laminae of the right lobe end on the left, and the re- verse ; other lamellae form in this place, and mingle with the rest during their passage. It is from this disposition that the processus vermiformis, of which we have spoken, results. 1509. Inferior Surface of the Ccrebellnm. It presents a deep tlcprcssion in the median line, named the Valky, which lodges an- teriorly the commencement of the spinal marrow, and is dividedOF THE CEUEBliAL PllOTUBEIlANCE. 41 "5 I posteriorly into two by a pretty large eminence, (Processus vermi- formis inferior.) It is surrounded on both sides by a band of ■ white substance. It is a true lamellated lobule, composed of a CTrcat number of parallel transverse lamina, unequal in size and i height. Some of them are prolongations of the slips which termi- ! nate the lateral lobules; others arise in the intervals of the grooves, : and are more or less long; at the middle, where this lobule is 1 broader and higher, its laminae are triangular ; posteriorly, it pre- • sents a rather flat tubercle; anteriorly, it is terminated by a nar- 1 row, rounded prolongation, from seven to eight lines in length, and t four or five in breadth, which has by some been improperly com- ] pared to the uvula, and is generally named the Mammillary Emi- yfience of the inferior vermiforrn process. On ea"ch side, the inferior part of the cerebellum presents a very I convex rounded surface, raised in the middle, on which there are I distinguished four lobules which describe concentric arches, and ; are turned inwards to end at the middle depression. The first of 1 them is less long, but broader and thicker than the others ; it is I composed of a great number of concentric laminae differing in their I extent and direction ; those which occupy the edges of the median ; fossa are short, and form a sort of rounded protuberance. At the I outer side of this first lobule, and a little before it, is a small foliat- I ed or lamellated tuft, (flocculus seu lobus nervi pneumogastrici,) I of an oblong form, rounded, rather low, and distinguished by the ! small size of its laminae and by a very distinct groove. The other three lateral inferior lobules are less compound than I the first, and become successively longer. Their laminae, which are ! less oblique, do not preserve the same thickness in their whole ex- I tent, and are seen to blend with each other in different places, the I last terminates by a slip in the median depression. 1.510. Circumference of the Cerebellum. Anteriorly and pos- I teriorly, the curvature of this circumference is interrupted by two I notches or broad depressions, the p)Osterior of which corresponds : to. the internal occipital crest, and receives the falx cerebelli; while ■ the anterior, which is broader and of a semilunar form, embraces a part of the cerebral protuberance and the commencement of the ■ spinal marrow. This circumference is moreover traversed by a ' large horizontal groove, pretty deep in the whole extent, and very ' wide before. Altogether posteriorly, on each side of the posterior I notch, the circumference of the cerebellum presents a distinct lo- bule, resembling a cuneiform segment of an ovoid, and composed of a great quantity of laminae and lamellae. It is terminated by a II process which loses itself near the inferior median lobule. OF THE CEREBKAL PBOTUBERAKCE, CONSIDEKED AS TO ITS EXTERIOR. IGll. This is the least voluminous portion of the brain, of whichORGANS OF SENSATION. 414 it forms as it were the centre, and of which it weighs only tlie six- tieth or sixty-fifth part. Its consistence is greater than tliat of the i two preceding organs. Situated between the cerebrum and cere- \ bellum, it has intimate connexions with both, by means of strong I prolongations. It is hmited above, towards the cerebrum, by a f circular groove or depression, broad and deep anteriorly, superfi- cial and not very distinct posteriorly ; and below, by a semicircular contraction where the medulla oblongata commences. It presents a pretty regularly quadrilateral form; its breadth is \ nearly equal to its thickness; and it is directed obliquely down- I wards and backwards. 1512. Anterior Surface. It is directed downwards, convex, broader than the upper surface, and rests upon the basilar groove ' (314.) Like a portion of a ring, it embraces the crura cerebri, on which account it has been called the Annular Protuheiance. Ii is marked along the median line by a broad groove, rounded at i the bottom, in which the basUar artery is placed. On each side, i several other smaller grooves, approaching more or less the trans- verse direction, and more superficial, lodge the branches of the same artery. 1513. Posterior Surface. The posterior surface is directed up- il wards, and is almost entirely concealed by the inferior notch of the 'l circumference of the cerebellum. It presents on its upper part j four tubercles, (tubercula qtiadrigemina), which are white exter- nally, gray internally, oblong, rounded, approaching each other in pairs, and separated by two grooves whicia intersect each other in a crucial manner. Of these four tubercles, which are seldom of equal size, the two upper (Nates) are larger, broader, and more prominent than the inferior, (Testes). They are situated imme- diately behind the posterior commissure. The pineal gland cor- responds to the point of the intersection of the two grooves. Below and on the outside of the inferior tubercles, there is observed, onij each side, an elongated eminence, which might be taken for a third pair of tubercles, and which is prolonged towards the root of the optic nerve. Behind the tubercula quadrigemina, is a pulpy la- mina, of a grayish colour, very thin, and easily torn, which ascends towards the cerebellum and forms the vault of the fourth ventricle. This is the Valvula Vieussenii. It appears composed of transverse fibrils and small laminae of a grayish substance, which are intersect- ed in their middle by a sort of longitudinal raphe. After passing beneath the anterior notch of the cerebellum, this lamina becomes broader, and a little thinner, and is united to the posterior wall of the fourth ventricle; by its sides it is evidently continuous with the processus a cerehello ad testes. Immediately beneath the point where it leaves the cerebral protuberance, there is observed an aperture which is the posterior orifice of the ylquedtict of Sylvius^ (iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum), by which the third and fourth ventricles communicate across the substance of the protu- berance itself. Farther down, is a slightly excavated and nearly 5415 OF THE SPINAL MARROW. ' vertical surface, which constitutes the anterior wall of the fourth ' ventricle ; it is covered with a layer of grayish substance, and se- I parated in its whole length by a narrow angular groove, which ( commences at the aqueduct of Sylvius, and terminates in the spi- I nal marrow opposite the atlas. This groove is commonly named the I Calamus Scriptorius, on account of its forming an acute angle at i its termination, having some resemblance to the point of a pen. ; Several white and very delicate oblique lines proceeding from above ( downwards and from without inwards, meet in this groove. They ; seem to be a kind of bands slightly applied upon the surface of the protuberance. Haller, Vicq d'Azyr and Soemmering, consider these white filaments as the commencement of the portio mollis of I the seventh pair, but as their number and direction vary much, : and as they are sometimes wanting, Prochaska and Gall declare ; against this opinion. Of these lines, however, the upper pretty : generally go to the portio moUis, the middle and inferior to the I cerebellum. 1514. The upper extremity of the cerebral protuberance is broad i and prominent, and forms a sort of rim whose sides are continuous with the crura cerebri. The lotver extremity is less voluminous and : more rounded, and separated from the medulla oblongata by a 1 transverse groove, which is produced, not by an interruption in the continuity of the cerebral substance, but by the thickness of the transverse layers of the cerebral protuberance itself. Its sides . are united to the crura of the cerebellum. OF THE MEDULLA SPINALIS, CONSIDERED AS TO ITS EXTEUIOK. 1515. The Medulla Spinalis or Spinal Marrow, is a thick and long, irregularly cylindrical cord, which descends from the cerebral protuberance, within the vertebral canal, to the level of the first or second lumbar vertebra, and always lower in the adult than in the child.* Its weight varies from the nineteenth part, to the twenty-fifth part of that of the brain in the adult man; in the new-born child, it does not form more than the fortieth part.-f- The weight diminishes proportionally by desiccation, much more than that of the other portions of the cerebral organ. Its volume varies in the difterent parts of its extent. It is very bulging at its commencement, which is only distinguished from the cerebral pro- tuberance by a transverse depression; it. then contracts much, and again enlarges at the middle of the cervical region. After contracting a second time towards the end of that region, it ac- quires more thickness at the upper part of the back, then dimi- lushes in its lower part, to terminate at length by a kind of oval t,;!!";! ^" '"fantibus in regione ultima coste desinit, in adultis vero ulterius non "I'ui < escendit; Soeinm. De Corp. Hum. jab. torn. iv. p. 75. T Uiaiissier, Expos. Somm. p. 119.ORGANS OF SENSATION. I 416 tubercle. It does not lie loose in the vertebral canal, nor is it afJ- plied against its bony surfaces ; but is constantly sustained in a fixed manner in the middle of that cavity, a little nearer the anterior wall however than the posterior. In the spinal marrow, there are distinguished a middle part or body, and two ewtremir' ties. . ■ •.( 1516. Upper Extremity, or Medulla oblongata. It is contain- ed within the cranium, and forms a sort of bulging which extends from the cerebral protuberance to the great occipital hole; it con^ tracts in proportion as it descends, and is slightly compressed from before backwards. Its anterior surface, which is broad and conr- vex, and lies upon the occipital bone, is remarkable for four emi- nences symmetrically placed alongside of each other. Two of these eminences {corpora, pyraynidalia) are internal, and are separ- ated by a median groove, much deeper above than below, filled by the pia mater, and continuing over the whole anterior surface of the spinal marrow to its inferior extremity : they seem to arise from the inferior extremity of the cerebral protuberance, where they are broader, and more prominent, and after a course of eight or ten lines, disappear insensibly in the tissue of the spinal marrow ; opposite the atlas no traces of them are observable. The two lateral eminences (Corpora OlivariaJ, are separated from the pre- ceding by a slight depression ; they are very firm, of an oblong form, prominent in their middle, rounded at their extremities, and are white on the outside. The posterior surface of the medulla oblongata contributes to form the fourth ventricle, and is directly continuous with the cere- bral protuberance, there being no line of separation interposed. It is hollowed in the median line by a part of the calamus scrip- torius, which is closed below by a fold of the arachnoid membrane, and terminates opposite the occipital hole. On each side, therft are observed two whitish oblong eminences, (Corpora restiformia) which contribute to the formation of the cerebellum. 1517- Body of the Spinal Marrow,—We have already made known the enlargements and contractions which it presents during its course (1515). Its anterior surface corresponds to the bodies of the vertebra ; it presents a great number of small transverse folds or grooves, more or less near to each other, particularly ap- parent from the last cervical vertebra to the ninth dorsal: a very deep and distinct fissure runs along its whole extent, dividing it into two equal lateral portions. Its posterior surface also presents transverse folds ; but they are less visible than on the anterior : it also is divided in its whole length by a median groove which com- mences between the two corpora restiformia; it is closer on its edges, narrower and less deep than the anterior, especially in the adult. These two median grooves, according to Chaussier s ob- servation, from whom we borrow several important details, receive a fold of the proper membrane of the spinal marrow, and serve for the transmission of a great number of vascular twigs, which pene- 6OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE BRAIN IN GEN-ERAL. 417 trate, by a multitude of small holes, into its substance, and are there subdivided. In the bottom of each of them, there is seen a layer of white substance: in the posterior, this layer is formed by two longitudinal bundles ; in the anterior, it is formed by transverse filaments which cross each other in the median line, and presents a greater degree of thickness in the neck than in any other part of dts extent. By the disposition of these grooves, the organ is ddeeply divided in its whole length, and as it were separated into • two thick cords intimately united in their whole extent. 1518. On the anterior and posterior surfaces of the body of the s spinal marrow, on either side, and at some distance from the median ^groove, are the collateral grooves, which are superficial and pretty libroad, and in which are inserted the roots of the spinal nerves. JThe posterior, which are more marked, have rounded and very white edges, and a reddish bottom formed by a very soft sub- sstance; they commence by a rather indistinct line between the nolivary eminence and the restiform body, and become broader and ildeeper as they descend. From the axis to the ninth dorsal verte- bbra, they are half a line in breadth ; each of them divides into two [parallel lines, separated by the white substance, which are gradu- lally lost upon the inferior extremity. In their whole course, they [■present a series of small holes regularly disposed one above the .1 other, in which the roots of the nerves were inserted. The two anterior collateral grooves commence between the cor- :pora pyramidalia and olivaria. They are less apparent, narrower, I and more superficial. Their bottom is less red, firmer, and more 1 dense. These grooves are much more distinct in newly born children, than in adults. 1519. The lateral surfaces of the body of the spinal marrow ■ correspond to the base of the transverse processes. They are nar- rower and rounded. No trace of groove or longitudinal division is perceived upon them, although some anatomists maintain the con- trary. 1520. The inferior extremity of the spinal marrow presents twobulgings, of which, the upper is larger and of an oval form, the inferior, smaller and conical. INTERNAL ORGANIZATION OP THE BRAIN IN GENERAL. 1521. The substance of the brain is soft and pulpy ; but its consistence varies according to age. It is almost fluid in the foetus, ana becomes gradually firmer as the person advances in life. Its specihc gravity, in the adult, is 1310. Its odour is somewhat nau- seous, tenacious, soluble in water, insoluble in alcohol and oils. Hi-of5 ! ^"bstance is not homogeneous throughout, but presents two "istinct modifications; a i^^^'i ^ ^Pf*"gy» seemingly vascular substance, of grayisii colour, name the Cmeritioiis or CnHiml .mhsf.nvcp, mostORGANS OF SENSATION. 418 commonly forming a kind of superficial envelope to the different parts of the organ, but also distributed through different parts of its interior, and sometimes mixed in a more or less intimate man- ner with the white substance. This pulp, which is the least con- sistent of all the solid parts of the body, and is not possessed of any very evident organization, receives a considerable quantity of arteries. It is reddish in children, ash-gray in old people, pale and colourless in dropsical persons; these appearances no doubt depending upon the greater or less quantity of blood distributed to it. In some places of the brain which we shall presently make known, this substance acquires a black or yellow tint, and this cir- cumstance has induced Soemmering and Gennari to admit in the composition of the brain two particular substances, the one hlacle and the other yellow^ which however have not been adopted by other anatomists. Its colour is destroyed by maceration in water, acids or alcohol. By boiling in water or oil, it assumes a granu- lar appearance. It is of the same nature in the brain and cere- bellum. When examined with the microscope, it appears composed of an immense quantity of irregularly rounded globules, of unequal size, and eight times smaller than the globules of the blood. They are connected with each other by a very delicate transparent tissue, filled with an abundant serous fluid, and appear as if heaped to- gether in a confused manner. It is in this part of the substance of the brain, that the most minute arterial and venous branches are found. 1523. 2d, A White or Medullary substance, firmer SLn^Aerxsetf than the former. Its mass is also much greater than that of the cineritious substance, and especially occupies the interior and the base of the organ. It is filled with a very great number of delicate vascular ramifications, whose section represents so many red dots, and whose calibre is much greater towards the centre, than at the circumference of the brain. It evidently becomes fibrous in many places. The globules of which it is composed appear, under the microscope, disposed in straight lines, and are of a larger diameter than in the cineritious substance. There is much variance in the opinions respecting its intimate structure. Some maintain it to be solid, others tubular; some assert that it is absolutely destitute of vessels, others that it entirely consists of them. Some consider it as medullary ; Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, with M. Bauer and Sir Everard Home, adopt the opinion of those who, Uke Haller, Mala- carne, Monro, Soemmering, Vicq d'Azyr, Meckel and Wenzel, think it fibrous, and we consider it in the same light. Jj 1524. The idea most generally adopted with respect to these! two substances, is that the first, which is of an almost entirely vas-i cular nature, is a secreting organ, and that the other is a mass of excretory vessels, or at least of conducting filaments ; that tin nerves are bundles of these vessels ; that the spinal marrow is it- self one of these bundles, only larger than the rest. Of late yearfOF THE SPINAL MARROW IN PARTICULAR. 419 many physiologists have, with more reason, considered the nervous system, in its collective capacity, as a net-work of which all the portions participate in the organization and functions of the whole, and not as a tree divided into branches and twigs. This is Dr. Gall's opinion; but he thinks moreover that the gray matter is the matriv of the medullar 1/ filaments. Wherever it exists, it arises from these filaments. Whenever a medullary bundle traverses the cineritious matter, it is enlarged by the filaments which the latter gives it, and none of these bundles enlarges without the concurrence of that matter. He regards the spinal marrow, not as a bundle of nerves descending from the brain, but as a compound of cineritious substance, which bulges opposite each pair of nerves, and gives rise to the white filaments which are to form it by their aggrega- tion. He also demonstrates that the brain and cerebellum are themselves only developments of bundles coming from the spinal marrow, to which are annexed otlier masses of white fibres proceed- ing from the gray layer which envelopes the hemispheres. Lastly, he compares this latter to the ganglia diffused through the whole body ; and, according to him, it forms in the brain several of these gangUa which we shall presently describe. 1525. These two substances of the brain do not form a pulpy mass disposed at random. Besides the shades of colour which they present, they are seen in certain places to affect determinate forms, always the same in different individuals, and very regular. They are seen to form eminences, cavities, laminas, partitions, &c. all differing in their volume, position, tint, consistence, &c. Most commonly, for the purpose of studying these different parts, hori- zontal, oblique, or vertical sections are made of the brain and ce- rebellum, which are repeated at different heights. But in -this manner, the true relations which they have to each other, and their intimate structure, escape us. In fact, with a little attention, we come to discover that all of them direct themselves toward certam common points of origin, and that they are nowhere isolated from each other. We shall therefore follow a particular method in the study of the brain considered as to its interior, and this method ■will be the result of the combination of the different modes hitherto employed in the dissection of that organ. STRUCTURE OF THE SPINAL MARROW IN PAUTICULAR. 1526. The consistence of the substance which forms the spinal marrow varies much, according to age and some particular circum- stances. In the adult it is generally less firm than the tissue of the cerebral protuberance, but denser than the cerebrum and cere- bellum, although after death it alters much more promptly, and seems to liquefy almost at the moment. This organ ought, there- lorc, to be dissected in very fresh subjects, or in children, in which Its consistence is greater than in advanced age. M. Chaussier has also observed, that in women its softness is greater. 1527. At the exterior, the spinal marrow presents a layer of420 ORGANS OF SENSATION. white substance, more or less pulpy, half a hne tliick, wliich seema excavated for the purpose of contaming the cineritious matter, which is so much the more abundant the younger the subject is. This cineritious matter may be divided into three portions, a mid- dle and two lateral. The first is transverse, thicker and broader in the neck, thinner and narrower in the back, and again more volu- minous, but not broader, in the lumbar region. The two lateral portions are curved in such a manner as to be opposed by their convexity, while their concavity is directed outwards ; their pos- terior edge is prolonged as far as the posterior collateral grooves, (1518), the anterior is rounder and thicker. These two portions are very distinct in the upper part of the neck, they then diminish as far as the lower part of the dorsal region, where they are manifest- ly enlarged. 1528. The olivary eminences (1516) are enveloped, like the rest of the spinal marrow, with a white external layer. If it be remov- ed, a firm and dense oblong nucleus of cineritious matter is found, which may be separated from the neighbouring parts, and is surrounded in its whole circumference, by a yellowish flexuuos line. On making a transverse section of the olivary eminences in the plane of their thickness, there is obtained in the centre of each, a kind of dendritic figure (corpus dentatum), terminated by a foot-stalk at the anterior median groove, and formed by these nuclei of gray matter. 1529. Several anatomists assert their having found in the centre of the spinal marrow a central canal, which descends more or less, and is the continuation of the calamus scriptorius. M. Chaussier considers its existence as owing to the means employed for demonstrating it. But recently, Drs. Gall and Spurzheim have met with a canal in each of the lateral halves of the spinal marrow, especially in new born infants. These canals commence in the lumbar region, and are continued into the cerebral protu- berance, under the tubercula quadrigemina, into the crura cerebri, and as far as the optic thalami, in the interior of which they form a cavity, which, on being blown into, is large enough to hold an almond. I have traced them in two subjects with much success. STKUCTUKE OF THE BRAIN IN PARTICULAR. 1530. All the bundles of medullary fibres which, by their ex- pansion, are intended to form the brain, are placed at the upper part of the spinal marrow, {Medulla oblongata). They are espe- cially the pyramidal and olivary bodies. With respect to the for- mer, there is a very remarkable peculiarity to be observed, which is, that they do not contribute to form the brain on the same side as that on which they originate; thus, the inferior fibres of the py- ramidal body of the right side, for example, unite in small bands, whose number varies from two to five, at above fifteen lines be.STRUCTURE OF THE BRAIN IN PARTICULAR. 42] neath the cerebral protuberance; these bands proceed toward the left side, which in like manner sends some to the right side, but in such a manner that one of them passes most commonly above another, and beneath a third, whence there results an interlace- ment resembling mat-work, and from three to four lines in extent above and beneath which, there occurs a transverse cord, more or less apparent. After they have thus crossed each other, the bands ascend upon the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata (1516), progressively acquiring more volume so as to be broader above than below, and it is this that produces the form of pyramids. The latter are a little contracted at their meeting with the cerebral pro- tuberance, and in their passage frequently send off some fibres which turn round the olivary bodies. 1531. The pyramidal bodies soon penetrate into the cerebral protuberance, and immediately divide into a considerable number of bundles immersed in the cineritious substance, which itself gives rise to new bundles which join the first and reinforce them. They all follow different directions; they are stratified, or interlaced with each other, and with the fibres of the anterior surface of the protuberance (1512). They at length unite, and are seen emerg- ing upon the sides of the upper extremity of this portion of the brain, and forming at the inferior surface of the cerebrum the great- er part of two broad and thick white fibrous cords {Crura cerebri)^ which, from being at first very close to each other, proceed forwards and outwards, diverging and increasing in size. The fibres of these crura are longitudinal, faciculate, very apparent externally and anteriorly ; at their lower surface, they leave between them more or less marked striae, which are filled up with cineritious matter; they are themselves connected together, in the middle, by the white la- mina which forms the floor of the third ventricle. They contain, in their interior, cineritious matter, which has a deeper tint than that of the rest of the brain, and is often blackish ; its consistence is also firmer; its transverse section forms a semilunar spot (locus niger). This substance furnishes them with new fibres in their pas- sage, which continually augment their volume. Their outer edge corresponds to the optic nerve -which turns round them, and is at- tached to them anteriorly by a layer of soft substance. From this place the medullary filaments of the crura of the brain separate from each other and expand ; they form layers of unequal length, whose extremities are covered by cineritious substance, and which constitute the centre of each of the inferior, anterior, and external convolutions of the anterior and middle cerebral lobes. 1532. The olivary bodies send out from their upper part a fibrous bundle, which unites with some other bundles arising from the sides of the spinal marrow, and ascends, like those of the py- ramidal bodies, across the fibres of the anterior surface of the cere- bral protuberance : during this passage it docs not increase in size in so distinct a manner as the preceding bundles, and it fornixORGANS OF SENSATION. 422 the posterior and inner part of the same crura. It there meets with a large mass of cineritious matter, receives new filaments from it, which follow various directions in its interior, and constitute the Thalami Nervorum Opticorum, (CoUiculi Nervorum Opticorum, Soemm.) {Inferior Great Ganglia of the Brain, Gall.) 1533. These thalami of the optic nerves are invested with a white substance. More voluminous behind than before, they cor- respond partly in the lateral ventricles, partly in the third, and partly at the exterior of the brain ; their figure is rounded and irregular. Their upper surface forms a part of the floor of the la- teral ventricles; it presents a slight depression in its longitudinal direction, and a small ovoidal tubercle at each of its extremities. The inferior surface presents externally two prominences, {Cor- pora Geniculata), which furnish several filaments to the optic nerves, and is seen at the inferior surface of the cerebrum. The inner surface, constitutes the lateral walls of the third ven- tricle ; it is flat, directed obliquely from within outwards, and from above downwards, and is connected anteriorly with that of the op- posite side by a transverse band {Commissura mollis), of a gray colour, very easily broken, and varying in form and size. The outei' surface is confounded with the corpus striatum, of which we shall presently speak. Their anterior ewtremity contributes to the aper- ture of comravinication between the lateral and third ventricles. The posterior, which is free, and contiguous to the corpus fimbri- atum, corresponds to the curve of the lateral ventricles. It is between the bundles which proceed from the corpora pyra- midalia and olivaria, in the very midst of the crura cerebri and optic thalami, that the upper part of the canals is observed, wliich prevail along the spinal marrow (1529) ; and as these bundles change their direction in the course of their progress, the anterior passing outwards and the posterior inwards, the direction of this part of the canal also experiences a marked deviation. 1534. Before and to the outside of the thalami of the optic nerves, the fibrous bundles of the corpora olivaria meet a new mass of cineritious substance, are expanded and acquire a fresh augmen- tation from it, and form together with it the Corpora Striata^ {Great superior ganglions of the brai?i. Gall.) of which there are two, one on each side of the brain. These bodies are pyriform eminences, broad before, contracted behind, and placed obliquely, so that while they are very near each other anteriorly, they are widely separated posteriorly; their colour at the outside is gray, somewhat tinged with brown. There are observed at their surface very remarkable venous ramifications, which are the radicles of the VencB Galeni. The corpora striata form part of the floor of the late- ral ventricles; they are contiguous to the corpus callosum by their upper surface, and to the septum lucidum by the inner. On cut- ting them obliquely and at different heights, the cineritious and medullary substances are seen disposed in their interior in alternate streaks, of variable form and breadth. With a little care, it is ob-STRUCTURE OF THE BRAIN IN PARTICULAR. 42S < served that all the wlute bands are continuous with the original bundles of the corpora olivaria. 1535. Between the optic thalami and corpora striata, in a >: groove by which they are separated, there is observed a small slip I of thin, fibrous, semi-transparent whitish substance: this is the ; Tcenia semicircularis. It commences at the anterior extremity of I the optic thalamus, sometimes by several filaments, sometimes by : a single cord ; at this place, its fibrous texture is very apparent, : and it is a line and a half or two lines in breadth. From thence lit ascends over the thalamus, passes over several of the veins which i come from the corpus striatum, and allows them to be seen on ac- (count of its transparency. It then proceeds backw^ards, gradually < contracts, is curved downwards, and loses itself towards the Corpus ' jeniculatum externum (1533). Anteriorly, it is itself covered by : a small transparent and very dehcate lamina of a yellowish colour : ! this is the Horny Lamina of the Tcenia semicircularis, beneath ' which there is often observed a little serous fluid of the colour of ; amber. 1536. On leaving the corpora striata, the bundles of the olivary I eminences expand into layers like those of the pyramidal bodies ; i like them also, they form convolutions, and it is of these convolu- : tions collectively that the posterior lobes and the vault of the he- 1 mispheres of the cerebrum are composed. Each convolution is not : formed by a single bundle, but consists of two different layers which touch each other, and are but very slightly agglutinated: the ci- : neritious substance invests its exterior. With a little care and patience, the presence of these two layers and their separation in the median line of each convolution can be demonstrated. It is in this that the art of unfolding the brain consists. 1537. We have seen how the cerebral hemispheres are formed by bundles of divergent fibres; but all the parts of one of these hemispheres are made to communicate with the corresponding parts of the other, by a new order of medullary convergent fibres, which come from the gray matter that envelopes the cerebral convolu- tions externally, and constitute different commissures. These com- missures belong both to the upper and lower convolutions ; we now proceed to their examination. 1538. At the bottom of the superior convolutions, the converg- uig filaments are seen forming a sort of tissue with the diverg- ing filaments, uniting into larger ^nd larger filaments, and lining the roof of the lateral ventricles, to emerge by the inner and lower edge of the hemispheres and form the Corpus callosum (maxima commissura cerebri, Soemm. Mesolobe, Chauss.) which is distinctly perceived at the bottom of the great longitudinal fissure. 1539. The Corpus callosum, is therefore a long and broad band of soft and fibrous medullary substance, of a quadrilateral form at first sight, but curved forwards and backwards upon itself. Its di- rection is horizontal, its breadth greater behind than before, its si- tuation such that it is a little nearer the anterior than the posteriorORGANS OF SENSATION. 4«4 part of the brain ; it is only a few lines thick. Its upper surface is in part concealed by the hemispheres which project above it, forming a kind of oblong cavity, of which we have already spoken (1505). It is convex from before backwards, plain in the trans- verse direction: in its middle, following the coixrse of the median line, is a prominent longitudinal line, of a more compact tissue, which penetrates the whole thickness of the organ, and is com- monly called the Raphe. On each side of the raphe, which corresponds to the inferior edge of the falx cerebri, there is observ- ed a filament, which is also longitudinal, and which is separated from it by a small flexuous groove : this filament is the trace of the artery of the corpus callosum. Sometimes on the anterior part of the corpus callosum, these filaments, which are by some authors called the Lonr/itudinal Nerves of Lancisi, and which are always conver- gent, unite into a single line. More externally is a surface of great- er extent, and apparently smooth, but in which a closer inspection discovers a number of prominent lines, more or less transverse, more distinct posteriorly, and terminating at the raphe, near which they are inflected towards the lateral ventricles. These lines are named the Traiisverse Medullary Traces. 1540. The inferior surface of the corpus callosum is visible and free over a much greater extent than the upper. At the sides it contributes to form the upper wall of the lateral ventricles. In the middle it covers the fornix, with which it is directly continuous behind, and from which it is separated anteriorly and at the middle by the septum lucidum. 1541. At its anterior extremity, the corpus callosum is reflected from before backwards, and from above downwards, between the two hemispheres, where it forms a sort of rounded prominence. It ex- tends, and is prolonged as far as the base of the cerebrum, towards the fissura Sylvii, near the origin of the olfactory nerve, embracing the fore part of the corpora striata, and forming the anterior region of the roof of the lateral ventricles. In this course, it receives the converging fibres of the inferior convolutions of the anterior lobci Lastly, it terminates by a sort of white streak which loses itself in the fibrous tissue of the crura cerebri. 1542. At its posterior extremity^ the corpus callosum is also re- flected but from behind forwards. It there forms a white lamina which is prolonged into the lower part of the lateral ventricles, and invests in particular, on each side, a kind of convolution formed by the cineritious substance: this is what is called the Cor- nu Ammonis {Hippocampus major). This voluminous projection is curved upon itself, in such a manner as to present its concavity inwards and forwards, and its convexity outwards. Arising fronts the place where the corpus callosum bends, it first proceeds out^ wards, then forwards, becoming continually broader, and at leugtl^ terminates by a broad and thick bulbous extremity, turned inwards, and surmounted by two or three more or less prominent tuberclcsi"STIIUCTUUE OF THE BRAIN IN rARTICULAR. 425 wbich are separated by distinct but rather shallow grooves. The upper sit if ace of the Cornua Ammonis is free in the bottom of the ^ ventricles, and covered by the choroid plexus. ^ Their convex edge is circumscribed by a very distinct groove, behind which the sub- <stance which forms the bottom of the ventricles presents a bulging, V which follows the direction of the cornua ammonis, and is some- : times equally large. This bulging is named the Jdditatnentum ipedum Hippocampi. Their concave edge is covered by the cor- f pus iimbriatum, under which there is found a denticulated cord ({Portion godronee, Vicq d'Azyr), of a compact tissue, granulated ^appearance, and reddish colour, of which few authors have made r mention. "- The mass of cineritious substance which occupies the anterior of tthe cornu Ammonis bifurcates at its posterior extremity, under the tfold of the corpus callosum. One of its branches communicates 1 with a convolution of the posterior lobe ; the other, which is short- (er, is confounded in one of the convolutions of the middle lobe. In its course backwards, from the point where it recurvates, the (Corpus callosum receives the convergent filaments of the inner con- ' volutions of the posterior lobes of the brain. 1543. We have already mentioned (1539) that the transverse I fibres of the corpus callosum bend over the sides of the raphe to ] proceed downwards. It is probable that by their still further pro- j longation the Septum lucidum is formed, a kind of thin, lamellar, i soft production, which is continuous above with the middle part of I the inferior surface of the corpus callosum, in its whole extent, and ' which, inferiorly and posteriorly, is connected with the fornix, and i inferiorly and anteriorly, with the recurved lamina of the anterior t extremity of the corpus callosum. It separates the two lateral • ventricles from each other; it is very high at its fore part, and ] progressively diminishes backwards, so that its two lateral surfaces i are triangular. They correspond posteriorly to the optic thalami, 1 Ahd anteriorly to the corpora striata. This septum is composed of I two laminfE of fibrous white substance, lined in their whole extent I by the arachnoid membrane, and only applied against each other. There exists a separation between them, which is more or less I apparent in different subjects, and often much greater in the I fcetus than in the child, and in the latter than in the adult; it is « Gordiform in the earliest stage of life ; an elongated sHt in old ] persons; it is sometimes filled by a pretty abundant serous fluid. This separation is the Fossa Sylvii or Fifth Ventricle. It is « doubtful whether it is lined by a membrane or not. The brothers Wenzel think it is, and in certain cases of disease flakes may « easily be raised from it. With respect to its alleged communica- tion with the ventricles, the same anatomists have discovered at its I'osterior extremity, a small fossa, the extent of which is not always in relation to that of the principal cavity ; it is triangular or cordi- lonn, and a bristle passed into it, penetrates into the third vcntri-ORGANS OF SENSATION. 426 cle. But, in the natural state, the aperture which affords a ])as- i sage under the anterior commissure cannot be discovered. i 1544. Beneath the corpus callosum and the septum lucidum < there is observed the Fornix, formed by the converging filaments i of the posterior convolutions of the middle lobe. This is a lamina * of soft, white, fibrous substance, having the form of a triangle, curved upon itself, whose summit, which is directed forwards, is bifurcated. It forms part of the two lateral ventricles, and of the third ventricle. Its upper surface is, in a great part of its | extent, contiguous to the corpus callosum ; in the median line, it is continuous with the septum lucidum. The inferior surface is applied upon the tela choroidca and the optic thalami. Its two edges are coasted, in their whole extent, by the choroid plexus. Posteriorly, it presents a few striae and prominent lines, more or less oblique with respect to each other : this is the Lyra (Corpus PsalloidesJ, which is considered by GaU as the general union of the communicating filaments of the fornix. The anterior extre- mity of the fornix, is divided into two cylindrical bundles, (anteri- or pillars J at first contiguous to each other and curving around the striated bodies to proceed directly downwards, then separating a little, sinking into the substance of the convolutions, and ter- minating at the pisiform tubercles of the inferior surface of the brain, after passing behind the anterior commissure. Behind each of these cords, and under the origin of the tasnia semicircularis, is an oval aperture, more or less wide, by which the lateral ventricles communicate with the third ventricle, and by which also the tela choroidea is continued into the choroid plexus. 154-5. The posterior angles or pillars of the fornix, furnish each a prolongation, which is bifurcated. One of the branches, which is very short and thin, loses itself in the white layer of the cornu Ammonis. The other, which is very long, {Corpus fim- hriatum) is a flattened band, which prolongs itself into the bottom of the lateral ventricles, turning over the concave edge of the cor- nu Ammonis (1542), and at length losing itself near the inferior aperture of the ventricles. Between this band and the optic thalamus, is a slit which opens in a fissure of the inferior surface of the cerebrum, through which the pia mater penetrates. 1546. Beneath and behind the fornix, in the folds of the pia mater, and above the tubercula quadrigemina, is the Pineal Glaiid (Conarium), a small grayish body, of the size of a large pea, va- rying in its form, of a soft and pulpy consistence, and everywhere isolated from the cerebral substance, except at its fore part, where it is broader, and receives two cords of medullary substance, the ped- uncles of the pineal gland, which come from the upper and inner part of the optic thalami, where they form a slight prominence, proceed backwards, gradually increasing in bulk, pass over the sides of the posterior aperture of the third ventricle, and unite be- fore attaching themselves to the pineal gland, to which they standSTRUCTURE OF THE BRAIN IN PARTICULAR. 427 I I the same relation, as the infundibulum to the pituitary body. It jo-ht also to be remarked, that it is between the pineal gland and ;ie tela choroidea, that the posterior orifice of the arachnoid canal •ccurs. The nature of this small body is unknown. It receives a con- iderable number of vessels. Very frequently, in the adult it con- iiins a quantity of small transparent calculi, very hard, and of a iliceous aspect, varying much in their number and disposition. \they are generally collected into a small quadrilateral mass (^Acer- Mus, Soemm.), under the tela choroidea, near the posterior com- iiissure; at other times, they are irregularly distributed on the ddes, or in the very substance of the organ. On examining the aasses of these small concretions with the microscope, the brothers iVenzel supposed they discovered in them a proper membrane hhich connects them together. The larger among them are not inrmed of a single mass, but are the result of the agglomeration ;T several smaller ones. Their figure is irregular at first sight, uut with a little attention, it is discovered that they are all round. Their surface is rough and dotted with points. 1547- The different parts which we have described above as ex- titing in the interior of the brain, are separated from each other II various places by cavities or intervals known by the name of Yentricles of the Brain. These are distinguished into the Lateral Ventricles, of which there are two, and the Third Ventricle. 1548. The Lateral Ventricles {Ventricicli tricornes') are two lavities of considerable extent, of a figure rather difficult to be de- 'icribed, situated one in either hemisphere. They commence be- iiind the fissura Sylvii, at about two inches from the extremity of luach hemisphere, where they are an inch distant from each other, "^'rom thence they direct themselves upwards, backwards, and in- vards, and are only separated by the Septum lucidum ; they then Proceed horizontally, and separating a second time, as far as the losterior part of the corpus callosum, whence they descend down- s'ards, outwards, and forwards. Finally, they again approach each )ther inferiorly, and terminate behind the fissura Sylvii, under the loint at which they commenced, and in the bottom of a groove of • tvhich we have spoken. At the place where the direction of these -avities is entirely changed, there is observed in the substance of the posterior lobe, a triangular prolongation, presenting its base before, and curved in such a manner as to have its concavity in- wards : this is the Digital Cavity. The upper half of the lateral ventricles is a little broader before than behind, and resembles the half of an elliptical vault. It is prolonged forwards into the anterior lobe by a small angular cavity, named the Anterior Horn. Above, it is formed by the inferior surface of the corjjus callosum ; below, by the anterior fold of the siimc body, the corpora striata, optic thalami, tasnia semicircularis, and tornix ; internally, by the septum lucidum ; externally, by theOUGANS OF SENSATION. 428 I tissue which the diverging and converging fibres of the cercbrali convolutions form by intermingling/ t The Digital Cavitt/ or Posterior Horn is entirely lined by me-l dullary substance. On its inferior wall there is observed an emi-( nence (Hippocampus minor), broad before, narrow and pointed] behind, curved inwards, and more or less prominent in different subjects. It is sometimes divided by a groove, so as to appear double; its structure is the same as that of the cornu Ammonis (1542). The lower half of the lateral ventricles, which occupies a part of the posterior lobe and the whole middle lobe, is a long narrow canal, longitudinally curved, and convex externally. Its walls aro<? formed by the fimbriated bodies, the cornu Ammonis, and a sma! grayish band. 1549. In their whole length, the lateral ventricles arc dividciU by a slit whose direction is followed by the choroid plexus. This slit is formed between the optic thalami and the edges of the for- nix above, between the optic thalami and the corpora fimbriata be- low. It commences on each side at the aperture of communicatior with the third ventricle, behind the anterior peduncles of the for- nix, and terminates at the inferior surface of the brain, where it if closed by the arachnoid membrane, and where it receives prolon- gations of the pia mater and vessels. In its whole extent, it is strengthened by a fold of the inner arachnoid. 1550. Under the fornix, and between the two optic thalami there is another cavity, named the third or middle ventricle It is of much less extent than the preceding, is single, and placec in the median line. Its direction is horizontal, its greatest diame ter from before backwards, and its form elliptical. Its upper wall which is of less extent than the lower, is limited by the tela cho roidea and the fornix (1544). Its lower wall, which is very thin forms part of the inferior surface of the brain. Posteriorly, it ii formed by the medullary lamina which occupies the intervals o the two crura of the brain ; more anteriorly, by the upper part o the pisiform tubercles ; and at its foremost part, by the gray sub stance which occurs behind the commissure of the optic nerves. I is to be remarked that this part of the ventricle is concave, am that on account of the smallness of its breadth, it seems to form i small slit, of which the deepest part corresponds to the infundibu lum. The lateral walls of the third ventricle are Uraited by th* optic thalami, which are contiguous in the greater part of their ex tent, and united in one point by a grayish band. Anteriorly and below, this ventricle is closed by a mcmbran which rises from the commissure of the optic nerves (1506), am presents at its level a kind of aperture which, since Columbu? time, has been generally called the Vulva, and on the sides < which are two holes which communicate with the lateral ventricU (1544). Anteriorly and above, it is limited by the Anterior Con missurc, a sort of whitish, transverse, cylindrical cord, situateSTRUCTURE OF THE CEREBELLUM IN PARTICULAR. 429 icdiately behind the anterior pilUirs of the fornix, and of the of the optic nerve. It is naturally free and apparent over an tent of about six lines at its middle part; but, on each side, it iks deeply into the substance of the hemispheres, curving back- irds in a sensible manner, and, according to Chaussier, reaches B corpus callosum and crura of the brain. These lateral por- mis are a little flattened, and more voluminous than the middle I Posteriorly and above, the third ventricle is limited by the Pos- ■Hor Cmnmismre, which is thicker and shorter than the anterior, tit of the same cyhndrical form and transverse direction; its fi- Dous appearance is more distinct; by its posterior edge it is con- •ifuous to the tubercula quadrigemina. Beneath it, is the poste- m aperture of the ventricle, a sort of small narrow slit, fur- ;khed on the edges with a very thin white band. It is the an- :irior aperture of the Aqueduct of Sylvius, (iter a tertio ad quar- inn ventriculum), a cylindrical canal, formed obliquely in the sub- lance of the cerebral protuberance, beneath the tubercula quadri- Rmina, and opening posteriorly into the fourth ventricle, under o.e valvule of Vieussens. Its surface presents, inferiorly, a groove ihich is continuous with the Calamus Scriptorius, and, on each Ide, one or two small inequalities. STRUCTURE OF THE CEREBELLUM IN FAIITICULAK. 1551. The bundles of convergent and divergent fibres are far D'om being so well demonstrated in the cerebellum as in the cere- irum. We cannot here adopt the method followed in the preced- ag article, but shall describe all the white substance of this organ ■ 3 formed by fibres of the second kind. 1552. We have already said (1512) that the anterior surface of •the cerebral protuberance is formed by a pretty thick layer of white latter, manifestly fibrous, to which the name of Pons Varolii or innular Protuberance is given. This layer unites its fibres pos- sriorly and on each side into two thick divergent bundles, much lore separated from each other than the crura of the brain, and Jminishing in size in proportion as they proceed from the cerebral •rotuberance towards the cerebellum. These are the Crura of the • cerebellum: each of them is convex and rounded externally. The restiform processes (1516) form on each side a sort of pro- ongation, {processus ad Medullam Spinaleni) which, from the ; wsterior surface of the medulla oblongata, ascends upon the inner ide of the crus of the cerebellum, and unites with it. Lastly, the white lamina which covers the tubercula quadrigemi- I'l also appears to be gathered posteriorly into two longitudinal ; 'undlcs, {Processus ad testes) united together by the valvula , I' leusscnu, and applied upon the upper and inner parts of the 1 aine crus. .430 ORGANS OF SENSATION. By their junction, these three productions appear to constitute common trunk, in tlie middle of which is a kind of elongated ovoi^ dal nucleus, circumscribed on all sides by a very distinct undulat ed line of a yellowish colour. This is the Corpus dentatum o. serratum. It is a Uttle nearer the upper than the lower surface o: the crus, and appears slightly compressed. Its tissue is firmer thar that of the rest of the cerebellum; it is surmounted by severa points, and traversed by some vessels ; its colour is a little deepe: than that of the ordinary gray substance. It is only seen with grea difficulty in children. The white fibres cannot be traced into iti interior, as in the optic thalami; and it seems to be isolated liki the nucleus of the corpora olivaria (1528). 1553. To the outside of the crura of the cerebellum, there an seen the lobe of the pneumogastric nerve (1509), and the trunk of the portio dura and portio mollis of the seventh pair. Internally that is to say, between the two prolongations which ascend from th restiform bodies, there is found the Ventricle of the Cerebellum o| Fourth Ventricle, formed at once by the cerebellum, the cerebri protuberance, and the medulla oblongata. Its anterior wall formed by the posterior surface of the latter, and presents the C lamus scriptorius, transverse white strije, and the posterior orifi^ of the aqueduct of Sylvius (1513). Its lateral walls are limited b the prolongations which come from the tubercula quadrigemina an corpora restiformia, which separate from each other as they ascen so that the ventricle is broader above than below. Its posteri wall is shorter than the others, and is formed by a part of the a terior notch of the cerebellum. Its upper extremity is closed I the valvula Vieussenii (1513). Its lower extremity is also closer but by a dense and strong membrane, of a grayish colour, appea: ing to be continuous with the pia mater ; the latter forms beneati| it a small fold resembling the tela choroidea. There also occurs this place a small mass of blood-vessels and reddish granulatiom which is called the Choroid Plexus of the Fourth Ventricle; forms a small three-lobed body, the middle lobe of which projects the ventricle, while the two lateral, which are smaller and roundei occupy the sides of the fissure which separates the cerebellum fr( the cerebral protuberance. Between these two portions, at the extremity of the middle bule of the cerebellum, in the substance of the fold of the pia m ter, is a small conical tubercle, the Laminar Tubercle of ti Fourth Ventricle, the summit of which is composed of sever transverse and parallel lamina?, while its base is connected with tl substance of the cerebellum by a peduncle. Moreover, on ea< side, it sends to the lobular appendage of the cerebellum (1509) I membraneous fold, in the interior of which is a lamma of whi r substance, and of which the outer edge is concave, free and floatin This tubercle has a great resemblance to the pineal gland. j 1554. Each of the crura having arrived at the centre of t corresponding hemisphere of the cerebellum, forms an elongatOF THE DURA MATER. 431 olong mass, entirely white, sending from its circumference a la- lina into the centre of each of the lobules. These laminae are lufh less distinct above than below, and especially than behind, "ach of them is divided into several branches for each of the prin- ipal laminaj of the cerebellum, and these branches divide into ra- I Liscules for the secondary laminae. To this assemblage the name i Arbor Vitce has been given ; it is enveloped on aU sides by the incritious substance. Moreover, the valvula Vieussenii and the two prolongations of tubercula quadrigemina send out from their upper part various lite laminae, which are distributed in the central part of the cere- i^ llum, much in the same manner as the laminae of the arbor vitae re in each of the liemispheres. These ramifications are distribut- ■d into the laminae of the vermiform process. 1555. The arteries of the cerebrum and cerebellum come fi'om bhe internal carotid and vertebral arteries, fi'om the latter of which larises the basilar artery, whose branches form with those of the ca- rotid what anatomists have named the Arterial Circle of Willis. The spinal marrow receives its arteries from the vertebral, dor- sal, lumbar, and sacral arteries. The encephalic veins have very thin coats, and enter the sinuses (formed in the substance of the dura mater, which empty their con- sents into the internal jugular veins. The sinuses of the spinal marrow terminate in the vertebral, idorsal, lumbar, and sacral veins. No lymphatic vessels have as yet been discovered in the tissue »bf the brain. ' OF THE MEMBRANEOTTS ENVELOPES OF THE BRAIN. I OF THE DURA MATER. ' 1556. The Dura Mater, {Meninai exterior), is the outermost r membraneous envelope of the encephalon; it is destined partly to support it, partly to isolate its different portions. It is common to that organ and the bones of the cavity which contain it, to which it ' seems to perform the office of an internal periosteum to a certain ' degree. It is a firm, thick, compact fiibrous membrane, of a whitish ^ pearly colour, semitransparent, and occupying the interior of the '' cranium and vertebral canal. ' 1557. Its outer surface, in the cranium, is applied on aU sides ' ^pon the bones, which gives it an uneven and cellular appearance, I rrom the great number of filaments and blood-vessels by which it I communicates with them. 1558. It adheres but loosely to the broad and rather smooth oones of the vault of the cranium, and is easily detached from the ^ irontal, parietal, and occipital bones, as well from the squamous I portion of tlic temporal. At the sutures, however, its union isORGANS OF SENSATION. 432 much more intimate, on account of the small filaments and nume- rous vessels which traverse them to join the pericranium, which h especially remarkable in the sagittal suture. On the vault of the cranium, also, the dura mater sends a small fibrous canal througli the parietal hole, which serves as an envelope to a small vein. 1559. At the base of the cranium, the external surface of the du- ra mater is very complex in its disposition, on account of the great number of holes and inequalities which are observed in that region. It sinks into the foramen coecum, (153), where it contracts pretty intimate adhesions by several prolongations. It embraces the sum- mit of the crista-galli of the ethmoid bone, whence it descends on each side into the ethmoid grooves : there, at each hole of the cribriform plate, (131), it furnishes for each branch of the olfac- tory nerves a small fibrous canal, which terminates on the outer layer of the pituitary membrane. More laterally, similar canals pene- trate into the internal orbitar canals to accompany the nerves and vessels which they contain, and are continued into the periosteum of the orbit. Lastly, altogether on the sides, the dura mater ad- heres but little to the orbitar arches, even at the place of the sphe- noidal suture (282). 1560. More posteriorly, it adheres in a decided manner to the | groove at the fore part of the sella turcica, and penetrates into the optic foramina, forming an envelope for the optic nerves. This cylindrical envelope separates when it arrives at the posterior inser- tion of the recti muscles of the eye ; its outer lamina, which is ra- ther thin, expands into the periosteum of the orbit; the inner, which is whiter, denser, thicker, and immediately applied on the nerve, accompanies it to the ball of the eye, and is continued into the sclerotic membrane. Behind the optic hole, the dura mater presents a circular aper- ture which embraces the internal carotid artery as it issues from the cavernous sinus ; some fibres arising from the circumference of this aperture, seem to throw themselves into the walls of the artery. At its anterior part, there occurs the orifice of a small canal, formed inferiorly between the two laminae of the envelope of the optic nerve. It transmits the ophthalmic artery into the orbit. The dura mater then lines the sella turcica (115), where it is' covered by the pituitary body (1506) which separates it from the I arachnoid membrane at this place; it then passes over the sides of \ the body of the sphenoid bone, where it divides into two lamina", to form the cavernous sinuses. The inner of these laminas is thin, and immediately covers the cavernous groove ; the outer, which it^ free, forms the opposite wall of the sinus. I 1561. On the free edge of the processes of Ingrassias, the dur.i mater forms a small fold which enters into the fissura Sylvii; then, descending from thence vertically, it closes the sphenoidal fissure, and sends through it a prolongation, thicker on the inner side, which proceeds into the orbit, and is continuous with the periosOF THE DURA MATER. 433 i.teum of that cavity. This prolongation presents several apertures !;for the passage of vessels and nerves which enter the orbit. 1562. The membrane then extends into the middle lateral fos- vsffi of the base of the cranium, to which it adheres but feebly ; but, ; on approaching the sides of the body of the splienoid bone, it fur- ; nishes first an envelope to the superior and inferior maxillary nerves lin the bony canals by which they pass out of the cranium ; it also i gives one to the middle meningeal artery, and concurs to form the I cavernous sinus and various canals. One of the latter is for the ; third pair; it commences a Kttle before the posterior clinoid pro- icess; it is fibrous in its whole circumference, and invested by tthe arachnoid coat at the commencement of its course, but the lat- ; ter afterwards leaves it to be reflected over the nerve, and there is mo longer perceived a complete fibrous canal, but the lamina of the I dura mater alone, which forms the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, Lis seen externally: internally, the nerve is separated from the sinus i itself only by a thin and apparently cellular membrane. Another (canal belongs to the nerve of the fourth pair ; it is a little higher ithan the preceding, and much narrower, and, like it, is fibrous and I lined by the arachnoid membrane in the first part of its course; I afterwards, it is in like manner only formed by a single lamina of I the di^ra mater applied externally upon the nerve, which is sepa- I rated from-the rest of the sinus by a thin and transparent mem- ibrane. Lastly, a little farther back and opposite the upper edge (of the petrous process, the dura mater forms a canal for the nerve • of the fifth pair, consisting of two laminae : the upper of these la- 1 minae is attached to the posterior clinoid process, and is continued (over the upper edge of the petrous process; the other is placed I between the nerve and the cavernous sinus, and becomes so thin as : to be converted into a cellular lamella, which is prolonged inter- 1 nally of the ophthalmic branch. As it advances, the nerves of I the third pair, fourth pair and ophthalmic branch of the fifth, are each engaged in a new portion of entirely fibrous canal, which is • afforded them by the prolongation of the dura mater passing from t the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit. 1563. On the middle of the upper surface of the petrous pro- c cess, the dura mater covers the superior filament of the vidian I nerve, and may easily be detached from it. 1564. It then adheres pretty strongly to the upper edge of the petrous process and to the quadrilateral plate of the sphenoid bone. It descends from thence into the basilar groove, and is intimately I attached to the occipital bone over the whole circumference of the ^ ^ramen magnum. A little laterally, it presents for the nerve of ' ® ^^'xth pair, a hole which is not succeeded by a canal, and which consequently transmits it into the cavernous sinus. The arach- noid membrane descends in it as far as that sinus, which it closes, ' and is then rtflected upon the nerve. Farther on, and upon the ^T^^T^ '■-"'■f^ce of the petrous process, the dura mater penetrates ofTP^ii ^"ditorius internus, seems to enter the aqueduct * »'iopius, but cannot be followed into the foramina which are tra- 2 FORGANS OF SENSATION. 434 versed by the filaments of the portio mollis of the seventh pair. Farther clown, at the foramen lacerum posteriiis, it envelopes the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, and is continued into the periosteum of the outer part of the base of the skull. A thinner lamina surrounds the internal jugular vein. It also sends into the anterior condyloid foramen a fibrous canal, which is in like manner continuous with the periosteum. 1565. Through the great occipital hole the dura mater passes into the vertebral canal, in the interior of which it forms an in- fundibuliform membraneous sheath, rounded in its whole extent, narrower than the bony canal, but much wider than the spinal mar-" row. Its external surface does not adhere to the vertebraa, from which it is separated by a reddish, adipose, loose, and filamentous cellular tissue, excepting anteriorly, where it contracts a pretty in- timate adhesion to the posterior vertebral ligament (597)- On the sides, this membraneous sheath furnishes a small canal for each nerve, as it issues through the corresponding intervertebral fora- men. These small canals are so much the longer, wider, and more oblique the lower they are, and are all obviously dilated in the in- terior of the intervertebral hole, on account of the small ganglion which is observed there. At the outside of the vertebral column, they lose themselves in the neighbouring cellular tissue, without being continued into the periosteum, as is the case around the skull. The meningeal sheath of the spinal marrow terminates in- feriorly by five ligamentous filaments which fix it to the sacrum and coccyx. 1566. Internal surface of the dura mater. It is lined in its whole extent by the arachnoid membrane, which gives it a smooth polished and glossy appearance, and adheres intimately to it, ex- cepting at the middle of the sphenoid bone, where it is separated from it by the pituitary body. It gives rise to several folds, which are the Falx Cerebri, Tentorium Cerebelli, and Falx Cerehelli. 1567- Falx Cerebri (falx major). This is a lamina which ex- tends from one extremity of the cranium to the other in the mcr- dian line, broad behind, gradually contracting as it advances for- wards, having a considerable resemblance to the blade of a sickle, and occupying the longitudinal fissure of the brain, so as to separate its two hemispheres from each other. Its upper edge, which is thick and convex, corresponds anteriorly to the frontal ridge, then in the middle to the sagittal suture, and posteriorly to the middle groove of the occipital bone. It lodges the superior longitudinal sinus. Its lower edge is free, concave, thin, and of much less ex>- tent; it is placed above the corpus callosum, which it touches pos- teriorly, and contains the inferior longitudinal sinus. Its anierior extremity embraces the crista galli; the posterior is continued nito the tentorium cerebelli, and contains the straight sinus- In some subjects, the tissue of the falx is mterrupted in its continuity, so that there are observed perforations in it veu-ying in size and more or less irregular, which seem to form meshes between its ligamen- tous bundles.435 OF THE DURA MATER. 1508. Tentorium Cerehelli, (Septum Transversum). This is a and of membraneous vault which separates the cerebrum from the cerebellum ; it limits the posterior fossae of the base of the cranium :)()steriorly, and leaves anteriorly a semilunar aperture correspond- ^ to the cerebral protuberance. Like the falx cerebri, it is in a I ate of continual tension, and is covered by the arachnoid mem- )! ;ine, which gives it a smooth and poUshed appearance. In outer rriimference, which is of much greater extent than the inner, orresponds posteriorly, where it is hollowed for the lateral sinus, I) tiie edges of the lateral groove of the occipital bone, and ante- ioily, to the upper edge of the petrous process, on which the su- )orior petrous sinus occurs. Its inner circumference, which is ;iuch smaller, free, and nearly oval, forms in a great measure the ircumference of the aperture of which we have just spoken, which f- 3 broader and more elevated behind than before. The extremities tf the two circumferences of the tentorium cerebelli meet at an c.cute angle, are elongated, cross each other like the legs of the etter X, and pass over each other, on either side, to be attiiched no the two corresponding clinoid processes. The upper branch, ihich is especially continuous with the small circumference, is more marked than the other; it passes over the side of the sella iarcica, augments its depth, and is inserted into the anterior cli- aoid process. The lower branch, which terminates the great cir- lurafereuce, completes the upper edge of the hole through which lae nerve of the fifth pair passes, proceeds obliquely inwards, and 5 attached to the posterior clinoid process. 1569. FaLv Cere1)elli (falx minor). This is a small triangu- nr lamina, pretty broad above, indistinct below, extended from the internal occipital protuberance to the occipital hole, at the fore- wart of the occipital"crest, and placed between the two hemispheres : f the cerebellum. Its base is continuous with the tentorium ce- ■tebelli. Its summit is bifurcated, and the two branches of this bi- ■urcation are more or less prolonged upon the sides of the occipital , lole. I 1570. The dvu-a mater presents no trace of muscular organiza- lon in any point of its extent. It is manifestly fibrous, as we have aid, and its fibres are especially very apparent in the folds, and 1 particular at the upper part of the falx cerebri. Their direc- lon is never constant or regular. They cross each other in va- lous ways, or form oblique planes superimposed upon each other. The strength and denseness of this membrane are very remarkable ; ' tdoes not appear to receive any nerves, excepting, as Chaussier tniarks, some filaments which come from the sympathetic system,; "d accompany its arteries, which are pretty numerous, and have ''Jls formed in its substance: they are the middle meningeal ar- LTics furnished by the internal maxillary arteries, and many other maUer branches supphed by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, "• lachrymal, the inferior pharyngeal, the vertebral, the occipital, 'lu the temporal arteries. It is moreover traversed in variousORGANS OF SENSATION. 436 points by venous canals, which are named the Sinuses of the Dic- ra Mater. 1571. These canals, which are of variable dimensions, and dis- posed in a symmetrical and regular manner, have walls formed ex- ternally by the dura mater, and lined internally by a smooth and pohshed membrane, of a serous aspect, such as is met with in the interior of all the veins. Being constantly stretched in all points of their extent, they can neither change place, nor even contract upon themselves. Their cavity presents, at intervals, bridles passing irregularly from one wall to the other, which are generally formed by fibrous bundles of the dura mater. It is into the sinuses that all the veins of this membrane, and all those of the brain empty themselves. 1572. Torcular Herophili. This is a smooth and polished ca- vity, of irregular form, placed at the union of the three great folds of the dura mater, on the fore part of the internal occipital protu- berance. It is lined by the internal membrane of the veins, and presents six apertures ; a superior, of a triangular form, belonging to the superior longitudinal sinus ; two inferior, of variable form and breadth, corresponding to the occipital sinuses; an anterior, rounded, belonging to the straight sinus; lastly, two lateral, broader, but generally of different sizes, transversely oval, fur- nished with a thick rim in their contour, and leading into the la- teral sinuses. The two last, and sometimes the two inferior, trans- mit to the outside of the cavity the blood which is poured into them by the others. 1573. Superior Longitudinal Sinus (Sinus Falciformis Supe- rior). This is a long triangular canal, convex above, presenting its acute angle below, occupying the whole upper edge of the falx cerebri (1567), narrow before, broader behind, commencing by a sort of cul-de-sac at the fore part of the crista-galli of the ethmoid bone, and corresponding to the frontal ridge, the sagittal sutureJ' and the vertical groove of the occipital bone. In its interior, it in smooth and polished in its whole extent, and presents a consider-B able number of those bridles {chordce Willisii)^ of which we mad™ mention above, which are invested, Uke it, by the internal mem-B brane of the veins. This sinus communicates above with the fronm tal veins by a certain number of little veins which pass througlH the sagittal suture; it also receives, in the same direction, veinM which come from the diploe of the bones of the upper part of th(" skull; it also communicates, by means of a small branch whicl passes through the parietal hole, with the veins on the outside 0 ^ the head; lastly, it receives some trunks from those of the diir; mater, and all those which are expanded over the convex and plaii surfaces of the two cerebral hemispheres. They almost all opei into its interior obliquely forwards. In general, the mouths of th veins are covered in a great measure by membraneous folds in th form of valvules, whose free and concave edge is turned forwards All these folds are formed by the internal membrane of the vein437 OF THE DURA MATER. pplied upon itself, and are in general much less visible in the an- terior region of the sinus than in the posterior. . It is also probable ; hat, by its anterior extremity, the superior longitudinal sinus of- n communicates with a vein of the nose which passes through the foramen coecum (309). 1574. Inferior Longitudinal Sinus {Sinus Falciformis Infe- '>r). Much narrower than the preceding, occupying the lower Ige of the cerebral falx, from its anterior third to the tentorium I orebelh, it seems to result from the union of several small veins ol' the falx itself, and generally terminates by two branches in the straight sinus. Of these branches, one is directly continuous with it above the aperture of the vens Galeni; the other ascends in tthe substance of the falx foi' some time, curves backwards and (downwards, and penetrates obliquely into the straight sinus to- 1 wards the middle of its length. The latter only is furnished with J a valvular fold. 1575. Straight Sinus (Sinus quartus, s. perpendicular is). 'Triangular in its whole extent, broad behind, contracted before, J passing a little obliquely downwards and backwards, it prevails all : along the base of the falx, above the tentorium cerebelli, from tthe termination of the inferior longitudinal sinus to the torcular IHerophih. In its interior, it presents the same appearance as the ! superior longitudinal sinus : that is to say, upon its walls a great (quantity of fibrous bundles, closer to each other before than be- 1 hind, form remarkable prominences beneath the delicate membrane 1 which covers them. It receives the inferior longitudinal sinus, as iwe have already said: the veins of the cerebral ventricles or the 1 venae Galeni empty themselves into its anterior and inferior part, I presenting a valvular fold. Towards the middle of its length, an(l i inferiorly, the straight sinus still receives the blood of the superior veins of the cerebellum, through a rounded separation of the fibres of the dura mater. ^ 1576. Occipital Sinuses (Sinus occipitalis posterior dexter et i sinister). These sinuses commence on the sides of the foramen ' magnum, not far from the termination of the lateral sinuses, with ' which they sometimes communicate, and ascend, becoming broad- £ er, and drawing nearer each other, in the substance of the falx ce- r rebelli, where they pretty frequently unite altogether : they open, ^ each by itself, into the lower part of the torcular Herophili. They r receive the veins of the falx cerebelli, of the dura mater which lines ; the inferior occipital fossa?, and those of the posterior part of the cerebellum. 1-577- Lateral Sinuses (Sinus Transversi). They carry the • blood from the torcular Herophili to the foramen lacerum poste- • nus, into the sinus of the jugular vein. Their course is marked " by a groove which exists on each side of the interior of the cranium ' (olo). A difference of capacity is almost always observed be- tween tliem, the sinus of the right side being generally larger. rrom the torcular Herophili to the upper edge of the petrous pro-438 ORGANS OF SENSATION. cess, they have a triangular form ; in the rest of their course, their k section is elliptical. Their interior, which is everywhere smooth f and polished, presents none of the bridles of which we have made mention in speaking of the other sinuses. They receive some veins from the cerebellum, the posterior extremity of the cerebral hemi- spheres, the tentorium cerebelli, and the cavity of the tympanum. They also present in the second part of their course the orifices of the superior and inferior petrous sinuses, which carry the blood from all the other sinuses of the base of the skull. By the mastoid and posterior condyloid foramina, they communicate moreover with the occipital veins on the outside of the cranium. 1578. Coronary Sinus (Sinus Circularis.) It surrounds in a more or less regular manner the sella turcica and pituitary body, pass- ing behind the channel of the optic nerves and before or above the quadrilateral lamina of the sphenoid bone. It is very narrow in its whole course; it receives the small veins of these different parts and those of the neighbouring portion of the dura mater, and opens to the right and left into the cavernous sinuses. 1579. Cavernous Sinuses (Sinus Cavernosi.) These sinuses are much more complicated than all the rest. They commence beneath the anterior clinoid processes, behind the inner third of the sphenoidal fissure, proceed from thence horizontally backwards up- on the sides of the sella turcica, whence they descend into the place which separates the summit of the petrous process from the quadri- lateral plate of the sphenoid bone. There they terminate by emp- tying themselves into the superior and inferior petrous sinuses. Their breadth is considerable, and they are lodged in the lateral grooves of the body of the sphenoid bone, between two laminae of the dura mater. Of these two laminae, by an arrangement already partly described (1560), the inner immediately lines the bony sur- face, and is prolonged into the sphenoidal fissure; while the other, which is much thicker, forms the outer wall of the sinus, which con- tains in its substance the nerves of the third and fourth pairs and the ophthalmic branch of the fifth, and closes the two outer thirds of the sphenoidal fissure, becoming confounded above with the ex- tremities of the tentorium cerebelli (1568), which close the sinus in that direction. Altogether internally, the latter lamina is united with the first. The cavity of the cavernous sinuses generally pre- sents a great number of soft reddish filaments, interlaced and as it were reticulated. The intimate nature of this kind of cellular structure is very difficult to be determined. It appears to me to be evidently formed at once by nervous filaments of the superior cervical and cavernous ganglions, the fibres of the dura mater, and the folds of the internal membrane of the veins. There are more- over met with, in the interior of these same sinuses, the internal carotid artery and the nerve of the sixth pair, i)laccd against their inner wall, and immersed in the blood, from which they arc only separated by the delicate internal membrane of the veins which | envelopes them.OF THE PI A MATER. '^^9 The cavernous sinuses receive a gi'cat number of meningeal veins, the ophthahnic veins, whose roots originate m the interior of the ! ve and orbit, several emissary veins which traverse the sphenoid iione and the two coronary sinuses. B neath the pituitary body the two cavernous sinuses have a very cUstinct communication, {Sinus transversahsSellce eqmnce, Haller.) 1580. Superior Petrous Sinuses, (Sinus petrosz superiores). 1 hey seem to arise from the termination of the preceding sinuses, towards the summit of the petrous process, whose upper edge they follow, lodcred in a pretty distinct groove, and in a part oi the great cir- cumference of the tentorium cerebelli. They pass above the nerve of the fifth pair, where they leave for a moment the groove ot the (temporal bone. They are less broad but longer than the inferior ; ithey open into the lateral sinuses, towards the point where the lat- iter experience a curvature. They are triangular m theu: interior, aand present but very few transverse bridles. . ^ „ . . ™, \5Si. Inferior Petrous Sinuses, (Sinus Petrosilnferiores). They f arise from the cavernous sinuses at the same point as the pi-ececl- i ino- with which they communicate at their commencement, descend Ibehind and to the outside between the inferior edge of the petrous £and basilar processes, and terminate in the lateral sinuses opposite tthe sinus of the internal jugular vein. They are broader at their {extremities than at their middle part, and present the same struc- tture as the superior petrous sinuses. Their inner wall, that which i» immediately applied upon the bones, appears to be formed only cof the internal membrane of the veins, no lamina of the dura ma- t ter being perceived upon it. The two petrous sinuses receive veins of no great importance, J all of which come from the dura mater. Some of them traverse 1 the bones and communicate with the outside of the skull. 1582. Transverse Sinus (Sinus Occipitalis Anterior). Flacecl t transversely at the upper part of the basilar process, it forms a c communication between the union of the two petrous sinuses and c cavernous sinus of the one side with that of the other. It varies in breadth, but is always of large size, and is lodged between two laminse of the dura mater, in a superficial depression of the bone. 1 In its interior, it presents a very distinct cavernous tissue. It re- c (ieives several veins from the labyrinth. It is by no means rare to see two or three other transverse si- r nuses placed between the latter and the occipital hole. OF THE riA mateh. 1583. The Pia Mater, (Meninx Interior,) covers the brain on all sides, is prolonged into its internal cavities, and dips down into the anfractuositics and depressions which are observed at its sur- face. It is not prolonged over the spinal marrow. We also ob- serve that, properly speaking, it is not a true membrane analogousORGANS OF SENSATION. 440 to the organs known under that name. It is a cellular, loose, transparent web, without consistence, in which there ramify and cross each other in a thousand different directions a multitude of blood vessels, more or less delicate, and more or less tortuous, and is only attached to the surface of the brain by the ramus- cules of these vessels which penetrate into the substance of the lat- ter organ. 1584. External Pia Mater. Above, the pia mater, covers on each side, the convex surface of the two hemispheres of the brain, sinks into their anfractuosities, is reflected in the great longitudinal fissure, prolongs itself over the upper surface of the corpus callo- sum, and descends upon its anterior extremity; opposite the pos- terior extremity, it also bends downwards, but enters into the third ventricle. Inferiorly, the pia mater covers on each side the anterior, middle, and posterior lobes of the brain, sinks into the fissura Sylvii, is reflected over the commissure of the optic nerves, after covering the membrane which closes the third ventricle an- teriorly, passes over the layer of gray substance which forms its floor, envelopes the infundibulum, invests the inferior surface of the cerebral protuberance, is engaged in the groove which sepa- rates it from the spinal marrow, on which it presently ceases in an insensible manner, to be carried over the lower surface of the ce- rebellum, and from thence over the upper, as far as the posterior cerebral fissure, by which it enters into the third ventricle. It sinks between the lobes of the cerebellum, and is engaged in all the anfractuosities which separate its concentric laminae. By its outer surface the pia mater is in contact with and ad- heres to the arachnoid membrane, upon all the cerebral promin- ences, but is entirely isolated from it opposite the depressions into which it alone penetrates. They are then even frequently separated by a pretty large vacant interval, as may be easily seen in the fissura Sylvii, in the spaces which exist between the lobes of the cerebellum, between the brain and the cerebral protuber- ance, &c. Its inner surface corresponds everywhere to the cere- bral substance. 1585. Internal Pia Mater. The pia mater penetrates into the third ventricle by the transverse fissure which exists between the corpus callosum and the cerebral protuberance, and into the lateral ventricles by that which is met with on each side between the op- tic thalamus and the corpus fimbriatum. 1586. In penetrating by the transverse cerebral fissure, the pia mater forms, in the third ventricle, the Tela Choroidea, or velum interpositum, a kind of membraneous prolongation which lines the posterior part of the corpus callosum and the inferior surface of the fornix, to which it adheres by a great quantity of vascular fn^igs. Its form is that of a truncated triangle, whose base, which is very broad, is directed backwards. Its lower surface is free anteriorly in the third ventricle, and, farther back, presents the orifice of the arachnoid canal, above the pineal gland, wliich is embraced in theOF THE ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. 441 bids of the velum interpositum. The latter, altogether posteriorly, applied upon the posterior commissure and the tubercula quad- i-remina. Laterally, it covers the upper region of the thalami of !ie optic nerves, passes into the fissures which separate them from lie fornix, and is continuous with the edge of the choroid plexus, interiorly it is continuous with these same plexuses by the aper- tures of communication between the lateral and third ventricles. 1587- The Choroid Plexuses are a kind of flat, reddish mem- ibrano-vascular cords, attached to the velum interpositum by one of :ltheir edges, loose, floating, and undulated at the other edge, and 'Extending, in the lateral ventricles, along the sides of the fornix and *ifimbriated bodies. They are more voluminous in the lower part tithan in the upper part of the ventricles, and altogether inferior- ity and posteriorly communicate directly with the external pia nmater, which dives into the brain between the thalami of the optic nnerves and the fimbriated bodies. They are especially formed by {'folds of the pia mater, in which ramify a multitude of minute aarteries and especially veins. There is frequently perceived in tthem a more or less considerable number of small rounded bodies, oof the size of a millet seed, or even smaller. Many anatomists have cconsidered them as glands; but Chaussier asserts that they are rmembraneous fringes, which may be unfolded by agitating them in »water. There are also frequently found in them small serous cysts cor vesicles. OF THE ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. 1588. The Arachnoid* Membrane (Meninx media), is situated ; between the dura mater and pia mater, and was long confounded ' with the latter. Its belongs to the class of serous membranes. It i is extremely thin, transparent, polished, and constantly moistened 1 with a serous fluid. It does not contain any blood-vessels. It re- 1 presents a kind of bag without aperture, covering the whole surface of the brain, and the walls of the cavity which the dura I mater forms. It furnishes all the nerves, and all the vessels which enter into or issue from, the skull and vertebral canal, with a sheath • or envelope which accompanies them, and is reflected over them, so ' that none of these organs is contained in its cavity, which is only filled with a serous vapour. Its thickness is a little greater in the 1 places where it is free at its two surfaces, and in the sheaths of which we have just spoken. 1589. External Arachiioid Membrane.—On the convexity of the cerebrum, it invests the convolutions without penetrating into the anfractuosities by which they arc separated, and gives to each vem, gomg to the longitudinal sinus, a sheath which is reflected over tlic dura mater. Descending on each side in the great lon- * 'A(a;if^mim, resembling a spider's web.442 ORGANS OF SENSATION. gitudinal fissure, it lines the corpus callosum, passing over thb arteries which cover it, and furnishes the veins of the inferior lon- gitudinal sinus with envelopes which are afterwards continued on the falx cerebri. Posteriorly, the arachnoid membrane is prolonged over the posterior lobes, envelopes some of the veins of the lateral si- nuses, is reflected over the upper surface of the cerebellum, sur- rounds the veins of the straight sinus, and part of those of the lateral sinuses, then covers the circumference and inferior surface of the cerebellum, between the two hemispheres of which it is isolated by its two surfaces over a greater or less extent. Anteriorly, the arachnoid membrane descends over the anterior lobes, and passes immediately from the one to the other inferiorly, | near the commissure of the optic nerves, without penetrating into the fissure which separates them. It equally covers the inferior surface of the olfactory nerves, for which it forms a small sheath near their extremity. It also furnishes one to each of the optic nerves; but this sheath is conical, accompanies them to a great distance, and is only reflected upon their fibrous envelope in the orbit. It descends farther around the infundibulum, and is ex^ panded over the pituitary body which separates it from the dura mater. It embraces the internal carotid arteries at their exit from the cavernous sinuses; it then passes under the cerebral protuber- ance, being separated from the pia mater in all the space that ex- ists between that protuberance and the commissure of the optic nerves, which is also separated from it, but by a less marked in- terval, opposite the protuberance and the grooves which limit the anterior prolongations laterally. It also gives sheaths to the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh pairs of nerves. Lastly, it directs itself over the lateral parts of the cerebellum, the posterior prolon- gations, the pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal, and first cervical nerves, the vertebral arteries, and the spinal marrow it- self, with which it is only comiected by a small number of cellular filaments, easily torn, and which in general scarcely exist, so that 'f it may be very easily detached by insufflation. On the sides of the » spinal marrow, the arachnoid membrane furnishes envelopes to each nerve, and to each serra of the ligamentum dentatum, which are reflected upon the dura mater when the nerve penetrates it, and when the ligamentum dentatum is inserted into it. It also fur- nishes an envelope to the vessels which creep upon its anterior and » posterior surfaces. Lastly, on arriving at the lower extremity of the spinal marrow, it terminates by a sort of narrow and very long canal, of a cylindri- cal form, which descends vertically in the middle of the bundles of the lumbar nerves, to the extremity of the sacral canal, where it is J reflected upon the dura mater. I It is by means of this canal, and of all the envelopes of the nerves I and vessels, that it may be conceived how the arachnoid membrane I covers in its whole extent the inner surface of the dura mater, and I gives it the smooth and polished appearance which it presents. It ■OF THE ENCEPHALIC MEMBRANES. pretty difficult to separate these two membranes from each other r the scalpel, excepting in the foetus or in very young children. 1590. Internal Arachtioid Membrane. In proceeding from the irpus callosum over the cerebellum, the arachnoid membrane, hich has here become extremely thin, dives into the third ventri- 0 by an oval aperture which Bichat first discovered. This aper- n o is the orifice of a canal formed in the portion of the pia mater liich goes to constitute the tela choroidea (1586), and which em- races on all sides the vensE Galeni and their numerous roots, to Inch the arachnoid membrane furnishes an envelope. This ca- al is afterwards prolonged under these veins, between thei pineal laud and the tubercula quadrigemina, and opens into the third entricle, beneath the velum interpositum. It is from thence that hhe arachnoid membrane proceeds to line the walls of the third ven- rricle, and the lower surface of the velum interpositum. It then i!)asses, by means of the communicating apertures, into the lateral eentricles, where it covers the choroid plexuses, closing the fissure r^hich exists between the fornix, the corpora fimbriata, and the op- idc thalami. Lastly, by the aqueduct of Sylvius (1550) it descends imto the ventricle of the cerebellum, all the apertures of which it loses. 1591. Red vessels have not yet been observed in this mem- lorane, even when it is inflamed. Mascagni and Ludwig assert iheir having seen lymphatic vessels in it, but no nerves have been fliscovered. GRANULATIONS OF THE ENCEPHALIC MEMBRANES. 1592. There are observed, in various parts of the dura mater ■and pia mater, certain small bodies of a whitish or yellowish co- lour, sometimes isolated, sometimes collected together in the form of a bunch of grapes, which receive vessels, but are destitute of nerves, of whose intimate texture and uses we are entirely ignorant, land which are not met with in children or in all subjects. The superior longitudinal sinus contains a remarkable quantity Ibf them, particularly at its middle and posterior parts. They were formerly designated by the name of Glands of Facchioni, al- though they are very diflPerent from glandular organs. These gra- nulations generally occupy in this sinus the circumference of the orifices of the veins, where they form a more or less distinct pro- minence between the internal bridles. Very few of them are iso- lated, almost all being agglomerated into small masses, and inti- mately connected with each other. They are covered by the in- ternal membrane of the sinus. In the torcular Herophili very few of them are observed. But there arc some at the mouths of the veins, in the occipital portion of the lateral sinuses. In the straight sinuses some are occasion-444 ORGANS OF SENSATION. ally found at the orifices of the venae Galeni. All the other si nuses are destitute of them. 1593. In the external pia mater graniform bodies resemblin those of the sinuses are also met with. They are especially o^ served along and to the outside of the superior longitudinal siniiJL around the cerebral veins. Here they are enveloped by the araclt noid membrane, and their size is so much the larger the nearer th^j are to the sinus. Some of them are engaged in the separations 9 the fibres of the dura mater which give passage to the veins, anE are in some measure continuous with the granulations of the sinn itself. At the base of the brain and around the other sinuses similar disposition is observed. 1594. The internal pia mater also presents some of these grs nulations. They are observed in the choroid plexus, where the are of a reddish gray colour, and rather soft. There are also som beneath the velum interposition, at the fore part of the pines gland, where they are disposed in two rows which unite so as t form a triangle, at the base of which the canal of the arachnoi membrane opens. Lastly, they are equally met with in the chc xoid plexus of the fourth ventricle. OF THE PROPER MEMBRANE OF THE SPINAL MARROW. 1595. Some authors consider this membrane as a prolongatioi of the pia mater of the brain; but it presents sufficient difference to render it distinguishable from that envelope. It is formed by solid, pretty thick, firm, strong, and somewhat fibrous tissue; it density is so much the greater the lower it is examined. Few ves sels ramify in it, but it is traversed by a great number on thei way to the spinal marrow ; its colour is yellowish white. By it,' j ' escternal surface., it is in connexion with the arachnoid membranei j but forms no adhesion to it. Laterally, it is continuous with the 1 neiu-ilema of the vertebral nerves and with the ligamentum dentu tum. Its internal surface adheres to the spinal marrow in so in timate a manner as to seem to be continuous with it. Its vppo extremity is prolonged, becoming insensibly thinner, as far as th( cerebral protuberance. OF THE LIGAMENTUM DENTATUM. 1596. The Ligamentum dentatum is a whitish, transparent thin, but very strong band, which extends from the great occipit^ hole to the inferior extremity of the spinal marrow, passing on eacl side between the anterior and posterior roots of the vertebra nerves. Several modern anatomists have considered the ligamen-f tum dentatum as a prolongation of the proper membrane of the spinal marrow; but it is really distinct from it.445 OF THE CEREBRAL AND SPINAL NERVES. ■ In its outer edge, each ligamcntum clentatum presents succcs- vely twenty or twenty-two clenticulations, from which the liga- aent has received its name, whose points more or less elon- nated, are attached to the sheath which the dura mater forms ■vround the spinal marrow, in the interval that occurs between each air of cervical and dorsal nerves. The base of each of these den- aculations is triangular; but their form and size vary much. The iipper are shorter and transverse ; the lower become gradually aore oblique and longer. The first is attached, by a very sharp lilament, to the edge of the great occipital hole, between the hy- Doglossal nerve and the vertebral artery. The last is fixed oppo- itite the twelfth dorsal, or first lumbar vertebra, and separates the ilorsal from the lumbar nerves. By its inner edge, this ligament adheres to the proper mem- 'Drane of the spinal marrow, by means of a dense cellular tissue, without any continuity of substance taking place. 1597- It must not be confounded with the arachnoid membrane srhich covers it, and from which it may be separated by insuffla- ion. Its intimate structure is entirely unknown. Its use appears CO be to keep down the spinal marrow in its canal. Of the Cerebral and Spinal Nerves. GENERAL CONST DERATIONS. 1598. These Nerves are white, generally cylindrical cords, r commonly communicating with each other in various parts of their course, arising, symmetrically and in pairs, from the brain and spinal marrow, and formed of a more or less considerable number 0 of interlaced filaments connected together by cellular tissue. They vary in their direction, being parallel, perpendicular, or ' inclined to the axis of the body; but, whatever this direction may he, they almost always proceed in a direct line, in place of being tortuous like most of the arteries. As they recede from the place ' of their origin, the nerves divide into branches and twigs which terminate by filaments, which again subdivide into very delicate fibrils. The separation of the branches and twigs takes place at angles more or less acute with relation to the trunk, and is indi- cated long before by a groove which results from a mere juxta-po- - sition of the branch against the trunk. In general, the nervous trunks traverse the great cellular inter- stices of the trunk and extremities. Most commonly they are cy- hndncal; but sometimes also flat, as is observed in the sciatic nerve. Their length varies much ; but it is greater in the extremi- ties than m the trunk or upon the head. They may be isolated m their passage, or accompanied by blood-vessels.ORGANS OF SENSATION, 446 It is also to be remarked, that the sum of the united diameter of the different branches of the same nerve is much greater, tha the diameter of its principal trunk, so that every nerve may b said to represent a cone \vhose base is at the periphery of the bod or organs, and the summit at the brain or spinal marrow. 1599. The filaments which terminate the branches of the nerve, end, by being continued into other nervous filaments, or by dis appearing in the tissue of the organs, without our being as ye able to say exactly in what manner. The communication of th nervous filaments, or their continuation into each other, is name Anastomosis ;* this mode of junction must be carefully distinguish- ed from that of mere juxta-position, which is sometimes observed. The nervous anastomoses may take place in four different ways: 1st, By two branches which belong to different nerves, as is ob- served to take place between the hypoglossal nerve and the cervi- cal nerves. 2dly, By branches of the same nerve, as in those of the trifacial nerve or facial nerve. 3dly, By branches united in the median line of the body, and coming separately from each side, as may be seen in the superficial nerves of the neck and face. These three modes of anastomosis take place between filaments of the same nervous system. But, 4thly, There is another in which filaments of the encephalic system are united with filaments of the sympathetic. 1600. If two or more different nerves approach each other, and if their different branches are confounded by a great number of an- astomoses, or even of juxta-positions, so that there results a sort of more or less complicated net-work, a Plexus is produced. The different nervous branches which are spread out to form a plexus unite again, and give rise to trunks which pursue their course in the usual manner. Very distinct examples of this arrangement oc- cur in the extremities. 1601. Every nerve is formed by a greater or less number of cords, placed in juxta-position, which are themselves formed o£ several filaments of the same nature. The number of these fila- ments is always very considerable, and frequently even cannot be determined by optical instruments; but, with the assistance of acids and alkalies, the structure of the nerves, such as we shall presently describe it, is as it were laid bare. All these cords also, as well as their fibres, are connected by cellular tissue ; on sepa- rating them, it is perceived that they send frequent branches to each other, so as to form a kind of plexus in the very substance of the nerve, on which account, the filaments that compose the cords, are after a certain passage no longer the same as at the commence-; ment of the nerve. The disposition of the nervous cord presents numerous varia- tions. Their size is seldom the same in the different nerves ; nor is it proportional to the volume of the nerve. Those of the sciatic • AfoirliftMtiSf rnoscuMio.447 OF THE ENCEPHALIC NERVES. or example, are smaller, than those of the radial or ulnar i» fierves. Sometimes also a nerve is only formed of a single cord, ; \ivided by a great number of grooves : such is the pneumogastric i rerve. The same nerve sometimes unites large and small cords ; 11 other times they are equal, as in the sciatic nerve, &c. ! 1602. Every encephalic nerve is enveloped by an external mem- rxane, which forms for each of its filaments a true canal in which II contained a white medullary matter. This membrane is the \Wenrilema.* That which surrounds the vertebral nerves is laanifestly continuous with the proper membrane of the spinal laarrow (1595 ;) and, in like manner, that which envelopes the lerves at the level of the cerebral protuberance appears to be identified with the pia mater, which invests that portion of the rrain. The olfactory nerve has no neurilema, and the optic nerve rresents it only after its commissure. The neurilema adheres strongly to the cellular tissue. It is transparent, and seems fibrous. It is dissolved by the action of ■cids ; by long-continuing boiling it acquires a peculiar yellowish lint; alkalies have no effect upon it; maceration does not dis- ix)lve it, and it resists putrefaction for a very long time. Its ten- ccity is considerable, but its intimate nature is yet very little cnown. 1603. In each tube formed by the neurilema is a medullary uubstance which exactly fills it. It seems of the same nature as hhe white substance of the brain and spinal marrow ;-|- it is from it bhat the nerve derives its peculiar tint; by desiccation it becomes aensibly yeUow; it resists putrefaction more than the cerebral idssue ; like it it does not curl like horn either under the influence of caloric, or under that of acids ; like it, also, it remains suspended nn water under the form of an emulsion ; by ebullition, it acquires i dull and gray hue. Sulphuric acid at first hardens it, and then reduces it to a pulp ; nitric acid only renders it yellow and hardens it; alcohol also hardens it, while the alkalies dissolve it. j We have to remark, however, that many anatomists, even of the '''ipresent day, do not admit this intimate structure of the nerves, and refuse to the neurilema the canalicvdate form which we have attributed to it above; but when these organs are submitted to the action of different reagents, as they have been by Reil and Bichat, the circumstances mentioned above are met with. 1604. The nerves are invested and connected with the neighr bouring parts, by an abundant layer of adipose cellular tissue, vhich sends off, internally, prolongations which separate and isolate the nervous cords and filaments from each other. The principal of these prolongations generally contain fat; but those which are interposed between the nervous filaments themselves do not contain * NiJjov, nervta ; Aj^^b, tunica. alol f ""."^ authors, and wnong the rest I\Ionro, are of ophiion that a gray subitance also exists in the nerves.448 ORGANS OF SENSATION. any. This cellular tissue unites the cords of the nerves and tb< filaments, so that no motion can take place between them. It not observed around the nerves that are lodged in a bony canal. 1605. The arterial trunks which accompany the nerves, se: them branches which penetrate on all sides into their interioAri the optic nerve is the only exception to this rule. These smaKti arteries creep at first in the cellular tissue that exists between tlpre cords, and have there a more or less considerable size. They sei small branches into all the interstices of the filaments, which eMiS pand upon the neurilema and seem to lose themselves upon iSp inner surface. K 1C06. The veins of the nerves follow the same course as thep arteries, but do not issue by the same places which give entrancpr to the latter. |' 1607. Absorbent vessels have not yet been traced in all . til nerves, some authors having only pointed them out in the princr pal nerves; nor has it been demonstrated that nervous filamen go to be distributed upon the neurilema. 1608. The encephaUc nerves are usually divided into severi, classes, according to the place where their trunk is connectedr they are thus distinguished into nerves which arise from the cerd brum, the cerebral protuberance, the medulla oblongata, and tli medulla spinalis. The cerebellum does not furnish any. But re cent discoveries, of which indications, however, were previous^ furnished by various anatomists, afford quite different ideas wit respect to the nerves. Like the different parts of the encephaloij they seem produced, at their origin, by bundles of fibres reinforce by gray matter. It even appears demonstrated that in followin the roots of the different nerves, they are seen ascending from th spinal marrow towards the point where they show themselves e; ternally ; and, in fact, the olfactory nerve is the only one in whic no direct connexion with the spinal marrow can be demonstrate or at least with the protuberance formed especially by the med lary cords which arise from its upper part. In several nerve however, in man, this disposition is not so manifest as not to quire the analogy furnished by the anatomy of animals of the othe classes ; but as we are merely occupied with the description of th organization of the human body, we must stop short where th testimony of the senses can no longer guide us in our researche We shall, therefore, confine ourselves to the circumstances th are manifested in man. OF THE CEREBRAL NERVES IN PARTICULAR. OF THE FIUST PAIK OF NERVES. (Nervus Olfactorius.) 1609. There arc few subjects in anatomy that present so mud .OF THE OLFACTORY NERVES. 449 diversity of opinion in authors as the olfactory nerves, whether ith reference to their origin, or to their texture, and even their :se. The ancients considered them as enlunctories, or canals by hhich the serum and pituita, separated by the brain, flowed oft', and lamed them Procesms Mammilares. They formed the subject ■ ■ a long series of discussions, and it is only by the labours of the Aore recent anatomists that we have been apprised of their struc- irure and precise distribution. 1610. The origin of the olfactory nerves takes place by three slaments, named their roots, which have been followed beyond th& iorface, and far into the substance, of the brain. Two of these wots are formed by the white substance, and distinguished into later and inner; the third is gray. 1611. The outer ivhite root, which is the longest, is directed utwards, backwards, and upwards, concealed in a great measure by lae fissura Sylvii, and placed above the contorted branches of the r ternal carotid artery. It arises from the outer region of the cor- iias striatum (1534), and becomes apparent externally at the most rmote part of the anterior lobe of the brain, at its point of union idth the middle lobe, upon the gray substance of its last convolu- oon, in the midst of very distinct apertures which give passage to as laany large vascular trunks that penetrate into the brain. It also eequently receives in this region one or two small medullary flla- laents which make it appear palmated. 1612. The inner white root, which is shorter and broader, pre- cnts a silvery colour, like the preceding. It appears to be con- lounded posteriorly and internally with the white substance which MJcupies the inner part of the fissura Sylvii, and is prolonged as nr as the anterior part of the corpus callosum, being sometimes tifurcated; but, like the other, it always seems incrusted in the aray substance, and appears only traced upon the inferior surface f the brain. 1613. Frequently the mode of origin of these two roots is not lie same to the right and left; frequently also, in the angle which sesults from their union, there are observed some white filaments I'hich join them, and which proceed from the nearest cerebral con- tolution. Sometimes, one or other of them divides, in the mid- dle of its course, into two branches which soon unite, so as to cir- itumscribe a kind of island of gray substance. 1614. The gray root has the form of a pyramidal body laid over 'he point of junction of the preceding two, and united to them by ' ts summit, which is directed forwards. After this junction, it be- omes a thin cord, always retaining its grayish colour, which pre- ails upon the middle of the upper surface of the nerve. On slit- •ng It in the direction of its length, its centre is found occupied by ■hite substance, and at the distance of three or four lines beyond :s union, the gray matter is gradually seen to become thinner and t length to disappear altogether, so as to leave this central me- ullary part exposed, ti 2 oORGANS OF SENSATION. 4.50 1615. There is observed between the three roots of the olfacto nerve a portion of the white substance of the brain, entirely bai > at the inferior substance of the cerebrum, and perforated wii a great number of more or less vertical holes for the passage of sm; arteries, so that these roots are in a manner surrounded and peii trated by vessels. 1616. At the place of their union, the nerve presents a tria. gular bulging. It soon becomes flattened, contracts, and direc itself horizontally forwards under the anterior lobe of the brai being situated in a groove, which conceals its gray portion, a prevents it from being compressed upon the bones of the base the cranium. This groove, which we have already describ (1506), is always prolonged farther forwards than the extremity the nerve, and much deeper at its middle part than at its t extremities. The inferior surface of the nerve, which presents ven longitudinal striae, of which, three are cineritious and four whi is covered by the arachnoid membrane. It is manifestly flatten while the upper surface presents a prominent ridge which penetra into the groove; a disposition which makes the nerve appear as inclosed in a canal, the upper part of which is formed by t' groove of the brain, and the lower by the arachnoid membrane. As it advances, the olfactory nerve proceeds a little inwards, as to. approach its fellow, and to be only separated from it by t crista galli; its prismatic form also changes insensibly, so that does not present an equally triangular section in aU its extent, rests posteriorly upon the upper surface of the body of the sp' noid bone, and anteriorly upon the ethmoid groove, where it comes larger, and forms a bulb {hulhus olfactorius), more roun before than behind, which contains much gray substance. During this course, the olfactory nerve, which is someti larger on the right side than on the left, is soft and pulpy, and enveloped by a neurilema. 1617. It is from the inferior surface of the bulb which fills ethmoid groove, that the branches which pass through the ap tures of the cribriform plate to the nasal fossae, proceed. T vary much in their number, form, and direction. Frequently largest holes receive two or three ; but they may always be d tinguished into external, internal and middle. 1618. Their number differs much in dift'erent subjects ; son- times they are very small and numerous, while at other tini they are very few in number, and large. Each of them is c braced by a small funnel-shaped fibrous canal furnished by 1 dura mater, which stops short a little beyond the hole, and ■ continued into the outer layer of the pituitary membrane. Ti' are also enveloped by the arachnoid membrane, which adhci loosely to them, and leaves them, after a short passage, to be • fleeted upon the fibrous canal and to enter the cranium, formin * kind of cul-de-sac. A gray, transparent lamina, and tlie pia )OF THE OLFACTORY NERVES. 4.51 er, which descends to a greater or less distance in the nasal fossae, iho accompany them. 1619. The moment they are enveloped by the dura mater, the n anches of the olfiictory nerve become thicker, and harden to such I degree as no longer to resemble what they were at first. 1620. The ecctemal branches are prolonged into the canals it)f the turbinated bones (355, 357) ? they divide and subdivide, anastomosing with each other, without leaving these canals, which bhemselves anastomose. When they have emerged from them, hheir anastomoses become still more frequent, and they form a true blexus which may be distinctly perceived by dissecting under wa- er. On the upper turbinated bone there are observed several, I vhich curve backwards, so that their convexity is turned towards hhe sinus of the sphenoid bone. Those of the anterior part, which inre more numerous, are nearly vertical. The middle ones are the congest of all; they curve backwards upon the ethmoidal turbi- laated bone, and there ramify much, but without passing to the i^oncave surface, the membrane of the ethmoid cell, that of the iiinuses, or the inferior turbinated bone. 1621. The internal branches, already divided before leaving hhe cribriform plate, follow the septum, on which they divide anew nnto a great number of filaments between the two layers of the pi- uuitary membrane. Their number is at first from twelve to four- teen, each of them subdivides to such a degree as to appear peni- i:ilUform, and to be the origin of a very compound bundle. Seve- a-al of these filaments, joined together, form whitish bands of vari- luus length, one or two of which reach nearly as far as the bottom hf the septum. Anteriorly, they do not extend beyond its middle; loosteriorly, they are much shorter still, and curved back upon the convexity of the sphenoidal sinuses. 1622. The middle branches, on arriving in the nasal fossae, lilmost immediately lose themselves in the portion of the membrane flffhich lines their vault. 1623. There is much diversity of opinion about the manner in 'Which these branches terminate. Many anatomists have thought hthat they formed the vUlosities or papilla of the pituitary mem- rbrane. The most careful dissections, aided by various reagents, have not afforded me any information on this subject. Scarpa has It been equally baffled with the microscope. He merely saw them e forming a kind of proper membrane, in which, according to Blu- I menbach's remark, they seem in a manner to be dissolved. ! The trunk of the olfactory nerves receives arteries i "which arise from the anterior cerebral arteries, and are expand- < ed in the pia mater covering its lower surface. They are very i numerous, and follow the nervous filaments as far as the nose, i where they sometimes appear through the pituitary membrane. ^^mall veins are also observed around their trunk, as well as some )| lymphatics.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 1G25. The olfactory nerves differ from all the other ncrvf-s in the following circumstances: : Their trunk has three roots, which the two substances of the brain concur to form. It converges towards that of the opposite side as it advances. Its form is that of a triangular prism. It is lodged in a particular groove of the brain. The arachnoid membrane does not furnish it with a sheath, and only covers it on one of its surfaces. It is entirely soft and pulpy. It has no neurilema. Its filaments do not anastomose with those of any other nerve. They issue from the cranium by a great number of holes. OF THE SKCOND PAIIl OF NEUV-ES, Oil OPTIC NEUVES. 162G. The optic nerves (Nervi optici), are more voluminous than the preceding, and than all the other nerves which issue from the head, with the exception of the fifth pair, and are remarkable for the circumstance of their course being longer within than on the outside of the cranium, and for their not furnishing a single branch from their origin to their termination; they do not come from the thalami of that name, as they are pretty generally de- scribed doing, but evidently .appear to issue from the tubercula quadrigemina. In fact, the anterior pair of these tubercles (nates) furnish a white fibrous band, which tui-ns over the outer edge of the optic thalami, and is reinforced by joining itself intimately to the corpus geniculatum ewternum, (1533) a kind of bulging formed of cineritious matter. Thus far the band adheres by the whole of one of its surfaces to the optic thalamus; but it nowl passes under the crus of the brain, to which it is only attached byB its outer and anterior edge. T IC27. Immediately after their origin, the optic nerves proceed! forwards and inwards, leaving the fissure, separating the middle lobes from the cerebral protuberance, in which they were at first concealed. When they have arrived beyond the crura cerebri, they cease to be broad and flat; they contract and become round- ed, are exposed under the floor of the third ventricle, and adhere to the layer of gray substance (tuber cinereum) which chiefly forms it. This layer sends to the upper surface of the nerve se- veral white filaments, which do not cross each other, but are unit- ed to each of its sides, following a straight line. ' 1628. At the fore part of the sella turcica, the two optic nerves unite, without its being possible, however, to affirm in a positive manner whetlier they cross each other, so that the left nerve passes . to the right, and the right to the left, or whether the substance i.*; f mingled and identified in this place, which appears more probable; but comparative anatomy and pathological affections furnish near- .OF THE OPTIC NEllVES. 4>53 y as many facts for the one, as for the other of these opinions. Vt the place of this union, the optic nerves form a quacWlateral Kidy (commissure of the optic nerves), which rests upon a trans- ( isc groove of the sphenoid bone, gives attachment by its upper u if ace to the membrane which closes the third ventricle anterior- k, and is manifestly continuous behind with the tuber cinereum, hence the infundibulum arises. 1629. The optic nerves then separate again; but they are now icrfectly cylindrical and isolated on all sides. They proceed for- wards and outwards toward the optic foramina through which they <sue from the cranium along with the ophthalmic artery, which is ihiccd at the lower and outer part. In this second part of their ourse, they are enveloped by a neurilema, while from their exit rom beneath the middle lobe of the brain to that of their union, hey were only covered by the pia mater and arachnoid membrane, ,nd that at the under surface only. 1630. The latter membrane, however, at the foremost part, I'brms, around them, a sheath which accompanies them into the op- idc foramen, and is then reflected over the dura mater, which also iiurnishes them with a fibrous canal, which we have already de- scribed (1559). In passing through the optic holes, they bend lilightly at an obtuse angle, and become of smaller diameter. At Idieir entrance into the orbit, they are surrounded by the posterior >extremities of the four recti muscles of the eye, from the fleshy KDodies of which they are separated by a considerable mass of adi- KDose cellular tissue, in which are found immersed the ciliary lacrves and vessels, and the ophthalmic ganglion. During their ) passage in this cavity, the optic nerves describe a slight curvature, •bf which the convexity is directed outwards. On arriving at the >tposterior, internal, and inferior parts of the eye, they experience a manifest contraction, traverse the sclerotic and choroid mem- branes, and terminate at the middle of the retina by a truncated extremity. 1631. Until their union, the optic' nerves arc soft and en- tirely pulpy; they present at their surface no trace of striae or cineritious substance; they generally only present some aper- tures which are traversed by blood-vessels. Beyond their com- missure, they become denser and firmer. From the optic hole to their termination, they are surrounded by an exterior neu- Irilema, very distinct from the meningeal sheath, with which they arc, however, connected by small laminar prolongations. This neurilema is thicker, stronger, and whiter than that of the other nerves; from its internal surface there are detached pro- longations in the form of partitions, which seem to divide the inte- rior of the nerve into a great number of small canals filled with white substance. The optic nerve is not, therefore, like the other nerves, formed of an assemblage of filaments united into a cord, and iif^ structure may be very well seen by leaving it to macerate foi; ome tunc in a solution of corrosive sublimate, and by wasiiing with.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 454 a solution of potass the parenchyma, obtained by this means, which must be quickly dried after the two ends have been tied with a thread. By means of the microscope, M. Bauer found that the fibres,! whose assemblage constitutes the optic nerve, are composed in ; great measure of very minute globules, whose diameter varic from ju^cu to TTo'i^o of an inch. These globules resemble those Oi the blood deprived of their envelope of colouring matter, and arc united together by a gelatinous substance, very soluble in water and perfectly transparent. 1632. Besides these peculiarities of structure, the optic nerve is: further distinguished from all others, by the circumstances, that it is enveloped by the dura mater to the place of its termination, that it unites with its fellow, and that a Tittle before terminating it prc-| sents a contraction. OF THK THIRD PAIR OF NERVES. (Nervi oculo-motorii). 1G33. These nerves issue* from the crura cerebri, towards thei inner edge, and receive filaments from the substantia perforata mc dia (1506). At their origin the filaments of the third pair ar very soft, and break with the greatest ease. It may, however, with' proper care, be discovered that they are arranged in a line which follows nearly the direction of the crura ; that the posterior are thel longest, and that most of them may be followed under the cerebrali protuberance, as far as the central black spot of the crura. 1634. By their union, these filaments form a flat cord, which is closely embraced by the posterior cerebral and superior cerebella arteries. Presently this cord contracts and becomes rounded, ac quires more consistence, and is enveloped by a neurilema and b the arachnoid membrane. Free at the under part of the brain, i proceeds obliquely forwards and outwards to the point which th tentorium cerebelli forms anteriorly. There, it is lodged in a canal formed in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus of the dura mater . (1562), at the entrance of which it is left by the arachnoid mera-| brane, which forms a cul-de-sac. It thus arrives at the splienoidal | fissure, being only separated from the internal carotid artery by a ■ thin lamina of cellular tissue. In this part of its course, that is to say, . from its entrance under the dura mater, this nerve is situated inter- k nally of and above the nerve of the fourth pair, and the ophthalmic }f branch of the fifth; but under the anterior chnoid process, it is, in = • It is to be observed that we employ tliis and similar expressions for the purpose of accommodating ourselves to the language generally adopted, for it now appears demonstrated that tiie nerves isolated from the spinal marrow and brain, arc, on tlie contrary, in conseejucnce of a conccntiic march, inserted into the tissue of these latter parts.OF THE PATIlJiTIC NERVES. 455 •i-its turn, covered by these two nerves, wlucli cross it obliquely, and 1 cieconie internal with respect to it. 16'35. A httle before passing through the sphenoidal fissure, it , luvides into two branches, a superior and an inferior, which tra- I cerse the dura mater, and penetrate into the orbit by the broadest ii»art of that fissure, passing between the two portions of the poste- dor extremity of the rectus externus oculi, along with the nerve of ihe sixth pair and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, to Irhich they are united by cellular tissue. 1636. Superior Branch. It directs itself forwards and a little inwards, passes above the optic nerve and the nasal branch, imme- iliately proceeds to the inferior surface of the rectus superior oculi, iind furnishes it with a great number of divergent filaments. Ano- hJier filament, a little smaller, follows the inner edge of this muscle, rr even traverses it to be spread out in the levator palpebras supe- idoris. This branch also receives one or two small twigs of the na- lal nerve. 1637. Inferior Branch. Much larger than the preceding, it ddvances between the lower and outer part of the optic nerve and hhe rectus inferior oculi, and, after a passage of a few lines, di- i/ides into three twigs : 1st, an i««er, the largest, which proceeds ibbliquely to the origin of the rectus internus oculi, in the substance bf which it is expanded ; 2dly, a middle twig, much shorter and ismaller, which proceeds directly forwards, and ramifies in the rec- uus inferior ; 3dly, an outer, much longer and more slender than Ithe other two, which, at its origin, gives off a short and flat filament, ascending on the outside of the optic nerve, and going to be united 4o the posterior part of the ophthalmic ganghon, and then pro- ■ffieeds between the rectus inferior and rectus externus, without ' Furnishing them with any filament, passes under the ball of the eye, and at length penetrates nearly at a right angle into the obli- i ^uus inferior, near its tendon. I ; 1638. This nerve, which has nothing peculiar in its structure, ngives motion to all the muscles of the eye, excepting the rectus ex- .ternus and obliquus superior. It communicates with the ophthal- ■■Jnic ganglion. OF THE NERVES OF THE FOURTH PAIR. {Nervi Pathetici seu Trochleares). 1639. These nerves are the most slender of all those furnished ny the bram. Their origin is perceived, sometimes higher, some- times lower, behind the posterior pair of the tubercula quadrige- mma {testes), on the lateral parts of the valvula Vieussenii (1513). He number of their roots varies from one to four, and is not al- ways the same on both sides. Sometimes the roots of one of the nerves are united to those of the opposite nerve by a transverseORGANS OF SENSATION. 4.56 band; sometimes they are not even on the same level. They soft and destitute of neurilema, and break with the greatest faci.J lity. 1640. They unite almost immediately into a single, very thin J rounded, strong cord, -which descends outwards and forwards, turns over the crura cerebri, between the cerebrum and cerebellumj passes above the arachnoid membrane and along the small circum- ference of the tentorium cerebelli, and arrives at the posterior cli- noid process. There it enters a canal which the dura mater furJ nishes it (1561), is abandoned by the arachnoid membrane, which! is reflected over the latter, and is separated internally from the caJ vernous sinus by the thin cellular lamina which also separates thej preceding from it. From being at first horizontal and placed be- neath the latter and above the ophthalmic branch, it changes itsl direction near the sphenoidal fissure, and ascends obliquely above! the third pair along with the ophthalmic branch, on the inner side of which it proceeds. It then penetrates into the orbit through the Avidest part of the sphenoidal fissure, passing through the dura mater. On arriving in the orbit it proceeds forwards, along with the frontal twig of the ophthalmic nerve, above the rectus oculi superior and levator palpebrae superioris, and beneath the perios- teum. Lastly, it directs itself inwards, passes into the middle part of the obliquus oculi superior, after sensibly increasing in size, and terminates entirely in it, dividing into several filaments. OF THE NERVES OF THE FIFTH PAIH, OR TRIFACIAL NERVES. (Nervi quinti cerebri). 1641. The first origin of these nerves occurs at the medulla ob- longata, between the olivary and restiform bodies. It is a bundle of white fibres which ascends outwards in the substance of the ce- rebral protuberance, above the posterior part of the pons Varohi (1512), receives in this course a considerable number of new white fibres, is thus increased in size, and seems henceforth divided into three branches. Arrived at the outer and lower part of the crura of the cerebellum, near the outer edge of the protuberance, it be- comes free, leaves the encephalon, and forms a large flat cord, com- posed of a great number of distinct and parallel filaments, envelop- ed each with a neurilema which gives them more solidity and den- sity. 1642. On examining all these small nervous filaments with great care, it is seen that those occupying the centre of the cord, receive the neurilema later than those situated at the circumfe- rence. There results from this that they must break at unequal distances; hence it is that on detaching the trunk of the trifiicial nerve from the place where it becomes free, there occurs on th(' surface of the brain, at the point which it occupied, a sort ot457 OF THE OPHTHALMIC NKllVE. * uhitish mammilla, which seemed to be concealed in the interior of re nerve, but which is nothing else than the solution of continuity :'the filaments which compose it, and not, as Bichat thinks, apar- , cular tubercle. s 1643. Be this as it may, these filaments, the number of which , jiries from seventy to eighty or a hundred, are evidently separated • uto two parcels by cellular laminas or blood vessels. The ante- iDt and inner is formed of five or six larger, softer and whiter diaments, placed beneath the others, and not contributing by their ippture, to the formation of the mammilla mentioned above (1642). fhe other bundle, which is situated posteriorly and externally, (ontains the rest of the filaments, and advances outwards as far as lae extremity of the upper edge of the petrous bone, where it en- • rrs a canal furnished by the dura mater (1561), about five lines nng anteriorly and only three behind, in which the arachnoid laembrane soon leaves it, forming a cvil-de-sac. It thus arrives in lae internal temporal fossa, after being much flattened in passing vver the, upper edge of the petrous process, which presents a de- rression for lodging it. Its filaments then cease to be parallel; ihey separate from each other without interlacing or anastomosing I'ith each other, as happens in the course of other nerves, and all fBrminate in a depressed, semilunar gangliform plexus, (Gasserian mnglion), which is of a grayish colour, concave behind for receiving ihem, flat beneath, where it rests upon the base of the skull, and a tittle concave above. This sort of ganglion adheres intimately to the dura mater, without its being certain that it furnishes filaments to t.t. Its tissue seems formed of a net-work of inextricable fibres, in rWhich its original filaments are so intimately confounded together hhat they cannot be followed. 1644. The anterior edge of this gangliform body or plexus is convex. There successively arise from it, from before backwards, three nervous trunks, viz. : 1st, The ophthalmic nerve, less vo- luminous, and lodged in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus; ..2dly, The superior maxillary nerve, larger and issuing by the fora- ]men rotundum of the sphenoid bone ; 3dly, The inferior maxillary nerve, larger still and escaping by the foramen ovale of the same 'bone. 1645. The first bundle, which is formed by the five or six white filaments, and does not enter into the ganglion, passes in an isolat- led manner beneath it, and joins the inferior maxillary nerve. OF THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE. {Primus ramus quinti nervi). l()4(i. This is the smallest of the three branches furnished by the iitth pair ; it is also that which deviates least from the original direction of the trunk which gave rise to it. It proceeds from be-ougans of sensation. 458 hind forwards, from within outwards, and from below upwa under the dura mater, in tlie outer' wall of the cavernous sinu from which it is separated, like the third pair, and the fourth b distinct laminai' of cellular tissue. From being at first placed be neath the nerve of the third pair, it becomes superior and in ternal to it, as we have already said. So long as it is containcc within the cranium, it has a grayish tint, a very decided plexifor appearance, and an uneven surface. Before arriving at the sphe noidal fissure, through which it passes to the orbit, it receives filament from the superior cervical ganglion, and then divides int three twigs which perforate the dura mater separately. Of thes twigs, one is external, the lachrymal nerve ; another superior, th frontal nerve; and the last internal, the nasal nerve. 1647- Of the lachrymal nerve. {Ner^ms lacrymalis). Thisi the smallest of the three. Separated from the ophthalmic nerv when it changes its direction to ascend above the third pair, it im mediately enters a canal of a few lines long, furnished to it by the dura mater to which it firmly adheres. It is directed outwards and forwards, enters the orbit, and proceeds along its outer wall, between the periosteum and the abductor oculi, as far as the lachrymal gland and the upper eyelid. 1648. In this course it gives off a posterior or spheno-maaiillary filament, which anastomoses with a filament of the superior maxil- lary nerve towards the anterior extremity of the infra-orbitar fissure, and an anterior or malar filament, which enters a canal in the ma- lar bone, and emerges upon the cheek, where it anastomoses with a filament of the facial nerve. The latter filament, and sometimes both, traverse the lachrymal gland before issuing from the orbit. 1649. When the lachrymal nerve has arrived at the gland of the same name, it is situated upon its internal surface, and fur- nishes it with three or four filaments which are distributed in its tissue, or emerge from it to pass into the tunica conjunctiva. 1650. Lastly, the nerve proceeds inwards beyond the gland, behind the aponeurosis of the levator palpebrae superioris, and ter- minates by a great number of filaments in the upper eyelid. 1651. Of the Frontal Nerve, (nervus frontalis). Larger than the other two branches of the ophthalmic nerve, it separates from the common trunk later than the preceding, enters the orbit be- tween the periosteum and the posterior extremity of the rectus oculi superior, proceeds obliquely forwards and outwards, in the di- rection of the axis of the orbit, and passes above the levator pal- pebrae superioris, where it divides into two twigs, an inner and smaller, and an outer and larger. Sometimes, however, their size is the same. The internal frontal branch, {nervus supra- trochlearis), runs a little inwards towards the cartilaginous pulley of the obliquus superior oculi, and furnishes at first a filament which descends to anastomose by arches with a filament of the nasal nerve. It then gives off at the level of the cartilaginous pulley itself, several other twigs which proceed from within ouU459 OF THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE. ; ds into the upper eye-lid, in the substance of which they fre- lontly anastomose by arches with those which terminate the chryraal nerve; sometimes these anastomoses are not visible, vcral of these same filaments also lose themselves in the anterior rtiice of the corrugator supercilii and frontalis muscles. One of. cm penetrates into the frontal sinuses by an aperture of its own, ul is distributed to the membrane by which they are lined; but e nerve, continuing its course, issues from the orbit between the alley of the obliquus oculi superior and the supra-orbitar hole, is Hected from below upwards, ascends behind the corrugator su- L'l-cilii and frontalis muscles, gives filaments to their posterior sur- lace, and ends by expanding in the subcutaneous cellular tissue )\)wards the top of the head. The external frontal branch pro- eeeds directly forwards, passes through the supra-orbitar hole, and laost commonly gives off immediately a filament which directs it- .felf transversely outwards, subdivides in the upper eye-lid, anasto- moses with those of the facial nerve, and ascends behind the cor- uugator supercilii. Another filament separates from it at the same ?';vel, and passes transversely to the root of the nose, where it ap- eears to unite with a filament of the internal frontal nerve. In hhe interior of the supra-orbitar foramen, sometimes sooner, the aerve itself divides into two ramifications which are reflected over hhe forehead, behind the corrugator supercilii, and subdivide into I great number of deep and superjicial filaments. The former inre distributed in the corrugator supercilii and frontalis muscles and integuments. The latter, which are much longer, extend over bhe top of the head, as far as the occiput, anastomose internally with bhose of the opposite side, externally with those of the facial nerve, ^posteriorly with those of the first cervical nerves. They only be- some superficial after perforating the epicranial aponeurosis. 1652. Of the Nasal Nerve, {ner\3us naso-ocularis). Morevolumi- ■inous than the lachrymal, but smaller than the frontal, it penetrates into the orbit between the two posterior attachments of the abductor oculi, situated internally of the third pair, and above the sixth nerve. From thence it proceeds obliquely inwards, forwards, and a little upwards, ascends between the optic nerve and the at- tollens oculum, gains the inner wall of the orbit under the obli- quus superior oculi, and divides into two secondary twigs in the midst of a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. Frequently, before entering the orbit, this nerve receives a filament from the superior cervical ganglion. On entering it, it gives off' a slender filament, about six lines in length, which runs along the optic nerve externally, and proceeds to the upper and back part of the ophthalmic ganglion, after having communicated by one or two small twigs with the upper branch of the third pair (IG3G). In passmg above the optic nerve, the nasal nerve produces two or ^nxcQ ciliary filaments, which are distributed to the ball of the eye, • as we shall subsequently point out.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 460 It is opposite the middle of the inner wall of the orbit that th nasal nerve undergoes its last division. The two branches whicl result from it are of equal size. One, internal and posterior, pene trates into the nasal fossae; the other is anterior, and distributed externally of the orbit. 1653. Internal Nasal Branch, (nervus nasalis.) Its course is very remarkable. Accompanied by a small artery, it passes into the internal and anterior orbitar hole, directs itself inwards and up- wards in the canal of which that hole is the aperture, issues from it to enter the cranium under the dura mater, which covers it, and keeps it down in a bony groove, until it reaches the sides of the crista galli.—There, it penetrates, without having furnished any filament to the dura mater, and without anastomising with the ol- factory nerve, into a small fissure which exists at the anterior part of the ethmoid grooves, and thus reaches the vault of the nasal fos- sae, where it increases in size and subdivides into two hlaraents, the one internal and the other external. The first descends over the anterior part of the septum between the two laminic of the pituitary membrane. After a short passage it divides into two other filaments ; one of these is very thin, and descends upon the posterior surface of the nasal bone, lodged in a bony groove, or even a true canal, which commences at the nasal spine of the frontal bone. It then emerges between the ossa nasi and the lateral portion of the nasal cartilage, increases in size and solidity, and ramifies in the integuments of the lobe. The other, which is a little stronger, descends upon the pituitary membrane, until opposite the edge of the septum, and terminates near its base. The second furnishes, almost at its commencement, a filament which enters into a bony canal formed behind the nasal bone, or on the nasal spine of the frontal bone. It emerges beneath the mem- brane inferiorly, where it passes through one of the small holes ob- served on these bones, to terminate in the skin. Afterwards there are seen to arise two or three other filaments, which descend to the anterior part of the outer wall of the nasal fossae as far as the in- ferior turbinated bone. Sometimes one of them is contained in a bony canal. I have not been able to meet with the filaments, which several anatomists describe as coming from the internal nasal nerve, in the frontal sinuses and ethmoid cells. 1654. External Nasal Brafich, (Nervus Infra-trochlearis). It proceeds in the original direction of the nerve, along the inner wall of the orbit, and on arriving beneath the cartilaginous pulley of the obliquus oculi superior muscle, anatomoses with a lilament of the internal frontal nerve, issues from the orbit, and divides in- to several filaments which are distributed to the upper eyelid, where they unite with the filaments of the internal frontal nerve ; to the lower eyelid, where they meet those of the infra-orbitar and facial nerves; to the caruncula lachrymalis; the lachrymal sac; the-461 OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. ck of the nose, wlicre they frequently anastomose with the rami- •ations of the lirst division of the precctling branch ; the pyrami- 1 ills muscle, and the skin. OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVR. (Ramus Secundus Qtcinti Nervi.) 1655. Larger than the ophthalmic, and smaller than the inferior laxillary, the superior maxillary nerve arises from the middle part f the Gasserian ganglion, proceeds forwards and a little outwards, imd penetrates into the foramen rotundum of the sphenoid bone, to lass into the spheno-maxillary fossa (366). From its origin to this oint, the nerve, which is at first broad, afterwards contracts, pre- ents a triangular form, and preserves a grayish tint and very ap- arent plexiform disposition. At its entrance into the spheno-max- llary fossa, it resembles the other nerves; it traverses the fossa worizontally, passes through the infra-orbitar canal, and emerges to )i)e expanded upon the cheek. 1656. Orhitar Twig. In traversing the foramen rotundum of he sphenoid bone, sometimes in the spheno-maxillary fossa, the uperior maxillary nerve furnishes a pretty considerable twig, ^Thich directs itself forwards and upwards, and penetrates into the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure. It there divides, beneath he depressor oculi muscle, into two filaments. One of these, the malar, first anastomoses with the lachrymal nerve, passes through la canal of the cheek bone, is distributed to the orbicularis palpe- )rarum muscle and the skin, and terminates by uniting with a fil- lament of the facial nerve. The other filament, the temporal, passes tlthrough the orbitar portion of the same bone, enters the temporal tifossa, communicates with a branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, •iascends obliquely outwards and backwards, pierces the temporal 1 aponeurosis, becomes subcutaneous, accompanies the superficial t temporal artery, anastomoses with some filaments of the facial 1 nerve, and loses itself in the skin of the temples and the top of the I; head. 1657. In the spheno-maxillary fossa, the superior maxillary nerve receives one or two short and thick twigs, which come from the spheno-palatine ganglion, and proceed, in the midst of adipose celhilar tissue, from above downwards, from within outwards, and from behind forwards, following a course the reverse of that of the nervous trunk. It furnishes, in the same place, the posterior aoid - superior dentar Jmmches, of a pretty considerable size, to the numhcr of three or four, and descending upon the maxillary tube- rosity, where, after several flexuosities, they enter into apertures which it furnishes for them (204). These apertures transmit them into the canals formed in the substance of the bone, where they divide into several filaments which descend forwards toORGANS OF SENSATION. the roots of the last three or four molar teeth. One of these fila- ments penetrates into the maxillary sinus by a particular orifice, follows its outer wall, and anastomoses with a twig of the ante- rior dentar nerve; another of them does not enter the canals of the tuberosity, but turns over the alveolar margin, and is distri- buted to the gums, the buccinator and pterygoideus iutemus muscles. 1658. In the interior of the infra-orbitar canal, tlie nerve of which we speak furnishes no branch, but seems divided into seve- veral fasciculi which remain connected together and proceed paral- lel to each other. At its foremost part, however, there is detach- ed inferiorly a pretty considerable twig : this is the anterior deti- tar nerve, which descends in the canal of the same name (198), furnishes to the mucous membrane of the maxillary sinus a fila- ment which anastomoses with one of the posterior dentar nerves (1657) divides into several others, which have each their par- ticular canal, and are distributed to the roots of the incisors, canine, and first two molar teeth of the corresponding side. Sometimes these nerves creep beneath the membrane of the sinus, and fur- nish it with some very slender filaments. They also give some ramifications to the pituitary membrane covering the inferior tur- binated bone, which have particular canals. 1659. Infra-orbitar Twigs. They issue from the infra-orbitar hole, behind the levator labii superioris, to which they give some very delicate ramifications; they result from the expansion of the superior maxillary trunk itself. Their number is indeterminate, but always considerable. They separate from each other in a ra- diating manner, and, by their anastomoses with one another and with tlie facial and buccal nerves, constitute a kind of plexus be- tween the prominence of the cheek and the nose. Of these twigs, some, the superior or palpebral, which are few in number, are dis- tributed to the lower eyelid, the orbicularis palpebrarum and pyra- midalis nasi muscles, the integuments of the cheek, the caruncula lachrymalis and the lachrymal sac, anastomosing with the filaments of the external nasal nerve, (1654) the facial nerve, and sometimes those of the lachrymal nerve which have traversed the cheek bone ; others, the inferior or labial, which are more numerous and larger, furnish ramifications to the levator labii, levator anguh oris, and or- bicularis oris muscles, and to the skin, as well as to the mucous follicles of the lips. Others again, the inter7ial or nasal, are ex- panded over the back and wing of the nose, in the levator labii su- perioris ala?que nasi, triangularis nasi, and depressor alas nasi muscles, around the aperture of the nostrils, and communicate with filaments of the internal nasal nerve (1653). The last, or external twigs are distributed to the two zygomatic muscles, the levator an- guli oris, and the slcin. They form anastomoses with the twigs of the facial nerve.OF THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 403 OF THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. {Ramus Tertius Quinti Nervi.) 1660. This branch is the largest of those of the fifth pair ; but its course within the skull is shorter than that of the others. Pro- ceeding outwards and forwards, it issues from the cranium by the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone, and is composed of two dis- tinct portions. Of these portions the outer and larger, which is plexiform, triangular and flattened, comes from the Gasserian gang- lion ; the other, which is concealed by this portion, is formed by the larger white filaments of which we have spoken (1643), and is composed of parallel filaments, not united into a plexus. These two portions issue separately through the foramen ovale, and only unite in the zygomatic fossa, where the small portion becomes an- terior, and appears to be particularly continued into the buccal and one of the deep temporal twigs. 1661. Arrived in the zygomatic fossa, between the sphenoid bone and the pterygoideus externus muscle, the iiiferior maxiUary nerve divides into two principal trunks. One, which is superior and external, gives rise to the deep temporal, masseteric, buccal and pterygoid twigs. The other, which is inferior and internal, is larger, and furnishes the inferior dentar, lingual and auricular twigs. 1662. Deep Temporal Branches (Nervi temporales profundi J. They are commonly two, and sometimes three in number; in some subjects there is only one. They arise separately or by a common trunk. However this may be, one of them, the anterior, which is sometimes furnished by the buccal nerve, proceeds forwards into the deepest part of the temporal fossa, after being for some time prolonged horizontally between the pterygoideus externus and the upper wall of the zygomatic fossa. The other, which is pos- terior, sometimes arises from the masseteric nerve, follows at first the same course, but presently becomes more superficial. Both turn over the temporal bone to ascend between the temporal muscle and the fossa of the same name, and subdivide into a great number of filaments which lose themselves in the substance of that muscle, or anastomose together or with ramifications of the facial nerve, by means of small apertures with which its aponeurosis is perforated. The anterior twig anastomoses moreover with the lachrymal nerve (1648), and with a filament of the orbitar twig ot the superior maxillary nerve (1656) which traverses the cheek- bone. 16G3. Masseteric Branch (Nervns Massetericus). Situated •behind the preceding twigs, it is nearly of the same size as they, ^nd also proceeds at first horizontally outwards and backwards be- tween the pterygoideus externus and the upper wall of the zygo- matic fossa, before the transverse root of the zygomatic process.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 464 It then traverses the sigmoid notch of the inferior maxillary bone, between the temporal muscle and the neck of the condyle of the jaw, gives some filaments to the articulation of the jaw, places it- self at the inner surface of the masseter muscle, furnishes it with some filaments posteriorly, and at length loses itself, by several other filaments, in the middle part of that muscle, without ever descending to its inferior insertion. 1664. Buccal Branch {Nervus Buccinatorius). More volu- minous than the preceding, it sometimes arises by a common trunk with the anterior deep temporal nerve (1662), but directs itself from its origin forwards and downwards, passes between the two pterygoid muscles, and gives some filaments to the outer and to the temporal muscle. It then places itself between the pterygoideus internus and the ramus of the jaw, and passes between the coro- noid process and buccinator muscle, on which it divides into seve- ral filaments, after proceeding some time without dividing, and be- coming more and more superficial. All its filaments, to the num- ber of six or seven, anastomose frequently with each other, and come only from the inferior side of the nerve. The first which se- parate from it are very slender, and go to the temporal muscle ; the next are distributed to the buccinator and levator anguli oris muscles, and the skin ; the last go as far as the commissure of the lips, pass under the depressor anguli oris, and lose themselves in its vicinity. Several of them communicate with the facial and in- fra-orbitar nerves. 1665. Pterygoid Branches. There are frequently two, some- times however only one. They are always extremely small and slender. At first deeply concealed between the pterygoid and cir- cumflexus palati muscles, they direct themselves downwards, and terminate in the pterygoideus internus. 1666. Lingual Branch (Nervus lingualis, sen gustatorkis). A little smaller than the inferior dentar nerve, it communicates with it, soon after its origin, by a short but pretty thick filament, which leaves between it and that nerve an interval traversed by the internal maxillary artery. Nearly at the same time the ner- vous filament, known by the name of Chorda Tympani, which arises from the spheno-palatine ganglion, as we shall presently show, is united with the lingual nerve, beneath the glenoid fissure, forming a very acute angle above ; the latter nerve is sensibly in- creased in size by this union. Situated at first between the ptery- goideus externus and circumflexus palati muscles and the pharynx, this nerve afterwards descends obliquely forwards between the pterygoideus internus and the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone, then enters between the submaxillary gland and the mucous mem- brane of the mouth. It then passes, along with Whartons duct, between the mylo-hyoideus and hyoglossus muscles, whence it goes to the inferior and lateral part of the tongue, after ascending above the sublingual gland. 1667- In this course, the gustatory nerve gives to the pter}'-OF THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY NEIiVfi^ 465 cfoiclctis internus muscle a filament which occasionally anasto- moses with one of the pterygoid twigs (1GG5). It furnishes two or three twigs to the tonsils and the constrictor pharyngis su- perior. Farther down, there are detached from it two or three others, which lose themselves in the posterior and interncil part of the gums. Opposite the submaxillary gland, the chorda tympani leaves it to enter into a particular ganglion, which is surrounded by a very small complicated nervous plexus with loose meshes. This plexus results from the reticular interlacing of several filaments, which arise from the lingual nerve, and from the ganglion itself, whose ramifications penetrate the gland on all sides. 1668. Beyond this gland, the gustatory nerve sends off several filaments which descend to anastomose with those of the hypoglos- sal nerve. It furnishes four or five to the sublingual gland, and about as many to the anterior part of the gums, and to the mem.- brane of the mouth. Then some more considerable twigs issue from its upper edge, and pass between the lingualis and genio- glossus muscles, to be distributed in the tissue of the tongue^ Lastly, it continues to subdivide in this organ, as far as its point, and ascends towards its upper surface to be distributed by a great number of fasciculate, penicilliform filaments, folded in the direc- tion of their lengthy in its mucous membrane. Some of them have been traced into the papillae by which it is covered, particularly at its fore part. 1669. Inferior Dentar Branch (Nervus madihulo-lahialis). A little more voluminous than the preceding, from which it re- ceives a filament (1666), it descends by its side, at first between the two pterygoid muscles, then between the pterygoideus inter- nus and the ramus of the jaw. In this second part of its course, It is separated from the pterygoideus internus and lingual nerve by the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation (574). Arrived near the middle of the internal surface of the ramus of the jaw, this nerVe gives oft'a twig {nervus mylo-hyoideus), which descends forwards in a groove, formed upon that bone, in which it is retained by a fibrous expansion of the internal lateral ligament. It is accompanied by a small artery and vein. After emerging from the groove, it places itself between the maxillary, bone and the mylo-hyoideus muscle, gives some filaments to the submaxil- lary gland, approaches the chin, separates into other four or five nlaments, and is distributed to the mylo-hyoideus, genio-hyoideus and digastricus muscles, , • n'^.^*' fui""^shes this twig, the dentar nerve itself passes into the mferior dentar canal (249) along with an artery and vein. X Pf,^^^J through its whole extent, furnishing twigs to the roots ot all the teeth, from the last large to the first small molar inclusive; but opposite the mental hole (248) it divides into two ranches: one of these, the smaller, remains in the substance of nOllGANS OF SENSATION. 46G the j caw, and is distributed to the roots of the canine teeth and in- cisors ; the otlier, winch is larger, emerges by the mental hole, and divides into a great number of jfi laments which are distributed to the triangularis, quadratus, levator menti, buccinator and orbicu- laris oris muscles, and anastomose with twigs of the facial nerve. Most of these filaments commence by ascending between the mem- brane of the motith and the muscles. Others go to the free edge of the under lip, where they form a sort of plexus, to the mucous follicles which occur in it, and the skin of the neighbouring parts. I67O. Auricular or Superficial Temporal Branch {nervus tempo- ralis sii/perficialis sive auricularis). Its origin takes place sometimes by a single root, sometimes by two, in the interval of which the middle meningeal artery passes. It then winds backwards and outwards between the condyle of the jaw and the auricular canal, and there it gives off two filaments which anastomose with the facial nerve. Then, covered by the parotid gland, it descends deeply before that canal, furnishes a filament to the temporo-maxillary articulation, and gains the base of the zygomatic process, after giving off ramifica- tions to the deep parts of the ear, and especially to the skin of the meatus auditorius, at which they arrive by passing between its bony and its fibro-cartilaginous portions. Several of them spread a little farther upon the external ear. It then divides into two fila- ments, the one anterior, the other posterior, which subdivide and accompany the branches of the temporal artery, and are spread out in the integuments of the temple, forehead, and top of the head, anastomosing frequently with those of the facial nerve and of the occipital twig of the third cervical nerve. I'he posterior filament in particular sends a great number of ramifications to the external ear, that is to say, to the heUx and the prior auriculae and attolens aiiriculam muscles. OF THE SIXTH PAIR OF NERVES- (Nervus sewtus sive ahducens.) 1671. At first sight this nerve would seem to arise from the groove which separates the annular protuberance from the medulla oblongata; but a Uttle attention shows that its roots are situated beside the pyramidal eminences, along which they ascend as far as the groove, where they divide into two distinct bundles, which the last fibres of the protuberance sometimes cover, and which quickly unite a little more anteriorly. Each of these bundles is composed of two or three filaments placed behind each other. 1672. The nerve, thus formed, is intermediate in size to the fourth and third pairs of nerves. It is surrounded by neurilema from the point where it appears under the protuberance. It pro- ceeds forwards, upwards and outwards, along the basilar groove, to beneath the posterior clinoid process, where it perforates the467 OF THE FACIAL NERVE. dura mater on the sides of the quadrilateral plate of the sphenoid bone. It then enters the cavernous sinus, in the interior of which it is accompanied to a certain distance by the arachnoid membrane, which has furnished it with an envelope from its com- mencement. It is situated externally of the internal carotid artery, with which it is connected by a pretty dense cellular tissue, and is separated from the blood of the sinus by a fold of the internal mem- brane of the latter. In the sinus itself, it is directed outwards and downwards, and acquires a reddish tint and a somewhat larger vo- lume. In passing above the orifice of the carotid canal, it receives from behind forwards two or three grayish and soft filaments which come from the superior cervical ganglion. I673. The nerve of the sixth pair enters into the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure. The dura mater afibrds it a particular aperture above that of the ophthalmic vein. It passes between the two pos- terior fasciculi of the rectus externus of the eye, along with the third pair and nasal nerves, with which it is pretty intimately con- nected. Then, prolonging itself along the occular surface of that muscle, it loses itself entirely in its substance by several filaments which penetrate it in a divergent manner. OF THE SEVENTH PAIU OF NERVES. OF THE PORTIO DURA OF THE SEVENTH PAIR. (Nervus Facialis.) 1674. The real origin of this nerve is distinguished with great difficulty, and it cannot be distinctly traced from a remote part of the spinal marrow. It becomes apparent immediately behind the posterior edge of the annular protuberance, in its angle of union with the restiform body, some lines to the outside of the preceding, one line only before the portio mollis. It forms at first a flat, very white, soft cord, not enveloped by neurilema, and adhering for some time, by its upper edge, to the crus of the c6re- bellum. Some very slender filaments then join it, and seem to be detached from the portio mollis. Their connexion with- the lat^ ter nerve is seldom evident, but they always form a distinct origin between those of the two nerves themselves. 1675. After becoming free, the facial nerve is invested with a neurilema, and continues to proceed outwards, upwards, and for- wards, in a sort of groove on the portio mollis, with which it pene- trates into the internal auditory canal, but afterwards leaves it to pass into the aqueduct of Fallopius (180). It passes through this aqueduct in its whole extent, and issues from it by the stylo-mas- toid hole to be spread out upon the face. . "I "76- Opposite the hiatus FaMopii, the upper filament of the vidian nerve is applied from behind forwards upon the fiicial nerve,OUGANS OF SENSATION. 468 witliout really anastomosing with it. A little farther on, there i» detached from it a very minute filament which loses itself in the in- ternal muscle of the malleus, after passing through a small aper- ture in the bone. At the posterior wall of the cavity of the tym- panum, another filament, still smaller, traverses the base of tho pyramid, and throws itself into the muscle of the stapes. Still lower, the upper branch of the vidian nerve separates from it anew, descends parallel to it for some extent, is reflected upwards and outwards, and enters the cavity of the tympanum by an aperture situated beneath the pyramid. This branch then takes the name of Chorda tympani. 1677- 111 passing through the stylo-mastoid hole, the facial nerve furnishes several twigs which go to the neighbouring parts, of which the most considerable is the I678. Posterior auricular branch, {nervus auris posterior).— It descends at first deeply for a few lines, is then reflected upon the anterior part of the mastoid process, from whence it is directed behind the external ear. There it is divided into two filaments, an anterior, which ramifies upon the internal surface of the car, and gives some filaments to the posterior auricular muscle, and a pos- terior, which is expanded by subdividing upon the mastoid process, and in the occipitalis muscle and the neighbouring integuments. These ramifications anastomose with those of the cervical plexus. The other twigs which the facial nerve furnishes at the same point, are the following :— J 679. Stylo-hyoid branch, {nervus stylo-hyoidetis).—This sends several filaments to the muscles which arise from the styloid pro- cess of the temporal bone. One or two of these filaments traverse the stylo-hyoideus muscle, and anastomose with the filaments of the superior cervical ganglion. 1680. Infra-mastoid branch, {nerxnis musculi digastric'i).—It passes into the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, passes through it after furnishing it with some filaments, and divides into two twigs. One of these ascends inwards behind the internal ju- gular vein, and anastomoses with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, as it issues from the cranium. The other descends along the styloid process, and unites with the superior laryngeal branch of the pneu- mo-gastric nerve. 1681. After furnishing these three branches, the trunk of the facial nerve itself enters into the parotid gland, where it is at first deeply concealed, but whose surface it approaches by descending obliquely forwards. , After a passage of seven or eight lines, it di- vides into two branches: superior or temporo-facial, which is larger, and an inferior or cervico-facial, which is smaller. 1682. Temporo- facial branch, (Ramus major sive adscendens). It proceeds forwards, into the substance of the gland, towards the neck of the condyle of the jaw, whose direction it crosses, behind which it sends one or two filaments to anastomose with those of the superficial temporal nerve (1670). It then divides into sevenOF THE FACIAL NEIIVE. 4C9 or eight twigs, which are diffused in a radiating manner over the temi)le and face, and distinguished, according to their position, into the following. 1683. Temporal Twigs. These are two or three in number. They are rather small, and direct themselves obliquely upwards and forwards toward the temple, crossing the direction of the zy- gomatic arch. They give at first some filaments to the parotid gland, which covers them at their origin. Above the zygomatic arch, they subdivide into a considerable number of filaments, which spread over the forehead and temple, as far as the summit of the head, between the integuments and the temporal aponeurosis. These filaments ramify in the anterior part of the external ear, in the prior auriculas, attolens auriculam, frontalis, temporalis and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles, and in the integuments. They anastomose with the filaments of the superficial temporal (I67O), posterior auricular (I678), deep temporal (1662), and fron- tal (1651) nerves, the orbital twig of the superior maxillary nerve (1656), the lachrymal nerve (164<7), and those of the cervical plexus. There are also frequent communications established be- tween them and the following twigs, so that they truly present a very Complicated net-work beneath the skin of the temples. 1684. Malar Twigs. Two or three in number, they ascend for- wards towards the malar bone, where they spread out into a great number of filaments. The superior twig, united by an arch with the last of the temporal twigs, directs itself towards the inner angle of the eye, and terminates there by anastomosing with one of the filaments of the external nasal nerve (1654). Conjointly with the other two, it forms a very apparent plexus on the cheek, more su- perficial behind than before, which sends numerous filaments into the zygomatic muscles, the orbicularis palpebrarum, levator anguli oris and levator labii superioris, and into the skin of the lower eye- lid and upper part of the cheek. These filaments, besides their mutual communications, unite also with those of the lachrymal (164-7), infra-orbitar (1659), internal frontal (1651), and external nasal (1654) nerves, and accompany all the divisions of the facial vem, forming around it a more or less prolonged nervous net- work. 1685. Buccal Ttvigs. These are three or four in number. They emerge from beneath the parotid gland towards the middle •of the masseter muscle, communicate with the preceding twigs, and "With the cervico-facial branch, and follow a nearly horizontal di- rection. The upper gains the sides of the nose, and supplies the zygomatic, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris, and leva- tor labii superioris alaeque nasi muscles. The middle twig is the largest of those of the temporo-facial branch; it frequently arises by a cornmon trunk with the upper, proceeds beneath Steno's duct, wJiose direction it follows, passes transversely over the buccinator muscle, arrives at the commissure of the lips, and gives filaments to tlie upper lip, as well as to the muscles and gkin of the neigh-470 ORGANS OJ? SENSATION, bouring parts. The lower twig follows nearly the same direction, and gains the under lip. All the filaments which proceed from these different twigs form a plexus similar to those which we have just pointed out, and communicate with theirs, or with those of the infra-orbitar (1659), mental (1669), and buccal (1664). With the latter especially they form numerous anastomoses which are ob- served around the facial artery and vein, and send secondary fila- ments along their divisions. 1686. Cervim-facial branch, {Ramus minor sive descendens.) It descends obhquely downwards in the substance of the parotid gland, behind the ramus of the jaw, towards the angle of which it dives under the platysma myoides, directing itself forwards. The twigs which it furnishes are distinguished into those which arise from it above the base of the jaw, and those which separate from it under that point. 1687- Supra-maxillary Twigs. They are two in number. The upjjer, which is pretty large, arises, at a right angle, immediately beneath the lobule of the ear, and directs itself transversely for- wards over the lower part of the masseter muscle, concealed for some time by the parotid gland. It then dives under the platys- ma myoides and triangularis muscles, dividing into four or five filaments which are distributed to these muscles, to the buccina- tor, orbicularis oris, and the integuments. Some of these fila- ments ascend towards the cheek-bone, others descend towards the lower lip. All of them have frequent anastomoses with the pre- ceding and following twigs, and with the infra-orbitar, mental, and buccal nerves. The Lower Twig turns over the angle of the jaw, sending some filaments to the lower part of the masseter and pterygoideus inter- nus muscles, and covered by the platysma myoides. It then di- rects itself obliquely forwards and downwards over the outer sur- face of the masseter muscle, crossing the direction of its fibres, and dividing near its anterior edge into several filaments which throw themselves into the same muscles as those of the preceding twi^, and moreover into those of the lower lip and chin, as well as into the skin of these parts. They have also precisely similar anasto- moses. 1688. Infra-maxillary Twigs, These twigs are two or three in number, arise together or separately, and are even sometimes united at their origin with the lower of the supra-maxillary twigs. They descend forwards and downwards over the anterior and supe- rior part of the neck, covered by the platysma myoides. Towards the angle of the jaw, they divide into a great number of divergent filaments which follow the base of the bone, anastomosing with the supra-ptiaxillary and mental twigs, and are distributed to the inte- guments of the neck and the platysma myoides, where they unite with some filaments of the cervical plexus. 1689. The disposition of the facial nerve, such as has been indicated above, is not constant. It presents extremely numerousOF THE AUDITORY NERVE. individual varieties, aud seldom oflbrs the same arrangement in two different subjects. That which wc have described, however, is its most common disposition. On account of its very numerous anastomoses, several authors have called it the Small sympathetic 7ierve. OF THE POETIC MOLLIS OF THE SEVENTH VAIR. {Nervus auditorius sive acusticus. *) 1690. This Nerve arises transversely over the restiform body, from the substance of a small gray band, a Uttle prominent, which constantly covers the base of this nerve, and unites it to the floor of the fourth ventricle. Most commonly some of its roots traverse this cord, aud are manifestly continued into the two uppermost of the white strioe which are observed upon the sides of the calamus scriptorius (1513). There is observed, moreover, a kind of small band which seems to vmite the two origins of the acoustic nerves, and furnish them with a commissure. It is covered by the poste- rior layer of the protuberance. The acoustic nerve begins to be separated from the substance of the brain in a small excavation, nearly of a triangular form, placed between the olivary eminence, the crus of the cerebellum, the cerebral protuberance and the restiform body. This excavation also contains the facial nerve, which, besides its distinct origin, is further separated from the acoustic nerve by a small process of the meduUa oblongata, which passes between them, and by some small vessels. Thus far the nerve is soft and pulpy ; but it now assumes the appearance of the other nerves, that is to say, it is composed of numerous filaments, invested by a neurilema. It is of a size equal to that of the third nerve, and becomes more consistent than the olfactory nerve, but it nevertheless remains softer than the other nerves. In proportion as it retires from the encephalon, it forms a flat- tened cord, as it were roUed up upon itself, and marked internally by a gi-oove in which the trunk of the facial nerve is lodged. All ■the filaments which enter into its composition are very delicate, and anastomose with each other, so as to form a very comphcated and dense plexus. Only at its back part, there is observed, almost "J?^ commencement, a whiter and softer cord than the rest, ^ich IS not formed of filaments ; it seems homogeneous and pulpy. Moreover, the intermediate filaments which commonly direct them- selves towards the facial nerve, and of which we have made men- T^Z intermingle with its own filaments, after formmg a small plexus by themselves. ^ * A'xiiii, audio.ORGANS Oli- SENSATION. The acoustic nerve proceeds parallel to the facial, so long as it is contained within the cranium. It enters, along with it, the in- ternal auditory canal (177)» where its plexiform structure becomes more and more apparent, and at the bottom of which it divides into two branches. J 691. Branch of the Cochlea. This branch is formed by the white and unfilamentous cord which is distinguished at an early period behind the rest of the nerve. It directs itself a little for- wards and upwards towards the bottom of the internal auditory canal, and on arriving at the base of the cochlea, divides into a great number of very slender filaments, all of which ejiter into an fjqual number of small apertures which this base presents, and thus penetrate into the cochlea, parallel to its axis ; they then spread out their ramifications upon the lamina spiralis, which divides it into two scalae. They are so much the shorter and more delicate the nearer they are observed to the summit, and they all form, on the membraneous part of that lamina, a vei'y dense ^nd thick netr work. For this distribution of filaments, the nerve is twisted upon itself round the axis of the cochlea, and the twig which terminates it passes through the central canal, and is distributed to the infun- dibulum and the last half turn of the spiral lamina. It is larger than the others. 1692. Branch of the Vestibule and Semi-circular Canals. Its bundle, vmited at first to the preceding, separates from it in the in- ternal auditory canal, proceed^s backwards and outwards, and forms a grayish, gangUform bulging, from which three twigs of different sizes emanate. 1693. Great Twig. Larger than the others, behind which it is situated, it enters into the vestibule by several p<5i'osities, and there separates into two portions, after leaving its envelopes and becomr- ing whiter. One of these portions spreads out in the vestibule it- self, and forms a sort of nervous membrane composed of very deli- cate reticulated, and, as it were, diffluent ramifications. The other advances towards the approximated orifices of the superior vertical and horizontal semicircular canals, where it bifurcates, mingles with the pulp which bulges in the form of ampullae at their origin, and thus disappears in a manner still unknown. 1694. Middle Twig. This twig, which is divided into two fiW ments, and immediately enters into the vestibule, loses itself in the membrane which hnes that cavity by a multitude of very subtile, soft, and white ramifications. 1695. S?nall Twig. Placed beneath the others, it enters into the vestibule by a single aperture, which is observed at the outer part qf the internal auditory canal. It directs itself towards the posterior vertical semicircular canal, and seems to be prolonged in its interior after being expanded on the pulpy ampulla which is pbscryed at its orifice.OF THE GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVES. OF THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES. OF THE GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVES.* 1696. The Glosso-phanjngeal Nerves (nervi glosso-pharyngei), come from the lateral part of the medulla oblongata, between the facial and pneumogastric nerves, but nearer the latter, in the groove which separates the olivary from the restiform bodies. This origin is composed of two, three, four, or five filaments, more or less separ- ated, and sometimes united into a single root, which is separated from the pneumo-gastric nerve by vessels, by a lamellar process of the circumference of the cerebellum, or by a small portion of the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle (1553). These filaments be- ing united, constitute a bundle placed above and before the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve, and proceed directly outwards towards the anterior part of the foramen lacerum posterius. There, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve enters an isolated canal, which is furnish- ed by the dura mater, passes through the foramen, and on emerg- ing, is separated from the pneumo-gastric nerve by the trunk of the internal jugular vein. It then directs itself downwards and forwards, passes over the internal carotid artery, and under the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, then between it and the stylo-glossus, and descends obliquely forwards, following its direction as far as the pos- terior and inferior part of the tongue into which it penetrates. 1697- Immediately after emerging from the cranium, the glosso- pharyngeal nerve sends one of its ramifications into the auditory canal. It gives oflP another upon the promontory of the tympanum, to anastomose, after penetrating that cavity, by a hole near the stylo-mastoid foramen, with one of the branches of the superfi- cial petrous filaments of the vidian nerve. It then receives a fila- ment which comes from the stylo-hyoid twig of the facial nerve (1679), and another from the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve (I703). It afterwards furnishes two long and slender filaments, which descend upon the internal carotid artery, giving off in their course several filaments which anastomose with the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve, or throw themselves into the plexus of the same name. These two filaments continue to descend internally of the common carotid artery to the lower part of the neck, where they unite with twigs from the cervical ganglia, and particularly with some of the cardiac nerves. After them, the glos- so-pharyngeal nerve sends two others into the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. It also furnishes two considerable twigs, isolated or unit- eel at their origin, which come off from it opposite the summit of the styloid process or a little lower. These descend inwards and •ri/iT^'^^^' ^" P^ss"^g' ramifications to the upper and middle constrictors of the pharynx, and to its mucous membrane. Unc ot these ramifications goes to the tonsil. Two or three others * 1'iS.irrx, iuiguii ; f «j">?, I'luinjux.474 ORGANS OF SENSATION. lose themselves in the stylo-pharyngeus 'tnuscle, and some of them gain the superficial and posterior part of the tongue. The twigs, still continuing to descend, are dispersed in the pharyngeal plexus. 1698. After furnishing these different branches, the nerve itself enters beneath the stylo-glossus and liyo-glossus muscles. It then divides into three orders of twigs. The superior pass into the lingualis and constrictor isthmi faucium, and into the neighbouring mucous crypts. These, together with a filament already described (1678), form around the tonsil a true plexus (circulus tonsillaris)^ and furnish it with distinct filaments; the inferior descend into the hyo-glossus muscle and the glosso-epiglottic mucous folds (1477) '•> those of the latter part send oft' one or two to the epi- glottis, but can only be traced with great difficulty into the tissue of that organ. The middle twigs, or those of the third order, dive into the fibres of the tongue, under the hyo-glossus muscle, ascend to the upper surface of that organ, and lose themselves in its mucous follicles, spreading but very little in its muscular tissue. 1699. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is situated, in the tongue, above the hypoglossal nerve, and under the lingual twig of the in- ferior maxillary nerve. It is smaller than these nerves, and does not appear to anastomose with their filaments. OF THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVES. (Nervi Vagi, seu Par Vac/um.) 1700. The Pneumo-gastric Nerves arise immediately under the preceding, behind the olivary eminences, and very near the resti- form bodies, by one or two rows of filaments, from five to six lines in length, and regularly disposed. These filaments, which are very numerous, and more commonly bifurcated and very slender, are never prolonged so far as the ventricle of the cerebellum. They are from their commencement enveloped by neurilema, and present a remarkable degree of firmness. United at first into six, eight, or ten larger bundles, placed under each other, they form a broad and thin band, in which they remain parallel without communicating with each other. This band, surrounded by the arachnoid membrane, directs itself outwards and forwards, arrives at the foramen lacerum posterius, and passes through it in a par- ticular canal of the dura mater, inferior to that of the glosso-pha- ryngeal nerve, which has thus no communication with the pneumo- gastric nerve. A very apparent fibrous septum in fact separates the one from the other in this part of their course. Another sep- tum, sometimes osseous in whole or in part (296), separates them both from the internal jugular vein, which is placed between them inferiorly. 1701. Immediately after issuing from the cranium, the pncu-OF THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVES. mb-f^astric nerve has the form of a round cord. All the filaments which compose it anastomose with each other for the extent of about an inch, and give it the appearance of a very close and dense plexus, and sometimes that of a ganglion. In this part, it is al- ways a little swollen, and has a grayish tint. It is also there inti- mately connected with the hypoglossal, spinal accessory and glosso- pharyngeal nerves by a dense, firm, strongly adherent cellular tis- sue, destitute of adipose substance, in Avhich are also immersed the ascending filaments of the superior cervical ganglion. 1702. The pneumo-gastric nerve is at first placed before the hypoglossal, but almost immediately becomes posterior to it as it descends, and is entirely separated from it opposite the transverse process of the atlas. It then passes over the rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli muscles, externally of the common carotid artery and behind the internal jugular vein, to which it is united, as well as to the communicating cord of the cervical ganglia, by cellular tissue. Arrived at the inferior part of the neck, the trunk of the pneu- mo-gastric nerve enters the thorax, gliding behind the subclavian vein, and is differently distributed to the right and left. In the right side, it passes before the subclavian artery; in the left, before the arch of the aorta. It passes at first backwards, and increases in size. When situated behind the trunks of the bronchi, it leaves them to accompany the oesophagus through the diaphragm, and terminates upon the stomach. In the latter part of its course, the nerve of the right side is manifestly placed much farther back than that of the left side. 1703. In the interior of the foramen lacerum posterius, the pneumo-gastric nerve sends off one or two filaments to anastomose with the spinal accessory nerve, and, on emerging, it communi- cates with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (1697) ^7 another filament which describes a curve, from the convexity of which some rami- fications to the rectus capitis anticus major arise. It also anas- tomoses with the hypoglossal nerve, and with ramifications of the superior cervical ganglion. 1 /04. Pharyngeal Twig. Close upon the filament of commu- nication with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and either above or beneath it, the pneumo-gastric nerve gives off to the walls of the pharynx a twig of considerable size, which at its origin ^ joined by a filament of the spinal accessory nerve. This twig descends obliquely inwards behind the internal carotid artery, whose direction it crosses, and to which it is closely united opposite the atlas; there, it furnishes one or two filaments which unite with those which the glosso-pharyngeal nerve sends around that artery, and forms with them a kind of reticulated plexus which embraces it. Ihe twig then approaches the pharynx, increases considerably in size, and divides into a great number of filaments towards the upper edge of the constrictor pharyngis mcdius. These filaments anas- tomose in a multitude of different directions with filaments of theORGANS OF SENSATION. 476 glosso-pharyngeal nerve, of the upper laryngeal twig, arid of the ■first cervical ganglion. They constitute with them the pharyn- geal plexus, whose irregular meshes, varying in number in difl- ferent individuals, send numerous and frequently very extended j ramifications over the whole pharynx. Some among them which, like the plexus itself, have a grayish tint, ascend in the constrictor ■superior, while others descend in the inferior. One or two follow the internal carotid artery, and anastomose with filaments of the cervical gangUons upon the common carotid artery. 1705. Superior Laryngeal Branch. Separated from the trunk heneath the preceding, and at a greater or less distance from it, this branch, which is thicker, more rounded and whiter, slips in the same manner behind the internal carotid artery, descends externally of the superior cervical ganglion, forms an arch around its inferior extremity, and divides into two secondary twigs, an outer and an inner, after anastomosing by some filaments with the superior cer- vical ganglion, and with the hypoglossal nerve, and after throwing some otliers into the pharyngeal plexus. The External Laryngeal Branch descends downwards and in- wards, arrives upon the sides of the larynx, gives off, to the sterno- thyroideus, hyo-thyroideus, constrictor pharyngis inferior and crico- thyroideus muscles, filaments, some of which penetrate into the larynx between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. Some of these > ramifications are prolonged as far as the thyroid gland. The Internal Laryngeal Branch directs itself inwards behind the thyro-hyoideus muscle, between the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage, traverses the membrane which unites them and spreads out immediately into several radiating filaments, which become thick- er and softer in a very obvious manner as they separate from each other. The upper filaments ascend on the fore part of the epi- glottis and its gland, to which they are distributed, as well as to the membrane of the pharynx, sometimes anastomosing on the me- dian line with those of the opposite side. Several of them which creep at the surface of the epiglottis enter into the holes with which that fibro-cartilage is perforated, as Bichat has remarked; but they I eannot be followed upon the opposite surface. The Zoei?e?'filaments, i which are larger, are distributed in the mucous membranes of the I larynx and pharynx, and to the arytenoid gland and muscle. One I of them, which is less remarkable for its size than for its course, ■ descends between the thyroid cartilage and the thyro-arytenoideus muscle, then between the cartilage and the crico-arytenoideus later- alis, to throw itself entirely into the crico-thyroideus muscle. Some- times it is contained in a canal formed in the substance of the car- tilage. These ramifications never extend to the other muscles of the larynx, for which the inferior laryngeal nerve is reserved. Some of them anastomose, upon the mucous membrane with ascending filaments of the latter nerve. 1706. Beneath the laryngeal nerve, the pneumogastric nerves, descending along the neck, give off a filament which goes to uniteOF THE PNEUMO-OASTUIC NERVES. 4.77 "fflth the cervical branch of the hypoglossal nerve, another which' joins the second cervical pair, and two or three grayish and delicate filaments which go to the internal carotid artery, and lose them- selves in its Avails when it separates from the external. 1707. Cardiac Twigs. The pneumogastric nerves constantly furnish twigs of a larger size, and differently distributed to the right and left, which seem destined to join the nervous plexus of the heart. The nerve of the right side gives off its twigs at about an inch above the origin of the corresponding carotid artery, to which they are attached, descending externally and prolonging themselves over the arteria innominata, to be finally lost in the cardiac fila- ments of the inferior cervical ganglion. The upper is more con- stant and larger than the inferior twigs, of which there are two or three. The nerve of the left side commonly sends off only a single twig, which descends along the carotid artery, spreads out upon the arch , of the aorta, and loses itself in the neighbouring cardiac plexus. It seldom furnishes any other twig. 1708. Inferior or Recurrent Laryngeal Branches. These branches present considerable differences in the two sides. They arise from the trunk of the pneumogastric nerve, in the interior of the thorax, and ascend to be distributed to the neck. That of the right side comes off opposite the inferior edge of the sub-clavian artery, proceeds backwards and inwards, bends up- wards behind that artery in such a manner as to embrace it, places itself behind the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, is applied upon the side of the trachea, occupies the groove which se- parates it from the oesophagus, and arrives at the larynx. At its commencement, the inferior laryngeal nerve gives off two or three filaments, which unite with the cardiac filament of the pneumogas- tric trunk and with those of the inferior cervical ganglion, and form with them a plexus between the subclavian artery and the trachea. A Uttle higher, it furnishes some others of variable number, which descend upon the fore part of the trachea, throw themselves in part into the plexus formed by the preceding filaments, and ac- company in part the right pulmonary arteries. Some of their ra- mifications lose themselves in the anterior cardiac plexus. Along •the trachea, there come off some others which are distributed in the walls of the oesophagus, where they anastomose with those of the opposite side and with those of the cervical ganglia, or are spread out at the upper and superficial part of the thyroid gland, or which, perforating the posterior membrane of the trachea, ramify upon the internal surface of that canal, supplying its mu- cous crypts. But at the inferior part of the larynx, the recurrent nerve send.s filaments to the constrictor pharyngis inferior, under which it glides, and divides into two or three secondary twigs. One ot them furnishes subdivisions to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, behind the larynx ; the others give filaments to the pos- terior and lateral crico-arytenoidei, and passing through the crico-4^78 ORGANS OF SENSATION. thyroid membrane, terminate in the thyro-arytenoideus muscle and the rnucous membrane of the larynx, where there are some commu- nications between them and tlie filaments of the internal superior laryngeal nerve (1705). The other muscles of the larynx do not receive any. The left inferior laryngeal nerve differs from the preceding, in having its origin much lower in the thorax, in describing at its commencement a much larger arch, as it turns round the arch of the aorta, and in the circumstance that its pulmonary and cardiac filaments belong to the posterior part of the pulmonary artery and heart. 1709. After giving rise to the inferior laryngeal twigs, the pneu- mo-gastric nerve, in the interior of the thorax, gives off numerous filaments opposite the bifurcation of the trachea. Three or four descend upon its anterior surface, subdivide and anastomose a great many times with those of the inferior laryngeal branch and inferior cervical ganglion, with which they concur to form the pulmonary plexus. Some of these ramifications lose themselves separately upon the pulmonary artery and the anterior part of the bronchi, which they accompany for some time. Three or four other fila- ments direct themselves behind the trachea, and are partly distri- buted to its membraneous portion and mucous crypts, and partly ramify on the oesophagus. They also throw some subdivisions in- to the pulmonary plexus. 1710. Immediately before arriving at the bronchi, the trunk of the nerves increases considerably in volume. Its filaments se- parate from each other, and form a kind of areolar web, with meshes more or less wide and numerous, in which vessels, enve- loped by a great quantity of cellular tissue, are lodged. This dis- position of the filaments of the nerve has here the appearance of a true plexus, and is in fact the commencement of the pulmonary plexus. It is from hence that most of the ramifications proceed which the pneumo-gastric nerve gives to that plexus, one of the most complicated in the body ; for, besides the different filaments which we have already seen enter into its composition, it receives others still from the inferior cervical ganglion and the first thoracic ganglia. It occupies the posterior part of each lung, where it forms a net-work in which are contained many lymphatic ganglia of the bronchi. This net-work sends off on all sides slender fila- ments, having few ramifications, but communicating pretty fre- quently together, which appear destined for the mucous membrane and crypts of the bronchi, on which they subdivide to infinity, without appearing to belong to the parenchymatous tissue or blood- vessels of the lung. 1711. After separating from each other opposite the pulmonary plexus, the different filaments of the pneumo-gastric nerves reunite, and form two elongated cords which descend along the oesophagus, and which, for this reason, are called the ocsophayeal cords. The cesophageal cord of the right side seems formed by four or479 OF THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVES. five principal brandies, which issue from the inferior region of the corresponding pulmonary plexus, and descend over the lateral and posterior parts of the (Esophagus. Before finally uniting, these twigs, at first very distant from each other, have frequent commu- nications together. The cesophageal cord of the left side is constituted by two or three twigs only, which come in the same manner from the left pulmonary plexus. It proceeds upon the anterior side of the (Eso- phagus. The two oesophageal cords frequently communicate together by several filaments, which descend from the right to the left, passing before the oesophagus, and by other more numerous filaments, which descend from the left to the right, proceeding behind that canal. Moreover, both of them give numerous ramifications to its walls, and send filaments over the aorta. Inferiorly, they issue from the thorax by the (Esophageal aperture of the diaphragm (1279). 1712. On entering the abdomen, the right oesophageal cord, which is larger than the left, and closely attached to the right and posterior part of the oesophagus, divides and subdivides so as to form around the cardia a very complicated plexus, the filaments of which are expanded over the stomach and neighbouring organs. The Stomachic Filaments belong to the posterior surface of the fitomach, and direct themselves from the small to the great curva- ture sinkuig into the substance of its walls, and becoming in conse- quence less and less superficial. Some of them run along the small curvature, behind the coro- nary artery of the stomach, communicate with the filaments of the left side, and lose themselves beyond the pylorus. The other filaments throw themselves into the hepatic, splenic, C(Ehac, and right gastro-epiploic plexuses, and are interlaced with the numerous radiations of the solar plexus. Several expand upon the vena portae, or go to the pancreas, duodenum, and gall-bladder. 1713. The left oesophageal cord divides into several longitudinal filaments, which proceed from the cardia to the pylorus along the small curvature of the stomach, and send ramifications over the an- terior surface of that organ. These, like the ramifications of the posterior surface, are at first superficial, and afterwards dive into the substance of the muscular coat. The original filaments, on ar- riving at the pylorus, communicate with those of the right side, or foUow the pyloric artery, to cast themselves into the hepatic plexus. . The pneumo-gastric nerve, on account of its very exten- sive distribution and numerous communications, is by many au- thors called the Middle Sympathetic Nerve. It presents many variations m its secondary divisions, insomuch that it is rare to find It alike m two subjects.480 ORGANS OF SENSATION. OF THE SI'INAL ACCESSORY NKllVES. (Ne7;vus ad par vagum accessorius.) 1715. The Spinal Accessory Nerves arise from the spinal mar- row in the interior of the vertebral canal, at a more or less consit. derable distance from the skull, and at a height which is not al- ways the same on both sides in the same subject. Their first point of origin generally occurs at the lateral and posterior part of the spinal marrow, above the posterior root of the fifth cervical nerve. Sometimes it is met with lower, that is to say, opposite the sixth or seventh vertebra of the same region, rarely higher towards the second or first. This first filament, which in frequently larger on one side than the other, ascends, either between the two roots of each cervical nerve, or behind them, near the corresponding li- gamentum dentatum. At each origin of these nerves, it increases in volume, new filaments being then added to it. These seem themselves formed by the union of several filaments which issue from the spinal marrow, and direct themselves outwards and up^ wards, being more oblique the higher they are. The last is very near the pneumo-gastric nerve. 1716. Thus formed, the spinal accessory nerve communicates in the interior of the vertebral canal with the first cervical nerve, and sometimes with the second, and enters the cranium by the oc- cipital hole, behind the vertebral artery, without producing a gan- glion, as is asserted. It then proceeds much more outwards and a little forwards, gains the foramen lacerum posterius under the pneumo-gastric nerve, introduces itself into the same canal with it, and is separated from it only by the arachnoid membrane. It even frequently adheres so strongly to it, that they might be taken for a single trunk, and before emerging sends it a pretty considerable filament. 1717- On emerging from the foramen lacerum posterius, the spinal accessory nerve separates from the pneumo-gastric, to ad-* here strongly to the hypoglossal, which it leaves in its turn, to proceed towards the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, passing be- hind the internal jugular vein. It traverses the sterno-mastoideus at its upper third, and passes under the trapezius, in which it is entirely lost. I7I8. The first twig which it gives off in this course is the" largest of all, and presents numerous variations. It appears sole-* ly destined to augment the size of the pneumo-gastric nerve. Aris-- ing in the interior of the fibrous canal which is furnished bv the dura mater, it sends one or two filaments to the pharyngeal twig of that nerve (1704), then passes behind it, adheres intimately to it, and frequently gives a filament to the hypoglossal nerve. Then, arriving beneath the origin of the superior laryngeal twig (1705), it appears to form a ganglion, and divides into several filament*OF THE HYPOGLOSSAL NERVliS. 481 which lose themselves among those composing the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve, which at this place presents a plexiform ap- pearance. 1719. In traversing the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, it sends oft'two or three filaments which lose themselves in its fleshy fibres, and one or two twigs, which go to the cervical plexus, and commu- nicate especially with the anterior branches of the fourth and fifth cervical nerves. The third and fourth, on the contrary, send each a branch to it, which increases its volume in a sensible manner, af- ter forming with it several anastomoses from which result triangu- lar areola? which contribute to the formation of the cervical plexus. It then exhausts itself by expanding in the upper part of the tra- pezius muscle into a more or less considerable number of filaments, one of which traverses that muscle, ascending behind it to a great- er or less height. OF THE NERVES OF THE NINTH PAIIl, Oil HYPOGLOSSAL NEIIVES.* 1720. The Hypoglossal Nerves arise each by ten or twelve very slender filaments, before which the vertebral artery passes, from the grooves which separate the corpora pyramidalia and oUvaria. These filaments, which are placed in the same line one above the other, and commence each by two or three roots, descend a little out- wards, converging, presently unite into a single cord, sometimes into two, communicate frequently with each other, and issue from the cranium by the anterior condyloid foramen; they are contain- ed in a canal of the dura mater, immediately covered by the neu- nlema, and enveloped in a sheath of the arachnoid membrane. i / 21. As it leaves the condyloid foramen, the hypoglossal nerve IS united to the outer side of the pneumo-gastric by cellular tissue, and sometimes by a nervous filament. It then descends forwards and becomes more superficial, placed upon the two branches of the common carotid artery, the pneumo-gastric nerve, and the superior cervical ganglion, and covered by the stylo-hyoideus and digastri- cus muscles, the occipital artery, and the internal jugular vein. 1 here, it communicates, by one or two filaments, with the nervous arch which the first and second cervical nerves form around the transverse process of the atlas. It then appears between the branches of the internal jugular vein, and immediately under the sterno-clcido-mastoideus muscle. Arrived at the angle of the jaw, it changes its direction ; bends "hi V, middle tendon of the digastric muscle, sends a consider- able branch along the neck, and ascends itself forwards towards the S ' '''' " terminates. 1722. Descending Cervical Branch {Descendens noni.) It anses at the place where the hypoglossal nerve forms a bend around " T»o, sul); yXinra, lingua. 2 I48'2 ORGANS OF SENSATION. the digastric muscle, and is sometimes strengthened at its com- mencement by a filament from the pneumo-gastric nerve. It de- scends vertically along the anterior side of the internal jugular vein as far as the middle of the neck, where it bends backwards and upwards to anastomose with the internal descending branch of the cervical plexus, under the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, and over the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein. This anastomosis forms a reversed arch, from the convexity of which proceed several filaments which constitute in this place a small plexus more or less complicated. From its commencement this branch furnishes no twig; but, im- mediately before communicating with the cervical plexus, it gives ofl' two anteriorly, which soon unite, to proceed under the omo- hyoideus muscle. There they separate again ; one of them loses itself upon the inner surface of that muscle ; the other traverses it, gains the sterno-hyoideus, and divides in its substance as far as its inferior attachment, sending some filaments to the sterno-thyroideus muscle. The small plexus which terminates this branch gives off several sets of twigs. The internal, to the number of two, glide under the omo-hyoideus muscle, and throw themselves into the sterno- thyroideus, where they divide into the ascending and descending filaments. The external, which are also two in number, descend inider the omo-hyoideus, and are lost in its scapular extremity. The inferior, which are more slender, and of which there are two or three, proceed along the common carotid artery, furnish some filaments to its walls, and then go to communicate with the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, and frequently with the phrenic nerve. 1723. Lingual Branch. This is the true continuation of the trunk. It enters at first between the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glos- sus muscles, increases considerably in volume by the separation of its fibres, gives off a pretty large twig to the thryo-hyoideus muscle, receives one from the superior cervical ganglion, and sends some filaments to the constrictor pharyngis superior, stylo-pharyngeus, genio-hyoideus, mylo-hyoideus and genio-glossus. In the two last muscles there is observed a union between one of the filaments of the hypoglossal nerve and the mylo-hyoid filaments of the inferior dentar nerve (1669). Several of these filaments ascend upon the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle, form there a kind of plexus by their frequent anastomoses, and all communicate with filaments of the lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve (1668). Arrived at the anterior edge of the hyo-glossus muscle, this branch dives, along with the lingual artery, between the genio- glossus and lingualis muscles, and directs itself inwards, forwards, and upwards. It then terminates, at about an inch from the point of the tongue, by a great number of filaments which are not dis- tributed to the papillai of its mucous membrane, but lose them- selves in the fleshy fibres of the muscles of this region, where they communicate frequently with each other.483 OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. OF THE SPINAL NERVES IN PARTICULAR. 1724. These nerves, of which there are thirty-one pairs, eight for the cervical region, twelve for the dorsal, five for the lumbar, and six for the sacral, all agree in possessing the following charac- ters : 1st, they rise from the sides of the spinal marrow by means of two roots, an anterior and smaller, and a posterior or larger, be- tween which the ligamentum dentatum passes; 2dly, each of these roots is formed by a greater or less number of distinct filaments, separated from each other at their commencement; 3dly, before issuing from the vertebral canal, they traverse a certain space in its interior; 4thly, in their passage through the intervertebral holes, they unite ; 5thly, but previous to this, the posterior root alone forms a particular enlargement or ganglion of a grayish co- lour and oval form, hard, and of a texture difficult to be determin- ed, which is lodged in a cavity furnished by the bony surfaces. OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. (Nervi Cervicales). 1725. The first of these nerves passes between the occipital bone and atlas; the last between the seventh cervical vertebra and the first dorsal. They are distinguished by their numerical iiames, counting from above downwards. Their anterior roots-commonly arise from the spinal marrow by two bundles formed of seven or eight filaments, isolated at their very commencement, but uniting almost immediately, and proceeding from above downwards gradu- ally increasing in size. The posterior roots, which are much larg- er, arise by a variable number of fibres in a pretty distinct groove of the spinal marrow (1518). Each of these bundles is composed of several isolated filaments, less distinct than those of the anterior roots, which converge towards each other, so as to give to the root a pyramidal form. It is also pretty frequently remarked, that be- tween two of these roots there exists a middle filament, which bi- furcates in such a manner as to belong equally to both. The first pairs of cervical nerves proceed nearly in a transverse direction within the vertebral canal; the rest descend so much the more obliquely towards the hole by which they are to emerge the lower they are situated, so that between the origin and exit of the last there is an interval of the height of a vertebra. In the intervertebral holes, the two roots, which are very close to each other, are separated by a thin partition which seems to di- vide into two the fibrous canal of the dura mater (1565) and only unite beyond the ganglion formed by the posterior. They then give rise to the trunk of the nerve itself, which, after a very short course, separates into two branches, a posterior and an anterior.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 484 OF TH15 FIIIST PAIU ("KUVICAL NERVES OH SHU-OCCl I'lTAf, NEllVES. 1726. The First Cervical Nartie, {nerviis cervicalis primus), arises upon the sides of the spinal marrow, immediately under the medulla oblongata, by seven or eight filaments united into two or three bundles before the liganientum dentatum. Sometimes two or three other filaments, issuing from the spinal marrow behind that ligament, form a separate root for it, a little inferior to the other. The spinal accessory nerve sometimes passes between these two origins ; but most commonly it is placed behind the posterior, and communicates with the anterior (I7I6). The two roots of the nerve converge and proceed outwards and backwards. The anterior receives a filament from the second cer- vical nerve. 'J"hey traverse the fibrous canal by which the vertebral artery enters the skull in the reverse direction of that vessel, and place themselves between it and the groove of the posterior arch of the atlas, connected with these parts by a pretty dense cellular tis- sue. There, they unite, and form a very elongated ganglion, from which emanate two branches, an anterior and a posterior. 1727- Anterior branch. Long, slender, and smaller than the posterior, this branch turns at first, from within, outwards, then from behind forwards, over the outer edge of the vertebral artery, passes above the transverse process of the atlas, and soon appears between the rectus capitis anticus minor and rectus capitis | lateralis muscles. It then changes its direction, descends before i the transverse process, and terminates by anastomosing with a | filament of the second cervical nerve, so as to embrace that process by a kind of arch. This branch gives off successively in its course, 1st, one or two filaments to the rectus capitis lateralis, and rectus capitis anticus minor; 2dly, a very slender filament which accompanies the ver- tebral artery as far as the basilar trunk, and which is sometimes wanting ; 3dly, another more constant filament, longer and equally slender, which descends to the inner part of the canal which lodges that vessel along the cervical column, and there anastomoses with an ascending filament of the inferior cervical ganglion, and with the trunk of the second cervical nerve at its passage between the atlas and axis; 4thly, a twig to the upper part of the rectus ca- pitis anticus major. From the arch which it forms with the second cervical nerve, arise several other small filaments which communi- cate with the pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal nerves (1721) and with the superior cervical ganglion. 1728. Posterior branch. Thicker and shorter than the other- it ascends a little backwards through the adipose cellular tissue, which fills the triangular space comprised between the obliquus ca- pitis inferior and superior, and the rectus capitis posticus major muscles, and, after running a course of four or five lines, divides485 OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. into three twigs which separate from each other in a radiating manner. The first, or superior and internal, directs itself trans- versely inwards, between the complexus and rectus capitis posti- cus major, in which muscles it loses itself as well as in the rectus posticus minor. The second, or superior and external, ascends outwards, and is distributed to the obliquus capitis superior. It is sometimes double or triple, so that, in proportion to its size, this muscle receives a great quantity of nervous filaments. The third or inferior twig descends towards the middle part of the upper edge of the obliquus inferior, and subdivides into several filaments, some of which lose themselves in that muscle, while the others, which are often very slender, and most commonly two in number, anastomose in their course, forming a kind of nervous arch, with the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve. One of these latter passes behind the muscle, and the other traverses it, to throw itself into the middle part of the complexus. They vary much in respect to size. In some subjects, in place of these three twigs, the branch im- mediately divides into seven or eight filaments which proceed di- rectly to their destination. OF THE SECOND PAIR OF CERVICAL NERVES.* (Neinius Cervicalis Secundus). 1729. Posterior Branch. This branch is larger than the ante- rior, which is the reverse of what is observed in the other cervical nerves except the first. It is reflected from beneath upwards un- der the lower edge of the obliquus capitis inferior, ascends between it and the complexus, proceeds inwards, traverses the last mention- ed muscle, becomes sub-cutaneous and divides into several twigs upon the occipital bone. At its commencement, it communicates upwards with the first cervical nerve (1728), and downwards with the corresponding branch of the third cervical (1731) ; it also gives a filament to the highest part of the levator anguli scapulte. At its reflection, it sends before the complexus numerous filaments which descend into its substance and are there lost, or which, pass- ing under its inner edge, gain its posterior surface, and are there distributed, as well as in the trachelo-mastoideus and splenius, and sometimes in the trapezius and sterno-mastoideus. Lastly, it ter- minates at the back part of the head, by twigs which are expanded in the occipital muscle and integuments, or anastomose with the filaments of the frontal (1651), first cervical (1728), and pos- terior auricular (1678) nerves, and with those of the cervical plexus (I743). • Some anatomiKts call this the first pair, becniise they do not include the pre- ceding among the spinal nerves. 2•^86 ORGANS OF SENSATION. 1730. Anterior Branch. It separates from the preceding near- ly at a riglit angle, and turns over the lateral articulation of th^ atlas and axis, between the transverse processes of these vertebraj; [ there it is covered by the levator anguli scapula?, splenius and i first intertransvcrsalis colli, and immediately after divides into se- , veral twigs. One of these ascends upon the atlas to form a ner- vous arch with a filament of the first cervical nerve (I727) ; ano- ther divides into several filaments which go to the superior cervical ganghon; a third loses itself in the rectus capitis anticus major ; a i fourth enters into the formation of the cervical plexus, uniting by 1 two or three anastomoses with the anterior branch of the third cer- vical nerve ; a fifth, which is very small and very high, anasto- moses with the pneumo-gastric nerve. OF THE THIRD PAIR OF CERVICAL NERVES. (Nervus Cervicalis Tertius.) 1731. Posterior Branch. Half the size of the anterior, this branch turns over the lateral articulation of the axis and third cer- vical vertebra, and in particular over the synovial capsule. It at first descends a little, then ascends before the complexus, crossing the inferior twigs of the posterior branch of the preceding nerve (I729), perforates that muscle and the trapezius, and becomes sub- cutaneous towards the upper part of the neck. Its first filament ascends to unite with a filament of the preceding nerve. It fur- nishes another more considerable twig, which passes between the articular and transverse processes of the third vertebra, gives three or four filaments to the posterior recti and oblique muscles of the head, throws one into each superior interspinalis muscle, glides un- der the edge of the complexus, and gives olF several filaments to the trachelo-mastoideus, splenius, transversalis colli and semi-spi- nalis colli muscles, and then terminates in the integuments of the back of the neck and occipital region, as well as in the trapezius muscle. 1732. Anterior Branch. It proceeds forwards and outwards, covered by the splenius and levator anguli scapulae, communicates upwards with the anterior branch of the preceding nerve (1730), downwards with that of the fourth cervical nerve, bifurcates, and thus concurs to form the cervical plexus. By its middle part, it receives a filament of the superior cervical ganghon, and another from its branch which descends towards the middle or inferior gan- glion. It also gives some filaments to the rectus capitis anticus major and levator anguli scapula?.OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. 487 Of THE FOUllTH PAIR OF CEllVICAL NEIIVES. {Nervus Cervicalis Quarius). 1733. Posterior Branch. Smaller than that of the third jmir (I73I), it is lodged in a groove formed between the articular pro- cesses of the third and fourth vertebras, passes between the inser- tions of the complexus and semi-spinalis colli, descends for some extent between them, gives them some filaments, traverses the splcnius and trapezius muscles, and loses itself in the integuments. It communicates with the preceding nerve by a small filament, and also sends some ramifications to the trachelo-mastoideus, transver- salis colli, and levator anguli scapulas. 1734<. Anterior Branch. Directed at first outwards, then turn- ing over the fourth vertebra, it communicates with the superior cervical ganglion, the thkd and fifth pairs of cervical nerves, and contributes to the formation of the cervical plexus. OF THE CERVICAL PLEXUS. 1735. Each of the anterior branches of the second, third, and fourth pairs of cervical nerves, after receiving a filament from the superior cervical ganglion, bifurcates and unites with the following and the preceding by two twigs, forming an arch from the con- vexity of which proceed others which again unite more externally. It is of those anastomoses, which vary greatly in different subjects, that the Cervical Plexus is formed. It lies upon the scalenus posticus muscle, on the outside of the pneumo-gastric nerve, caro- tid artery, and jugular vein, under the posterior edge of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus, opposite the second, third, and fourth vertebras. Immersed in a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue, inter- mingled with vessels, containing in its meshes many lymphatic ganglia, it communicates above with the first cervical nerve, below with the brachial plexus, and internally with the superior and middle cervical ganglia by several filaments. It also sends one or two filaments to the spinal accessory nerve (1719), furnishes some to the muscles on which it is applied, and gives off" various branches which are distinguished into internal and external descending, as- cending and superficial cervical. 1736. Internal Descending Branch. It is formed by two dis- tmct filaments, manifestly supplied by the anterior branches of the second and third cervical nerves, which unite into a single cord. It descends inwards under the sterno-mastoideus, and at the middle of the neck anastomoses, by a reversed arch, with the desccndens noni (I722).ORGANS OF SENSATION. 488 1737. Phrenic Nerve. It terminates the cervical plexus infe- riorly, and receives its principal filament from the anterior branch of the fourth cervical nerve. Most commonly it is joined with a very slender branch which comes from the third, and two or three \ which escape from the brachial plexus, and only join it at the lower part of the neck, or even in the thorax. Sometimes its volume is i augmented by a twig of the descendens noni, or of the plexus which I terminates it, and by a lilament of the superior cervical ganglion. Thus formed in a more or less variable manner, difficult to describe with precision in the inextricable interlacement which forms the plexus, the phrenic nerve descends along the fore ! and lateral part of the neck, between the rectus capitis anticus major and scalenus anticus, then over the anterior edge of the lat- ter, giving off some delicate filaments to them. At the lower part ' of the neck, it commxuiicates with the inferior cervical ganglion by one or two other filaments, then penetrates into the thorax between the subclavian artery which is behind, and the subclavian vein which is before, and proceeding inwards, forwards and downwards, crosses the internal mammary artery and enters the anterior me- diastinum ; there, it sends ramifications to the thymus gland. It then passes over the trunks of the pulmonary vessels, and ghding before the root of the lung, descends as far as the diaphragm between the pleura and the lateral parts of the pericardium, to which it is closely attached, without however supplying any filament either in it or to the lung. The phrenic nerve of the right side, which is more vertical, and placed more anteriorly than the left, divides before entering the diaphragm, into six or seven filaments which separate from each other and communicate frequently together. They first spread out ramifications upon the upper surface of the muscle; then the in- ner filaments, closely connected with the vena cava inferior, pass by the aperture which gives passage to that vessel, to its inferior surface, to which they are partly distributed, partly also losing themselves in the coeUac plexus. The other filaments, which are longer and directed forwards, backwards and inwards, perforate the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, accompanying the diaphragmatic arteries and veins, and send several filaments to anostomooC with the cceliac plexus and the stomachic filaments of the pneumo-gas- tric nerve. The left phrenic nerve, which is posterior to the preceding, turn- ing over the apex of the heart, and consequently longer also than it, furnishes ramifications to the convex surface of the diaphragm, perforates it, after being divided into several filaments, is partly expanded over its concave surface, partly over the oesophagus, and gives anastomosing filaments to the solar and coeliac plexuses. It also furnishes filaments to the crura of the diaphragm and to the supra-renal capsules, and sends ^ome to anastomose with those of the opposite nerve. i i • It is not uncommon to sec the terminating twigs of the phrenicOP THE CEKVICAL NERVF.S. nerves presenting more or less numerous enlargements resembling ganglia. 1738. External descending branches. Tlies6 are four or five in number, sometimes only two, but always furnishing to the same parts an equal quantity of twigs. They arise principally from the fourth cervical nerve, and but slightly from the third. Their course is very short, and they divide almost directly, and with nu- merous variations, into a great number of twigs, which are distin- guished according to their position, into 1739. Sujyra-clavicular Tivigs. They descend along the la- teral part of the neck, under the platysma myoides, and divide in- to a great number of very long filaments, some of which pass be- fore the middle part of the clavicle and inferior extremity of the sterno-mastoideus, to be distributed upon the pectoralis major, in the integuments of the thorax and to the mammae, while the others, directing themselves more outwards and backwards, are placed between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, and ramify in the skin of the top of the shoulder, and outer upper part of the arm. 1740. Svpra-acromian Twigs. They proceed along the upper edge of the trapezius muscle, send to it some filaments which anasto- mose in its substance with those of the termination of the spinal accessory nerve (1719), then, on arriving at the acromion, subdi- vide, and cover the outer and back part of the deltoid muscle with a great quantity of ramifications. 1741. Sub-clavicular Twigs. They are deeply imbedded in cellular tissue, in the triangular space which exists between the clavicle and the trapezius and sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscles. Arrived beneath the clavicle, they distribute themselves to the sca- pular extremity of the omo-hyoideus muscle, and to the upper part of the subscapularis and serratus magnus, and lose themselves in the axilla. 1742. Deep Cervical Twigs. These descend backwards along with the spinal accessory nerve, with which they communicate more or less frequently, and are distributed to the trapezius, levator an- guli scapulas and rhomboideus muscles, as well as to the neigh- bouring cellular tissue and lymphatic ganglia. 1743. Mastoid Branch. This is one of the two ascending branches of the cervical plexus. It ascends along the posterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, between the integuments and the splenius muscle, and on arriving at the mastoid process, divides into several filaments which are distributed to the integuments of the posterior and lateral part of the head, to the inner surface of the external ear, and to the occipitalis muscle. They anostomose with the auricular twig of the facial nerve (1678), and with the posterior branch of the third cervical nerve (1731). 1744. Auricular Branch. This is the second ascending branch 01 the plexu«, and is nearly twice the size of the mastoid branch, before which it is situated. When it arises from the plexus, it isORGANS OF SENSATION. 490 directed outwards, is soon reflected over the posterior edge of the { sterno-mastoideus, and, after forming a kind of arch, jiroceeds ob- | liquely upwards and forwards between the outer surface of that muscle and the integuments. When it has arrived upon its ante- rior edge opposite the angle of the jaw, it divides into several twigs j whose number varies in different subjects. The anterior, ascend- ing upon the outer surface of the parotid gland, give it numerous filaments, among which there is one that goes to anastomose deep- ly with the inferior branch of the facial nerve (1688), and gain the lower part of the external ear; there they expand and ramify upon its two surfaces, being especially distributed to the integu- ments. Some of their filaments, which are more distinct than the rest, follow the contour of the helix, after traversing the substance of the ear from within outwards and from beneath upwards, be- tween the lobule and the end of the fibro-cartilage. They anasto- mose with the superficial temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve (I67O). The posterior twigs, of which there are one or two, run along the posterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and divide upon the mastoid process into filaments which gain the inner surface of the ear, the upper part of the external auditory canal, and the integuments of the lateral part of the head, where they anastomose with the ramifications of the preceding branch. 1745. Superficial Cervical Branches. There are generally two, of which one is larger ; but it is not uncommon to find only one, which sometimes comes from a common trunk with the auri- cular. Arising from the middle part of the plexus, and especially from the third cervical nerve, they are reflected, like the preced- ing and beneath it, over the posterior edge of the sterno-mas- toideus muscle, from whence they proceed transversely between it and the platysma myoides. They immediately divide into a greater or less number of twigs and filaments, some of which ascend to unite deeply with the descending branch of the facial nerve (1688) and with some filaments of the auricular branch of the same plexus (1744), while the others diverge in all directions, and are distributed to the platysma myoides and digastricus muscles, the integuments of the neck and the maxillary gland, where they com- municate with the filaments of the mylo-hyoid twig of the inferior maxillary nerve (1669), and with those of the facial nerve. Some of them proceed transversely to anastomose in the median hne with the ramifications of the opposite side ; some others ascend superfi- cially towards the lower part of the face to be united to the mental nerve (1669). OF THE FIFTH, SIXTH, SEVENTH, AND EIGHTH PAIRS OF CERVICAL NERVES. 1746. Posterior Branches. They arc much smaller than the corresponding branches of the preceding pairs. They descend ob-491 OF THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. liquely outwards between the semi-spinalis colli and compicxus muscles, to which they give filaments, and on arriving at the spinous processes, traverse the splenius and trapezius, and lose themselves in their fibres and in the integuments of the back part of the neck and upper part of the back. 1747. Anterior Branches. They are remarkable for their size. At first situated between the two scaleni muscles, before the pos- terior, they all furnish one or two filaments, which anastomose with those of the cervical gangUa, and some others which lose themselves in the scaleni muscles. They then all communicate together, and form the Brachial Plewus. It is moreover to be observed here, that the anterior branch of the fifth nerve sends a twig to the phrenic nerve (1737) communicates with that of the fourth, while that of the eighth unites with a branch of the first dorsal nerve. I OF THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. {^Pleocus Nervorum Brachii.) 1748. Formed by the union and interlacement of the anterior branches of the last four cervical nerves and first dorsal, the bra- chial plexus extends from the lateral and inferior part of the neck to the axilla, where it divides into several branches which are dis- tributed to the arm. In forming it, the anterior branches of the above-mentioned nerves proceed in the following manner: Those of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves descend obliquely outwards, and, after a course of about an inch and a half, unite into a single trunk which preserves the same direction. Those of the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves also unite and form a trunk which becomes nearly horizontal. Lastly, that of the seventh cervical nerve proceeds for a long time between these two trunks in an iso- lated manner; but, opposite the first rib, it unites to both. Thus, the brachial plexus divided into three distinct portions at its origin, afterwards forms a large flat bundle in which the nervovis filaments are mingled and interlaced in an inextricable manner. 1749- The brachial plexus is situated at its commencement be- tween the scaleni muscles, the anticus lying upon it so as to cover it below over a considerable extent, and leaving it almost bare above. It is then immersed in the subclavicular adipose tissue, passes between the subclavius muscle and the first rib, is applied upon the upper portion of the serratus magnus, and is lodged in the upper part of the axilla. Until it reaches the latter place it remains situated behind the axUlary artery and vein, but then the different branches which terminate it, surround the artery on all sides and form a sort of sheath for it, while the vein, which had always been more superficial, retains its position. 1750. The branches which the brachial plexus furnishes arcORGANS OF SENSATION. 492 distinguished into thoracic, supra-scapular, infra-scapular, and bra- chial. The latter are designated by the names of internal cutane-1 ous, external cutaneous, median, radial, ulnar, and circumflex. thohacic branches. 1751. Anterior Thoracic Branch. Furnished chiefly by the seventh cervical nerve, it issues from the anterior part of the plexus, descends behind the clavicle before the axillary artery, and divides into a pretty considerable number of filaments. Some of these, which are not always met with, form a kind of ring by turning from before backwards around the axillary artery, and ascend, posterior- ly to it, to unite a second time with the plexus towards the point where the eighth cervical nerve unites with the first dorsal. The others continue to descend upon the thorax, and are distributed among the fibres of the pectoralis major, and upon the inner surr face of the pectoralis minor. Frequently a small twig proceeds by itself from the cord which the last cervical and first dorsal nerves form, passes under the ax- illary artery, and is entirely distributed to the pectoralis minor. 1752. Posterior Thoracic Branch (Inferior external respiror- tory. Bell). It is detached from the upper part of the plexus, posteriorly, and arises by two twigs, of which, one comes from the fifth, the other from the sixth cervical nerve; sometimes also the seventh cervical nerve furnishes it with one. That of the fifth sends a filament to lose itself in the scalenus posticus and levator anguli scapuljE. Then, united into a single trunk, they pass behind the axillary vessels, and descend upon the sides of the thorax, adher- ing to the serratus magnus, in the lower third of which they are exhausted by a great number of ramifications, without having pre- viously given off any filaments. SUPRA-SCAPULAR BRANCH. 1753. Issuing from the upper and posterior part of the brachial plexus, and furnished especially by the fifth cervical nerve, it descends obliquely backwards toward the upper edge of the scapu- la, passes vmder the ligament which closes the coracoid notch (6o2), previously gives a filament to the subscapularis muscle, then obliquely traverses the outer regi6n of the fossa supra-spinata, and furnishes several filaments to the supra-spinatus muscle, un- der which it is situated. It then passes into the fossa infra- spinata, at the fore part of the spine of the scapula, towards the base of the acromion process, and divides into three or four twigs which descend and arc subdivided in the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles.OF THE INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NRIIVE. 493 INFUA-SCAPUI-AK BRANCHES. 1754. They arise at variable points of the brachial plexus, and sometimes from the circumflex nerve, which itself comes off' from it, either separately or by a common trunk. Their number is as sub- ject to variation as their origin; but in general there are three of them. The Jirst, which is the largest, comes from the posterior part of the plexus, and passes behind the axillary vessels toj descend be- tween the serratns magnus and subscapularis, traverse the teres major and lose itself by two or three twigs on the anterior surface of the latissimus dorsi. The second, which is the smallest of the three, also issues from the plexus behind, throws itself upon the inner surface of the sub- scapularis muscle, and is distributed to it. The third has sometimes a common origin with the first, and also frequently comes from the circumflex nerve. It descends ob- liquely along the subscapularis muscle, and ramifies in its substance as well as in the teres major and teres minor. I OF THE INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NEllVE. I {Nervus Ctitaneus Medius.) l']55. It is the smallest of the six branches which terminate the brachial plexus, from the inner and lower part of which it comes, being furnished almost exclusively by the first dorsal nerve and the last cervical. It descends vertically under the brachial aponeuro- sis, along the inner surface of the arm, near the basilic vein, which is sometimes placed before, sometimes behind it, and sometimes on its sides. At first deeply concealed in the cellular tissue of the axilla, between the median and ulnar nerves, it becomes more su- perficial as it descends; but it only gives off" some very slender filaments which lose themselves in the cellular tissue and skin, and of which one directs itself towards the inner condyle. It is near this tuberosity, and sometimes sooner, that the trunk of the nerve Itself divides into two branches, an external, and an internal. 1756. Ewternal Branch. Smaller than the other, it runs along the edge of the biceps muscle, almost immediately pierces the brachial aponeurosis, and directs itself obliquely downwards and forwards, placed above the median nerve, which it accompa- nies as far as the lower part of the biceps muscle. Then travers- ing the middle of the bend of the arm, it remains on the surface of the aponeurosis of the fore-arm until near the wrist, where it ter- minates by twigs which are distributed to the integuments, and which cannot be traced beyond the annular ligament of thfc wrist (n08). In passing over the forc-arra, it gives off" on cither side4-94 ORGANS OF SENSATION. filaments wliich may be distinguished into radial and ulnor, and i -which proceed obUquely downwards, to be distributed to the in- I teguments of this part of the upper extremity, anastomosing on the one hand with the twigs of the external cutaneous nerve, and i on the other, with those of the internal branch of the internal cu- | taneous nerve itself (1757)- I 1757- Internal Branch. This may be regarded as the conti- p nuation of the trunk. It continues to descend upon the brachialis , internus muscle, accompanied by the basilic vein. Near the inner i condyle it divides into two twigs. Of these, the anterior directs it- i self obliquely over the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, passing 1 sometimes behind sometimes before the median-basiUc vein, and 1 then furnishes, especially by its inner side, several filaments which i descend very far behind the fore-arm and ramify in its integuments ; |) some of them extend as fjir as the inner edge of the hand. The I posterior turns backwards under the condyle, descends along the ulna, and terminates by a great number of filaments which may be I followed in the integuments as far as the back of the hand and to near the little finger. OF THE KXTKUNAL CUTANEOUS NEEVE. (Nervus perforans Casserii seu musculo-cutaneus.) 1758. A little larger than the preceding, but smaller than the Other brachial nerves, it arises from the outer part of tlie plexus, and comes in particular from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, which, after forming a single trunk as far as the common origin of the biceps and coraco-brachialis, divide anew into two divergent cords, the inner of which passes before the axillary artery to con- tribute to the formation of the median nerve, while the outer con- stitutes the nerve of which we here speak. 1759. This nerve descends at first obliquely outwards behind the ! coraco-brachialis muscle, then passes through it, (1132), after sup- | plying it with a very slender filament which may be traced until its insertion into the humerus. After this, it descends along the inner and fore part of the arm, between the brachialis internus and biceps muscles, giving off several twigs to them. One of these twigs, which is larger than the others, descends inwards, divides into two filaments, and proceeds as far as the lower extremity of the brachialis internus. Another follows the same direction, and communicates with the median nerve towards the lower part of the arm. The external cutaneous nerve then disengages itself on the outside of the tendon of the biceps, traverses the middle of the bend of the arm under the median-cephalic vein, and descends along the fore and outer part of the fore-arm, between the aponevi- rosis and the skin. When it has arrived near the wrist, it divides into two branches, an outer and an inner, and so terminates.495 OF TIIK MEDIAN NERVE. lyGO. The outer branch, which is larger than the other, sends a twig over the back of the hand, which is more or less prolonged upon die fingei-s. It then descends behind the thumb and upon its outer side, also giving some filaments to the fore-finger. Seve- ral of its ramifications anastomose with those of the radial nerve. 1761. The inner branch descends upon the muscles of die thumb, in the palm of the hand, and there subdivides into a mul- titude of filaments which may be traced upon the fingers. OF THE MEDIAN NEKVE. {Nervus Medianus). 1762. This is the largest nerve of the brachial plexus, from which it arises, behind the internal cutaneous nerve, and between the ulnar and external cutaneous nerves. The seventh and eighth cervical nerves, united to the first dorsal, form its principal origin, to which is joined a branch of the common trunk of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves (1758), which forms, with all the other roots, a kind of nervous interlacement around the axillary artery (I749). 1763. After thus originating, the median nerve descends a lit- tle outwards behind the inner edge of the biceps and internally of the brachial arterv. It arrives at the bend of the arm without giv- .... CJ ing off any ramification, and traverses it in its middle part, inter- nally of the biceps and under the median vein. It then sinks be- hind the anti-brachial aponeurosis, between the brachialis internus and pronator teres, passes between the two origins of the latter muscle (1149) and proceeds along the fore-arm between the flexor digitorum subUmis, and flexor profundus, between whose tendons it becomes apparent below. Lastly, it passes along with them under the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, adheres to them by a ,very delicate membraneous cellular tissue, becomes broader and thicker than it was before, and on arriving in the palm of the hand towards the upper part of the metacarpal bones, divides into ; several twigs, which are distributed to the fingers, and which are distinguished numerically, counting from without inwards. !. 1764. As it proceeds between the brachialis internus and prona- tor teres, the median nerve gives off its first twigs to the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, flexores digitorum sublimis and profundus, and flexor longus pol- ilicis. They penetrate by the inner surface of most of these muscles, and are lost in their fleshy fibres. ! 1765. Interosseous Twig. Larger than the preceding, and arising under them, this twig separates from the median nerve at J a very acute angle, and gives oft' at its origin a filament which goes • to the flexor sublimis, in which it loses itself The interosseous nerve then passes between the two flexor muscles of the fingers.496 ORGANS OF SENSATION. gains the anterior surface of the interosseous ligament, accompany- ing the artery of this name, and gives off hiterally several filaments which are destined for the flexor digitoruni profundus and flexor longus poUicis. Arrived at the upper edge of the pronator qua- dratus, it dives under it giving it some filaments, and then emerges by the inferior aperture of the interosseous Ugament (669) to be expanded over the back of the hand, where it furnishes a great number of ramifications which become superficial, but do not extend so far as those of the interosseous artery which they accompany. 1766. Pretty frequently, after giving rise to the interosseous twig, the median nerve furnishes another which descends inwards, follows the course of the ulnar artery, and anastomoses with the ulnar nerve. It then sends some irregular filaments to the flexors of the fingers and flexor carpi radialis. But, at the lower part of the fore-arm, there separates from it the cutaneous palmar twig^ which is of considerable size, issues between the tendons of the flexor sublimis, and loses itself in the integuments of the palm of the hand, after a short course. 1767- First Digital Twig. Directed obliquely outwards, it immediately gives off* several filaments to the abductor, opponens and flexor brevis poUicis, descends along the latter, to which it gives off a ramification, and following the radial edge of the thumb, arrives at its extremity. Opposite the first phalanx, it throws backwards into the integuments of the posterior surfjice of the thumb, a filament which also ascends outwards. Frequently also the first filaments which escape from it to be distributed among the muscles of the ball of the thumb, form an entirely dis- tinct twig. 1768. Second Digital Twig. It follows at first the direction of the preceding twig; but separates from it-as it descends, to pro- ceed over the ulnar edge of the first bone of the metacarpus and of the thumb, giving a filament to the flexor brevis, and several other ramifications to the integuments of the posterior surface of that finger. 1769. Third Digital Twig. Placed upon the first of the lum- bricales muscles, it furnishes it at first with a filament, then des-' cends along the radial edge of the second metacarpal bone and fore-finger to the extremity of the latter, where, after giving oft' one or two posterior filaments, it expands and anastomoses with one of the branches of the next twig. 1770. Fourth Digital Twig. Descending between the second and third metacarpal bones, it gives a filament to the second of the lumbricales muscles, and bifurcates opposite the separation of the fore and middle finger, and sometimes sooner. One of these se- condary twigs follows the ulnar edge of the first, the other the ra- dial edge of the second of these fingers. They both furnish fila- ments posteriorly to the integuments, opposite the first phalanges, and are expanded upon the summits of the fingers. 1771. Fifth Digital Twig. It follows the original direction of497 OP THE ULNAR NERVE. the median nerve, in the interval of the third and fourth nletacar- pal bones. After giving a filament to the third lumbricalis, it di- vides into tvfo secondary twigs which descend upon the ulnar edge of the middle finger, and radial edge of the ring finger. The latter receives a filament of the ulnar nerve; but both send posterior fila- ments into the integuments of these fingers, and terminate by ana- tomosing in their pulp. 1772. AH the digital twigs furnished by the median nerve ac- eompany the arteries of the fingers, and give oft' on all sides slen- der filaments to the skini OF THE IJtNAR NERVE; {Nervus Cuhitalis.) 1773. Arising from the inner and back part of the brachial plexus, and in particular^ from the last two branches which enter into its formation, this nerve descends almost vertically, only in- clining a little backwards, along the inner edge of the triceps ex- tensor muscle, to which it is pretty closely attached by cellular tis- sue. Not far from the elbow, it gives off' some long and slender filaments which go to the integuments of the upper and back part of the fore-arm. It then passes between the inner condyle and olecranonj traverses the upper extremity of the flexor carpi uln'aris muscle,- and directs itself obliquely downwards and forwards, along the anterior and inner part of the fore-arm, between the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digitorum profundus, and internally of the ulnar artery. Its volume gradually diminishes as it descends. Towards the lower region of the fore-arm, a little above the wrist, it divides into two branches, one of which proceeds over the back of the hand, while the other goes to the palm; 177'i- Before dividing, and after passing through the substance of the flexor carpi ulnaris, the ulnar nerve commonly gives off' from four to six filaments to the neighbouring muscles, especially the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digitorum profundus. One of them accompanies the ulnar artery for a considerable time, and loses it- self in the two flexoTs of the fingers near the wrist. 1775. Palmar Branch. Larger than the dorsal, and appear- ing to be the true continuation of the trunk, it emerges from be- hind the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, proceeds along its outer edge, passes between the annular ligament and the integuments, beside the pisiform bone, and, before arriving at the palm of the hahdj divides into two twigSj- a deep and superficial. The deep twig passes behind the upper extremity of the oppo- nens minimi digiti,- dives behind the bundle formed by the tendons of the flexors of the fingers and lumbricales, and then bends out- wards, so as to form a kind of arch, the concavity of which isabovtt, 2 k498 ORGANS 01- SENSATION. and whose convexity furnishes some filaments. Of these, the two first are distributed to the muscles of the little finger, four or five others dive into the svibstance of the interossei muscles, and lose themselves towards the back of the hand, while those which ter- minate the twig are expanded in the adductor poUicis and abductor indicis muscles. The superficial twig gives a filament to the muscles of the little finger beneath the pisiform bone, and presently divides into two secondary twigs, an outer and an inner. The outer is the larger. It descends vertically beneath the palmar aponeurosis, gives off a filament which anastomoses with the last digital twig of the me- dian nerve (I77I)) furnishes another to the fourth lumbricalis, and bifurcates in such a manner that one of its ramifications de- scends along the ulnar side of the ring finger, and the other along the radial side of the little finger, being in other respects distribut- ed precisely in the same manner as that of the median nerve. The inner directs itself obliquely inwards, gives, at first, filaments to the muscles of the internal palmar region, before which it passes, and gains the ulnar edge of the little finger, at the extremity of which it anastomoses by an arch with the preceding. 1776. Dorsal Branch. Much smaller than the palmar, and winding between the inferior part of the ulna and the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, it gains the inner part of the back of the hand, where, after giving one or two filaments to the integuments, it se- parates into two twigs, an inner and an outer. The inner descends along the ulnar edge of the fifth metacarpal bone, gives a great number of filaments to the abductor minimi digiti and the integuments, and loses itself on the dorsal surface of the little finger. The outer passes between the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, and divides at a greater or less height into two filaments, one of which descends backwards over the radial side of the little finger and the ulnar side of the ring finger, while the other is distributed on the radial side of the latter, and ulnar side of the middle finger. These ramifications distribute a great number of filaments to the skin of the back of the fingers, and anastomose at their ex- tremities with themselves, or, on that of the middle finger with the radial nerve. . * OF THE RADIAL Oil MtTSCULO-SPIRAI. NERVE. (Ncrvus Radialis). 1777- It arises from the inner and back part of the brachial plexus, where it is especially formed by the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, and first dorsal. Its volume equals that of the median nerve, and even sometimes exceeds it. It descends at first obliquely from before backwards between the three portions■OF THE IIADIAL NEKVE. o£the triceps extensor and tlie inner patt of the humei'us. I t then turns from within ontwavds, and from above downwards m the groove which the outer surface of that bone presents (44-2) ; and lastly, on arriving at the anterior, external and inferior part of the arm, between the brachialis internus and supinator longus, it pro- ceeds over the elbow-joint, and there divides into two branches, an anterior and posterior. 1778- But before dividing, this nerve gives off a considerable number of twigs. Thus it gives off two or three, opposite the ■united tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, to the tri- ceps extensor muscle. Farther down, it sends several twigs into the same muscle. One of them traverses its inferior and external portion, and loses itself in the brachialis internus. Another des- cends under its large portion, ramifies there, and transmits a very long and remarkable filament to the anconeus muscle. Still lower, the radial nerve gives off a pretty large branch to the integuments of the fore-arm ; sometimes it is double ; it perforates the brachi- ahs internus, emerges between it and the supinator longus, passes behind the outside of the elbow, and descends along the outer and back part of the fore-arm and hand as far as the thumb, giving a great number of filaments to the skin and cellular tissue. Lastly, as it passes between the brachialis internus and supinator longus, the radial nerve sends some filaments still to the latter and to the extensor carpi radialis longior. 1779- -Anterior Branch. Smaller than the other, it descends along the anterior and outer part of the fore-arm, between the two supinator muscles, and on the outside of the radial artery. To- wards the lower third of the fore-arm, it winds a little outwards, passes under the tendons of the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior, and descends between the integuments and the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi in- ternodii poUicis. Presently after, it divides into two twigs, an mter which is smaller, and an imier, larger. The outer descenda upon the dorsal surface of the thumb, and divides into two fila- ments, one of which ramifies along its radial edge, while the other bifurcates to be distributed to its ulnar side, and to the radial side of the fore-finger. The inner proceeds over the back of the hand, and divides into two filamerits, one of which belongs to the ulnar side of the fore-finger, the other to the radial side of the middle finger. All these filaments, before terminating at the extremities of the fingers, furnish many ramifications to the interossei muscles, the integuments, and the parts about the first metacarpo-phalan- geal articulations. I78O. Posterior Branch. It directs itself obliquely outwards^ passes under the supinator longus and extensores carpi radiales muscles, gives off several filaments to them as well as to the an^ coneus, enters between the fleshy fibres of the supinator brevis^ lurnishcs it with several filaments, passes through it in the longii^ tudinal direction, winding obliquely downwards over the supcriofORGANS OF SENSATION. 500 extremity of the radius, and arrives at the posterior surface of tlu? fore-arm, divided into several twigs varying as to their number and origin. Some of these, the posterior, lose themselves by being more or less prolonged downwards, in the supinator brevis, exten- sor carpi ulnaris, and extensor muscles of the fingers and index. The anterior belong to the muscles of the deep and posterior layer of the fore-arm. One of them, which is larger and longer than the others, descends behind the interosseous ligament, gives some ramifications to the neighbouring muscles, passes over the wrist- joint under the posterior annular ligament of the carpus, and di- vides on the back of the hand into a great number of filaments, which lose themselves in the interossei muscles and cellular tissue. OP THE eiRCUMFLEX NERVE. {Nervus Axillaris). 1781. Arising from the inner and back part of the brachial plexus, in certain subjects, it appears to be but a branch of the radial nerve, but in general, is particularly produced by the last two cervical nerves and the first dorsal. Immediately after its origin it descends before the subscapulars muscle, which receives a considerable twig from it, then dives between the two teretes muscles, turns from before backwards and from within outwards between the capsule of the shoulder joint and the long portion ef the triceps extensor, and at length gains the posterior edge of the inner surface of the deltoid muscle, after giving some filaments to the teres minor. 1782. Opposite the triceps extensor muscle, this nerve divides into two branches. The upper, which is shorter, sends a twig into the infra-spinatus, and then loses itself in the deltoid muscle, after running for some extent upon its internal surface. The other, or inferior, entirely loses itself m the deltoid muscle, and terminates near its anterior edge and insertion into the humerus. OF THE DORSAL NERVES. (Nervi Dorsales). 1783. They arise, like the cervical nerves (1725), from the !»- teral parts of the spinal marrow, by two distinct roots, an anterior or smaller, and a posterior or larger, which are separated by the li- garaentum dentatum, and directed so much the more obliquely downwards the lower they are ; these roots unite into a single trunk beyond the intervertebral hole and beyond the ganglion of the posterior root. In a word, the greatest similarity exists be- tween them and the cervical nerves. They are twelve in numberOF THE DOllSAL NERVES AND BRANCHES. 501 on each side, and distinguished by their numerical name, count- ing from above downwards. The first issues between the first two dorsal vertebra^, and the last between the twelfth dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra. 1784. On emerging from the intervertebral hole which belongs to it, each dorsal nerve immediately divides into two branches, a postenar or dorsal, and an anterior or intercostal^ of which the latter is the larger. POSTERIOR OR DORSAL BRANCHES. 1785. They are immediately directed backwards between the !tr9.nsverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, under the semi-spi- nalis dorsi and multifidus spinas, where they commonly divide into two orders of twigs. Of these, the inner, enter immediately into the semi-spinalis dorsi and mvdtifidus spinas muscles, pass ob- liquely through them, giving off several filaments to them, emerge between them and the longissimus dorsi, which also receives rami- fications from them, perforate the muscles which lie above the lat- ter, and, for the most part, lose themselves in the skin of the back, some of them however remaining in the trapezius and rhoraboide- us. The outer, which are larger, descend obliquely outwards be- neatli the semi-spinalis dorsi, multifidus spinae and longissimus dorsi, emerge in the triangular spaces which the levatores costarum form above, and pass between the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi, to which they furnish filaments ; they then expand into se- veral ramifications which creep under the latissimus dorsi, trape- zius, and rhomboideus, pass throvigh them, and are ultimately dis- tributed to the skin. ANTERIOR BRANCHES. 1786. The first issues under the first rib, and the twelfth imder the last rib. They have this in common, that each of them re- ceives one or two filaments from the corresponding thoracic gang- lion. They then proceed outwards under the pleura to the angle of the ribs, where they enter between the two planes of the intercos- tal muscles, after which they draw near the lower edge of the rib immediately above them, and follow its course, which gives them a different inclination (83). They also accompany in a more or less intimate manner the intercostal vessels, and in particular the artery of that name. 1787- Anterior Branch of the First Dorsal Pair. Im- nnediately after its origin, and its com,munication with the first thoracic ganglion, it furnishes a twig which proceeds obliquely downwards under the inferior surface of the first rib, runs along its outer edge, arrives near the sternum, perforates the intercostal muscles, and loses itself on the upper and fore part of the thorax.OIIGANS OF SENSATION. after giving several filaments to the muscles just named. With respect to the branch itself, it descends outwards before the neck of the rib, ajid unites Avith the eighth cervical nerve to assist in forming the brachial plexus (174'8). 1788. Anterior Branch of the Second Dorsal Pair. It directs itself along the inner surface of the second rib, as far as the ante- rior edge of the serratus raagnus, where it divides into two twigs, an intercostal properly so called, and a brachial. The intercostal twig continues to run along the lower edge of the rib, gives filaments to the intercostal muscles, and, on arriving at the sternum, emerges between that bone and the external inter- costal muscle, and is expanded by several twigs on the anterior part of the thorax and in the pectoralis major. The brachial twig immediately perforates the external intercos- tal muscle, after giving it some small filaments, and descei^ds ob- liquely outwards into the axilla, where it sometimes receives a fila- ment of communication from the internal cutaneous nerve (1755), which augments its size. It then descends along the inner and back part of the arm, sends several filaments to tlae integuments, and loses itself near the elbow by a great number of ramifications. 1,789. Anterior Branch of the Third Dorsal Pair. It follows the Ipwer edge of the third rib as far as its middle, gives some fila- ments to the posterior part of the intercostal muscles, and divides in|;o two twigs. One of these, the intercostal, follows the same di- j:ection as the branch, gives off but few filaments, passes under the triangularis sterni, furnishes it with some ramifications, and is ex- panded near the sternum upon the anterior part of the thorax. The other, the brachial twig, gives some filaments to the intercos- tal muscles, perforates the external, descends in the lower part of the axilla, and loses itself on the inner part of the arm. 1790. Anterior Branches of the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Dorsal Pairs. They run along the lower edge of the corresponding ribs, as far as its middle, ■where, after sending nu- merous and pretty long filaments into- the intercostal muscles, they divide into two orders of twigs. The inner follow the original coiirse of the branch, give ramifications to the intercostales and triangularis sterni, pass under the latter, and emerge by one or two filaments on the sides of the sternum, to be distributed to the pectoralis major, the mamma and the integuments. The outer perforate the external intercostal muscle and separate into two filaments, one of which proceeds backwards into the integuments of the lateral part of the thorax, while the other ramifies in the obli- quus externus and the skin of the abdomen. 1791, Anterior Branches of the Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, and JElevefith Dorsal Pairs. They follow the same course as the last; but their division takes place so much nearer the anterior extremity of each intercostal space the lower they arc examined, because it always happens at the same distance from the mtcrvertebral hole, although the spaces aye succcssivqly shortened, The imier tuigsOF THE LUMBAR NERVES. 503 follow the lower edge of each of tlie ril)s, and leave it, passing over theinscrtionsof the diaphragm (1278), which receives no filaments from them, to pass into the walls of the abdomen, between the transversalis and obliquus internus muscles, into which they send some divisions. Then, arriving at the outer edge of the rectus muscle, they separate into deepjllaments vfhich. penetrate its fibres by its posterior surface, and sujierjicialJUaments which lose them- selves in the integuments of the anterior region of the abdomen. The outer twigs perforate the external intercostal muscles, and se- parate into filaments which, like those of the preceding branches, are distributed, on the one hand, in the integuments of the lateral parts of the thorax, and on the other, in the serratus magnus and obhquus externus, and in the integuments of the abdomen. 1792. Anterior Branch of the Twelfth Dorsal Pair. At itS; commencement, it sends a filament of communication to the ante- rior branch of the first lumbar nerve. It then separates from the twelfth rib, directs itself outwards and downwards, passes behind the anterior lamina of the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis muscle, and before the quadratus lumborum, gives some filaments to the latter as well as to the diaphragm, and divides into two twigs opposite the anterior extremity of the rib. One of these twigs passes between the two oblique muscles of the abdomen, gives them some ramifications, becomes superficial, and loses itself in the in-, teguments, descending as far as the iliac crest. The other insinuates itself between the obliquus internus and transversus muscles, gives them some filaments, and loses itself in the rectus and pyraraidalis muscles of the abdomen. OE THE LUMBAR NEKYES. {Nervi Lumborum.) 1793. Of these nerves there are five pairs. They are designat- ed by their numerical names, counting from above downwards. The first issues between the first two vertebrae of the loins, and the fifth between the last vertebra and the sacrum. These nerves arise, very near each other, from the inferior bulging of the spinal marrow (1520). Like those of all the other vertebral nerves, their roots are formed of two bundles of filaments ; but here these bun- dles are very broad, .especially for the last three pairs. The fila- ments which constitute them are immediately enveloped by a neurilema, and, although very near each other, do not commu- nicate together. They may therefore be traced separately for a long time, and thus contribute to form a kind of cord expand- ed into many filaments, which the older writers named the Cauda eqinna. These roots descend very obliquely in the vertebral ca- nal, which disposition is much more decided in the inferior pairs than in the superior. There results from it that the place of theirORGANS OF SENSATION. exit is very distant from that of their origin. The posterior root of each of them forms a gangUon in the intervertebral foramen, and then unites with the anterior, to form a common trunk placed be- tween the notches of the vertebra?, and presently divides into two branches, a posterior and an anterior. OF THE FIRST LUMBAR NERVE. 1794. Posterior Branch. Larger than those of the other lum- bar nerves, it is directed backwards between the transverse processes of the first two vertebrae of that region, gives some filaments in- ternally to the multifidus spinae muscle, perforates the inferior fleshy mass of the sacro-lunibalis and longissimus dorsi muscles (831), leaves several twigs for them, creeps under the united apo- neuroses of the latissimus dorsi, obliquus abdominis internus and serratus posticus inferior, traverses these aponeuroses towards the iliac crest, and finally ramifies in the integuments of the upper part of the hip. 1795. Anterior Branch. It receives a communicating filament from the lumbar ganglia, and another filament from the twelfth dor- sal pair (I792). In then proceeds forwards and inwards under the origins of the psoas magnus (1290), sends a twig to the anterior branch of the second lumbar nerve (1797)? and throws itself into the lumbar plexus. OF THE SECOND LUMBAR NERVE.. 1796. Posterior Branch. It is a little smaller than the preced- ing, and also passes between the transverse processes; it sends twigs inwards to the mvdtifidus spin^ muscle, traverses the mass of the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus, gives it some filaments, creeps in the same manner under the lumbar aponeurosis, perforates it toward the iliac crest, and is expanded by a great number of sub- divisions in the integuments of the upper and back part of the thigh. 1797- Anterior Branch. It communicates with the lumbar ganglia, the anterior branches of the first and second pairs of the lumbar region, and enters into the composition of the lumbo-abdo- minal plexus, OF THE THIRD LUMBAR NERVE. 1798. Posterior Branch. Still smaller than that of the second, it is distributed precisely in the same manner, and also ramifies in the integuments of the upper and back part of the thigh. 1799. Anterior Branch. It communicates with those of the505 OF THE LUMBAR NERVES AND PLEXUS. second and fourth lumbar nejrves, and witli the lumbar ganglia, contributing also to the formation of the lumbo-abdominal plexus. OF THE FOURTH AND FIFTH LUMBAR NERVES. 1800. Posterior Branches. They are both very small, and lose themselves in the fleshy mass of the sacro-lumbalis and longis- simus dorsi muscles, without going so far as the aponeurosis which covers them. They also send some filaments into the multifidus spina; muscle. 1801. Antei'ior Branches. They communicate with each other, and with the lumbar ganglia. That of the fourth nerve receives a branch from the third, and that of the fifth terminates the lumbo- abdominal plexus, descending into the pelvis to throw itself into the sciatic plexus. "^^F THE LUMB0-A3D0MINAL OR LUMBAR PLEXUS. 1802. Formed by the union of the anterior branches of the five lumbar nerves, which all send twigs to it, this plexus is situated on the lateral parts of the bodies of the second, third, and fourth lumbar vertebrse, before the base of their transverse processes, and behind the psoas miignus. It represents a kind of elongated cord, very narrow above, much broader below, where the nerves unite with each other farther from the vertebral column than above. It com- municates above with the anterior branch of the twelfth dorsal Herve (1792), and below with the sacral plexus, by the anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve (1801). It is terminated inferi- orly by three cords which are named the crural, obturator, and lumbo-sacral nerves, and previously furnishes some branches which are named musculo-cutaneous and genito-crural. OF THE MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS BRANCHES. 1803. They are commonly three in number; but present a multitude of variations, both in their disposition, and mode of origm. In general, they direct themselves outwards, under the peritoneum, towards the iliac crest, there penetrate into the muscles of the abdomen and become sub-cutaneous. 1804. Superior or Ilio-scrotal Branch. It evidently arises from the first lumbar nerve, traverses the upper part of the psoas jnagnus, and descends obliquely outwards upon the quadratus lum- borum, as far as the posterior part of the iliac crest. There it is lodged in a groove which the transversus abdominis forms at its at- tachment to the crest, and sends some twigs to that muscle and the liiacus nitevnus. Towards the anterior third of the iliac crest, itORGANS OF SENSATION. 50(3 perforates the trcinsversus muscle, is placed between it and the ob- liquus internus, furnishes them with some filaments, and divides into two twigs. Of these, the outer is distributed to the lower part of the three broad muscles of the abdomen, and loses itself in the integuments. The inner continues the original course of the branch, descends between the transversus and obliquus internus, rfs far as the anterior and superior spine of the ileum, follows the crural arch as far as the inguinal ring, perforates the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, and ramifies in the integuments of the fold of the groin, and of the pubic region, as well as in the scrotum in the male, and the labia pudendi in the female. 1805. Middle Branch. Arising also from the first lumbar nerve, it traverses the psoas magnus, descends along its outer edge, directs itself outwards before the iliacus internus and under the pe- ritoneum, perforates the transversus abdominis close upon the iliac crest, is placed between it and the obliquus internus, then enters the latter muscle and the obliquus externus, gives a great number of filaments to all these muscles, furnishes some also to the integu- ments, and sends one in particular along the crural arch, to the upper and outer part of the scrotum. 1806. Inferior ox Inguino-cutaneous Branch (externalcutaneous). It commonly arises by two roots from the second lumbar nerve, and under the two preceding branches. After perforating the psoas mag- nus, it runs along its outer edge for some extent, passes obliquely be- fore the iliacus muscle, gains the superior and anterior spine of the ileum, and issues from the pelvis between it and the inferior. It then becomes a little thicker, is flattened and divides into two twigs behind the crural aponeurosis. Of these twigs the external one is smaller than the other; it immediately directs itself out- wards toward the posterior and upper part of the thigh, in the in- teguments of which it spreads out a great number of filaments.. The other is internal, and seems to be the continuation of the branch ; after a short course, it perforates the crural aponeurosis,, becomes subcutaneous, descends upon the fore and outer part of the thigh as far as the knee, and gives off many filaments to the integuments and cellular tissue. OF THE GEKITO-CUURAL BRANCH. {Nerms spermaticus extermis). 1807. It comes from the first lumbar nerve, descends at first vertically in the substance of the psoas magnus, receives from the second lumbar nerve a filament which increases its size, then issues from the psoas muscle, follows its anterior surface for some extent, covered by the peritoneum, and near the crural arch, divides into two twigs, an inner and outer. The inner, which is larger, ac- companies the spermatic cord, passes with it through the inguinalop THE CKUKAL NERVE. 507 ring, <1ikI ramifies in the integuments of the scrotum, upper and inner part of the thigh, the tissue of the dartos, and the en- velopes of the testicle. The oiite)- descends along with the crural vessels behind the crural arch, in the midst of the lymphatic gang- lia and cellidar tissue of the groin ; and there expands into a great number of filaments, which become cutaneous, and reach as far as the middle of the thigh, where they sometimes anastomose with those of the crural nerve. OF THE ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 1808. The Anterior Crural Nerve (nervus femoralis prior), arises from the anterior branches of the first four lumbar nerves, and forms the outermost of three cords which terminate the plexus. At first situated under the psoas muscle, it separates from it oppo- site the fourth lumbar vertebra, proceeds outwards along its outer edge, before the iliacus muscle, gives them some filaments, which before penetrating them, form a sort of net-work at their surface, and issues from the abdomen behind the crural arch, along with the crural artery, externally of which it is situated. 1809- Immediately after issuing from the abdomen, the crural nerve divides into a variable number of twigs, but always of con- siderable size. Sometimes this division takes place before its pas- sage under the crural arch ; but they may always be distinguished into superficial and deep. 1810. Superjicial Twigs. Less voluminous than the others, they vary in number from two to six ; but the distribution of their filaments is constant and uniform. They creep for some time under the crural aponeurosis, and perforate it more or less high, to become subcutaneous. The holes through which they pass are very distinct. Presently after, they separate into a multitude of filaments, which expand upon the inner and fore part of the thigh, and are distributed to the integuments, and of which several de- scend as far as the upper "part of the leg, accompanying the vena saphena. 1811. EuVternal Deep Twigs. They vary much in number and size; but, in general, they are always larger than the pre- ceding. They descend outwards between the ihacus, sartorius and rectus femoris, and separate into filaments, which are distributed to the neighbouring muscles. 1812. Internal Deep Twigs. They are less numerous than the external, and are especially distributed to the vastus internus, and to the pectineus and sartorius muscles. One of them accompanies the crural artery, being placed at first before it, and afterwards on Its mner side, but separates from it below, to ghde under the in- ner edge of the sartorius, to which it gives some filaments, and then descends to the knee, where it is expanded. But the largest508 ORGANS OF SENSATION. of all these twigs is the one which is called the Internal saphenua Nerve, which accompanies the vena saphena. It descends at first internally of the crural artery, receives a twig of the obturator nerve, passes under the sartorius muscle in the channel which the adductor raagnus forms (1356), gives several filaments to these muscles, emerges on the inside of the knee between the tendons of the adductor magnus and vastus internus, sends small twigs to the integuments, then, united to the inner vena saphena, ramifies like it, accompanying it in all its subdivisions, and descends as far as the first toe, after furnishing many cutaneous filaments. OF THE OBTURATOll NEEVE. (Nervus Obturatorius). 1813. It comes principally from the second and third lumbar nerves, and sometimes from the fourth. Smaller than the crural nerve, it descends at first almost vertically between the inner edge of the psoas magnus and the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra. It then follows the lateral and superior part of the excavation of the pelvis, running a little below the line of the upper strait, (404), accompanied by the obturator artery and vein, and placed under the former and above the latter. On arriving at the upper part of the obturator foramen, it gives off a twig which loses itself in the two obturator muscles ; it then passes through the foramen, and ar- rives at the iipper and inner part of the thigh, concealed by the pectineus and adductor longus ; there, it divides into two branches, an anterior and posterior. The anterior descends between the adductor brevis and adductor longus, and separates into two twigs, of which, the imier gives filaments to the first of these muscles, and loses itself in the upper part of the gracilis, while the outer be- longs .entirely to the latter muscle. Both also give off cutaneous ramifications, and furnish one or two anastomoses to the inner saphenus nerve, (1812). The posterior directs itself between the adductor brevis and adductor magnus, and loses itself in the latter after giving filaments to the obturator externus muscle. OF THE LUMBO-SACKAL NERVE. 1814. This nerve is double the size of the anterior crural, and formed by the anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve, to which is united a large twig of the fourth. It descends into the pelvis before the sacrum, near the sacro-iliac symphysis, and unites with the sciatic plexus. In its course it furnishes a single branch, which is the glutaeal. 1815. GlutcBdl Nerve, (nermis glutcsus superior). It derives some roots from the sciatic plexus, issues by the sciatic notch aboveOF THE SACRAL NERVES. 609 the pyriformis muscle, and divides into a number of twigs, some of which enter the glutaeus minimus, and others the gluta;us niedius. OF THE SACRAL NERVES. (Nervi Sacrales). 1816. The sacral nerves are commonly six on each side, often five, and rarely four only. The first issues by the upper sacral holes, and the last by the notches which are observed at the upper part of the coccyx, or when there are only five, it escapes between that bone and the sacrum. Their size diminishes successively, So that the last two are very slender. 1817- These nerves arise from the lower part of the bulging vhich terminates the spinal marrow, by a double cord of filaments, as is the case with the vertebral nerves in general. These differ- ent cords descend vertically in the vertebral and sacral canals, form with those of the last lumbar pairs, the bundle known by the name of Cauda equina, and in other respects are precisely similar to the other nerves which arise from the sides of the spinal marrow ; only the ganglions of the posterior root, in place of occurring at the outer part of the hole from which they are transmitted, occupy the bony canal of the sacrum. The last three are even considera- bly distant from the inferior sacral hole, so that the common trunk which results from the union of the two cords, runs a certain course before entering them. 1818. The sacral nerves transmit, through the anterior holes of the sacrum, branches which diminish in volume from above down- wards, while on the contrary the posterior branches increase to the fourth, and then diminish.' OF THE FIRST SACRAL NERVE. 1819. Posterior Branch. Very small and rather shortj at its exit from the first posterior sacral hole, it communicates with that of the following nerve, then descends a little obliquely outwards be- fore the common origin of the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi muscles, passes through it, furnishing it with a great number of filaments, and loses itself in the glutaeus maximus and skin. . 1820. Anterior Branch. It is about the same size as that of the fifth lumbar nerve. On issuing from the first anterior sacral hole, it communicates, by two filaments, with the sacral ganglia, then descends outwards along the upper edge of the pyriformis muscle, and joins, above, the lumbo-sacral nerve (1814), and below, the second sacral nerve, thus contributing to the formation of the sciatic plexus.510 OllGANS OF SENSATION'. OF THE SECOND SACRAL NERVE. 1021. Posterior Branch. Thicker than that of the preceding nerve, it communicates with it and the third, descends obliquely outwards, perforates the glutacus maximus muscle, to which it gives filaments, and expands upon its posterior surface, and in the integuments of the hip and margin of the anus. 1822. Anterior Branch. It issues by the second anterior sacral hole, between the two upper Klips of the pyriformis muscle, com- municates with the sacral ganglia, descends outwards, and throws itself into the sciatic plexus, uniting with the anterior branches o the preceding and following nerves. OF THE TIIIUD SACRAL NEKVE. 1823. Posterior Branch. It communicates, at its leaving the third posterior sacral hole, with the corresponding branches of the second and fourth sacral nerves, descends outwards under the ori- gins of the glutfEus maximus, passes through that muscle giving off some filaments to it, becomes subcutaneous, expands and sends its filaments into the integuments of the lower and inner part of the hip and margin of the anus. 1824. Anterior Branch. Smaller than that of the first two pairs, it communicates with the sacral ganglia, throws filaments into the hypogastric plexus, descends outwards, and, uniting with the two neighbouring nerves, enters into the sciatic plexus. OF THE FOURTH SACBAL NEUVE. 1825. The two branches of this nerve are precisely similar to those of the preceding nerves, and do not require to be particularly described. The anterior enters into the formation of the sciatic plexus. OF THE FIFTH AND SIXTH. SACRAL NERVES. 1826. Posterior Branches. They are considerably smaller than those of the preceding nerves. They communicate with each other, and the fifth moreover receives a filament from the fourth. They then lose themselves around the anus. 1827. Anterior Branches. That of the fifth passes between the sacrum and coccyx, and that of the sixth escapes through the lateral and superior notch of the latter bone. They communicate with each other and with the fourth, but contribute very little toOF THE SACRAL NKRVES. 511 tlie sciatic plexus. Tliey are distributed to tlie ischio-coccygeus, levator ani and sphincter ani muscles. OF THE SCIATIC Oil SACIIAL PLEXUS. 1828. It is particularly formed, as we have already said, by the ; anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve, and by those of the first I four sacral nerves. It occupies the lateral and posterior part of t the excavation of the pelvis, and lies upon the pyriformis muscle, 1 behind the hypogastric vessels, the rectum and bladder, the viterus ; and a great quantity of adipose tissue. Its breadth is much greater i internally, where it is limited by the anterior sacral holes, than ex- t ternally, where it is continuous with the sciatic nerve; and its ! structure is different from that of the other plexuses which we have i hitherto had occasion to examine. In place of forming a kind of net-work, by sending twigs to each other, the branches of which it : is formed join immediately, so as to give rise to a thick nerve : flattened from before backwards. 1829- The branches and twigs which it furnishes may be dis- tinguished into anterior and posterior. The former, which arise ' especially from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and whose num- ber is very variable, are the hemorrhoidal, vesical, vaginal, and uterine nerves. OF THE ANTEniOIl BRANCHES AND TWIGS OF THE SCIATIC PLEXUS. 1830. HcBmorrhoidal Nerves. They direct themselves towards the lower part of the rectum, penetrate its posterior wall, and se- parate into ascending filaments, which proceed upwards toward the sigmoid flexure of the colon and descending filaments, which extend to the sphincter ani. Their ramifications stop in part in the muscular coat of the intestine, and are in part expanded in its mucous membrane. 1831. Vesical Nei'ves. These nerves vary in number, and arc irregularly interlaced, like the preceding, from which they often ansa in part. They pass over the sides of the rectum, and gain the lateral parts and fundus of the bladder, to the muscular fibres and mucous membrane of which they are distributed. Some of their filaments are expanded, in the male, in the prostate gland and vesiculas seminales, and, in the female, in the walls of the urethra. 1832. Uterine and Vaginal Nerves. These nerves exist only m the female. They arise in part separately, in part confounded with the preceding, pass over the sides of the rectum, and pene- trate, separating from each other into the whole extent of the la- teral parts of the vagina, to the mucous membrane of which theyORGANS OF SENSATION. 512 are distributed. Those which are liiglicst gain the sides of th< neck and body of the uterus, where they expand. They are lesf numerous than those of the vagina. 1833. All these nerves are so intermingled with each other tliat it becomes very difficult to trace them individually. They art besides interlaced, in a more or less intimate manner with the fila ments of the lumbar and sacral ganglia which form the hypogas trie plexus, so that they really contribute to the formation of thai plexus. or THE POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE SCIATIC PLEXUS. 1834. Inferior Glutceal or Small Sciatic Nerve. It is furnish cd, at the posterior and inferior part of the plexus, by the seconc and third sacral nerves. It also receives some more or less slen der roots from the fourth sacral and pudic nerve. Leaving th( plexus at the same time with the sciatic nerve, it issues from tli( pelvis along with it by the sciatic notch, and beneath the pyriformu muscle. It then alinost immediately divides into a great numbe of twigs, which are distinguished as follows : ' 1. Ghitceal Twigs properlj/ so called. (Nervi ghitcBi niediui et inferior). Existing in small number, slender and rather short they generally separate from the nerve by a common trunk, p which the ascending twigs, winding over the inferior edge of th( pyriformis muscle, lose themselves by numerous filaments at the upper part of the anterior surface of the glutasus maximus, whih the descending twigs, which are less numerous, are all at once distributed into its substance. One of the ascending twigs, whicl is larger than the rest, directs itself from within outwards, pro- ceeding as far as the outer edge of that muscle. 2. Sciatic Twig. (N. pudendalis longus inferior). It curves inwards and upwards, forming a kind of reversed arch under the tuber ischii. At the end of a short course, it expands into a great ' number of filaments, some of which penetrate into the inner an( lower part of the glutaeus maximus, while the others are distribut ed to the integuments of the inner and upper part of the thigh, the perineum and penis, to the middle region of which they extend. 3. Crural Twig. It is larger than the others, and is placed al their outer part. It passes before the glutaeus maximus, over the lower edge of which some filaments curve upwards to be expanded upon its posterior surface. It then becomes subcutaneous, conti- nues to descend at the back part of the thigh beneath the crural aponeurosis, through which it successively sends to the integuments a great number of filaments which run a longer or shorter course. When it has arrived at the ham, it divides into two or three fila- ments which descend behind the leg superficially, and lose thcHi- selves in its integuments by a great number of subdivisions. The) sometimes extend as far as the heel. 6 IOF THE SCIATIC NEUVE. 513 1835. Pudic Nerve. (Nennis pudendalis superior). Arising principally from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and sometimes from the Hfth, it sends a commencing twig to the preceding (1834),. 1 issues from the pelvis along with it under the pyriformis muscle, i enters between the two sacro-sciatie ligaments along with the inter- ! nal pudic artery, and separates into two twigs, a superior and in- 1 ferior. 1836. Inferior Twig in the Male. At first parallel to the j superior for some time, and ascending along the inner part of the, ! sciatic tuberosity, it sends some filaments to the levator and sphinc- : tor ani muscles, and to the neighbouring adipose tissue and inte- . gumeuts. It then proceeds from behind forwards and from belov/ I upwards, along the perineum, between the bulbo-cavernosus and i ischio-cavernosus muscles, and gains the scrotum, where it loses it- s self chiefly in the dartos by a great number of filaments. But pre- \viousIy, it gives off filaments to the transversus perinaei, bulbo-ca-- \ vernosus and ischio-cavernosus muscles, as well as to the integu- I ments. Some of these filaments, traversing the walls of the ure- i thra, expand upon the inner surface of that canal. I ]837. Superior Twig in the Male.—It ascends along the ra- I mus of the ischium and that of the pubes, and gains the symjihysis J pubis. It then glides between it and the corresponding root of the c corpus cavernosum, arrives at the upper surface of the penis, runs .1 along it as far as the corona glandis, and terminates in that part ,1 as well as in the prepuce by a great number of ramifications. But L in this course, it furnishes filaments to the obturator internus and I bulbo-cavernosus muscles, the mucous membrane of the virethra, . the skin of the back of the penis, and the cellular tissue of the u groove :of the corpus cavernosum. 1838. Of the Pudic Nerve in the Female.—The inferior twig, »which is proportionally much laj-ger than in the male, gives off se- vveral divisions along the perineum, penetrates into the labium ex- i ternum of its side, distributes some filaments to it as well as jthe constrictor vaginae and ischio-cavernosus muscles, and, directing it- self oyer the sides of the clitoris, arrives at the mons veneris, where It IS lost. The upper twig, which is very slender, ascends along , the ramus of the pubes, before the obturator internus muscle, gives . of][ filaments to the latter, and gains the back and summit of the jV clitoris, where it ramifies. 01' THE GREAT SCIATIC NERVE. 1839. The Sciatic Nerve (Nervus i-schiadicus), is the thickest and longest of all the nerves of the body, and terminates the plex- I us of the same name, all the roots of which contribute to form it. ^ It descends at first before the pyriformis muscle^ gives it some fila- ments, issues from the pelvis between it and the gemellus superior : by the sciatic notch, and enters between the yrcat trochanter and between the great trochanter and 2 LOIIGANS OF SENSATION. 514 the tuber iscliii. It then descends a little obliquely outwards, along the posterior part of the thigh as far as the ham, where it divides into two principal trunks, of which one is the external, the other the internal popliteal nerve, and which are sometimes dis- tinct from the upper part of the limb. 1840. By its anterior side, the sciatic nerve is successively ap- plied, from above downwards, upon the two gemelli muscles, the tendon of the obturator internus, and the quadratus femoris and adductor magnus. Its posterior side is covered above by the glu- taeus maximus, inferiorly by the long portion of the biceps flexor, and a little by the semitendinosus. Lastly, altogether inferiorly, it is placed in the ham in the midst of fat, under the crural apo- neurosis and skin, and between the biceps and semi-membranosus muscles (1384, 1391). 1841. On emerging from the pelvis, the sciatic nerve gives off some twigs to the gemelli, obturator internus and quadratus mus- cles. The glutaeus maximus also generally receives several, unless when the twigs of the inferior glutaeal nerve (1834) are very large, in which case, the sciatic nerve sends none to it. Two or three twigs go to the long portion of the biceps muscle. One of them accompanies it as far as the knee, and sometimes becomes cutane- ous. Another is destined for the short portion of the same muscle. The last twigs are expanded in the semi-tendinosus, semi-membra- nosus, and adductor magnus muscles. Among these twigs, there are many which extend as far as the skin, in which they terminate, whether on the thigh or on the leg. OF THE EXTEllNAL POPLITEAL OH PERONEAL NERVE. (Nervus Per one us). 1842. The Peroneal Nerve, which is smaller than the tibial, descends obliquely outwards along the inferior extremity of the bi- ceps muscle, behind the outer condyle of the femur and the ten- don of the corresponding head of the gastrocnemius ; then, bend- ing a little forwards and inwards, passes between the upper part of the fibula and the peroneus longus muscle, and there divides into two branches, the musculo-cutaneous, and the anterior tibial. 1843. At its origin, and sometimes even a little before, this nerve gives off a long and slender filament, which glides between the femur and the inferior extremity of the biceps, gives some ra- mifications to the latter muscle, and then expands upon the fore and outer part of the knee joint, and upper articulation of the tibia.7 and fibula. Before arriving at the condyles of the femur, it gives i off another twig of remarkable size, (peroneo-cutaneons), which r sends a great number of filaments to the outer head of the gastroc- | nemius, over which it descends, keeps along the outer and back part of the leg, beneath the aponeurosis, and separates into many5L5 OF THE EXTERNAL rOPLlTEAL NERVE. other filaments which lose themselves in the integuments. One of them, however, which is larger than the other, and frequently arises separately, unites at the outer edge of the tendo Achillis with a twig of the tibial nerve, to form the external saphenus nerve. 1844. Musculo-cutaneous Branch, (Nervus Peroneus Ewter- niis). It descends at first a little obliquely inwards and forwards, between the peroneus longus and extensor communis digitorum pedis, then between the latter and the peroneus tertius. Towards the middle of the leg, this nerve becomes more superficial, and is situated under the aponeurosis, behind which it creeps for some time. It perforates it about two-thirds down, sends outwards some filaments into the integuments which cover the lower extremity of the fibula, and divides into two twigs which direct themselves su- perficially over the back of the foot, diverging from each other, the internal one being the larger. 1845. Internal and Superficial Twig of the Back of the Foot. It directs itself inwards, and gives at first several fiilaments to the integuments, which communicate with those of the internal saphe- nus nerve (1812). When it has arrived at the foot, it bifurcates and produces two divergent secondary twigs. The inner follows the corresponding edge of the foot, furnishes several filaments to the cellular tissue, the integuments, and the muscles of the great toe, and runs along the first metatarsal bone and great toe, reaching al- most to its extremity. The outer runs between the first two me- tatarsal bones, and sends its ramifications over the upper and outer part of the second. 1846. External and Suj)erjici<d Twig of the Back of the Foot. It runs along the middle part of the upper surface of the foot, be- tween the tendons of the extensor muscles of the toes and the in- teguments, after sending some filaments over the outer malleolus. Towards the posterior extremity of the metatarsus, it separates in- to three secondary twigs. The inner is prolonged between the se- cond and third metatarsal bones, and spreads its divisions over the outer side of the second toe and the inner side of the third. The middle twig, passing between the third and fourth metatarsal bones, is distributed in the same manner to the third and fourth toe?. Lastly, the outer runs in the interval between the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, and loses itself on the correspondijig toes. Fre- quently this twig is replaced by one of the twigs of the outer sa- phenus nerve, but it always at least communicates with it. 1847. Anterior Tibial Branch, (Nervus tibia lis anterior). It traverses the upper extremity of the peroneus longus and exten- sor digitorum communis, descends at first obliquely inwards between the fibula and these two muscles, gives them several filaments, then directs itself before the interosseous ligament and along the an- terior tibial artery, which is placed internally of it above, and ex- ternally below. After passing under the annular ligament of the516 ORGANS OI- SENSATION. tarsus along with the tendon of the extensor poUicis muscle, this nerve separates on the back of the foot into two twigs, an inner and an outer, both deeply seated. 1048. The largest of the twigs of this nerve, before its division, arises near its origin. It traverses horizontally the upper extre- mity of the extensor communis digitorum, and divides into several filaments, the inferior of which are distributed to that muscle and the tibialis anticus, while the upper ascend under the origin of the latter, and lose themselves around the knee joint. It also sends lower down a considerable twig to the extensor digitorum commu- nis, and two or three others to the extensor proprius pollicis and ti- bialis anticus. 1849. Internal and Deep Twig of the hack of the Foot. It runs along the inner edge of the extensor brevis digitorum pe- dis, to which it gives some filaments, passes under the portion of it destined for the great toe, places itself between the first two metatarsal bones, sends ramifications to the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and to the integuments, and at length divides into two filaments, which spread out, the one on the outer side of the first toe, the other on the inner side of the second, coipmunicating with the superficial filaments already indicated (1845). 1850. External and Deep Twig of the back of the Foot. It passes outwards and forv^ards under the posterior part of the ex- tensor brevis digitorum, and then divides into a great number of filaments, which are distributed to that muscle and the interossei. OF THE INTEIINAI. rOPLITKAL OK TtUIAL NERVE. (Nervus tibialis.) 1851. The Tibial Nerve is larger than the preceding, and seems to be the true continuation of the sciatic nerve. It descends at first nearly vertically into the ham, along the outer edge of the semi-membranosus muscle, between the crural aponeurosis and the popliteal vessels, from which it is commonly separated by much adipose tissue. Then entering between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, it passes behind the knee joint and the popliteus muscle, then between the latter and the upper extremity of the so- leus ; there it passes through the arch.ed aperture which that mus- cle presents (1420). It then descends along the leg, between the soleus muscle, which is behind it, and the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, wliich are before, and externally of the posterior tibial artery, with which it is closely connected. Towards the lower part of the leg it becomes superficial, places itself on the inner side of the tcndo Achillis, dives under the urch of the calca- ncum, above the origin of the abductor pollicis, and divides into two branches, one of which is the internal, the other the external, plantar nerve.OF THE INTiiRMAL POPLITEAL NliRVE. 517 1852. External Saphenal branch (communicam tihicB). It arises from tlie tibial nerve, at about an inch above the correspond- iiio- condyle of the femur, descends with the external vena saphcaa along the back part of the leg, in the interval which separates the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle above. It then places it^ self behind their union, gains the outer side of the tendo Achillis, sends several filaments to the integuments, and joins a branch of the peroneal nerve (1843). There results a pretty large trunk, named the Ercternal Saphenus Nerve, which continues to descend on the outer side of the leg, behind the peroneus longus and under the aponeurosis. There then proceed from it a gi-eat number of filaments which almost all enter beneath the tendo Achillis, and are spread out to a distance upon the sheath which is anterior to it. It then winds behind the outer ankle, gains the outer and upper extremity of the foot, reaches the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, and there divides into two secondary twigs, after sending several filaments to the abductor minimi digiti, and sur- rounding cellular tissue. Of these two twigs, the inner, which is placed above the extensor brevis digitorum, follows the fourth meta- tarsal bone and Iqges itself on the corresponding sides of the last two toes; v/hile the outer runs along the outer edge of the foot and little toe, and distributes there a certain number of filaments. 1853. In the hollow of the ham itself, the tibial nerve sends one or two very distinct tv.dgs to the upper part of each head of the gastrocnemius muscle. It gives ofi^ another, which divides in the soleus muscle after a considerable course. It also furnishes some to the popliteus and plantaris muscles, and to the knee joint; while a last twig winds vuader the lower edge of the popliteus mus- cle, sends off a long filament which follows the course of the posterior tibial artery, gives some others to the tibialis posticus muscle, passes through the superior aperture of the interosseous ligament, and is expanded in the upper part of the anterior muscles of the leg, anastomosing with the filaments of the anterior tibial nerve. 1854«. After passing through the arch of the soleus mviscle, the tibial nerve furnishes several long and slender filaments which descend around the posterior tibial artery, and anastomose fre- quently with each other. They then lose themselves in the lower part of the soleus and of the muscles which occupy the pos- terior and deep region of the leg. Farther down, there are detach- ed some other filaments which go to the integuments. But towards the inner ankle, there arises another, which, uniting with one of the preceding, goes to the integuments of the sole of the foot. 18.55. Of the Internal Plantar Nerve. Thicker than the outer, which forms an acute angle with it at its separation, it proceeds directly and horizontally forwards above the abductor poUicis, be- side the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, to the posterior extre- mity of the first metatarsal bone, and in its passage gives ramifica- tions to the abductor pollicis, flexor brevis digitorum, and acces- sorius muscles. But there, it separates in a variable manner intoORGANS OF SENSATION. 518 four twigs, which may be designated by their numerical names, counting from within outwards. The Jirat, whicli is smaller thau the others, follows the inferior surface of the flexor brevis pollicis, which receives some filaments from it, proceeds along the lower and inner part of the great toe, and loses itself upon it, sending at the same time some filaments upwards. The second, which is directed horizontally forwards, between the first two metatarsal bones, at first above, then below the flexor brevis digitorum, whicli receives several filaments from it, as does also the first lumbricalis muscle, separates opposite the first metatarso-phalangeal articulation, into two secondary twigs, one of which is distributed on the outer side of the first toe, while the other is spread out upon the inner side of the second, sending vipwards some filaments which anastomose with those of the internal and deep nerve of the back of the foot (1849), and which themselves anastomose by arches in the pulp of the toes. The third, which is placed between the second and third metatarsal bones, gives filaments to the second lumbricalis I muscle, and is distributed upon the second and third toes, precisely in the same manner as the preceding twig. Lastly, the fourth advances between the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and is dis- tributed to the corresponding toes. 185C. Of'the External Plantar Nerve. This proceeds oblique- ly forwards and outwards, between the flexor brevis digitorum and accessorius muscles, to which it gives filaments, and in the groove situated near tlie large tuberosity of the calcaneum. Arrived at the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, it divides into two branches, the one superficial, the other deep. But be- fore this, it generally sends a pretty large twig to the abductor mi- nimi digiti. 1857. Superficiasl Branch. It advances under the outer edge of the foot, and soon divides into two twigs ; an outer, which gives a filament to the flexor minimi digiti, and loses itself on the cor- responding edge of the little toe; and an inner, which directs it- self between the last two metatarsal bones, gives a filament to the fourth lumbricalis, communicates with the preceding twig, and sub- divides on the contiguous sides of the fourth and fifth toes. 1858. Deep Branch. At its commencement it furnishes a fila- ment to the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and ascends inwards and forwards between the interossei muscles and adductor pollicis pe- dis, forming a kind of arch, the posterior side of which does not give off filaments, while the anterior sends some to the interossei and transversus pedis. OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF GANGLIA, OR OF THE GREAT SYMPATHETIC NERVES. GKNEKAL OKSERVATIOKS. 1859. Ganglia are small nervous centres, from whose circnm-519 OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF GANGLIA. ference proceed filaments which anastomose with the neighbouring uerves, or lose themselves in the tissue of the organs. They are only met with in the trunk ; they all communicate with each other, and are possessed of a pecuhar structure. They are small reddish or grayish bodies, always deeply situated in the midst of cellular tissue, destitute of any particular envelope, and varying consider- ably in form and magnitude. Their tissue, which is soft and spongy, is homogeneous, and presents no traces of fibres or fila- ments at first sight; from careful dissection, however, it is thought to be composed of a multitude of nervous filaments. This is at least Scarpa's opinion, and as such deserves attention. It hardens by boiling, at least when not long continued. When this is the case, it, on the contrary, gradually softens and becomes pulpy. It is partly dissolved by alkalies, and long resists putre- faction. The ganglia contain very little cellular tissue in their interior; they receive a great quantity of blood-vessels which penetrate on all sides, ramifying and anastomosing frequently in their inte- rior. 1860. The nervous filaments which emanate from the ganglia adhere to them in an intimate manner, without appearing to be a continuation of their substance, and are surrounded by the same cellular envelope. They communicate with the encepha- lic nerves a great many times, connect the ganglia themselves with each other, seldom penetrate the muscles, form very numer- ous plexuses with each other, principally around the arteries, which they seem especially destined to follow, being but very seldom ob- served around the veins. Some of these nervous filaments are white, composed of fibrils Uke the encephalic nerves, and like them also surrounded with a, neurilema. Others are reddish or gray, not fibrous, and apparent- ly destitute of neurilema. OF THE GANGLIA IN PARTICULAR, AND OF EACH OF THE NERVES WHICH ARISE FROM THEM. GANGLIA OF THK HEAD. OF THE OPHTHALMIC OR LENTICULAR GANGLION. {Ganglion Ophthalmicum.) 1861. This is one of the smallest ganglia of the body. It is placed on the outer side of the optic nerve, not far from its en- trance into the orbit, and always met with. Its form, although subject to vary, is yet frequently that of a square, elongated from behind forwards. Its outer surface^ which is convex, corres-ORGANS OF SENSATIOxV. 520 ponds to tlie abductor oculi muscle ; the inner is concave and ap- plied upon the optic nerve. Its colour is reddisli, sometimes white; its volume dillers much according to the individual; lastly, it is immersed in a mass of soft, and as it were half-Huid fat. Its jms- ferior and superior angle communicates with the nasal nerve of the ophthalmic (1G52) ; the posterior and inferior with a lilament of the inferior branch of the nerve of the third pair (1637). Its two anterior angles also furnish each a bundle of small nerves, the one superior, the other inferior. I'hcse are the 1862. Ciliary A^erves (Nervi ciliares.) They are very slen- der, soft, flexuous, reddish, and constantly accompanied by one, two, or three hlaments from the nasal nerve, (1652) which have exactly the same distribution. The zipper bundle, which is smaller, is at first divided into three nerves, which bifurcate as they advance, so as to jjroduce six, which proceed parallel to each other, immediately above the optic nerve, which they accompany as far as the ball of the eye. ■ The lower bundle^ which is situated on the outside and beneath the optic nerve, and at a little distance from it, contains six, eight or ten nerves, or even a greater number, which are united into six small branches at their origin. Tliey wind round the optic nerve; some of them even pass beneath it to gain its inner side; another separates from the bundle, proceeds outwards, frequently anas- tomoses with one of the filaments of the nasal nerve, and gains the sclerotic membrane by itself under the rectus externus oculi muscle. 1863. These nerves, which are in all from twelve to sixteen, on arriving at the posterior part of the ball of the eye, pass sepa- rately and obliquely through the sclerotic membrane, at a greater or less distance from the optic nerve. They are previously inter- laced with the ciliary arteries, but do not anastomose with each other or form a plexus. On entering the eye, they become a little flattened, advance forwards between the sclerotic and choroid mem- branes, but without giving off filaments to either, and are lodged in narrow grooves formed upon the inner surface of the sclerotica. They are then parallel to each other, and frequently send off com- municating filaments. 1864. They thus arrive at the ciliary circle, subdivide each in- to two, sometimes into three filaments, which enter into that circle, and seem to lose themselves there. Some of these filaments, ar- riving at the fore part of the eye, perforate the choroid membrane, penetrate into the ciliary processes, bend backwards, and lose themselves in the place where the retina joins the ciliary circle. On the other hand, the ciliary circle sends to the iris a multitude of other filaments which do not appear to be continuations of the first, an arrangement which has induced several anatomists to con- sider the ciUary circle as a true ganglion ; and it cannot be denied that its colour and texture give additional Aveight to this, opinion.SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLIONT, 521 The ciliary filaments which are expanded upon thd iris form white lines which gain its small circumference. 1{J()5. If the ciliary circle be considered as a ganglion, the com- munication of the ophthalmic ganglion with it, is evident. The latter has also connexions with the superior cervical ganglion, or with the cavernous ganglion, by a filament which they send to the nasal nerve (1652), and which appears to adhere to it, and to form especially that which goes to the superior and posterior angle of the gancrlion. OF THE SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION, OR GANGLION OF MECKEL. {Ganglion spheno-palatinuni). ■ 1866. This is a small reddish body, somewhat hard, triangular or cordiform, of variable, but always inconsiderable size, convex •in its outer surface, flattened on the inner side, and placed exter- nally of the spheno-palatine foramen. Immersed in the adipose cellular tissue of the pterygo-maxillary fissure, it is deeply con- cealed between the bones, and difficult to be discovered. It fur- nishes a great number of twigs from the different points of its cir- cumference. The inner are the spheno-palatine nerves; the i/ife- rior, the palatine. The superior form communications with the superior maxillary nerve, as we have already shown (1657)- Last- ly, the posterior is the vidian or pterygoid nerve. I867. Of the Spheno-palatine Nerves. Their number varies from three to five at their origin. TJiey introduce themselves im- mediately into the nasal fossjE, through the spheno-palatine hole, near the posterior extremity of the middle turbinated bone. They are always very soft. They spread out upon the septum, or outer wall of these cavities in the following manner. 1st, Two or three filaments proceed at first between the periosteum and the mucous lamina of the pituitary membrane, to the concave surface of the upper turbinated bone; they lose themselves in the corresponding meatus, near the aperture of the posterior ethmoid cells (357), ^^ith- out its being yet ascertained whether they send ramifications into these celKdes. 2dly, Other very short twigs go to the middle turbi- nated bone; the highest of which, after running for sometime upon its convex surface, passes through it by a small hole, and loses it- self upon its concave surface in the membrane: the others termi- nate upon its posterior extremity. 3dly, Some extremely slender twigs unite into one, and wind before the sphenoidal sinus, to gain the posterior part of the septum. 4thly, Larger than the preced- ing, a twig, named the Nasn-pala,tine, winds at first before the sphenoidal sinus, traverses the arch of the nasal fossjc, and passes to the septum between the two laminse of the pituitary membrane. It descends very obliquely forwards along the septum, and thus arrives, without ramifying, at the superior aperture of the anteriorORGANS OF SENSATION. palatine canal (354) : there, it introduces itself into a canal of its own, of which we have already spoken. The twig of the right side is prolonged a little more forwards than the left, to meet the orifice destined for its reception. But both, on arriving at the middle of the anterior palatine canal, issue from their particular canals, and terminate at the upper angles of the naso-palatine ganglion, with- out reaching so far as the mouth. The naso-palatine nerve dis- tinctly anastomoses with a filament from the superior and anterior dentar nerve, which extends along the wall of the maxillary sinus to penetrate into the nasal fossae. 1868. Of the Palatine Nerves (nervi palatini). They are three in number, one large and two small. 1869. The Great or Inferior Palatine Nerve, placed before the other two, enters immediately into the posterior palatine ca- nal (366), after giving off a nasal filament which passes into the fossoe of that name, between the middle and inferior turbi- nated bones, opposite the sphenoidal process of the palatine bone, and which is distributed to the free edge of the middle turbi- nated bone, to its concave surface, and to the convex surface of the inferior turbinated bone, extending to near its anterior extre- mity. The great palatine nerve then runs through its canal, where its filaments are frequently spread out, and only connected by a loose cellular tissue. A little before issuing from it, it sends a second ramification into the nasal fossae. This latter passes through a small aperture of the vertical portion of the palate bone, proceeds horizontally along the edge of the inferior turbinated bone, and loses itself on the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone. It is often contained in a small bony canal. At the same place the palatine nerve transmits, by one of the ac- cessory canals, a filament which goes to the velum palati to be dis- tributed there; the nerve itself then immediately issues from its canal, directs itself forwards under the arch of the palate, and se- parates into several twigs. The outer, which are larger and more numerous, follow the inner edge of the superior alveolar arch, and lose themselves in the gums; the inner subdivide on the middle of the vault of the palate, and especially furnish filaments to the mucous follicles of that region. Some of them anastomose with the inferior filaments of the naso-palatine gangUon. 1870. Middle palatine Nerve. Arising behind the preceding nerve, it descends along the posterior part of the pterygo-maxillary fissure, enters a canal of its own, and emerges behind the hook of the pterygoid process, dividing into two filaments, one of which goes to the corresponding tonsil and terminates by four or five ramifications in the velum palati, while the other, which separates into two or three filaments, is entirely destined for the latter organ. 1871. Small Palatine Nerve. Situated still farther back than the preceding, it descends between the pterygoideus extcrnus mus- cle and the superior maxillary bone, then between the latter and theOF THE SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. palate bone, in a groove of its own, and divides into two filaments, I one for the uvula, the other for the tonsil and the follicles of the I membrane of the palate. I872. Of the Vidian or Pterygoid Nerve, (Nervus pteryyoi- I deus). oil leaving the spheno-palatine ganglion, it proceeds ho- I rizontally backwards, sends two very slender filaments to the mem- ' brane of the sphenoidal sinus, enters the pterygoid canal (114), and passes through it, giving off, through its walls, ramifications to the upper and back part of the septum of the nasal fossa?, the membrane of the pharynx near the orifice of the Eustachian tube, and that orifice itself. On issuing from its canal, the vidian nerve traverses the fibro-cartilaginous plate which closes the foramen la- cerum medium (296), and divides into two twigs, a superior and an inferior. The Inferior or carotoid twig serves as a medium of communi- cation between the spheno-palatine ganglion, and the cavernous and superior cervical ganglia. It passes into the carotid canal ap- plying itself against the walls of the artery, and anastomoses with the filaments which the superior cervical ganglion sends to the sixth pair (I672), and cavernous ganglion. The Stiperior Twig, by a rather complex course, forms a com- munication between the spheno-palatine and sub-maxillary gan- glia. On leaving the vidian nerve, it enters into the cranium be- tween the petrous process and the sphenoid bone, and proceeds backwards and outwards over the upper surface of the former, where it is lodged in a small groove, and covered by the inferior maxillary nerve and the dura mater, to the last of which it firmly adheres. There it sends into the cavity of the tympanum, by two canals whose very minute orifices are seen in the groove one above the other, two excessively delicate filaments, which anastomose with each other upon the promontory, and communicate with ano- ther filament of the superior cervical ganglion and with the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. It then glides along with a small artery into the hiatus of Fallopius, and arrives in the aqueduct of the same name, where it is applied against the trunk of the facial nerve, without anastomosing with it, (I676). It accompanies it until opposite the base of the pyramid of the tympanum, beneath which It penetrates into that cavity by an aperture of its own, winding upwards and outwards. After sending a filament to anastomose upon the promontory with a filament of the internal carotid plexus, (I875), it traverses the tympanum from behind forwards, placed at first under the incus, then between its long branch and the upper part of the handle of the malleus, against which it is directly ap- plied. Above the internal muscle of the malleus, it increases a little m size and consistence, and its direction becomes horizontal, but presently after it descends forwards and issues by the glenoid fis- sure, beside the tendon of the external muscle of the malleus. It then directs itself downwards, inwards, and forwards, and becomes attached to the lingual nerve of the inferior maxillary, (IGGG).ORGANS OF SENSATION. 524 From its entrance into the tympanum to this union, the filament of which we speak commonly bears the name of Chorda Tipnpani. It remains united to the lingual nerve until oppo.site the sub- maxillary gland, where it leaves it to go to the ganglion of the same name. OF THE OTHER NERVOUS GANOLIA OF THE HEAD. I873. Besides those described above, the following ganglia arc met with in the head. 1. The Cavernous Ganglion. This ganglion does not always exist, being frequently substituted by a small plexus, which the ascending filaments of the superior cervical ganglion form around the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus. Its colour is of a pretty deep reddish gray, its volume generally small, and its form variable. It is placed at the outer side of the internal ca- rotid artery, towards the middle of the cavernous sinus, and sends oft' very slender filaments which proceed towards the sixth pair and ophthalmic nerves. It frequently sends one to the nasal nerve, to communicate with the ophthalmic ganglion. I have also seen it furnish a filament to the infundibulum. By its lower part, it communicates with the ascending filaments of the superior cervi- cal ganglion. 2. The Naso-yalatine Ganglion. I discovered this in the an- terior palatine foramen,* at the point of union of the two branches of which, it is situated. It is a small reddish spongy mass, some- what hard and as if fibro-cartilaginous, and immersed in an adipose cellular tissue. Its more ordinary form is that of an ovoid, whose large extremity, directed upwards, receives the two naso-palatine twigs, (1867), while the small extremity sends oflF inferiorly one or two filaments which enter into small bony canals of their own, and arrive at the palatine arch, where they ramify in the membrane of the palate, anastomosing with filaments of the great palatine nerve, (1869). 3. The Suh-Maxillary Ganglion. It occurs opposite the sub- maxillary gland, and seems formed by the upper twig of the vidian nerve. It has also some filaments of communication with the lin- gual nerve of the inferior maxillary (I667) ; but the greater num- ber of its filaments form a small plexus, the twigs of which pene- trate the gland. 4. Another ganglion is mentioned as occurring in the head, along the course of the superficial temporal nerve; but it is mere- ly an enlargement of that nerve where it is covered by the parotid gland (I67O). " See my Dissertalion srir la Odeum, mir Ic sens ct ks organes dc I'olfaction, &c. Paris, 1815, ito. 4<525 OF THE CEIIVICAL GAxNGLIA. OF THE CERVICAL GANGLIA * . OF THE SUPEKIOlt CEIIVICAL GANGLION. ; (G. cervicale primumJ. : 1874- This ganglion, v/liich is remarkable for its size and the raregularity of its occurrence, is situated tinder the base of the skull, lideeply concealed in a depression which is observed above and be- lihind the angle of the lower jaw. It commonly corresponds in ex- iitent to the transverse processes of the first three vertebrae ; but it ids frequently prolonged to the fourth, and even much lower. It is oovoidal or fusiform, broader at the middle than at the extremities; i its thickness is always in the inverse ratio of its length. It pretty ffrequently experiences a contraction in its middle part, so as to lappear double; sometimes it is cylindrical. Its colour is of a gray- i ish red, its consistence soft. Its posterior side lies upon the rec- ctus capitis anticus major. The anterior is covered by the internal c carotid artery. The internal is intimately united to the pneumo- i gastric and .hypoglossal nerves. It receives a pretty considerable ) number of small blood vessels, and sends off a great many fila- ! raents, which are distinguished into superior, inferior, external, and anterior. OF THE SUPERIOR OR ASCENDING FILAMENTS. I875. They are commonly two in number. Their great size, softness and reddish colour, make them look precisely like true prolongations of the ganglion. They embrace the internal carotid artery, and enter along with it into the carotid canal, where they separate from each other, dividing into many small twigs, come to- gether, unite a gi-eat many times, and, in a word, form a true plexus around the walls of the vessel. From this plexus there is- sue several secondary filaments. One of these f Pterygoid Filament J glides under the artery, anastomoses with the inferior filament of the vidian nerve (1872), and in uniting with it, gives off two or three small twigs which are distributed to the upper part of the pharynx. Two or three others, which arc soft, transparent, of a gray co- lour, and pretty strong, ascend into the cavernous sinus, form a sort of isolated plexus by sending oH' some filaments, and unite with the nerve of the sixth pair (167^2)- When the cavernous ganglion ' Tliero is nommoiily dosignatcd by the name of Grcal Sympathetic or intercostal J^'crve, tlie aggregate of all the ganglia that are mel with froin the U|)i)cr \mn of tlic iiCfk to the lower part of the sacrum, togclhc-r with the fiiamerits which issue frotu tlicm. lJut according to tile idea which ought to be foi ined of the sy.stcin of ganglia, )t IS impossible to see here only a single nerve.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 520 exists, one or two of them unite with it, and the others go directly to the nerve (1878). Occasionally, some of these filaments come from the union that of the superior cervical ganglion with the inferior twig of th vidian nerve. Several filaments (supra-sr>henoidal) go to the infundibulum (1506). A very slender filament dives into a small aperture in the walls of the aqueduct of Fallopius (180), runs along a groove or small canal formed on the promontory of the tympanum, and anasto moses there with a filament of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which has entered towards the stylo-mastoid hole, and with another fila- ment which separates in this place from the upper twig of the vi dian nerve (1872) Another filament traverses the cavernous sinus, and goes to join the ophthalmic or the nasal nerve. Sometimes it bifurcates and goes to both at once. It is by means of it that the superior ccrvi cal and ophthalmic ganglia communicate. The other filaments of this plexus, which are very numerous, re main applied on the walls of the artery, to which they form a kind of nervous sheath. There is detached from them a pretty larg bundle which accompanies the ophthalmic artery, and subdivides into as many small fluxuous sheaths as that artery has branches.— One of them follows the central artery of the optic nerve, and pro- bably forms a communication between the retina and the superior cervical ganglion.* Other fasciculi accompany the other branches of the carotid artery which go to the pia mater, such as the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, &c. These latter are always pretty distinct. OF THE INFElllOR FILAMENT. 1876. It comes from the inferior extremity of the ganglion, which seems to be prolonged downwards for the purpose of forming it, or which sometimes terminates in an abrupt manner and gives it of! directly. It varies in size, being sometimes very slender and at other times double, but never wanting. Its solidity gives it a re semblance to the encephalic nerves, from which it differs only in its gray colour. It descends vertically before the rectus capitis anti cus major and longus colli muscles, covered by the carotid artery the internal jugular vein, and the pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal nerves, to which parts it is connected by a rather loose filament ous cellular tissue. Opposite the fifth or sixth vertebra, it termi- nates in the middle cervical ganglion ; but when this latter is want ing, it goes as far as the inferior. 1877- In its course, this nervous cord receives some long an^ * Ribcs, Mem. dc lu Societe Medic. d'Emul. T. vii. p. 9T.OF THE SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. ;527 ; sknder filaments, which come from the fourth and fifth cervical I pairs, increase its size a little, and join it at different angles, and J pretty frequently forming small gangliform bulgings. Some other I filaments, still more slender, appear to separate from it internally t to go to the oesophagus and neighbouring cellular tissue. One of I them anastomoses with the external laryngeal nerve of the pneu- ; mo-gastric, and seems to be especially distributed to the thyroid body (I705). Lastly, it sends into the thorax one, two or three twigs, which contribute to the formation of the cardiac plexus. OF THE EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1878. They are pretty numerous, and very distinct, and lie across the rectus capitus anticus major, more or less separated from each other, and frequently anastomosing in their course. The two upper, which are at first very close to each other, presently bifur- cate each on their own side, and thus anastomose by four points with the nervous arch, which the first and second cervical nerves form around the transverse process of the atlas (1727)- The third is the longest; it also bifurcates; but one of its filaments goes to the anterior branch of the second cervical nerve, and the other to that of the third. The inferior jilaments, which arise from the preceding cord of communication, when the ganglion is very short, send filaments into the scaleni muscles. One of them also divides into two secondary filaments, the upper of which dives between the scalenus and rectus capitis anticus muscles, to anasto- mose with the fourth cervical pair, when it leaves the intervertebral hole, whUe the inferior, which is more superficial, goes to unite, at a greater distance, with the anterior branch of the same nerve. Several other of these filaments anastomose, moreover, very fre- quently, and in an irregular manner, with the branches of the cer- vical plexus. It is impossible to describe them separately, their disposition being so much subject to vary. OF THE INTERNAL FILAMENTS. I879. All these filaments are soft, thin, and slender, and ex- posed to still greater variations than the preceding as to number, disposition, anastomoses, &c. It may be stated generally, how- ever, that after distributing several ramifications to the rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli muscles, they terminate on the larynx and pharynx, whether separately, or united with nerves from the brain. In some subjects, most of these arc furnished by the connecting cord of the first two cervical ganglia, or by the superior cardiac nerve.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 528 The upper have a direction obliquely downwards; the lower are nearly horizontal. The former gain the upper part of the pharynx, where they anastomose with twigs of the glosso-pharyngeal (1697), 'i"d pncu*: mo-gastric nerves, to form the pharyngeal plexus (I7OI'). The latter wind over the sides of tlie larynx, and cover the thy- roid body, and the muscles of the inferior hyoid region, with nu- merous and plexiform ramitications, some of whicli penetrate into the larynx through the thyro-hyoid (1477),and crico-thyroid (14)7H) membranes, and afterwards anastomose with the internal laryngeal (I705), and recurrent (17(HJ) nerves. Some other anastomoses with the latter nerve also take place behind the thyroid gland, by means of a filament which proceeds separately from the ganglion. . OF THE ANTEniOn FILAMENTS. 1880. These filaments, which are very numerous, and for the most part continually interlaced, are of three kinds. 1°. Some of them, which are superior and very short, go to anas-:, tomose immediately with the facial, and pneumo-gastric nerves.: One of these filaments, which is longer than the others and very slender, goes to unite with the stylo-hyoid twig of the facial nerve- (I679), and sometimes sends a ramification into the stylo-mastoid hole, to form on the promontory of the tympanum the anastomosis of which we have already spoken (1875). This ramification then replaces one of those of the superior filaments, or joins the trunk of the facial nerve itself. 2°. Others, to the number of two or three only, of a reddish co- lour and soft consistence, leave the ganglion to proceed forwards, behind the point of division of the common carotid artery, where they form a plexus with numerous meshes, in conjunction with de- scending filaments of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (1697)- Of the filaments which issue from this plexus some run behind the com- mon carotid artery, and accompany it as far as the arch of the aor- * ta, or the arteria innominata, crossing each other in a very in- tricate manner: they constitute the Common Carotid Ple<vus. The others turn over the external carotid artery, and envelope it with a plexus which divides into as many seeondciry plexuses as the latter presents branches, and which are moreover joined by very slender filaments of the facial and pneumo-gastric nerves. Fre- quently at the origin of these secondary lingual, facial^ occipital, temporal, inferior pharyngeal, and infernal mamUary plenuses, there are observed small white or gray ganglia, which give out fila- ments to them like so many radii. The point which these plexuses terminate cannot be precisely determined ; but it is more than pro- bable, that they accompany the arteries to their last ramifications. They have been traced as far as the middle of the face, towards the division of frhc labial artcricu.OF THE INTERNAL FILAMENTS. 5m The common carotid plexus sends some twigs to the pharynx, the larynx and the trachea. That of the facial artery sends twigs : to the submaxillary gland, and communicates with those of its ; ganglion (1873), and with those of the gustatory and hypo-glossal i (I723). nerves ; that of the inferior maxillary artery arrives at the i dura mater, by following the middle meningeal artery. 3°. The last anterior filaments of the superior cervical ganglion I unite after a short course, to form the superior cardiac nerve, of ' which we shall presently speak. OF THE MICBLE CERVICAL OR THYllOID GANGLION. (G. cervicale medium seu thyroideum.) 1881. This ganglioUj which is often entirely wanting, sometimes (double, and which varies extremely as to size, is situated opposite I the fifth or sixth vertebra, near the curve of the inferior thyroid : artery. Its colour is grayish; it is rounded or lenticular, but 1 never fusiform, and differs much as to figure in different subjects. \ Its tissue is firmer than that of the preceding plexus. The outer side corresponds to the carotid artery, internal jugular 'Vein, and pneumo-gastric nerve. The posterior is applied upon t the longus colli muscle. Its filaments are distinguished into inferior, external, internal, ! and anterior. OF THE INFERIOR FILAMENTS. 1882. Their number is irregular and indeterminate. Most com- I monly there are fiVe or sil. They ai'e thin and slender. Some of t them descend before the subclavian artery, others behind it, send- ing some ramifications ihto the plexuses which cover it; and all, after approaching each other, terminate in the inferior cervical ganghon. OF THE EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1883. Frequently there is only one, which perforates transverse- ly the scalenus muscle, and goes to anastomose with the seventh cervical nerve. In other circumstances, the sixth and fifth also each receive one. OF THE INTERNAL fiLAMENTS. 1884.. Some of them pass behind the carotid artery, and go to «term a nervous plexus around the inferior thyroid artery and its 2 M530 ORGANS OF SENSATION. divisions. Others cast themselves separately upon the thyroid body, oesophagus and trachea, where they anastomose with ramifications of the recurrent nerve ; some of them even gain the trunk of the recurrent nerve, and increase its volume considerably ; others unite with the common carotid plexus, and one of them joins the phrenic nerve. OF THE ANTERIOR FILAMENTS. 1885. They vary from one to three, and constitute the middle cardiac nerves, of which we shall afterwards speak. OF THE INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. (Ganglion cervicale inferius.) 1886. It is sometimes double, and pretty frequently continu- ous with the middle cervical ganglion or with the first thoracic. Its figure is extremely variable and irregular, although fre- quently semilunar or rounded. It is situated behind the verte- bral artery, between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib. Sometimes it occurs be- tween the concave edge of that rib and the body of the first dorsal vertebra; but it generally extends as far as the first intercostal space. Its filaments are superior, inferior, internal, external and anterior. OF THE SUPERIOR FILAMENTS. 1887- Some of them communicate with the middle cervical gan- glion. Of these we have already spoken (1882). Another bundle of filaments throws itself outwards behind the vertebral artery, ascends in its canal forming around it a very dis- tinct plexus, as far as the third or second vertebra. There, the filaments become less numerous and less apparent. One or two of them however, are still seen to anastomose with a descending fila- ment of the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve (1727) ; fiome others enter into the skull and lose themselves on the basilar artery. In its course, this Vertebral Ple.vus sends a great number of small twigs to the inter-transversales muscles, near the body of the vertebrae, and anastomoses by a particular filament with each of the cervical nerves, when they leave the intervertebral holes. Another ascending filament forms a kind of arch of which the convexity is below, and ascends outwards between the rectus capi-OF THE INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. 531 ,tis nnticus major and longiis colli muscles, to which it gives ramifi- cations. OF THE INFi£UIOH FILAMENT. 1888. It communicates with the first thoracic ganglion, and is sometimes double. In the latter case, it commonly embraces the subclavian artery between its two branches. OF THE INTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1889. Few in number, slender, and irregular in their disposi- tion, these filaments take different directions. Some of them lose themselves in the longus colli muscle ; the others go to the pul- monary plexus or to the arch of the aorta of the left side. There are some also which associate themselves with the reciu'rent and phrenic nerves. OF THE EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1890. Tliey are numerous and very slender. Collected into fas- ciculi, they embrace the subclavian artery, around which they form a plexus which accompanies its branches, subdividing like them, and which may be traced, with care, to the upper part of the arm. Those of the internal mammary artery in particular may be very distinctly seen. Some others lose themselves in the fibres of the scalenus anticus muscle, near its inferior attachment. There are also external filaments which anastomose with the an- terior branches of the cervical nerves, when they go to form the brachial plexus (1748), and with the first dorsal pair. OF THE ANTEIIIOB FILAMENTS. ^ 1891. They unite after a short course to form the inferior car- I diac nerves. OF THE CARDIAC NERVES. 1892. These nerves, which are particularly destined for the Heart, are three on each side, but do not present the same disposi- tion to the right and left; they unite with the cardiac gandion, t Irom which the cardiac plexuses are derived.532 ORGANS Ol- SENSATION. OF THE SUPEllIOR CAKDIAC NERVES. (Nervi cardiaci superjiciales.) 1893. That of the right side is formed by five or six filaments, ■which come from the anterior and inferior side of the first cervical gangUon. It is almost immediately strengthened by some small twigs, from the cord by which the ganglion communicates with the second (1876), and sends some filaments to the external carotid plexus. All these roots afterwards unite into a single very slender trunk, which descends vertically along the neck, by the side of the trachea and thyroid body, between the common carotid artery and the cord of communication of the cervical ganglia. This nerve sends some filaments to the lower part of the pharyn- geal plexus, and to the thyroid body. The latter anastomose with those of the recurrent nerve. It also communicates by one or two other filaments with the pneumo-gastric nerve. In general, all these ramifications have very little solidity, and some anatomists have given them the name of Soft Nerves (jiervi molles). Oppo- site the middle cervical ganglion, it frequently presents a solution of continuity itself firom the eft'ect of a particular ganglion, which is by no means constant in its occurrence. There also, it furnishes internally a twig of remarkable size, which passes behind the caro- tid artery, and throws itself into the plexus of the inferior thyroid artery (1884), after anastomising upon the carotid with a filament of the pneumo-gastric nerve. There also comes off from it another fila- ment at the same point, which communicates with the plexus of the descendens noni, (1722.) Some others are distributed to the muscles of the inferior hyoid region, the thyroid body, and the trachea. The superior cardiac nerve then passes ovitwards, crosses pos- teriorly the direction of the middle cardiac nerve, penetrates into the thorax behind the subclavian vein, opposite the bifurcation of the arteria innominata, and presently divides into several twigs which associate themselves with filaments of the inferior cervical ganglion and corresponding recurrent nerve. Sometimes also, it unites in part with the middle cardiac nerve. 1894. The superior cardiac nerve of the left side has a similar origin to that of the right side, and presents the same disposition in the greater part of its extent. But it descends between the com- mon carotid and subclavian arteries, near the origin of which it se- parates into a great number of filaments, which pass over the aorta to unite with those of the inferior cardiac nerve, or of the cardiac, filaments of the pneumo-gastric nerve (1707)- Some of them, slip- ping behind the aorta, join the cardiac ganglion.533 OF THE MIDDLE CARDIAC NERVES. ■ OF THE MIDDLE CAKDIAC NERVES. (Ne7'vi cardiaci magni). 1895. That of the right side is the largest of the three, which exist on that side. It arises internally and anteriorly from the 'middle cervical ganglion, by five or six filaments, at first united into two or three branches, and afterwards into a single trunk, which descends inwards near the common carotid artery, and passes before the subclavian, anastomosing with one or two filaments of the pneumo-gastric nerve. Beneath this vessel, it is joined by a twig of the recurrent nerve, glides before the inferior cardiac nerve, receives there two considerable filaments of the pneumo-gastric nerve, forms a kind of ganglion or bulging, and continues its course on the outer side of the arteria innominata. Lastly, be- tween the arch of the aorta and the bifurcation of the trachea, it terminates in the cardiac ganglion. Frequently the middle cardiac nerve divides in its course into two twigs, which again unite, and circumscribe a kind of island. 1896. The middle cardiac nerve of the left side receives its prin- cipal branch from the inferior cervical ganglion. It passes behind the subclavian artery, and directs itself obliquely forwards and downwards, running along its outer side. But towards the com- mencement of the inferior thyroid artery, a great number of twigs, which come from the middle cervical ganglion, and are repeatedly "interlaced together, join this branch and form a second origin to the nerve, which then proceeds behind the arch of the aorta, receives several filaments from the pneumo-gastric nerve, and ter- minates in the cardiac ganglion without dividing, or by spreading out into several small twigs. OF THE INFERIOR CARDIAC NERVE. (Nervus cardiacus aortce superficialis). 1897' right side, the filaments which are destined to compose it form, on leaving the inferior cervical ganglion, a kind of plexus which unites into larger twigs, which descend vertically behind the sub-clavian artery, close to the recurrent nerve. They direct themselves to the left along the arteria innominata, run upon the anterior side of the arch of the aorta, and go between it and the pulmonary artery, to lose themselves in the anterior car- diac plexus. 1898. Most commonly, on the left side, the middle and inferior cardiac nerves arc united into a single trunk (1896).534 ORGANS OV SENSATION. OF THE GANGLIA OF THE THORAX. OF THE CARDIAC GANGLION Oil PLEXUS. 1899. This is the central point of union of the cardiac nerves. It is placed behind the arch of the aorta, near the origin of that artiery and before the division of the bronchi, and extends from above downwards, from the origin of the arteria innominata to the division of the pulmonary artery into two branches. It is elon- gated, sinuous, of an unequal size in the different parts of its course, and of a grayish colour. It has a transparent and gela- tinous appearance, and its consistence is very soft. Its upper part receives the right and left middle cardiac nerves, some filaments of the superior cardiac nerves, especially of the left, and also some of the inferior cardiac nerves, of the right side. But anteriorly, posr teriorly, and inferiorly, it furnishes filaments which constitute various plexuses which we proceed to examine, and into the formar tion of which there also enter numerous and isolated filaments of the inferior and superior cardiac nerves. r 1900. Its anterior Jilaments, which are in very small jiumber, are distributed to the walls of the fore part of the aorta. Some of them join the anterior coronary plexus beneath it. 1901. The posterior filaments are numerous. They are very short, and throw themselves into the fore part of the pulmonary plexus, (I7IO). 1902. The inferior^ which are still more numerous and much larger, belong especially to the heart. They may be divided into two classes. 1°. Some of them, collected into a pretty large bundle, and always pulpy and gelatinous like all the other twigs of this ganglion, emr. brace the arterial ligament posteriorly,* and turn from above down- wards over the left pulmonary artery, where they begin to separate from each other. Several of them then penetrate into the lung, are interlaced with the divisions of the corresponding pulmonary plexus, and accompany the branches of the pulmonary arteries and veins. Others descend again upon the trunk of the pulmon- ary artery, as far as the heart. But a much more remarkable twig than any of these, crosses obliquely from above downwards the left pulmonary artery, and gains the posterior part of the base of the heart, towards the origin of the posterior coronary artery. There it divides into a great number of very slender filaments which are interlaced around that artery, and form the posterior coronary plexus. These filaments, which are very numerous, give rise to as many secondary plexuses as the vessel has branches. Thus one of these secondary plexuses proceed from left to right over the base of the heart, and loses it- self upon its plain surface. Another runs along the left edge of " This arfciiullifiment is the remains of the ductus arteriosus, which in the foetus passed liom tlic pulinounry artery to the aorta.OF THE THORACIC GANGLIA. 535 1 the heart, from the basis of the pulmonary artery to the summit of c the organ. A third, which is of smaller size, descends immediate- ! ly behind the heart. Some of the filaments which constitute this J plexus, separate and are distributed to the walls of the heart. 2°. The filaments of the second class arise a little below the pre- ( ceding, between the aorta and pulmonary artery. Some of them pass behind the latter, and gain the posterior coronary plexus, which also receives others that have descended between the two vessels. But there are some which turn over the aorta, go to the fore part of the base of the heart, and constitute the anterior co- ronary plectyus which is destined to accompany the artery of the same name. This plexus, which is much smaller than the preceding, receives however the inferior cardiac nerve which belongs entirely to it. It is distributed upon the right auricle and the whole convex surface of the heart, anastomosing with the posterior towards the left edge of that organ. OF THE THORACIC GANGLIA. 1903. Much smaller and less distinct than the cervical ganglia, .they are twelve in number on each side, disposed in one and the same line, beneath the pleura, anteriorly to the head of each rib, or in the intercostal spaces. Their number may vary, however, there being often only eleven, because the first is confounded with the inferior cervical ganglion, (1886). The first ganglion, which, is larger than the others, is placed at the outer side of the longus colli muscle. They are all firm, and of an oblong form, resem- bling grains of barley. They all communicate with each other by ^laments which go from the lower part of the one to the upper part of the other, and, moreover, furnish external and internal fila- Jnents. OF THE CONNECTING FILAMENTS. 1904. They are strong and of great size, frequently equalling the ganglia themselves in diameter, and are never multiple or ra- mified between two neighbouring ganglia. Their direction is not the same in all, their origin in each ganglion being more or less near the vertebral column. The intercostal arteries always pass behind them. OF THE EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1905. Their numbei- varies. Sometimes tlicrc is only one for «ach ganglion; l)ut more commonly there arc two and even four.OHGANS OF SENSATION. In some cases, the single twig bifurcates. They all, however, pro ceed upwards and outwards, and, at the end of a short course anastomose with each of the anterior branches of the dorsal nerve.' when they issue from the intervertebral holes. When several fila-> ments proceed from j^the same ganglion, it is not rare to see ther unite when the anastomosis takes place. The smaller filament however lose themselves in the intercostal muscles. OF THE INTJCRNAL FILAMENTS. 1906. Their number is considerable, and their distribution ex- tremely variable. Some arise from all the ganglia which terminate in the interior of the chest; others, on the contrary, come only from the inferior ganglia and constitute the splanchnic nerves. The former, which are very short and slender, become interlaced with each other at their very commencement, and go to the verte- bral column. There, some of them are dispersed in the cellular tissue, while others join the pulmonary plexus of the pneumo-gas- tric. One of these filaments, which is longer and thicker than the others, comes from the tenth ganglion separately from the small splanchnic nerve, descends forwards, and goes to the fore part of the aorta, whose course it follows subdividing to infinity, and anas- tomosing with the corresponding filaments of the opposite side. This filament enters the abdomen and terminates in the cocliac plexus. OF THE SPLANCHNIC NERVES, 1907- These nerves are two in number, and distinguished in- to great and small. They are pretty regular in their occurrence and disposition. They arise from the last six thoracic ganglia, each of which furnishes internally a long white twig, the successive union of which produces two cyhndrical cords, which pass through the diaphragm into the abdomen. OF THE GllEAT SPLANCHNIC NERVE. {Nermis splanchnicus major). 1908. Its roots, to the number of four or five, come from the inner part of the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and sometimes tenth thoracic ganglia. They all descend very obliquely inwards on the sides of the vertebral column and below the pleura, and unite into a single white and cylindrical trunk, opposite the eleventh .dorsal vertebra. This trunk descends in the same direction, enters into the abd-omcn through a separation of the muscular fibres ofOF THE GANGLIA OF THE ABDOMEN. the crura of the diaphragm, applied upon the vertebral column ; .passes beliind the stomach, a little above the supra-renal capsule, divides into several slightly divergent twigs, and almost immediate- ly after terminates in the semilunar ganglion. OF THE SMALL SPLANCHNIC NEllVE, (^Nervits splanchnicus minor). 1909- It is composed of two distinct twigs, from the tenth and eleventh thoracic ganglia, which directing themselves obliquely downwards and inwards, unite on the twelfth dorsal vertebra, into .a small cord which perforates the diaphragm separately, penetrates into the abdomen, and divides into two twigs, one of which ascends .to anastomose with the trunk of the great splanchnic nerve, while the other throws itself into the renal plexus and partly into the .solar. OF THE GANGLIA OF THE ABDOMEN. OF THE SEMILUNAR GANGLIA AND SOLAR PLEXUS. (Ganglion semi-lunare et Plexus Solaris). 1910. The Semilunar Ganglia, a£ which there are two, one to the right and the other to the left, and which are of a much greater size than any that we have hitherto described, are oblong, ; sigmoid, concave above, convex below, and lie partly upon the crura of the diaphragm, partly upon the aorta, opposite the coeliac 1 trunk, above the supra-renal capsule and a little more backwards. By their upper and outer extremity, these ganglia manifestly re- ( ceive the great splanchnic nerves, while by the lower, which is t turned inwards, they communicate with each other, either directly, ' which frequently happens, so that they form a single ganglion, or 1 .by a short twig of greater or less size, or a bundle of filaments. That of the right side is generally larger than the other, and fre.- ( quently appears contracted in the middle. It is situated between t the right crus of the diaphragm and the vena cava abdominalis, t near the head of the pancreas. It is also commonly in contact 1 above with the supra-renal capsule, and below with the correspond- > Jng renal artery. That of the left side is placed upon the left crus '1 of the diaphragm, and frequently covers the diaphragmatic artery, » which evidently furnishes it with ramifications; the tail of the pan- creas lies upon it; its upper extremity is in contact with the sple- nic vein, and the lower with the left renal artery. 1911. The two semilunar ganglia, and especially the right, are .surrounded by a multitude of other ganglia very distinct from eachORGANS OF SENSATION. 538 other, more or less voluminous, but varying as to number and form. They communicate with them by short filaments, which es- cape from all points of their circumference; these secondary gan- glia themselves send to each other and in all directions a multitude ; of small twigs, and even sometimes seem to be continuous with each other, leaving always between them areolae more or less wide and irregular. 1912. It is this assemblage of ganglions and interlaced and an- astomosing filaments that constitutes the Solar Plexus. This vast nervous net-work, lying upon the vertebral column, the aorta and the crura of the diaphragm, and concealed by the stomach anteri- orly, by the liver and diaphragm above, and by the pancreas be- low, is so irregular in its form that an adequate idea of it cannot be conveyed in words. The ganglia and filaments of which it is composed are soft and reddish. It is strengthened by several twigs from the right pneumo-gastric nerve, and by some filaments only from the left. It appears essentially destined for the aorta, being distributed to all its divisions, and following its branches with a corresponding number of secondary 'plexuses, which are as follows. SUB-DIArilRAGMATIC PLEXUSES. 1913. They proceed from the upper part of the common plexus, and are destined to accompany the inferior diaphragmatic arteries. They are composed of only a very small number of filaments which run beside each other, without presenting the numerous anasto- moses which we find in the other abdominal plexuses. Some of them lose themselves in the flieshy fibres of the diaphragm. Otheris accompany the arterial twigs to a great distance; while several, especially to the right, anastomose with the phrenic nerves, (I737). CffiLIAC PLEXUS- 1914. This is nothing else than an inferior prolongation of the solar plexus upon the tripod of the coehac artery. It is a true con- tinuation of it, and furnishes three very remarkable secondary! plexuses, which accompany the coronary artery of the stomach, and hepatic and splenic arteries. Many filaments of the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves especially terminate in it, and it also receives some from the last thoracic ganglion. It presents a considerable number of ganglia itself, which vary as to form and size. 1915. Coronary Plexus of the Stomach. Smaller than the two following, it embraces the artery near its origin by a circle of small gangha. These ganglia, which are very numerous at first, become less frequent as they advance, so that at the place where tlic artciy bends to gain the small curvature of the stomach, tinCCELIAC PLEXUS. 539 plexus is only composed of a few filaments. When it sends a branch to the Uver, the plexus divides for the purpose of accompanying it; but more commonly it continues, without interruption, its course along the small curvature of the stomach, spreading successively, over the two surfaces of that viscus, filaments which anastomose fre- quently with those of the pneumo-gastric nerves (1712). Near to the pylorus, the number of these filaments becomes much reduced. JThe upper join the hepatic plexus (1916), and the lower form a plexus which spreads out upon the fore part of the right gastro- epiploic artery. 1916. Hepatic plexus. This is much larger than the preced- ing. Belonging to the hepatic artery and vena portas, it directs itself along with it towards the fissure of the liver, and divides, :above the pylorus, into two portions. The inferior gains the posterior side of the right gastro-epiploic \artery, anastomoses with the filaments which the coronary plexus of the stomach sends before it (1915), and accompanies it in the nmanner of a nervous sheath. As it passes under the great curva- ture of the stomach, there are detached from it numerous filaments vwhich go to that viscus, while others penetrate into the pancreas along with the arteries which are distributed there, and some also ;:go to the duodenum. The upper portion of the hepatic plexus, which is much larger [ than the lower, presenting very small ganglia in its whole course, c expands on arriving at the neck of the gall-bladder, which is sur- rounded on all sides by its interlaced filaments, without their being nmuch prolonged upon the organ itself, in the walls of which a cer- tJtain number of them are distributed. It forms a small secondary pplexus around the pyloric artery, and thus communicates with the fifilaments which terminate the coronary plexus of the stomach above. > Some of its ramifications accompany the ductus communis choledo- i chus to the duodenum ; but the greater number throw themselves ii into the substance of the liver, along with the roots of the hepatic (i duct, and the branches of the hepatic artery and vena portas. In ; the foetus, some filaments of this portion of the plexus are united to t the umbilical vein, and accompany it to the placenta. The hepatic plexus receives numerous filaments of the termina- tition of the right pneumo-gastric nerve ; but it does not itself fur- I Bish all the nerves of the liver, for the convex part of the right "«semilvmar ganglion sends, directly to that viscus, several filaments ■ ■"'hich pass under its small lobe, and form a plexus of themselves. 1917. Splenic Pie jous. This is a compound of only a very small number of filaments, and disproportionate to tlie size of the ar- t tery which it embraces. At its origin, it presents two or three II pretty large gangha, from which proceed filaments which run It alongside of each other, without being interrupted by new ganglia, »i and anastomose but very rarely with each other. Several of these filaments penetrate into the pancreas along with arterial twigs; ilie others wmd round the splenic artery, and enter with it into the540 ORGANS OF SENSATION. spleen. But before this there are also given off by it some fila ments which follow the course of the left gastro-epiploic artery and are in part separately lost in the great epiploon. There ar also observed some which accompany the vasa brevia. SUPERIOR MESENTERIC PLEXUS. 1918. After forming the coeliac plexus, the solar plexus is stil prolonged downwards over the aorta, until the origin of the supe rior mesenteric artery, and there forms a new net-work of very con siderable size, and interspersed with a few ganglia. This plexu descends along with the superior mesentric artery between thi pancreas and the transverse portion of the duodenum which re ceives filaments from it. It immediately expands and passes be twcen the two laminae of the mesentery, there forming a kind o web of very great extent, the meshes of which embrace the lympha tic ganglia of that region, and follow at the same time the twigs o the artery, so as to cover the whole surface of the small intestine It also constantly sends off an isolated bundle of filaments whicl follow the right extremity of the pancreas, and are distributed t( the duodenum along with two or three small arteries. The superior mesenteric plexus, with the aid of the secondary plexuses which it sends over the middle cohc and ileo-colic arteries, ascends into the mesocolon, and gives filaments to the ascending colon and coecum. All the filaments of tl\is plexus are very flexuous, and frequent- ly interrupted by ganglia. The latter are especially observed up, on the edge of the intestine. INFERIOR MESENTERIC PLEXUS. 1919. It is continuous above and before the abdominal aorta •with the preceding, and receives at its commencement a great number of isolated twigs from the lumbar gangha, and from the renal and spermatic plexuses. It then goes to the inferior mesente- ric artery, and forms around its origin a narrow sheath, much le.^ complicated however than that of the superior mesenteric artery. 1 It enters with it into the iliac mesocolon, and towards the edge of I the pelvis divides into two portions. Of these portions, the inner, which is smaller, surrounds the common ihac artery, sends some- straight and but seldom anastomosing twigs along the external iliac artery, and descends into the pelvis along with the hypogas- tric artery, all the branches of which thus receive a small plexus. It is also to be remarked that a great number of filaments of this plexus separate much from the vessels, to go before the sacrum to the hypogastric plexus ; and that those which are appUed upon the 6 iRENAL PLEXUS. 5U walls of the external iliac artery may be traced as far as the upper mrt of the thigh. The other portion of the inferior mesenteric plexus, which is placed externally of the preceding, accompanies the mesenteric ar- tery and its branches into the mcso-rectum. Its filaments are in- terlaced around that artery in a very loose manner, and many of them are seen to separate and follow a vague direction in the dif- ferent folds of the mesentery. Those which go to the sigmoid ^.flexure of the colon are prolonged a little upon that intestine. IThe principal secondary plexus which is here furnished is that of Ithe left colic artery, which spreads out upon the corresponding por- ition of the colon, and goes to anastomose above with the superior mesenteric plexus. Few ganglia are met with in the course of the inferior meserite- riric plexus. When there are any, they are always situated near the principal artery. RENAL OR EMULGENT PLEXUSES. ' 1920. These are two in numhef, a right and a left. They come off along with bundles of the solar and coeliac plexuses from the oouter part of the semilunar ganglia, and from the expansion of the small splanchnic nerves. They, moreover, receive two other nerves of considerable size, one of which rises by two twigs from the .eleventh and twelfth thoracic ganglia, and the other comes from tithe filament which connects the last thoracic ganglion with the first iliirabar. Both pass through the diaphragm and anastomose toge- tlther before losing themselves in the renal plexus. Frequently also tithe first two lumbar ganglia contribute to their formation. Each of these plexuses commences by three or four ganglia placed uxipon the commencement of the renal artery, and furnishing by ti their circumference a great ntimber of slender rectilinear filaments, ■which do not anastomose with each cither, but are interlaced in a idecided manner, and join the different filaments which we have t^just described, when the artery separates into twigs. There are tithen formed some small ganglia, particularly behind the renal artery ^ or vein. Then also they all penetrate together into the substance Jiof the kidney. 1921. Just at the commencement of the capsular arteries, there ' 18 detached from the renal plexus a small secondary plexus, (supra- ' fenal)-which accompanies them, sends some filaments over the sides of the diaphragm, and joins itself to certain twigs of the semi- lunar ganglion. SPEKMATIC PLEXUSES. 1922. These are also two, and are derived especially from theORGANS OF SENSATION. renal plexus. Formed by a small number of twigs, they follow the course of the spermatic arteries to the testicle in the male, and to the ovarium and Fallopian tube in the female; but it is impos- sible to say with certainty whether they penetrate the tissue of these organs. Two or three ganglia are observed in their course, and some filaments separate from them for the ureter. OF THE LUMBAR GANGLIA. 1923. The Lumbar Ganglia, of which there arc commonly five on each side, although sometimes only two or three, are of an ob- long form and variable size. They occupy the space comprised between the twelftli rib and the articulation of the last vertebra with the sacrum ; they are situated on the lateral and anterior parts of the body of the vertebrae, near the psoas magnus, behind the vena cava to the right, and the aorta to the left, and are more distinct from each other than the thoracic ganglia, and frequently larger on one side than on the other. Their twigs, which are very white, are naturally distinguished into twigs communicating between the different ganglia, and into external and internal filaments. COMMUNICATING TWIGS. 1924. They go from one ganglion to the other. Tlieir form is often fasciculate, or they are united three or four together. Some- times one or two are wanting, so that the communication is inter- rupted ; or the two neighbouring ganglia are confounded and di- rectly continued without their assistance. They are always very slender and of variable length, the ganglia themselves not occupy-, ing a very determinate place. The first connects the last thoracic ganglion with the first lumbar. EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1925. Each ganglion commonly gives off two or three, either separately or by a common trunk. Pretty long and of great thick- ness, they cross the direction of the lumbar arteries before which they pass, or turn rovmd them. Those belonging to the upper ganglia have a direction obliquely upwards; those of the middle ganglia, a transverse direction ; and those from the lower gangha pass obliquely downwards. They soon after pass between the sUps by which the psoas muscle commences (1290) to anastomose, op- posite the intervertebral holes with the anterior branches of the lum- bar nerves.OF THE SACRAL GANGLIA. Some more delicate filaments arise from these latter, or from tire first, and lose themselves in the psoas magnus. INTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1926. These filaments are numerous and very slender. They interlace frequently with each other, and form a very complicated net-work before the abdominal aorta. They are often intermingled with small ganglia. This aortic plewtis sends numerous filaments to the splenic, he- patic, renal, spermatic and mesenteric plexuses, which we have al- ready seen. It also sends some upon the common iliac and hypo- gastric arteries. Lastly, it is continued into the hypogastric plexus, which we shall presently examine. Some of those of the right side anastomose with those of the left side, passing under the aorta, OF THE SACRAL GANGLIA. 1927- Of these there are three or four on each side. They lie upon the sides of the anterior surface of the sacrum, so much the nearer to the median line the lower they are, frequently occupying the orifice of the anterior sacral holes, covered by the peritoneum, and immersed in the adipose tissue of the pelvis. They vary in form and size. Their colour is pale, and their consistence soft. They all communicate together by filaments which are more or less long, and resemble those of the lumbar ganglia (1924) ; moreover, the first almost always communicates with the last lumbar ganglion. Their filaments are distinguished into external, internal, and ante- rior. The latter contribute especially to form the hypogastric plexus. EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. *« 1928. Pretty numerous, and of considerable thickness, but very : short, these arise by fasciculi, and go to anastomose with the ante- 1 rior branches of the sacral nerves (1816). Others more slender : are distributed to the pyriformis and levator ani muscles, sf t ■ INTERNAL FILAMENTS. • f ' 1929. Their number is indeterminate ; those of one side anasto- ! raose with those of the opposite side upon the middle of the sac- r rum, where they form a kind of plexus.ORGANS OF SENSATION. . HYPOGASTRIC PLEXUS. i 1930. This plexus is formed by several filaments of the vesical^ uterine, vaginal, and haemorrhoidal nerves of the sciatic plexus (1833), by the end of the inferior mesenteric (1919) and aortic (1926) plexuses, and by a considerable number of the anterior lila- ments of the sacral ganglia; it sends its ramifications to the rec- tum, bladder, vesiculas seminales, uterus, vagina, and anus, along "with the arteries which go to be distributed to these parts. More- over, it also sends out of the pelvis, filaments which follow the ar- teries to the posterior region of the thigh. 1931. The last sacral ganglion emits from its inferior part fila- ments, which direct themselves inwards to the anterior sacro-coccy- geal ligament (623), where they unite with those of the opposite side, by means of a small ganglion, forming an arch whose con-* vexity is directed downwards, from which proceed some filaments which lose themselves on the anterior surface of the coccyx. OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSATION- ARTICLE FIRST. OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. 1932. The Eyes, {Oculi),* are placed in the orbitar cavities, which we have already described, (342), while their appendages, (oculi tutamina. Hall.), occupy the circumference of these fossae, and consist of the eyebrows, eyehds, ciliae, Meibomian glands, &c. OF THE EYEEUOAVS. •' 1933. The Eyebrows (Supercilia), are two arclied eminences, convex above, differing in their degree of prominence, breadth, thickness, and elongation in different individuals, and generally laro-er in old people. They lie upon the superciliary arch of the frontal bone, (151), which forms their basis, extending above the eyelids, from the sides of the root of the nose to the temples. Their inner extremity is more prominent than the outer, which is slender « Op(aXf*is of tlio GiBoks.545 OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. and elongated. They are separated from each otlicr by a greater or less interval in most subjects, but in many cases they unite above the root of the nose. 193i. The eyebrows are covered with short and stiff hairs di- rected obliquely outwards, much more numerous internally than externally, generally of the same colour as the hair of the head, and commonly thicker in dark than in fair persons. The portion of skin, in which the bulbs of these hairs are implanted, is pretty thick, and applied upon a layer of adipose cellular tissue which it- self rests upon some fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis muscles, beneath which occurs the corrugator supercilii. 1935. The nerves of the eyebrows are furnished by the internal and external frontal nerves, (1651), and by a filament of the tem- poral branches of the facial nerve, (1683). Their arteries come from the ophthalmic and temporal arteries, and their veins pass into the corresponding venous trunks. OF THE EYELIDS. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 1936. The Eyelids (Palpebrce), are two moveable veils lying upon the anterior part of the ball of the eye. They are separated from the forehead by the eyebrow, and confounded below with the cheek, and are distinguished into upper and lower. 1937. The Upper Eyelid, which is very broad and possessed of great mobility, descends below the transverse diameter of the eye ; it is chiefly by it that the eye is closed, for the lower eyelid does not rise high upon it. Both are convex before, and present a great number of transverse wrinkles, more numerous, however, on the upper than on the lower, and more distinct in old age than in youth. These wrinldes are semicircular and concentric, those on the upper eyelid are concave downwards, while those of the lower are concave upwards. 1938. The two eyelids are united at the extremities of the trans- verse diameter of the orbit, forming two angles (Canthi), the in- ner of which is more open than the outer. This difference arises from the circumstance that the fibres of the orbicularis palpebra- rum are inserted internally upon a tendon which docs not exist at the outer angle (893). From the latter a number of wrinkles are seen to proceed in a radiating manner towards the temple. 1939. The free edges of both eyehds are in contact with each other, and supported by a fibro-cartUage. That of the upper eye- lid IS directed downwards, while the other looks upwards. They are cut obliquely from before backwards, and are so disposed as to ^h^l °? ^^'"^ brought together, a narrow and triangular canal, of wnich the ball of the eye constitutes the posterior wall. This ca- nal IS broader internally, especially opposite the puncta lachryma- 2 X54.6 ORGANS OF SENSATION. Ha, than externally. It serves to conduct the tears towards these orifices during sleep. The free edges of the eyelids are concave and rounded over an extent of two or three lines on the side next the nose, where they correspond to the caruncula lachrymalis. When they begin to be cut obliquely, there is observed a small tubercle in which is placed the orifice of the lachrymal ducts. There also, they change their direction, become nearly straight when the eye is open, and present on the side next the eye, as far as the outer angle, a row of small holes which are the excretory orifices of the Meibomian glands, be- fore which, near the skin, is a series of hairs which are named CilicB. 1940. The Cilice which collectively are named the Eye-lashes, are hard and solid hairs, most commonly of the same tint as the hair of the head and eyebrows, sometimes, however, of a different colour, and arranged in two or three rows. They are more nu- merous, longer and stronger in the upper eyelid than in the lower, and their length is still greater at the middle of the edge where their bulbs are inserted than at its extremities. Those of the upper eyelid are at first directed downwards and then curved upwards. The reverse takes place in the lower. They are entirely wanting between the puncta lachrymaha and the angle of the eye. 1941. The Caruncula* Lachrymalis is a small soft membra- neous tumour of a pale red colour, placed in the inner angle of the eye behind the internal commissure of the eyelids. It is formed by a fold of the tunica conjunctiva, in the substance of which are observed mucous follicles and the biUbs of some very minute hairs. ORGANIZATION OF THE EYELIDS. 1942. Skin of the Eyelids. It is distinguished from that of the other parts of the body by its extreme delicacy and transparen- cy, quahties which become more sensible towards the free edge of the eyelids. It is applied upon a layer of loose cellular tissue, never charged with fat, but capable of being filled with serosity with extreme facility. 1943. Muscular Layer of the Eyelids. It is formed by that portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum, in which the fleshy fibres are as it were deprived of colour (893) and widely separated. However, towards the free edge, they approach each other, so as to form a distinct bundle above the tarsal cartilage. 1944. Fibrous Memhratie of the Eyelids. It exists behind the muscular layer, from which it is separated by cellular tissue, and occupies only the external part of each eyelid. The portion which * Diminutive of Caro, flesli.OllGANIZATION OF THE EYELIDS. 54.7 belongs to the upper eyelid is placed between the orbicularis mus- cle and the expanded aponeurosis of the levator palpebrae ; that of the lower eyelid is immediately applied upon the tunica conjuncti- va. These two portions have their fibres mutually interlaced, from , the angle of union of the tarsal cartilages to the outer angle of the . orbit, and proceed from thence to the corresponding part of the circumference of that cavity, as well as to the edge of the carti- lages, diminishing progressively in strength and thickness, so as to be substituted internally by a lamellar tissue loaded with fat Apertures are observed in several places of it for the passage of nerves and vessels. Moreover, the upper eyelid presents a second fibrous layer, crossing the direction of the above, which is constituted by the aponeurosis of its levator muscle which attaches itself to the corre- sponding fibro-cartilage (958). 1945. Tarsal Fihro-Cartilages. These are two small laminse placed in the substance of the free edge of each eyelid, on the same level as the fibrous layer. Each of them commences at the bifurcated extremity of the tendon of the orbicularis muscle (893) and terminates externally, by uniting with its fellow opposite the crossing of the two fibrous layers. They are much broader in the middle than at the extremities, and differ in their form as well as size. The upper, which is larger, is about six lines broad, and is very contracted at the two ends, while the loiver is only about two lines in breadth, and presents nearly the same dimensions in its whole extent. Their anterior surface is convex, and is in connex- ion with the orbicularis muscle; the posterior is concave, lined by the tunica conjunctiva, and marked with several vertical grooves, which lodge the Meibomian glands. Their adherent edge gives attachment to the fibrous layer of each eyelid; but in the upper eyelid it is strongly curved, and affords insertions to the levator muscle, while in the lower it appears rectilinear. Their yree or ciliary edge is broad and thick, rounded, and slantingly cut (1939-) These two fibro-cartilages are rather thin, very flexible, highly elastic, and of a slightly yellowish tint, but present nothing pecu- liar in their structure. 1946. Meibomian Glands or Ciliary Follicles. These are ' small round follicles, lodged in particular grooves, between the tarsal cartilages and the tunica conjunctiva. They are disposed one above another, in such a manner as to represent two vertical and parallel lines of a yellowish colour, sometimes straight, some- times flexuous, sometimes ramified, more numerous and more distinct in the upper eyelid, where there are thirty or forty, than in the lower, where there are only about twenty. Those which occupy the middle part are longer and narrower than those of the extremities. The intervals by which they are separated are larger m the upper eyelid than in the other, and towards their attached edge than towards the free edge. Each follicle is rounded, white • or yellowish, hard, and pretty tenacious. They communicate withORGANS OF SENSATION, 548 each other, and those nearest the free edge of each eyelid open externally by orifices which are scarcely perceptible, and arc disposed in one or two rows on the side next the eye, behind the ciliae (1939). There issues from them a sebaceous humour, wliich, on pressing the tarsal cartilages, may be squeezed out under the form of extremely minute cylinders. 1947. The arteries of the eyelids are furnished by the oph- thalmic, infra-orbitar, temporal and facial arteries. Their veins follow the same course, and pass into the corresponding trunks. Their lymphatics, which are very numerous, terminate, as well as those of the eyebrow, in the ganglia situated on the parotid gland and near the angle of the jaw. We have already described their nervousJilaments which come chiefly from the lachrymal (1648), facial (1683), infra-orbitar (1659), frontal (1651) and nasal (1654) nervesj OF THE TUNICA CONJUNCTIVA. 1948. The Tunica Conjunctiva (Membrana adnata), belongs to the order of mucous membranes. It is very thin and transpar- ent, and lines the posterior surface of the eyehds, and the fore part of the ball of the eye, being always limited at the circumference of the cornea, as has been demonstrated by Dr. Ribes.* On the ftee edge of the upper eyelid, it is obviously continuous with the skin, at the place where the cilias arise. It then covers the edge of the fibro-cartilage, and is perforated externally by the orifices of the ciliary follicles. Internally, it introduces itself by the superior punctum lachrymale into the lachrymal duct; it then proceeds behind the fibro-cartilage and the aponeurosis of the levator pal- pebrae muscle, from whence it is reflected over the sclerotica, to gain the posterior surface of the lower eyelid, and terminate upon its free edge, where it is continuous with the skin, and dives into the inferior lachrymal punctum. On leaving the eyelids to be reflect- ed over the eye, it forms a semicircular fold, which corresponds to the fat of the orbit. 1949. On the internal part of the ball of the eye, the tunica conjunctiva forms another rather indistinct fold, which is some- times named the Membrana nictitans, because in man it seems to be the rudiment of an organ of the same name, which is highly developed in certain animals. This fold is semilunar or crescent- shaped. Its concave edge is directed outwards. It is rendered much more apparent by turning the eye towards the nose. 1950. The inner surface of the tunica conjunctiva is attach- ed to the eyelids and ball of the eye by cellular tissue, which is very dense behind the tarsal cartilages, but rather loose everywhere else. The outer surface is smooth, not villous, and constantly ! •Bu'ktin dc la FaciilK de Medecinc. 1814. 4.549 OF THE BALL OF THE EYE. moistened. When the eyelids are closed, it corresponds to itself in all points; when they are open, it is in part exposed to the con- tact of the air. This membrane contains a considerable number of capillary blood-vessels, especially on the eyelids. Its arteries are derived from the ophthalmic artery. The only nervous filaments which it appears to receive are very minute, and supplied by the lachrymal nerve (1649), and external nasal (1654). I have in vain searched for those which are said to be sent to it by the sLxth and fourth nerves. OF THE BALL OF THE EVE IN GENERAL. 1951. Situated at the inner and somewhat anterior part of the orbit, more or less prominent in different individuals, but always of about the same volume, the ball of the eye has the form of a spheroid, the greatest diameter of which extends from before backwards. It is shghtly depressed above, below and on the sides, but at its middle . and anterior part presents a greater convexity than elsewhere, • which is more distinct in young subjects than in old persons. The antero-posterior diameter of the eye has an extent of from I ten to eleven lines in the adult. Its other diameters are about a 1 line less. In general also it presents smaller dimensions in the fe- 1 male than in the male. The direction of the eye is not the same as that of the orbit. Its ; axis is parallel to that of the other eye, while the axis of the orbit '. inclines inwards (350). There results from this arrangement that : the optic nerve, which is directed inwards, is inserted into the in- : ner side of the eye, and not into its middle part. Viewed in profile, the eye appears composed of two distinct por- tions of a sphere, of different diameters, united to each other. The anterior segment, which forms about the fifth of the ball, has the smallest diameter. Anteriorly, the eye is covered in a great part by the tunica con- T junctiva; posteriorly, and in its whole contour, it corresponds to ! the recti and obliqui muscles which terminate upon it, to a great ' number of nerves and vessels, and to the soft and half fluid fat which fills up all the vacuities of the orbit. Superiorly and exter- nally, the lachrymal gland rests upon it; inferiorly and internally, the caruncula lachrymalis is placed in its neighbourhood. The ball of the eye is moved by six muscles which we have al- ready described (961, et seq.). DF THE PARTS WHICH ENTER INTO THE COMPOSITION OF T^E BALL OF THE EYE. 1952. The parts which enter into the composition of the ball of 2 eye are membranes, as the sclerotica, cornea, choroidcs, retina,ORGANS OF SENSATION. 550 iris, hyaloid membrane, &c.; or fluids, as the aqueous and vitreous humours; or, lastly, bodies of a peculiar nature, as the crystalline lens and the ciliary circle. Nerves and vessels are also met with in it. We proceed to examine these different constituent parts in succession. OF THE SCLEROTICA. 1953. The Sclerotica* {Cornea. Opaca), is a hard, opaque, tougli substance, of a pearly white colour, occupying about four-fifths o1 the ball of the eye, and having the form of a sphere truncated an- teriorly. It is of a fibrous structure, and is the strongest and most i external of the membranes of the eye. It is thinner anteriorly than posteriorly; near the entrance of the optic nerve it is a line, whereas in the vicinity of the cornea it is no more than the third I of a line, but here it is strengthened by the expansion of the ape neurosis of the recti and obliqui muscles which seem to be identi fled with it, and which some authors have designated under the name of Tunica albuginea. 1954. The outer surface of the sclerotica has the same rela 1 tions as the ball of the eye itself; the inner is lined by the choroi(' membrane, with which it is feebly connected by nervous filament vessels, and a very delicate lamellar tissue of a peculiar naturi These too surfaces present, in various points of their extent, prin cipally at the back part, small holes for the passage of the ciliar vessels and nerves. These holes are the orifices of canals runnin obliquely in the substance of the membrane, and cohtinumg ante- riorly upon its inner surface in the form of slight grooves. Behind and a little inwards, the sclerotica is perforated with ; rounded aperture for the passage of the optic nerve (1630). Some- times, in place of a single aperture, there is a multitude of sraal holes, among which are observed one or two larger than the rest ■which belong to the central artery and vein of the retina. It i; there that the continuity of the membrane with the sheath whicl the dura mater furnishes to the optic nerve, is manifestly seen Anteriorly, the sclerotica presents a circular aperture, the diaraetei of which is about six lines, somewhat larger however transverselj than from above downwards, and whose circumference, which i; sloped at the expense of the inner surface, receives the cornea, 1955. In the adult, the sclerotica is only formed of a single la mina the fibres of which are so interlaced that it is difl[lcult to dis' tinguish them. Although at first sight no organization is discern ible in it, it is shown by maceration to be in reahty composed 0 fibrous filaments and small laminae intermingled in an irregula manner. It contains very few blood-vessels, and those which i h^s are capillary. No nerves or lymphatics have as yet been dis * 2»x»g«f, durus, crassus.551 OF THE SCLEKOTICA. covered in it. In the eye of the foetus only, the sclerotica may be separated into two distinct laminae. Some anatomists have sup,, posed its inner lamina to be a prolongation of the pia mater ; but this opinion appears to have no foundation. OF THE CORNEA. 1956. The Cornea, {Cornea Pellucida), is of a nearly circular form, convex anteriorly, transparent, and constitutes the anterior fifth of the eye ; it is enchased in the great aperture of the sclero- tica (1954), and presents the appearance of a segment of a smaller sphere added to a larger, whose diameter is seven or seven and a half lines, while the chord of the segment itself is five lines. The transverse diameter of the cornea is a little larger than the vertical. It is also a little broader on the side next the nose than on the opposite side. Its anterior surface, which is convex and prominent, is covered by a kind of peculiar mucous layer, distinct from the conjunctiva, which is itself defended by an epidermis of its own. The posterior surface is lined by the membrane of the aqueous humour, and limits the anterior chamber of the eye, a space comprised between the iris and cornea. The circumference of the cornea, which is cut obliquely at the expense of its outer surface, is covered by a cor- responding slope on the edge of the sclerotica, and adheres inti- mately to it. 1957. The cornea is thicker than the sclerotica, but it is not fibrous. Its tissue is composed of six distinct laminae, superimpos- ed upon each other, easily separable, the anterior of which seem to adhere less intimately. It does not appear to contain either nerves or blood-vessels ; but there evidently exists a serous fluid betweea the laminae which compose it, and on squeezing the membrane, this serum is distinctly seen to ooze out in the form of small drops. It becomes opaque when immersed in boiling water, alcohol or an acid. OF THE CHOROID MEMBRANE. 1958. The Choroid* Membrane (Choridides) is of a dark brown colour, thin, soft, essentially cellular and vascular, and lies upon the internal surface of the sclerotica, from the aperture of the optic nerve to the ciliary circle. I ts outer surface is united to the scle- rotica, posteriorly, by vessels, nerves, and loose and very delicate laminated cellular tissue ; anteriorly, by the ciliary circle. Inter- nally, it is separated from the retina by the membrane of Jacob, Posteriorly, it presents for the optic nerve a narrow aperture, the • Xipin secundce sett clwrion; tttm, forma; from its being supposed to have some resemblance to tlic chorion wliich envelopes the foetus in tiic uterus.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 559. circumference of which presents a prominent rim, which is not con- nected with the nerve, so that no continuity can be here supposed with the pia mater, as some anatomists have alleged. Anteriorly, it adheres strongly to the ciliary circle and processes. 1959. The outer surface of the choroid membrane is covered with a brownish substance, easily removed, composed of innum- erable globules which form by their union an excessively de- licate net-work or membrane, and leave the sclerotica, after death, tinged in a very distinct manner. The inner surface presents a similar layer, only more abundant and of a deeper colour. At the backmost part, near the optic nerve, this substance is substituted by a whitish circle. The dark substance in question is named the Pigmentum nigrum. By maceration, the pigment is detached from the choroid membrane which becomes transparent, loses much of its natural colour, and is covered with villosities. Perhaps the exhalation of the dark fluid is owing to these. Its colour, like that of China ink, resists the action of air and of various chemi- cal reagents, and is more intense in the vicinity of the iris than any where else.* 1960. The choroid membrane has nowhere a fibrous structure; only, near its anterior aperture, there are seen some radiated striae which commence the ciliary processes. It appears entirely com- posed of a multitude of arterial and venous vessels, united together by a very delicate cellular web. The arteries are principal- ly distributed at its external surface ; the veins at the internal. Posteriorly these vessels form two superimposed planes, which may be separated from each other; but this division does not take place anteriorly, although Ruysch appears to have discovered this structure, and although his son gave the name of Membrana Ruyschiana to the internal lamina. M. Bauer his discovered lym- phatics in the choroid membrane, which accompany the principal arteries. OF THE CILIAUY CIRCLE OR LIGAMENT. 1961. The Ciliary Circle or Ligament (Orhiculus cilia ris. Hall., Ligamentum ciliare) is a kind of grayish ring, pretty thick, particularly at its large circumference, about a line or two broad, situated between the choroid membrane, the iris, and the sclerotica, and adhering more to the first of these membranes than to the others. Its consistence is pulpy, and its tissue moistened by a whitish mucosity. It receives the last ramifications of the ciliary nerves, and sends others behind the iris, so that although its inti- mate structure is still unknown, it may to a certain degree be com- * From recent experiments of M. Michele Mondini, it would appear tliat the black colour of this substance is owing to oxide of iron, as on calcinihg the chorQid mombrane of an adult in a platina crucible, tiiorc were extracted trom it particles wfthat metal wiiicli were attracted by the magnet.553 OF THE lUlS. pared to a nervous ganglion* (18G4). The iris is as it were enchas- ed in its small circumference, which forms a slight projection be- fore it. Its great circumference is connected with the choroid lanembrane, and its posterior surface rests upon the ciliary processes. iThe ciliary circle is traversed by the long and anterior ciliary ar- >teries, and receives some ramifications from them. OF THE lEis.-f- 1962. This membrane is a kind of septum placed vertically in the anterior part of the ball of the eye, in the midst of the aqueous humour. Circular and flat, it separates the Anterior Chamber of the eye (1956) from the Posterior Chamber, which is limited be- aind by the crystalline lens, and yet allows a free communication 'oetween them, because it presents an aperture at its middle part ryhich is always free. This aperture of the iris is called the Pupil ''Pupillaand has its centre nearer the inner than the outer ;Bxtremity of the transverse diameter of the eye. During life, TTom the effect of the alternate contraction and expansion of the rris, this aperture is continually varying in its dimensions. Its imean diameter is about a line. Of the two chambers of the eye, the posterior is much narrower hhan the anterior ; but it very certainly exists, although the con- nrary has been asserted. It is not more than a fourth of a line in iJepth, whereas the other is a line and a half at least; and it is on- yy truly apparent toward the circumference of the crystalline lens, Ithe convexity of which gives it the form of a circular prism with 'ihree faces. 1963. The anterior surface of the iris is covered by the mem- brane of the aqueous humour, which however is only traced with "nuch difficulty. It is differently coloured in different subjects, rand presents two very distinct circular and concentric tints, an inner, near the pupil, and an outer; the former is narrower and deeper, the latter broader and less intensely coloured. Iri some cases, the colours of the iris are distributed in patches, which gives t a marbled appearance. On this surface there are observed many prominent and radiated :stri£E, more or less flexuous, which, commencing at the great cir- cumference of the iris, terminate at the pupil, where they bifurcate. Their number varies from seventy to eighty. They are much more distinct during life than after death. In their intervals there ire many nerves and vessels, as well as very minute viUosities. 1964. The posterior surface of the iris has received the name ^lUvea, on account of a very thick and adherent black varnish which covers it, and which, in the intervals of the ciliary processes, 1. * 7^''^.'''*''^ctions of Zinn and Wrisberg, often repeated by myself, seem ultoire- iier to disprove this idea. K. j j > b t So called from the variety of colours which its anterior surface presents.5.54 ORGANS OF SENSATION. is continuous with that of the inner surface of the choroid mem brane (1959). This surface is in the most immediate conncxioi 1 •with the ciliary processes, and when it has been wiped there is ob served upon it a great number of straight, convergent, prominen lines, blending into a membraneous zone near the pupil, and aj) pearing to be the continuation of these small membraneous bodies There are also seen upon it numerous very distinct villosities. 1965. The great circumference of the iris corresponds froii without inwards to the ciliary circle (1961), the choroid membraiT and the ciliary processes. It may easily be detached from the.s( various parts. Its small circumference forms the limits of th. pupil. 1966. The iris is composed of two laminae intimately unitc( near the pupil, but which may be separated towards its great cii cumference. Several anatomists of great merit have admitted mu cular fibres in the iris, and recently Dr. Maunoir, of Geneva, iA very distinguished surgeon, seems to have confirmed their exis- tence, which however is denied by most authors of our day. B[( discovered, by means of a strong lens, that these fibres form tw{ kinds of planes ; an outer, radiated, broader, corresponding to the outer coloured ring, and dilating the pupil; an inner, narrower composed of circular fibres, corresponding to the inner coloxirec ring, and contracting the pupil in the manner of a sphincter. I have observed the disposition pointed out by M. Maunoir, and M Bauer has since confirmed it, as well as Sir Everard Home. 1967. We have already described the nerves of the iris, (1862). Its arteries are furnished by the long ciliary arteries. Its veins go to the vasa vorticosa of the choroid membrane and long ciliary veins. We shall speak of them afterwards. 1968. In the foetus, up to the seventh month of gestation, the; pupil is closed by a grayish membrane, provided with very appar- ent blood vessels, much thinner than the iris, transparent, colour-! less, and disappearing towards the period of birth. It is named the; Membrana pupillaris, after Wachendorf, who first discovered it in 1738. So long as the membrana pupillaris is entire, it forms with the iris a complete septum, which separates the two chambers of the eye, and prevents all communication between them. It is besides flat and attached to the whole circumference of the pupil, so as to be continued over the anterior surface of the iris. The membrana pupillaris is evidently formed of two diaphanous laminae, the posterior of which belongs to the corresponding cham-. ber of the eye, and arises from the circumference of the pupil; the anterior comes from the membrane of the aqueous humour which lines the posterior surface of the cornea, and the whole ant6-! rior chamber of the eye.* * J\i\es CAoqnet, Memoire sur la Mcmhranc. piipillairc. Paris, 1818, 8vo. with fi- gures. The admirable memoir of Dr. Arilliam Hunter on tlie membrana impillatis loft notliing to be desired on this subject.555 OF THE CILIARY PROCESSES. OF THE CILIARY PROCESSES. 1969. The Ciliary Processes (Processus Ciliares,) arc small ' vasculo-merabraneous prominent bodies, placed beside each other in : a radiating manner, so as to form a ring like the disk of a radiated I flower, which surrounds the crystalline lens in the manner of a 1 crown placed behind the iris and the ciliary circle, in particular de- ] pressions of the fore part of the hyaloid membrane. This ring ' which results from the union of the ciliary processes, is called the < Ciliary Body. The number of ciliary processes varies from sixty to eighty, and ■ is even frequently greater. Each of them is about a line and a half in length, but they are alternately longer and shorter. They ; are triangular, very pale and thin behind, becoming more promi- : nent, thicker, and whiter before. Their posterior edge, which is I concave, is received at the circumference of the crystalline lens into a groove of the vitreous body. The anterior is apphed upon the cihary circle and the iris. The inner, which is much shorter than the others, is free, and measures the space comprised between the crystalline lens and the posterior surface of the iris ; it is denticu- lated ; the angle by which it is terminated posteriorly does not ad- here to the capsiJe of the lens, but the anterior angle is connected with the iris by cellular filaments and vessels. There proceed from it straight lines which converge towards the pupil on the pos- terior surface of that membrane, (1964). By their posterior extremity, the ciliary processes separate in a diverging manner, and are prolonged on the hyaloid membrane, on which we find an equal number of folds or laminae project- ing outwards, and dove-tailed as it were with the ciliary pro- cesses. These membraneous folds, which collectively are called the zonule of Zinn, are vascular, the vessels pass in great numbers from the ciliary processes to them, and these vessels, together with the dove-tailing of the two sets of processes, form the bond of union between the choroid and hyaloid membranes, which other- wise would have no connexion with each other.* The cihary body, consisting of the united ciliary processes, therefore terminates posteriorly by a dentated and undulated edge, equally Mack in its whole extent; anteriorly it presents lines which are the ciliary processes themselves, separated by dark intervals. ^ The surface of the ciliary processes is reticulated and villous. They receive almost as many vessels of themselves as all the other .' Sf'*^^ together. Dr. Ribes thinks they are destined for the reproduction of the humours of that organf; their arteries i> ' ^."o*^ I""""* particular account of this structure viik The Transactions of the "^y**' society of Edinburgli, vol. x. part 1st, and following K. t Bulletin de la Facullfi dc Mcdccinc, loco cit. This opinion is contrary to that of a .d supposed them ir>tendcd for keeping the crystalline lens in its place, tkms «f r-"""^.^ ^^''o consider them as destined for the mo' tions of the in*, or the protraction of the lens.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 550 come from the short ciliary arteries. Their veins empty them- selves into the vasa vnrticosa of the choroid membrane. No lym- phatics have as yet been detected in them. The intervals which exist between these laminae are filled with a blackish tenacious substance, which resembles that on the inner surface of the choroid membrane, and also serves to unite them to the anterior part of the vitreous body. Sir Everard Home mentions his having found in these intervals, bundles of muscular fibres, arising circularly from the hyaloid membrane, passing over the edges of the lens, and terminating at its capsule, without hav- ing any connexions, either with the ciliary processes, or the iris. I have not yet succeeded in discovering them, although I have made a great many dissections for the purpose. OF THE RETINA. 1970. The retina is a soft, pulpy membrane of a grayish colour, transparent, and extremely thin, extended from the optic nerve to the crystalline lens, embracing the vitreous body, and lining the choroid membrane, without contracting any adhesion to these two parts. It commences posteriorly around a small tubercle formed by the extremity of the optic nerve (1632), but does not at all ap- pear to result from its expansion. The optic nerve, in fact, says M. Ribes, is distributed in the retina, as the olfactory and acoustic nerves in the pituitary membrane and membrane of the labyrinth.* Besides, the tint of these two organs is altogether different. At the level of the ciliary processes, the retina forms a some- what thicker rim, from which proceeds an excessively delicate and pulpy lamina, which is reflected over these small bodies, sinks into their intervals, and arrives at the crystalline lens. It is this substance which, between the ciliary processes, is tinged by the pigmentum nigrum. 1971- A.t about two lines distance from the optic nerve, and to the outside of it, there is perceived, on the inner surface of the re- tina, a spot of a yellow colour, pretty deep in adults, paler in child- ren and old people. This spot is about a line broad, and is placed exactly in the direction of the axis of the eye. It is surrounded by several folds, of which one only appears to be constant, and in its centre is observed an irregular and very narrow hole. These dif- ferent circumstances were observed by Soemmering in 1791-1* * The examination of the retina under the microscope by Dr. Brewster and my- self goes to disapprove this opinion of M. Ribes.—K. -|- I disproved some years ago tlie constancy of this fold, and showed it to be a post-mortem appearance. The foramen of the retina, which was discovered by Soemmering, affects only the outer or pulpy layer of the retina. It was supposed by its distinguished discoverer to be peculiar to the human nice, but it was soon after shown, by Michaelis, to be present in the quadrumana, and by myself it was disco- vered in the chameleon, and in certain lizards. Vide the Tninsactions of the Wer- iierian Society, vol. v. part 1st, and those of the Uoyal Society of Edinburgh, vol. x. part 1st.—K.OF THE AQUEOUS HUMOUR AND ITS MEMBRANE. 557 1972. The retina appears formed of two laminjE which are so Josely united as to be ahnost inseparable. The outer of these la- -nina? is medullary, pulpy or mucous, and is partly detached by naceration. The inner is fibro-vascular, firmer, and serves to support the outer. It has been named the tunica vasculosa re- incE by some anatomists. It is in the latter especially that the Lientral artery of the optic nerve expands, constituting the only imown means of union between the retina and the other parts of [ihe ball of the eye. * OF THE AQUEOUS HUMOUR AND ITS MEMBRANE. 1973. The Aqueous Humour is a limpid and transparent fluid, rVhich fiUs the two chambers of the eye, from the cornea to the rrystalline lens, so that, as we have already said, it is in contact ridth the two surfaces of the iris. Its quantity is from five to six 7;rains at the most. It is slightly viscous, like' water holding a itittle gum in solution. Submitted to the action of caloric, it how- vver leaves no residuum ; it is not coagulated either by acids or, i\iy alcohol, only nitric acid renders it a little turbid. Its specific ri;ravity, according to Chenevix, is 1.0003. The same chemist ad- naits in it the presence of gelatine, albumen and muriate of soda; Nicolas to these adds phosphate of lime. All these principles mre suspended in an immense quantity of water. Left to itself, it quickly putrefies. During life, it is reproduced with the greatest sacility, when its removal has been effected by any cause. In foetuses and newly-born children, this humour has a reddish iant, which is dissipated about a month after birth. In some old jersons, it naturally loses a part of its transparency. 1974. The membrane of the aqueous humour is very thin, per- ectly translucid, and very difficult to be distinguished. It lines ill the walls of the anterior chamber of the eye, and is perforated jpposite the pupil. In embryos, it forms a serous bag without iperture, on account of the existence of the raembrana pupillaris ,1968). In no case does it penetrate into the posterior chamber. By ebullition it is easily separated from the posterior surface of the ;ornea (1956). It was discovered in the last century by Demours md Descemet, although Zinn would appear to have spoken of it sefore them. 1975. Some authors assert that this membrane is not destined for the exhalation of the aqueous humour, alleging that it is brought * "Exclusively of the two layers here noticed, the retina is found to he covered 5n Its external surface by a delicate trans])urent membrane, united to it by cellular iubstance and vessels. If tlie sclerotica be removed, and the choroid membrane lareluliy torn and everted, small portions of the structure here alluded to can be de- ached, or a globule of air, or even of quicksilver, may be insinuated beneath it, by ■inicn means It is raised, and can be seen distinctly, if held towards the light." An 8I9"" " ^'^'^'"'"'""^ now Jlrit. discovered, by Arthur Jacob, M.D., Phil. Trans.558 ORGANS OF SENSATION. into the chambers of the eye by particular ducts. This was tlie opinion of Nuck, Ruysch, and Santorini, which others have re- garded as unfounded. OF THE CRYSTALLINE LENS AND ITS CAPSULE. 1976. The Crystalline* Lens (Lens crystallina) is a transpa- rent body, of a lenticular form in the adult, nearly spherical in the foetus, placed between the aqueous humour and the vitreous body, at the meeting of the two posterior thirds of the eye with its ante- rior third. Its axis, which corresponds to the centre of the pupil (1962), approaches the nose a little. Its diameter is four lines, and its thickness about two. Its anterior surface, which is bathed by the aqueous humour of the posterior chamber of the eye, is convex and free in its whole extent, presenting a segment of a sphere of much smaller diameter than that which the vitreous body represents. It is separated from the iris and ciliary processes by the posterior chamber of the eye (^962). It is always less convex than the posterior surfacey v/hich is received in a particular cavity of the vitreous humour. The circumference of the crystalline lens is more firmly attached to the vitreous body, than its posterior surface. 1977' l'^^ crystalline lens, which is perfectly transparent in the adult, is a little reddish in the foetus, and yellowish in old persons. Its softness diminishes in the direct ratio of age. In children, it is entirely pulpy ; but in grown up persons, it appears composed of two very different layers, an external and a central. The former, which is pretty thick, is soft, viscid, and easily removed; the other constitutes a kind of solid nucleus, formed of a great number of concentric superimposed laminae. Each of these lamina? itself ap- pears to present concentric fibres when the lens has been exposed to the action of certain reagents. Some of these fibres detach; themselves from one lamina to go to the next, and are thus the only means by which they are united together. The number of these laminae is indeterminate. We also observe that the crystalline lens may be very easily di- vided into three pretty regular segments of a sphere, at the centre of which there exists a very small transparent globule. 1978. Chenevix has found that the specific gravity of the human lens is I.O79O. He thinks that it differs chemically from the aque- ous humour only in having a larger proportion of gelatine and al- bumen, and in the absence of saline matters. It entirely loses its transparency through the action of caloric and after being boiled in water, as well as by desiccation. It putrifies under long macera- tion. • Kfi/r]«X^.«f, crystaUits.559 VITREOUS BODY AND HYALOID MEMBRANE. 1979. It is not yet dctcrrained whether the lens has blood-ves- iels or not. It appears probable that the arterial ramifications are imited to its capsule. It is also pretty certain that it receives no lerves. 1980. The Membrane or Capsule of the lens has a form similar 0 that of the body which it contains. It represents a sort of sac fithout aperture, which sends no prolongation into its interior, and 5 itself lodged in a reduplication of the hyaloid membrane, from i?hich it may very easily be separated at the edges ; but, anteriorly md at the middle, these two membranes are entirely confounded. 3y its inner surface it has no adhesion to the lens itself. At the place where the anterior and posterior portions of this lapsule unite, there is perceived a series of transverse slits which occupy its whole circumference. The capsvde of the lens is much thicker and denser than the vyaloid membrane. It even seems, according to Haller's observa- iion, to have some similarity of structure to the cornea ; a disposi- don which is especially manifest in its anterior half, for in the pos- eerior it is much thinner. By the action of caloric, it hardens and jssumes a milky tint, which also happens when it is immersed in ccids. On being dried in the open air, it becomes yellowish, tts intimate texture is little known. It receives posteriorly a nmall branch of the central artery of the retina; and anteriorly some aamifications of the vessels of the ciliary processes. Its veins and leerves are unknown. 1981. The crystalline lens is fixed and kept in its place by very uvmierous delicate, fascicular, transparent filaments, of a peculiar aature, which pass from the intervals of the cUiary processes to bhe circumference of the capsule of the lens. 1982. Between the lens and its membrane occurs the Liquor Morgagni, a kind of peculiar transparent, slightly viscous fluid, ex- |5t!ting in small quantity, and escaping the moment the capsule is Ippened.* OF THE VITREOUS BODY. 1983. The Vitreous Body is a soft, perfectly transparent, tre- mulous mass, occupying the three posterior fourths of the cavity of ^he ball of the eye. It has a spherical form, but presents a very •fistinct depression at its fore part for lodging the crystalline lens. ' -t 18 invested in nearly its whole extent by the retina, with which t contracts no adhesion, but anteriorly it is connected with the -■est of the eye through the intermedium of the ciliary processes by neans of the structure mentioned at 1969. Its translucency and impidity experience no alteration from the advance of age ; but in he foetus it has a reddish tint. " Many anatomists consider tliis liquor as o, post-mortem appearance. 3560 ORGANS OF SENSATION. The vitreous body is composed of two distinct parts, tlie vitre- ous humour and the hyaloid membrane.* 1984. The Vitreous Humour mingles readily with water, and has the appearance of a solution of gum in that fluid. It is not coagulated by boihng, only it receives a slight opahne tint, an ef- fect which alcohol and concentrated acids also produce upon it. M. Nicolas found its specific gravity to be 1.0009- It is conse- quently a little denser than the aqueous humour; but appears, in a chemical point of view, to contain the same principles as it (1973). On leaving it exposed to the air, it equally putrefies. The quantity of this humour is proportional to the volume of the vitreous body. It is not less than 100 grains, and frequently exceeds that number. 1985. The Hyaloid Membrane, which is excessively thin and transparent, constitutes a mass of cellules, of a form and size very difficult to determine, in which the vitreous humour is contain- ed. They all communicate together, so that by making a single aperture in the hyaloid membrane, the whole humour may be gra- dually drained of!'. At the entrance of the optic nerve into the eye, the hyaloid membrane is reflected upon itself to form a canal, which passes di- rectly through the vitreous body from behind forwards. Near the point where the zonule of Zinn commences, and where the pulpy portion of the retina ceases, there is detached a delicate colourless membrane over the anterior concave surface of the vi- treous humour, which is merely contiguous to the posterior sur- face of the capsule of the lens, but not in any way connected with it. After the layer of the hyaloid membrane which invests the an- terior aspect of the vitreous humour has been detached, the re- maining structure passes on towards the equatorial margin of the lens ; but, previously to being fixed into its capsule, it divides into two distinct layers, which afterwards reunite, and thus enclose a space which is the canal of Petit. Thus united, they adliere firmly to the capsule of the lens, and seem to transmit another very delicate membrane, closely investing the posterior surface of that capsule, -f- The Canal of Petit is broader on the side next the temple than towards the nose, and its existence may be easily demonstrated by insufflation. The two laminje which form it are in perfect contact. The anterior presents stria? corresponding to the ciliary processes, ""TaXts, vitrum ; 'iihs.Jigwti. I The canal of Petit is commonly described as being formed by the hyaloid di- viding into two laminae, one of which passes before the capsule of the lens, while the other lines the concavity which receives it behind ; there is thus formed a spa<* i of the form of a three-sided circular prism cnnipletcd by the circumference of the^ lens, btit that this is not the true mechanism of the canal, may be inferred from the circumstance of the air blown into the canal not passing behind the lens, unless botli walls of the canal be punctured.ORGANIZATION OF THE AURICLE. 561 and is equally traversed by radiating bridles, which make it appear oagged when the canal is distended, and as if composed of a row if beads placed at regular intervals. 1987. The structure of the hyaloid membrane is yet little .mown. It receives branches from the central artery of the retina. : t becomes crisped by the action of heat, and by that of concen- • rated acids. 1988. No part of this membrane is so dense and so thick, as the portion which forms the hollow destined for the reception of the nrystalline lens. No adliesion exists in this part between the hya- ioid membrane and that of the lens. They are equally smooth, md their contact is maintained by a kind of dew which lubricates Ihcir surfaces. ARTICLE SECOND. OF THE EAR AND ITS APPENDAGES. OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. Of the Auricle. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 1989. The size of the Auricle (Pinna Auriculce), varies in dif- t'erent individuals, as well as its form, which is very irregular, but imay yet be compared in a general manner to that of an oval laaving its greatest diameter vertical, and its large extremity di^ iected upwards. Curved in various directions, and compressed r'rom without inwards, it is free above, below and behind ; but be- I'ore and internally it is continuous with the neighbouring parts. 1990. The ewternal surface of the auricle, which is commonly "-urned a little forwards, presents several remarkable prominences iind depressions, which are from above downwards, as follows. 1. The Helix, a kind of replication or rim of a nearly semicir- cular form, which commences towards the middle of the auricle, ibove the meatus auditorius, and at the centre of the concha. It directs itself at first forwards, then upwards, and curves backwards to descend at the back part of the circumference of the auricle, ^'hich is thus in a great measure surrounded by it. It is narrow and not very prominent at its extremities, but is of considerable breadth at its middle part. Its inferior extremity, which seems bifurcated, is continuous anteriorly with another eminence named the anti-kelix, and posteriorly with the lobe of the ear, of which we shall presently speak. 2 o 1ORGANS OF SENSATION. 562 2. The Groove of the Helix, more or less deep and narrow which commences in the concha, follows the whole course of tlu hcUx within and beneath it, and terminates towards the anterio' branch of its inferior bifurcation. 3. The Anti-heliv, an eminence which commences in the groove of the helix, above the concha, by a bifurcated extremity, of which one of the branches is superior, broad, obtuse and oblique, and tlic other inferior, narrow, more prominent and horizontal. They af- terwards unite to form a single prominence, thicker but shorter than the helix, which describes a curve whose concavity is turned forwards and downwards, and terminates, becoming thinner, be- hind and above the anti-tragus, from which it is separated by a slight notch. 4. The Fossa navicularis, the superficial depression which se- parates the two roots of the anti-helix. 5. The Tragus, a kind of small mammillary eminence, placed before the orifice of the auditory canal, which it seems to conceal. Its form is flat and irregularly triangular. Its base is continuous above and below with the rest of the auricle. Its summit is direct- ed backwards and outwards. Its outer edge is separated from the commencement of the helix by a notch. 6. The Anti-tragus, another mammillary eminence smaller than the preceding, situated opposite to it behind, and beneath the an- ti-helix. It is conical, and its summit turned upwards and for- wards. 7. The Concha, a deep cavity, limited behind by the anti-helix, divided into two unequal portions by the helix, limited before by the tragus, and below by the anti-tragus. Its upper portion, which is narrower and transversely elongated, is continuous with the groove of the helix. The lower portion, which is broader and of a some- what triangular form, is continuous anteriorly and internally with the meatus auditorius. 8. The Lobule of the Ear, a soft rounded eminence, of variable size, which terminates inferiorly the circumference of the auricle, and which it is customary in some countries to perforate, for the purpose of suspending rings to it. 1991. The Inner Sicrface of the auricle is inchned backwards. It presents eminences and cavities the reverse of those observed on the outer surface, with the exception of the tragus and anti-tragus, which have nothing to correspond with them here. Free in a great part of its extent and separated from the head by a greater or less interval, it is continuous anteriorly with the temporal re- gion. ORGANIZATION OF THE AUIUCLE. 1992. Of the SJcin. The skin of this region presents a great degree of thinness, particularly upon the different folds. It has aORGANIZATION OF THE AURICLE. 563 grccat number of sebaceous follicles dispersed through it, and ad- heres pretty firmly to the cartilage, from which it is separated by » dense cellular tissue ; it, together with a mass of very fine fat, forms the lobule. At the summit and on the inner surface of the tragus, it is furnished with hairs, varying in length and number in differ- ent subjects, which appear destined to prevent the introduction of the small bodies, floating in the atmosphere, into the ear. 1993. Of the Cartilage of the Auricle. It constitutes the basis of the external ear, determining the form of that part by its elas- ticity and consistence. All the eminences and cavities which we have described above are seen upon it, with this difference, that they are much more distinct than when it is covered by the skin- It presents, moreover a slight prominence on the heUx, above the tragus, and, between these two parts, it is intersected by a fissure filled up by a ligament, so that the portion which belongs to the tragus is separated from the rest. It presents a similar fissure^ between the anti-tragus and the united extremities of the helix and anti-hehx, which is in like manner filled with a fibrous substance. Inferiorly, this cartilage is not prolonged in any shape into the lobe; but internally it is continuous with the auditory canal, as we : shall afterwards describe. This cartilage, which is analogous to those of the wings of the : nose, the trachea, &c. has a very delicate tissue, a yellowish white I colour, and a great degree of flexibility. It is covered by a peri- (chondriura, and perforated by several apertures for the passage of 1 blood-vessels. 1994. Of the Ligaments of the Auricle. These ligaments, 'which serve to fix the cartilage to the lateral part of the head, are t three in number, a superior, an anterior, and a posterior. The ^ superior ligament, which is attached behind the concha, to the up- iper part of the convexity which it presents in that direction, termi- I nates by expanding in the epicranial aponeurosis. The anterior {proceeds from the base of the tragus, and from the neighbouring rregion of the helix, to be inserted into the zygomatic process, above t the temporo-maxillary articulation. The posterior goes from the convexity of the concha to be inserted at the base of the mastoid [ process. They are all rathtr cellular than fibrous, and are a little ' intermingled with the muscles of the ear (884, et seq.). 1995. Of the Muscles of the Auricle. They are of two kinds. >Some, which have already been described, (884) are subservient to • the general motions of the part. The others, of which we proceed to speak, are placed, in different points of the auricle, upon its car- tilage. They are always of small size; one or more of them arc 1 sometimes wanting; and sometimes, none at all are met with. 1 They determine the partial motions of approximation and separa- tion between the different regions of the organ. They are com- monly five in number, and designated as follows. 1. Muscle of the Tragus, (M. Tragicus). Pretty broad, very iapparent, more constant than the others, and of a triangular form.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 564. it almost entirely covers the outer surface of the tragus, arising from the base and terminating at the summit of that eminence. 2. Mtiscle of the Anii-tragus, (M. Anti-tragicus). Less broad, but thicker than the preccdinsf. and of as constant occur- rence, it occupies the interval which separates the anti-tragus from the anti-helix : its Hbres are oblique. Anteriorly, it is covered by the fibrous layer of which we have spoken (1993), and posteriorly corresponds to the skin. 3 Large Muscle of the Helix, (M. helieis major). Long and slender, it covers for the space of a few lines the origin of the helix above the tragus. It is directed obliquely forwards, and is thin- ner anteriorly than posteriorly. 4. Small Muscle of the Helix. (M. Helieis Minor). Very thin, and commonly wanting, it is much more slender than the pre- ceding, and is situated beneath and behind it, on the prominence of the helix which divides the concha into two parts. 5. Transverse Muscle, (Transversus Auriculce). Placed be- hind the auricle, it arises from the convexity of the concha, and loses itself upon the prominence which the groove of the helix forms posteriorly. It is frequently divided into three or four dis- tinct fasciculi. (If the Meatus auditorius externus, or Auditory Canal. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 1996. Placed between the temporo-maxillary articulation and the mastoid process, this canal extends from the bottom of the concha to the cavity of the tympanum, from which it is separated by the membrana tympani. Its length, which is about ten or twelve lines in the adult, is always a little greater below than above. It is directed obliquely from without inwards and from behind forwards ; but it is curved in the direction of its length so as to present a convexity above and a concavity beneath. Broad- er at its extremities than at the middle part, its transverse section is of an elliptical form. Its inner extremity, which is limited by the membrana tympani, is oblique from above downwards and from without inwards, and it is upon this that the greater extent of its lower wall depends. OllGANIZATION. 1997. The meatus auditorius is formed by a bony portion which belongs to the temporal bone, by a prolongation of the cartilage of the concha, and by a kind of fibrous membrane. The skin ot565 OF THE MEATUS AUDITORIUS EXTERNUS. the auricle is continued into its interior and lines it. Its hony por- tion has already been described (174) ; we shall therefore pass to the other parts which enter into its composition. 199B. Of the Cartilage. It is a pretty broad triangular la- mina, of which the base is continuous with that of the tragus (1990, 5°), and with the anterior and inferior part of the concha. Irregularly curved from below upwards and from before backwards, it does not describe an entire circle, and forms a portion of canal completed by a fibrous membrane, and which, in the adult, is shorter than the bony portion. Its inner extremity is prolonged in- feriorly into a point, and is only connected with the temporal bone by a fibrous tissue. Near the tragus, this cartilage presents a transverse fissure. A similar one is observed a little farther on ; and sometimes, although rarely, there even exists a third. These fissures, {incisures of San- torini), occupy only a portion of the extent of the cartilaginous lamina, and are filled with a fibrous cellular tissue. Sometimes also they present muscular fibres ; but these cannot be considered as forming a separate muscle, as some anatomists maintain. 1999. Of the Fibrous Portion. It unites above and behind the two edges of the cartilage, and completes the canal in this place. Sometimes it is very indistinct, but it is always prolonged between the cartilage and the circumference of the bony canal of the ear, and connects them with each other. 2000. Of the Skin of the meatus aicditorius. It is a prolonga- tion of that which invests the auricle. Presenting at first the same tint and thickness as the latter, it loses its whiteness and be- comes thinner in proportion as it approaches the membrana tym- pani, over which it is reflected so as to form a kind of cul-de-sac. It is covered in its whole extent by a very fine down, and at its origin furnished with pretty long and very apparent hairs. It presents a great quantity of porosities, which are the excretory ori- fices of the ceruminous glands. It adheres very feebly to the sub- jacent parts, and is connected with them by cellular tissue. Its adhesion, however, is more marked in the place where it invests the bony portion, and especially beneath; but it may be detached without effort from the membrana tympani. 2001. Of the Ceruminous Glands. They are met with under the skin, in the cellular tissue, at the upper and back parts of the canal, in the place where the cartilage does not exist. They have a spherical or elliptical form, a reddish yellow colour, and a con- siderable density. Each of them has an excretory orifice of its own which opens into the meatus and pours out the cerumen there. I heir intimate structure is very little known. 2002. The Cerumen is a thick, oily, very bitter fluid, of a yel- low colour, partly soluble in water under the form of an emulsion, ittle affected by exposure to air, not putresciblc, and incapable of being acted upon by alcohol. This humour is inflammable; when placed upon a piece of lighted charcoal, it quickly intumcsccs and566 ORGANS OF SENSATION. exhales a dense smoke of an ammoniacal and slightly aromatic smell. The charcoal which forms the residuum is in too small qviantity to be analyzed. M. Vauquelin thinks that three sub- stances form the base of the cerumen : a fat oil, an albuminous animal mucilage, and a colouring matter. 2003. The arteries of the external ear are furnished by the posterior auricular, temporal, and stylo-mastoid branches. Its veins exactly correspond to the arteries. The lymphatics go to the ganglia situated behind the ramus of the jaw, and upon the outer surface of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle. Its nerves are furnished by the superficial temporal (I67O), and posterior auricular (I678) nerves, the temporal twigs of the facial (1683), and the mastoid (1743), and auricular (1744) twigs of the cervical plexus. OF THE MIDDLE EAR OR TYMPANUM.* OF THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM, HAVING ITS SOFT PARTS REMOVED. 2004. The Tympanum is a cavity of an irregular form, difficult to be described, situated in the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, between the meatus auditorius externus and the inner ear, properly so called, or labyrinth, above the glenoid fossa, before the mastoid process and its cells, and behind the Eustachian tube. Its breadth is but small; but it is liable to vary on account of the motions to which the membrana tympani is subject. It is always larger above than below. Its antero-posterior diameter is a little greater than the vertical diameter. A mucous membrane lines it over its whole extent, and it communicates with the exter- nal air by means of the Eustachian tube, placed between it and the pharynx. Six walls are distinguished in the tympanum. 2005. Outer wall. Directed somewhat obliquely from above downwards, from without inwards, and from behind forwards, it is formed almost entirely by the membrana tympani, a kind of sep- tum which closes the inner extremity of the auditory canal, and which is very distinct from the mucous membrane of the cavity ot the tympanum, and from the skin which lines the auditory canal (2000). The latter, in particular, may be detached from it with tine ^rG3itGSt G3/SC The membrana tympani, presenting the obliquity which we have lust mentioned, forms, with the inferior wall of the auditory canal, a very acute retiring angle, while it seems almost a continuation ot the superior. Its form is that of a circle. Its extent is a little • tvp-vauv, Tympanum, a Drum.567 OF THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. ;l<argcr than that of the aperture whicli it is destined to close, whence ; there results, that it is capable of experiencing very distinct alter- ! natc motions of relaxation and tension. For the same reason, it is ^commonly found convex in one or other direction, but more com- I monly internally, where it always presents, moreover, a partial ele- wation produced by the presence of the handle of the maUeuSi IThis elevation produces a corresponding depression on the side next lithe auditory canal. • >iThe circumference of the membrana tympani is, as it were, en- i chased in the groove with which the internal extremity of this canal ids marked. 2006*. The membrana tympani is thin, transparent, dry, fibrous, lidestitute of blood-vessels in the ordinary state. It is not perforat- i«d by any aperture, as some anatomists have alleged, and permits lino direct communication between the tympanum and the meatus aauditorius externus. It promptly hardens under the action of heat, and is not putres^ ocible. 2007- Above and below, the outer wall of the tympanum is fformed by two small uneven osseous svirfaces. 2008. Internal Wall. It is but slightly inclined backwards, and ids more distant from the external wall above than below. The ob- jijects which are remarked in it are the following. 1. The Fenestra Ovalis, an aperture of an oval form, which t'forms a communication between the tympanum and the vestibule. Uts greatest diameter is horizontal, the other vertical; Its upper oedge is curved in the form of a half ellipse; the lower is nearly ^straight. On the side next the vestibule, it is contracted by a very small flat rim, which occupies its circumference. The fenestra ovalis is closed by the base of the stapes, which not I'being altogether so large, is embraced by a delicate membrane, 1 which unites it in a moveable manner to the circumference of the aperture. Above the fenestra ovalis, there is remarked a bony eminence, > elongated backwards and downwards, which indicates the course of ; the. aqueduct of Fallopius at this point (180). 2. The Promontory (Promontorium). This is another pretty 'i broad tubercular eminence, of a variable form, which limits the fenes- utra ovalis below. This prominence is formed by the outer side of the vestibule, and by the corresponding scala of the cochlea. It is ' bounded behind by an irregular depression. Anteriorly, it corre- ! sponds to the extremity of a bony lamina, which separates the Eus- tachian tube from the inner muscle of the malleus. 3. The Fenestra Rotunda. Placed beneath and a little behind '! the promontory, this is of smaller dimensions than the fenestra • ovalis, and forms a communication between the inner scala of the ' cochlea and the tympanum. It is situated at the bottom of a ca- vity, or kind of oblique, irregularly funnel-shaped canal, which with- draws It in a great measure from the view on the side next the tympanum. It is not round, as its name would imply, but of aORGANS 01'' SENSATION. 508 triangular form. It is closed by a particular membrane {memhm- na tympani secundaria), which is not parallel to that of the tym- panum. In the first months of gestation it is directed almost an- teriorly. Towards the period of birth, it is already turned oblique- ly backwards by the development of the tympanum. But after-a wards, it incUnes outwards, and a little downwards, from the effect of the formation of the mastoid cells, and of the growth of the pro- cess which contains them. 2009- Superior Wall. There is observed in it a certain num- ber of porosities giving passage to small blood-vessels, which form a communication between the dura mater and the mucous membrane of the tympanum. It has very Uttle thickness, and presents nothing else remarkable. 2010. Inferior Wall. There is seen in it the glenoid fissure (I73), through which issue the long process of the malleus and the chorda tympani (1872), and by which there enter the anterior mus- cle of the malleus and some blood-vessels. 2011. Posterior Wall. In the upper part of this wall, there oc- curs a short scabrous canal, not lined with a layer of compact tis- sue, like the other bony canals, directed obliquely backwards and downwards, placed above the short branch of the incus, with a triangular free orifice, not closed by a membrane. This canal leads to the Mastoid Cells, which are formed in the interior of the mastoid process (175), are developed in the direct ratio of age, and vary in number and figure. Those of the circumference are in general of the same size as the cellules of the diploe of the rest of the temporal bone; but, at the centre, there are three, four, or five much larger, and even sometimes confounded together so as to form a single cavity. They all communicate with each other; but are separated fi:om the diploic cellules of the bone by a pro- longation of the mucous membrane of the tympanum. Beneath the aperture of the mastoid cells, behind the fenestra ovalis, and at the lower part of the prominence formed by the aqueduct of Fallopius (2008), is a small hollow conical eminence, more or less prominent, called the Pyramid {^Eminentia pyra- midalis). Its summit is directed forwards, and gives passage to the tendon of the muscle of the stapes, the fleshy body of which is contained in a canal occupying the centre of the eminence. Under the base of the pyramid is a small aperture which com- municates with the aqueduct of Fallopius, and through which the upper twig of the vidian nerve penetrates into the tympanum (1872). Sometimes also the summit of the pyramid is connected with the promontory by one or two bony filaments. 2012. Anterior Wall. It presents a small, thin, projecting bony plate, curved upon itself from beneath upwards, and com- monly named the Processus cochleariformis. This plate separ- ates in its whole length two canals, situated in the retiring angle of the temporal bone, which receives the spine of the sphenoid569 OF THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. bone (182), and placed one above die other. The superior canal •is rounded, lined with a very delicate periosteum, and filled by ,;the internal muscle of the malleus. It presents the aperture of . an extremely narrow canal which ascends in the groove placed be- fore the hiatus Fallopii, and which gives passage to a filament of lithe superficial petrous nerve, which goes to meet on the promon- ;.tory another filament of the same nerve of which we shall pre- -sently speak. The inferior forms the bony portion of the Eusta- . chian tube. Under the extremity of the processus cochleariformis j there opens a narrow and pretty long canal, which obliquely tra- verses the substance of the bone, and, on the one hand, goes to :gain the same groove of which we have just spoken, while, on : the other, it degenerates into a groove which passes over the cir- i curaference of the fenestra ovalis, the promontory and the ante- rrior edge of the fenestra rotunda in succession, to be finally con- vverted into a canal which descends in the groove by which the ccarotid canal is separated from the sinus of the jugular vein, and tterminates in a small fossa. This canal is traversed by a filament oof the superficial petrous nerve, which ascends to anastomose on tthe promontory with a filament of the superior cervical ganglion, tto go along with it, united into one, and accompanied by a small aartery, to throw itself into the terminating fossa, and be confound- ted with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, after throwing some fila- rments into the membrana tympani, and into the membrane of the tfenestra ovalis. 2013. Of the Eustachian Tube {Tuba Eustachiana.) This I name is given to a canal partly osseous, partly cartilaginous and membraneous, which extends from the cavity of the tympanum to Lthe upper part of the pharynx. Inclined obliquely forwards, in- ' wards and downwards, it is about two inches in length, and has I consequently a greater extent than the auditory canal. Its bony : portion, which is from eight to nine lines in length, is situated above the carotid canal, on the inside of the glenoid fissure, and of the spine of the sphenoid bone, commences in the tympanum by a pretty wide orifice, and is narrow and rounded in its middle l;; part. Its cartilaginous portion increases progressively in diame- ter, and is compressed so as to present an elliptical section. It j terminates near the inner wing of the pterygoid process, behind |; the posterior aperture of the corresponding nasal fossa, by a kind of wide, free, bulging pavilion, of which the edges are applied up- on each other so as to form only a fissure of no great width. This I last portion of the Eustachian tube, which is placed under the base of the cranium, is surrounded by the peristaphyline muscles, and hy cellular tissue. At its internal orifice, it is embraced by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. M.2014. The Cartilage of this canal, placed internally, flattened ; m the greater part of its extent, irregularly quadrilateral, curved • upon itself from beneath upwards and from within outwards, forms J at first its whole inner wall, and afterwards constitutes the upperORGANS OF SENSATION. 570 region of the outer wall. It seems to result from the angular junction of two distinct laminae, the outer of which is very narrow, ; and even pretty frequently does not exist at all. i Differing in this respect from the cartilage of the auditory i canal, the cartilage of the Eustachian tube is not only connected with the bony portion by a kind of ligament, but is dove-tailed as it were into its inequalities. Near the foramen lacerum medium, it is identified with the fibro-cartilaginous lamina which closes it, and ; adheres to the middle of the inner wing of the pterygoid process, as well as to the spine of the sphenoid bone, by a dense and fibrous substance. Externally, it affords points of attachment to thel|H pterygoideus internus and circumflexus palati (1041). Its lower I • edge gives attachment behind to the levator palati moUis, which I runs along it the rest of its extent (1044), and to the internal mus- cle of the malleus (2023). 2015. The membraneous portion of the Eustachian tube nearlypt forms of itself the outer half of that canal. It unites together thepi two edges of the cartilage, and is essentially formed by a prolonga-|i tion of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, which lines thelt whole internal surface of the tube. It is merely strengthened ex-l«i tcrnally by bundles of fibres which come from the spine of theH sphenoid bone, and from the base of the pterygoid process. ThisBi fibrous layer then gives attachment to some portions of the circum-li fiexus palati mollis, and stops short at the level of the bony por-B tion, where the mucous membrane alone introduces itself, and ism applied upon a very thin layer of periosteum. This mucous la-li mina is white, and is much thinner than the membrane of the pharynx, of which it appears to be an appendage. Towards the pharyngeal orifice of the canal, it forms a very thick prominent rim, and contains a great number of mucous crypts. 2016. The Eustachian tube is constantly open. Its nerves are furnished by the palatine twigs of the ganglion of Meckel (1868). Its vessels come from those of the velum palati and pharynx. OF THE BONES CONTAINED IN THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. 2017. The cavity of the tympanum contains a series of small bones, articulated with each other by diarthrosis, moved by muscles of their own, and extended from the membrana tympani to the fenestra ovahs, representing a kind of bent lever. They are named the malleus, incus, os lenticulare, and stapes. 2018. Of the Malleus. It is placed nearly vertically on the inner and upper part of the membrana tympani. It is the longest of the internal bones of the ear, and is divided into three parts, the head, the oieck, and the handle. The head forms its highest and largest part; smooth over its whole extent, of an oval form, somewhat elongated, it corresponds externally to the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and is a little concave before ; it isBONES IN THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. rticulated posteriorly to the incus by means of two slight dcpres- ious separated by a prominence, and covered by a very thin car- ilage. The neck is a kind of contraction placed between the head -nd the handle; it is very short, but pretty thick, inclined out- wards, and is free posteriorly and internally; anteriorly, it svip- morts a very elongated slender process (process of Raw), which ■raverses the glenoid fissure, and gives attachment by its summit 10 the anterior muscle of the malleus. The handle, which is much ;iiarrower than the neck, forms with it an obtuse angle, retiring in-t ivards ; its inferior extremity, which is thin and rounded, is inclined forwards, and corresponds to the centre of the membrana tympani; rora the superior there issues externally a short and narrow pro- t;ess, which directs itself a little backwards, and gives attachment mo the internal muscle of the malleus. In its whole extent the landle is sUghtly compressed from before backwards, and forms line of the radii of the membrana tympani, against which it is fixed ivy the mucous membrane of the cavity, covering it internally. 2019. Of the Incus. Situated beside the malleus, and behind t.;, the incus corresponds to the posterior and external parts of the ;uivity of the tympanum, towards the orifice of the mastoid cells •22011). A little thicker, but shorter than the malleus, it bears a i>onsiderable resemblance to a molar tooth with two widely sepa- lated roots. There are distinguished in it a body and two branches. The Body forms its anterior part; it is directed a little upwards, imd represents a transversely flattened ovoid, having its greatest iiameter vertical; its inner surface is a little concave, and the imter convex; the anterior, for its articulation with the malleus, nresents two unequal tubercles, of which the upper is the larger, eparated by an intermediate depression, and encrusted with a thin artUage. The Superior Branch is horizontal, shorter, thick, co- lical, and flattened ; its summit corresponds to the entrance of the nastoid cells. The Inferior Bi-anch, which is longer, more slen- lerj descending vertically, rounded, nearly parallel to the handle )f the malleus, and about half a line distant from the membrana -ympani, presents at its summit, which is bent inwards, a slight ;avity which is articulated with the os lenticulare. 2020. Of the Os Lenticulare {Os Orbiculare). Much smaller han the other three, rounded, and slightly convex on its two sur- "aces, it is interposed between the long branch of the incus and he head of the stapes, and is articulated with these two parts.* 2021. Of the Stapes. It presents exactly the form of a stir- ^p, and is placed horizontally between the os lenticulare and the enestra ovalis. There are distinguished in it a head, two branches, ind a base. The Head, which is very small, and situated exter- lally, is supported by a very short neck, which results from the jnion of the two branches, and gives attacliment to a small muscle; • This bone is gcnuially connected to the inferior branch of tlic incus by one or wo stnall processes of bone.572 ORGANS OF SENSATION. Its summit presents a depression for its articulation with the ( lenticulare. Of the two Branches, the one is anterior and tl other posterior ; they separate from the neck in a divergent mai ner, and circumscribe between them a parabohc space; the fir is less curved and shorter than the second ; both present on the opposite sides a groove, which is continued over the outer surfa< of the base, and in which is attached a very dehcate membran which fills up their interval. The Base, which forms the inne most part of this bone, is a very thin and pretty broad plat( elongated from before backwards, continuous with the two branch( at its extremities, convex internally and concave externally. : presents a form corresponding to that of the fenestra ovalis (2008 which it closes inaccurately, and to the circumference of which is united by the mucous membrane of the tympanum. 2022. The bones of the ear are almost entirely composed ( compact tissue. The malleus, incus, and stapes however present little cellular tissue in their thick portions. Each of them appeal to be developed by a single centre of ossification, and they are n markable for the size and compactness which they already posses in the foetus. Their articulations are destitute of hgaments, an they appear to be connected with each other only by means of th fibro-mucous membrane which lines the cavity of the tympanum. OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BONES OF THE EAR. 2023. Of the Tensor Tympani, or Intei'nal Muscle of tfm Malleus. It arises in part from the rough surface which the pel trous process presents before the inferior orifice of the carotid canaM and in part from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. At fir^ aponeurotic, it soon becomes fleshy, directs itself backwards am outwards, and enters into a particular canal of the temporal bom (2012), separated from the Eustachian tube by the processu cochleariformis, and surrounded by a very strong membrane On arriving at the tympanum, it degenerates into a small tendon! which is reflected over the extremity of the processus cochlearifor, mis, and is inserted into the process of the handle of the malleus: Its use appears to be to stretch the membrana tympani, by draw, ing the malleus inwards. It receives a filament from the facia nerve (1676). 2024. Of' the Laxator Ti/mpani, or Anterior Muscle of thi Malleus. Much more slender than the preceding, it arises fron the spine of the sphenoid bone and from the outer part of tht cartilage of the Eustachian tube, by very short aponeurotic fibres. It ascends outwards and backwards, enters the glenoid fissure, and is inserted, by a tendon, into the summit of the process oi Raw, (2018). It probably relaxes the membrana tympani, by drawing the malleus outwards and forwards. 2025. Of the Muscle of the Stapes (Stapedms), Still smaller 5OF THE INTERNAL EAR OR LABYRINTH. ;han the preceding, it arises from the bottom of the cavity of the oyramid, which contains the whole of its fleshy portion in its inte- •ior. It presently changes into a very short tendon which issues )y the summit of that eminence, directs itself forwards, and after a lourse of one line, attaches itself to the posterior part of the neck ■if the stapes. It appears to impress a see-saw motion on this bone, in consequence of which the posterior extremity of the base is sunk in the vestibule, while the anterior is raised in the cavity of the , ympanum. OF THE FIBRO-MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANUM. 2026. This is a continuation of the mucous membrane of the hharynx which enters by the Eustachian tube, which it lines in its lihole extent, (2013). On arriving in the tympanum, it lines all lis walls, extending over their eminences and diving into their de- nressions. It contributes to close the fenestra ovalis and fenestra ootunda, is applied against the membrana tympani, from which it ;3 separated by the handle of the malleus ; embraces the pyramid, rnd loses itself around the tendon of the stapedius, giving also in Iihis place a very delicate envelope to the chorda tympani (1872) ; nnters the mastoid cells, and separates them from the diploe of the eemporal bone, lining them closely; appears to be reflected over hhe processus cochleariformis to embrace the tendon of the tensor \7mpani muscle; closes the glenoid fissure, and surrounds the >nrocess of Raw ; and lastly, is deflected over the bones of the ear, iVhich it fixes to each other. , 2027. This membrane, which is extremely thin, is somewhat Kbrous externally, being incorporated with the periosteum ; but nnternally, it is assuredly mucous. In the adult, and in old age, ^ t is white, dull, firm, with little appearance of vascularity, and ' )ears a great resemblance to the fibro-mucous membrane which nvests the sinuses of the nasal fossae. In children, it has a •eddish tint, and is traversed by a great number of blood-vessels. • [t constantly exhales a mucous fluid, which flows into the pharynx )y the Eustachian tube ; but neither crypts nor villosities are ob- ■erved in it. 2028. The arteries of the middle ear are furnished by the stylo- nastoid, middle meningeal and internal carotid arteries. Its veins ire very difficult to be traced. The nerves are from the facial lerve and the spheno-palatine ganglion. OF THE INTERNAL EAR OR LABYRINTH. 2029. This portion of the organ of hearing, which is situated twcen the tympanum and the meatus auditorius internus (177), composed of several cavities which communicate together in the^74 ORGANS OF SENSATION. dry bone; they arc designated by the names of vestibule, cochlea and semi-circular canals. OF THE VESTIBULE. 2030. The Vestibule (vestibulum), is a cavity of an irregular form, approaching however somewhat to that of a spheroid. It is situated internally of the tympanum, in which it forms a pro- minence which contributes to the formation of the promontory (2008, 2°), externally of the meatus auditorius internus, anteriorly of the semicircular canals, and posteriorly of the cochlea. Above and below it is covered by the compact tissue of the petrous pro- cess. It is divided into two unequal portions of different forms, by a bony crest which rises from its inner wall, directs itself out- wards and a little forwards, and terminates above the fenestra ova- lis by a very small pyramid with a flattened and wrinkled summit. In the vestibule the following apertures are observed : i^'^, exter- nally, the inner orifice of the fenestra ovalis, closed by the base of the stapes, and shut moreover on this side by the proper membrane of the vestibule; 2dly, above, the two anterior orifices of the superior vertical and horizontal semicircular canals ; 3dly, anteriorly and inferiorly, the orifice of the external scala of the cochlea ; ^thly, posteriorly, the two separated apertures of the posterior vertical and horizontal semicircular canals, and an aperture common to the two vertical canals, the latter preceded by a groove, while the other orifices are formed in a mere depression; 5thly, internally, several holes, giving passage to blood-vessels and filaments of the acoustic nerve (1692), which communicate in the internal auditory canal. 2031. Of the Aqueduct of the Vestibule. This name is given to an extremely narrow canal, which forms a communication between this cavity and the base of the cranium. It commences in the ves- tibule by an orifice which is frequently almost imperceptible, inter- nally of and very near the common orifice of the two vertical semi- circular canals. From thence it directs itself at first upwards, then backwards and downwards, and opens, becoming wider, on the pos- terior surface of the petrous process (177)» ^ small cavity of the dura mater. OT" THE COCHLEA. 2032. This is a bony cavity, formed of two conical canals, spi- rally twisted like a univalve shell, from which circumstance it has obtained its name. It is formed in the anterior part of the petrous process, anteriorly and internally of the vestibule and internal au- ditory canal. Inclined from within outwards, from above down- wards, and from behind forwards, it describes two spirals runningOF THE COCHLEA. in inverse directions, according as tliey are examined in a left or in a rio-lit temporal bone. There arc distinguished in the cochlea an axis"or central nucleus, a lamina which forms its walls, a spiral septum, and an aqueduct. 2033. The Jii'is, (Modiolus) commences towards the bottom of the internal auditory canal, and is directed nearly horizontally for- wards and outwards, towards the inner part of the horizontal por- tion of the carotid canal. It is conical. Its base, which is pretty broad, is marked with a depression which is observed at the bottom of the internal auditory canal. This depression lodges the coch- lear branch of the acoustic nerve (1691), and transmits it into the interior of the cavity by a great number of porosities. It terminates, becoming narrower, towards the summit of the axis itself, which is marked with a small cavity named the Infimdihulum, the entrance of which is wide and slanting. The surface of the bony axis is spirally marked by a double groove, and presents a great number of smaU holes for the passage of the nervous filaments of which we have just made mention. 2034. The Lamina forming the walls of the Cochlea, is com- pact and bent upon itself in the direction of its breadth. It forms a kind of half canal, of which the edges are a little thicker than the rest and firmly united to the axis, around which it describes two spiral turns and a half, advancing upon the infundibulum. These turns are closely united together in the place where they meet, and form an equally spiral cavity which goes on gradually diminishing. 2035. The Lamina Spiralis, or Spiral Septum of the Cochlea, divides this cavity in its whole extent into two parts. Bony in the portion connected with the axis, it is membraneous in that connected with the walls of the cochlea. Broader towards the base of the cochlea, it ends upon the axis, towards the middle of the second turn, by a kind of hook {hamulus cochlea;), where the point of the infundibulum commences. In its bony portion it is com- posed of two lamella? between which there is observed a great number of small canals for nerves. Its membraneous portion is ex- tremely thin, and exists alone from the middle of the second turn to the summit, where it is perforated by a small rounded aperture. 2036. The two cavities which result from the presence of this ; septum have been called the Scales of the cochlea. One of them i is internal, the other external. The former would communicate 1 with the cavity of the tympanum by the fenestra rotunda were it « not closed by its membrane. The latter opens freely into the ves- t tibule. The internal is broader and shorter, and the surface of the 1 lamina spiralis corresponding to it is wrinkled and uneven. The ex- ternal is narrower and longer, and the surface of the lamina spiralis '• which corresponds to it presents prominent radiating lines. They c communicate with each other by the aperture of the summit of I the lamina spiralis, and gradually contract from their commence- r. ment to their point of communication. The vertical section of each 0 of them presents nearly the form of a semicircle.576 ORGANS OF SENSATION. 2037. The Aqueduct of the Cochlea is an extremely narrow canal, of which the upper orifice is seen in the scala tyrapani, near the fenestra rotunda, and the inferior on the posterior edge of the pe- trous process (177)» before the jugular fossa. It is from three to four lines in length, descends obliquely forwards, and represents a very elongated hollow cone. Frequently it is very small, and even seems to be wanting altogether. OF THE SEMI-CIRCULAR CANALS. (Canales Semi-circulares). 2038. These canals, whose form is indicated by their name, are formed in the substance of the petrous process, and open by their two extremities in the interior of the vestibule, behind which they are situated, corresponding posteriorly and inferiorly to the mas- toid cells. They are three in number, and their direction is differ- ent, two being vertical, the one superior, the other posterior, and the third horizontal. They leave between them a pyramidal space the base of which is directed outwards and the summit inwards and backwards. This space is filled by the diploii of the petrous pro- cess. In the fcEtus, it remains empty, and is occupied by a pro- longation of the dura mater. 2039. The Superior Vertical Canal, which is a little smaller than the posterior, but larger than the horizontal, presents the con- vexity of its curvature directly upwards. One of its sides is ante- rior, the other posterior, and of its extremities the one is external the other internal. It commences at the upper and fore part of the vestibule, by a pretty large and elliptical aperture, close to one of those of the horizontal canal. It terminates by uniting pos- teriorly and internally with the posterior vertical canal, and forms with it a common canal, about two lines in length, which opens at the upper and inner part of the vestibule by a single rounded ori- fice. This common canal has not a greater capacity than either of the two from which it results. 2040. The Posterior Vertical Canal presents its convexity back- wards, one of its extremities being directed forwards and upwards, tlie other forwards and downwards. The first is united, as we have said, with the preceding canal. The other opens separately in the lower and inner part of the vestibule, a little above one of the apertures of the horizontal canal, by a wide, rounded, or ellip- tical orifice. ' 2041. The Horizontal Canal is the smallest of the three. Si- tuated between the other two, it commences anteriorly by a pretty wide infundibuliform aperture, between that of the superior vertical canal and the fenestra ovalis, and terminates internally of the ves- tibule by a narrow aperture, between the common orifice of the twoOF THE SOFT PARTS OF THE INTERNAL EAR. ^77 I wertical canals and the lower orifice of the posterior. Its convexity is turned backwards. 20i2. The three semicircular canals open therefore in the ves- ; tibule by five orifices only, and these orifices are unequal for each .canal in particular. Their walls are formed of a compact lamina, immersed in the spongy tissue of the petrous process. Their in- :tcrnal surface is smooth and polished. OF THE SOFT PAllTS OF THE INTERNAL EAR. 2043. All the cavities of the internal ear are lined by a very Sne and delicate membrane. There is observed, moreover, in 1 each semicircular canal, a membraneous tube of a diameter much > smaller than the bony canal, and attached to the latter by a very (ifine mucous cellular tissue. The isolated orifices of the vertical canals and the anterior orifice of the horizoutal canal, are furnished each with an ampulla or membraneous enlargement which some- ti;imes disguises them. These three ampullje, as well as the oppo- >site extremities of those canals which are destitute of them, end in a common sac which occupies a portion of the vestibule. These iparts are filled with a humour which gives to the common sac the ipppearance of an air-bubble, and to the membraneous tubes that pf ylymphatic vessels, and the whole besides floats in the water of the iabyrinth. Another small sac contiguous to the preceding, but not commu- nicating with it, immediately lines the vestibule, and adheres strong- i\ly to its walls. It is filled with a humour of its own, and is cora- poosed of thick and strong coats, in which the vestibular ramifica- [idons of the acoustic nerve lose themselves. It sends a prolonga- ;!;ion, into the aqueduct of the vestibule, which terminates by a small cul-de-sac under the dura mater. In the substance of this mem- braneous sac, there occur small canals which are filled with mer- icury by pressure, when the cavities of the labyrinth are filled with that fluid. They communicate with each other, and open partly rinto the veins of the dura mater, or form a small sinus of their pwn, which throws itself into the lateral sinus of that membrane. I The membrane of the vestibule introduces itself into the cochlea iqy the orifice of the external scala. It passes along the latter in tsts whole extent, and descends again into the internal scala by the |riperture of the summit of the spiral lamina, to the fenestra rotun- ! da, near which it sends a prolongation into the aqueduct of the cochlea. This prolongation also terminates by a cul-de-sac under !the dura mater. 2044. The nature of this membrane is unknown; it is vascular n the child; but in the adult it becomes much less so, and is so chm, and adheres so strongly to the bone that it can scarcely be oerceiyed. It exhales a transparent, shghtly viscid fluid, which Ills all the cavities of the internal ear. 2 1'OEGANS OF SENSATION. 578 2045. The arteries of the internal ear come from the meningeal, stylo-mastoid, internal carotid and basilar arteries. The vestibule has a vein which throws itself into the sinus of the internal jugular vein, after traversing the substance of the petrous process by a small canal whose orifice is near that of the aqueduct. Some of these roots come from the semi-circular canals. The cochlea has another vein which issues from the internal scala near the aque- duct, traverses the petrous bone, and opens into the lateral sinus. We have described the acoustic nerve (1690), which is solely des- tined for the internal ear. ARTICLE THIRD. OF THE NOSE AND NASAL FOSSJE. OF THE NOSE IN GENERAL. 2046. The Nose {Nasus)* is a pyramidal eminence, which va- ries much in its form and dimensions. It is placed above the an- terior aperture of the nasal foss£E (325), which it covers and pro- tects. It therefore occupies the middle and upper part of the face, between the forehead and upper lip, the orbits and the cheeks. Its lateral surfaces are separated from the cheeks by a semicircu- lar groove, and form, by their union, a kind of rounded line, more or less straight, and of variable length, which is named the back of the nose. This line is terminated by a prominent portion, named the lobe, beneath which are two apertures, (the nos- trils) separated by a partition which is continuous with that of the nasal fossae. Their form is oval, and they are always open. Their outer sides constitute the wings of the nose, and their partition loses itself in the upper lips, forming a small groove in its middle part. 2047. The more common direction of the nose is that of the me- dian line of the body. It is not at all rare to see individuals, how- ever, in whom it is more or less inclined to either side, whether this kind of deformity depends upon the bones, or only upon the soft parts. 2048. The form of this organ does not vary less than its dircc- * 'P/v of iLe Ureoks.OF THE NOSE IN GENERAL. 579 tion, and these variations depend upon its general figure or upon that of some of its parts only. - The variations which act upon the general conformation of the nose may be referred to three principal kinds, viz. 1st, the aquiline nose, elongated, a little pointed and inclined downwards ; 2dly, the Jlat iwse, which is very thick, and has its apertures directed more or less forwards; 3dly, the turned-up nose, in which the lobe is raised and more or less pointed. But besides these variations in the general form, others occur in each individual part. Thus the nostrils are .sometimes a mere slit, and in other cases much dilated. They may also be horizontal, or more or less oblique. The back of the nose is rectilinear in fiorae persons, while in others it is gibbous, curved, hollow, &c. ORGANIZATION OF THE NOSE. 2049. Besides the bones which we have already seen entering into the composition of this organ, and which we have described (230), there contribute to its formation the skin, cartilages, mus- cles, vessels and nerves, all of which parts are so disposed, that its upper region, which is more solid than the rest, more efficaciously protects the special organ of smell (1609), while the lower, which is less firm, but mobile, allows the apertures of the nostrils to be contracted, widened, or even closed, according to circumstances. 2050. Of the Skin of the Nose. Like that of the rest of the face, it is fine and smooth. No hairs are observed upon it. Its reticular tissue is especially very apparent. It is but loosely at- tached to the subjacent parts above; but below, and on the sides of the wings, it adheres very firmly to them. There is very little cellular tissue under the integuments of the nose. At the upper part of the organ, this tissue contains adipose vesicles ; but inferiorly it seems formed by a fibrous lamina which ascends towards the moveable aponeurosis of the pyramidaUs and triangularis nasi muscles (900, 908). 2051. The skin of the nose furnishes a kind of mild and mu- cous oil, which diffuses itself in the groove by which it is separat- ed from the cheek. This humour is produced by a multitude of small yellowish utricular follicles, which exist in the substance of the integuments, and esj)ecially in the groove of the wings of the nose; the sebaceous fluid which they contain may be squeezed out in the form of small worms. The form of the follicles is in gene- ral that of a small oval sac, whose aperture is slightly contracted; they seem lined in their interior by a kind of mucous membrane, and their orifice is furnished with four or five excessively minute hairs, and somethnes has a decided black tint. Their number is considerable, and their volume less than that of the ccruminous glands. 2052. For the Muscles of the Nose, sec p. 264, 265, 267.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 5S0 2053. Of the Cartila/je of the Nose. It occupies the middle re- gion of the organ, and is formed of three portions united at an acute angle, and distinguished by most anatomists into the Lateral Cartilages, placed anteriorly and externally, and the Cartilage of the Septum, situated posteriorly and internally. Tiie Cartilage of the Septum, which forms the largest portion, is prolonged into the nasal fossae. It is of a triangular form, and although generally situated in the median line of the body, in a vertical direction, may be inclined more or less perceptibly to either side, so that its two lateral surfaces, instead of being plain, are then convex on the one side and concave on the other. These two surfaces are invested by the pituitary membrane. They present a great number of small porosities, which make them appear as if shagreened, and which receive prolongations of that membrane. Sometimes also this cartilage is perforated by a hole which allows the nasal fossoj to communicate with each other. Its upper edge is uneven, very much inclined backwards and downwards, and articulated with the lower edge of the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone, which sometimes divides into two lami- jia3 for its reception. Tiie lower edge presents two portions, a pos- terior and an anterior. The former is longer, inclined a httlc downwards and forwards, and is received into a groove of the vo- mer. The latter, which is shorter, rounded, free, and without any attachment to the neighbouring parts, is placed between the inter- nal branches of the cartilages of the nasal apertures, to which it is only attached by a loose cellular tissue, and along with which it contributes to form th,e septum of the nose. Its anterior edge is subcutaneous, prominent and very thick above, becomes thin below, and is entirely concealed by the cartilages of the nasal apertures, between which it unites, at an obtuse angle, with the inferior edge. It is from the upper half of this anterior edge that the two la- teral portions arise, which are at first continuous with it, but which, ftu'thcr down, are separated from it by a fissure filled with cellular substance. They direct themselves obliquely over the sides of the nose, under the ossa nasi; their form is triangular; they are attached above and behind to the nasal bones, and the ascending processes of the superior maxillary bones by short li- gamentous fibres. A much less compact tissue, which some- times is only a mere membrane in which are developed some amorphous flbro-cartilaginous nuclei, unites them below to the cartilages of the nasal apertures. Externally, they are covered by the triangularis muscle, and lined internally by the pituitary- membrane. They are somewhat less capable of being ruptured, and appear more flexible than the first portion. The three portions of this cartilage seem to be sometimes sepa- rated and distinct, there being observed on the anterior edge of the septum, along the union of the lateral portions, a superficial groove wliicli terminates by a very small ridge.ORGANIZATION OF THE NOSE. .581 2054. Of the Cartilages of the apertures of the Nose. It is very difficult to .tletermine their size and form. In general, however, they represent an ellipse truncated posteriorly. They are curved upon themselves, presenting the appearance of two branches, an inner and outer, meeting at an angle. By their union, they constitute, anteriorly, and on each side, a more or less distinct prominence, separated by a groove from that of the oppo- site side. The outer, which is directed a little upwards and back- wards, terminates in the latter direction by an extremity rounded' at the point, which loses itself in the membraneous tissue by which it is connected with the lateral portions of the preceding cartilage.' It is covered externally by the triangularis muscle and the integu- ments ; internally, by the pituitary membrane. The internal branch, which is contiguous to the septum, forms, anteriorly, part of the inferior extremity of that part. It is hori- zontal, and sometimes situated a little lower than the first. Lined externally by the mucous membrane, and contiguous internally and posteriorly with the cartilage of the septum, it approaches that of the opposite side internally and anteriorly, and is connected with it by a loose cellular tissue never containing fat. Rather broad before, this internal branch terminates posteriorly in a point. It is its contiguity with that of the opposite side that gives the sep- tum of the nose the thickness which it presents inferiorly. 2055. Of the Cartilages of the Wings (f the Nose. In some subjects they are continuous with the external branch of the pre- ceding ; their disposition is very irregular, and their form very, liable to vary. Placed in the posterior parts of the wings, near their union with the cheeks, they are of inconsiderable size, and often divided into several distinct and isolated nuclei. They seem immersed in a kind of fibrous membrane which fixes them to the preceding cartilages, the lateral cartilages of the nose, and the concave rim of the maxillary bone. 2056. These four cartilages are thin, and allow a certain degree ' of mobility to the lower part of the nose. They are enveloped bv a thick perichondrium, which adhei-es intimately to them. Their ' elasticity is great. Of "fHE NASAL FOSS.E INVESTED fiY TIlElR MEMBRANES. 2057. When these cavities are examined in a head of which the I soft parts have not been removed, their form is found very diff'er- I ent from that which we have described at page 102 et seq. All I those inequahties, grooves, and small eminences which we have 1 pom ted out, are no longer seen. The meatuses, under the form J of three longitudinal channels, Hmited by the three turbinated « nf'^u^*^-^ °" ^^^^ ''"^y "^^"^^^ ^^^^^ recognised. ; Still the mferior edge of the turlnnated bones descends much low- ' er tlian in the dry head, because a membrane whicli invests them,ORGANS OF SENSATION. 58^ as well as all the other parts of the nasal cavities, forms in passing^ over it a thick and very distinct fold. This membrane has receiv- ed the names of Pituitary, Olfactory, or Schneiderian Membrane. OF THE COUIISE OP THE PITUITARY MEMBllANE. 2058. This, which belongs to the class of mucous membranes, Mnes in their whole extent the nasal fossae and internal part of the nose, from the apertures of the nostrils to the pharynx, where it is continuous with the mucous membrane of the mouth, the velum palati and Eustachian tube, while anteriorly it seems continued from the skin. It is prolonged over all the eminences of the olfactory cavities, and penetrates into all their anfractuosi- ties, and has an extremely complicated course. After covering the floor of the nasal fossae, it ascends in the in- ferior meatus and covers it; there it meets the orifice of the na- sal canal (361), dives into it, and is thus continuous with the tuni- ca conjunctiva of the eye through the puncta lachrymalia. In this place it forms a small circular and very distinct replication, which much contracts the entrance of the duct, but whose disposition is very variable. Sometimes this replication contracts the orifice of the duct to such a degree, that a stylet cannot be introduced into it without difficulty. From the inferior meatus, the pituitary membrane is reflected over the inferior turbinated bone, to which it adheres only in a rather loose manner. Below this turbinated bone, it forms, espe- cially behind, a replication which descends lower than it, and which consequently enlarges it. This repUcation loses itself in- sensibly behind in the rest of the membrane. Above the inferior turbinated bone, the membrane penetrates into the middle meatus, in the fore and upper part of which it finds an aperture (infundibuluvi), more or less widened at the mouth, which allows it first to enter into the anterior ethmoid cells, and afterwards into the frontal sinuses, without forming any kind of fold. A little more posteriorly is another aperture, frequently very narrow, leading into the maxillary sinus, which the membrane completely invests, forming around its bony orifice a very distinct fold, which contains between its two lamina; a glandular organ, respecting the existence of which we shall after- wards speak. There is also in a head which retains its soft parts, on account of the presence of this fold, a narrow membraneous ca- nal inclined from before backwards, which leads into the sinus. Its'entrance is placed before the aperture which the bones present (359), and is commonly concealed by a small bony lamina equally invested by the olfactory membrane. Issuing from the middle meatus, the pituitary membrane extends over the convex surface of the ethmoidal turbinated bone, and forms on its free edge a rather loose fold, which terminates postcri-JOF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PITUITARY MEiMBIlANE. 583 I'orly in a point, but which does not sensibly increase the vertical I" extent of this bony plate. On arriving in the superior meatus, it dives into the posterior eethraoid cells, which it lines like the anterior; passes over the sspheno-palatine foramen, which transmits to it a great number of inerves and vessels, and which allows a lamina of the periosteum of tthe pterygo-maxillary fissure to join it. It then directs itself to the vault of the nasal fossae, where it nines the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, of which it closes all tthe holes, so that the olfactory nerves terminate there at its external ii surface. Posteriorly, it covers the body of the sphenoid bone and ssinks into the sphenoidal sinuses, forming at their orifice a fold which (contracts them more or less, according to the subject- Anteriorly, lit is reflected over the posterior surface of the nasal bonesj passes I over the two or three foramina observed upon them, receiving the 1 vessels to which they give passage. It descends from thence to tthe aperture of the nostrils, where it is furnished with a consider- : able number of hairs, and where it is distinguished by very re- I markable peculiarities of organization. Finally, leaving the vault of the nasal fossse, the pituitary mem- l brane descends over the septum which separates them, without r forming any replication, and thus arrives at the place from which ^ we supposed it to set out. OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PITDITAKY MEMBRANE. ' 2059- Similar to the other mucous membranes with respect to 1 the fluid which it furnishes, the pituitary membrane is continuous ' -with several of them, that is to say, with those of the organs of di- I gestion and respiration, and with the tunica conjunctiva of the eye. i It also lines, like them, the interior of a cavity which communicates ' with the skin by apertures, which that envelope presents at the I surface of the body. But it differs from the other organs of the I same kind in being thicker and softer, and truly deserves the epi- 1 thet villous. 2060. The colour of the pituitary membrane varies in the dif- I ferent points of its extent, where it appears sometimes white and I sometimes red. The latter tint predominates so long as it is not j: introduced into the sinuses, and is much more intense than in the ji • other mucous membranes, even than in those of the stomach and I! I small intestines. This red colour af the pituitary membrane de- pends upon the blood, which circulates in it. 2061. With respect to its more general disposition, this mem-. brane cannot be considered as a mere mucous membrane, being evidently formed of two distinct laminas, one of which is mucous, while the other, which is fibrous, is nothing else than the perios- teum or perichondrium of the nasal cavities. 1'he union of these two laminae is of the most intimate nature, but their existence mayORGANS OF SENSATION. .584 be yery easily recognised on the turbinated bones, and especially on the septum. Qn breaking the latter, and removing it by frag- ments, it is detached from the fibrous portion, which adheres much more to the mucous membrane than the bone, a disposition the reverse of the other portions of the periosteum, which are very strongly attached to the bones, and very little to the neighbouring parts. When the membrane has been thus removed, its great thickness is easily seen, and it appears white, solid, dense, and strong on the side next the bones, spongy and red on the other. The mucous lamina to which the latter qualities belong, is espe- cially formed by a very distinct chorion, which approaches in thick- ness to that of the gums and palate. 2062. On drying, the pituitary membrane becomes transparent and very thin, and is closely attached to the surface of the nasal fossae. If it be then moistened, it resumes in ;^art its usual appearance. Under the influence of humidity it readily putrefies ; it then as- sumes a grayish tint, and presently after the mucous portion may be removed from above the fibrous, under the form of a pap, in which all traces of organization have disappeared. Sulphuric acid and chlorine give it a blackish tint. Caustic potash dissolves it, or rather converts it into a soapy matter, with great readiness. By ebullition, it becomes thick, transparent, and gelatinous ; se- parates from the 'bones in shreds ; crisps and is rolled upon itself, acquiring a considerable degree of elasticity. It swells much under maceration ; but if, before submitting it to this operation, its vessels be injected, and the fluid in which it is steeped frequently removed, the surface of this membrane be- comes downy, and is covered with very large and distinct villosities, the nature of which cannot be accurately determined. They are extremely close in the nasal fossae, but in the different sinuses are scarcely distinguishable. Bichat supposes their base to be nervous. 2063. In most of the other mucous membranes, there exist glands situated under the chorion or even in its substance, and which continually pour forth, by small apertures, a mucilaginous humour, which lubricates their free surface. This disposition is not very apparent in the pituitary membrane, but nevertheless exists in it. The fibrous layer being removed, there are sometimes per- ceived in its tissue granulations, somewhat difficult to be dis- tinguished, on account of their being very close together, and which seem to form a true follicular layer, similar to that met with in the velum palati and arch of the palate, but less developed than in these places. In other circumstances, they are true crypts, of a pulpy consistence, thick, round or oval, and opening by a pore into the nasal fossae. They are then observed on the two sides of the septum, on the middle and inferior turbinated bones, and in the inferior meatuses, especially near the pharynx. Their apertures are always pretty distinct in these different places. At the foreORGANIZATION OF THE PITUITARY iMEMBRANE. 585 part of the septum there is even seen a large transverse lacuna, common to a great number of these follicles, which form a layer of the breadth of the little finger, of a reddish colour, and parallel to the floor of the nasal fossae. Some others, but less developed, are also observed behind the septum. This structure is rendered very apparent by slight maceration in water. Moreover, the duplication of this membrane which closes the en- trance of the maxillary sinus, contains a true gland, of an irregular form, and provided with an innumerable quantity of small excretory vessels. In man, this organ is much less developed than in ani- mals, in which it pours out a particular fluid by means of a very long and voluminous canal. 2064. The pituitary membrane does not present a uniform structure in its whole extent. Near the nostrils it is much less red than when examined at a greater depth. It is there much less spongy, as well as thinner, although at the same time denser, and gives rise to hairs which are more or less numerous in different in- dividuals, but are always more abundant and longer in strong and vigorous persons. These hairs, which are named Vihrissce, placed at the entrance of the nasal fossae, strain the air, as it were, in its passage, and prevent the introduction of foreign bodies into these cavities. They are generally black and stiff, and are often bifur- cated at their summit, and send off small twigs from each of their sides. They have the same generative organs as the hairs that are observed on other parts of the body. There is distinctly seen in them a thick, white, pearly external capsule, as developed as in the hairs of the chain, which contains a sheath, directly enveloping the root of the hair, surrounded at its upper part by sebaceous follicles infinitely smaller than those of the wings of the nose. These hairs have also internally a kind of canal divided by septa. 2065. In the sinuses, the pituitary membrane is destitute of follicles, and loses much of its red colour, its vessels scarcely appear- ing to contain any blood in the ordinary state. It is there very thin, especially in the sphenoidal sinuses and ethmoid cells, where it resembles the arachnoid membrane and has no villosities at its surface. The dense and fibrous layer of the periosteum can no longer be observed, and its adhesion to the walls of the sinuses is very slight. 2066. We have already made known the essential organ of smell, the olfactory nerve (1609), which is expanded in the pitui- tary membrane. This membrane moreover receives a great num- ber of other nervous filaments, which are furnished by the internal nasal nerve of the ophthalmic (1653), the frontal twig of the same • trunk (1651), the ganglion of Meckel (1867), tlie great palatine nerve (1869), the Vidian nerve (1872), and the anterior dentar twig of the superior maxillary (1658). 2067. The arteries of the pituitary membrane are furnished by • the branches of the internal maxillary artery known under the 1 names of spheno-palatine, infra-orbitar, upper alveolar, pa-ORGANS OF SENSATION. 5S6 latine, and pterygo-palatine; by the supra-orbitar and etlimoidal branches of the ophthahnic artery, the internal carotid artery, the superior labial artery, and the dorsal arteries of the nose. Its veins are little known. They appear in general to follow the course of the arteries. Some of them unite with those of the nose to ascend by the holes with which the bones of that part are perforated (231) towards the commencement of the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater (1573). The spheno-palatine veins empty them- selves into the internal maxillary veins. Some of those of the sphenoidal sinuses communicate with the coronary sinus of the dura mater (1578). The others open into the angular vein. All these vessels creep almost naked at the surface of the membrane. It is also to be remarked that they scarcely ramify in its fibrous lamina. 2068. The lymphatic vessels of the pituitary membrane are scarcely known. Some principal trunks however have been ob- served in it, which accompany the blood-vessels, and go to the ju- gular ganglia. 2069. Of the Nasal Mucus. The olfactory membrane is con- stantly covered with a thick, viscid, mucilaginous, inodorous hu- mour, of variable colour, more commonly a little yellowish, slight- ly salt to the taste, bland, and but little soluble in water, even with the aid of heat. It forms a thick layer in the places where the membrane is destitute of epithelium, whereas there is much less of it where it is protected by that envelope, as at the entrance of the nostrils. This mucous is produced by the follicles of the pituitary membrane, and varies in quantity in the different circumstances of life. ARTICLE FOURTH. OF THE TONGUE. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2070. The Tongue, a symmetrical organ, chiefly muscular and possessed of great mobility, situated in the interior of the mouth, extending from the hyoid bone and epiglottis to behind the inci- sive teeth, is the organ of taste. This is not its sole use however, for it contributes moreover to the acts of suction, mastication, de- glutition, pronunciation and spitting. 2071. The tongue varies much in size. Its form is that of a pyramid flattened from above downwards, rounded on its angles, and terminated anteriorly by a blunt point. There arc distin- guislicd in it, two surfaces, two edges and two extremities.ORGANIZATION OF THE TONGUE. 587 2072. Upper Surface or Back of the Tongue. Entirely free, imejirly flat, and covered by the mucovis membrane of the mouth, it iappears as if divided into two lateral portions by a slight and super- : fichil groove, at the posterior extremity of which, near the base of tthe tongue, there occurs a considerable depression, varying in form, \ which is named the Foramen ccecum of the tongue. In some sub- j jects, this hole is wanting; but in others, it has a depth of several I lines. It is in its interior that the excretory ducts of the mucous tfoUicles placed in its vicinity terminate. From its sides proceed [forwards two lines, varying in form, but always diverging so as to r represent a V with its summit directed backwards. These two lines are formed by mucous follicles. The rest of this surface i presents a great number of papillae, the structure of which we shall L expose. 2073. Inferior Surface of the Tongue. It is free and invest- ted by the mucous membrane of the mouth in its anterior third and ton the sides; but at the middle and posteriorly, it is connected iwith the lower maxillary bone by means of the genio-glossi mus- i cles, and to the hyoid bone by means of the hyo-glossi. There is I observed at its middle part a longitudinal groove which separates t two oblong prominences, formed by the lingual muscles. 2074. Edges of the Tongue. Thick behind and thin before, t they are rounded in their whole extent, and present narrow and 1 vertical striae above, which are parallel to each other, and continu- ( ous with the papUlae of the dorsal surface. 2075. The Point of the Tongue, or its anterior extremity, is I rounded and free. Its breadth varies much in different indivi- I duals. The Base of the Tongue, or its posterior extremity, is I continuous with the epiglottis and pillars of the velum palati. '. From being very thick at the level of the foramen ccecum, it be- I comes gradually thinner as it approaches the hyoid bone, so that I the organ is thinner than anywhere else where it is attached to that I bone. ORGANIZATION OF THE TONGUE. 2076. Fleshy or Muscular Portion. It forms the gi-eater part ' of the organ, and is composed of fibres of the stylo-glossi, hyo- : glossi and genio-glossi muscles, which we have already described, ■ and of those of the Ungual muscles (1015, et seq). All these muscles have their fleshy fibres interlaced in an inextricable manner, and 1 form at the upper region of the tongue a layer in which it is impos- ! sible to discern them, and in which there is interspersed a multitude I of small globules filled with an almost fluid fat, placed very close • upon each other, which gives them a flattened form, and so much the less red the nearer they approach to the back of the organ. On the sides of the tongue, however, there is still pretty easily distin- : guished an inferior longitudinal muscular plane, formed by the lin-.588 ORGANS OF SENSATION. guales and stylo-glossi muscles, and another plane lying above tlie latter, with transverse fibres, formed by the genio-glossi, and bu-V- rounded by the proper tissue of the tongue. 2077- At the centre of this fleshy tissue, and in the direction of the median line, there occurs a Jibro-cartilaginous lamina or sep- titm, of a whitish colovir, stronger behind than before, having its upper edge concealed in the substance of the organ, at a consider- able distance from the mucous membrane, and the lower free in' the interval of the genio-glossi muscles. This septum is continu- ed posteriorly as far as the body of the hyoid bone, and by its two lateral surfaces gives attachment to a great number of muscular fibres. 2078. Mucous Membrane. After leaving the posterior part of the lower alveolar arch, and covering the sublingual glands, the mucous membrane which lines the whole interior of the mouth goes to the under surface of the tongue, forming opposite the sym- physis of the jaw (249), a fold of greater or less extent, covering the origin of the genio-glossi muscles, which is named the FrcEnum Lingua'. It prolongs itself nearly to the point of the tongue, and allows the ranine veins to be seen on its sides. This fold is accom- panied on either side with two denticulated fringes, similar to many other membraneous fringes which occur in different parts of the body. The mucous membrane then extends on each side beneath the tongue, and ascends upon its edges to pass over its upper sur- face as far as the epiglottis, where it forms three new folds, of which we have already spoken (1487)- 2079. So long as it occupies the under surface of the tongue the mucous membrane presents nothing remarkable in its organiza- tion. It is very different, however, on the dorsal surface of the organ. There it presents a thin and very distinct epidermis, un- der which is a layer formed by the intertexture of thousands of ves- sels, which surround, like a net-work, the extremities of the nerves and the mucous follicles, and give the tongue the red colour peculiar to it. Below this vascular layer is the chorion of the membrane, remarkable for its thickness and its adhesion to the muscular body, with which it seems to be incorporated, and to which it affords a great many points of attachment. 2080. At the upper surface of the tongue, the mucous mem- brane appears moreover rendered rough and uneven by the exist- ence of a great number of eminences differing in their form and nature. These are the Papillce, and are distinguished into three kinds. 1. Lenticular PapillcB. Their number varies from nine to fif- teen. They are disposed, only at the base of the tongue, in two oblique lines in the form of the letter Y, and meeting under an angle at the foramen coecum (2072). They always project con- siderably, and are of a very irregular form, generally spherical or oval. They are nothing else than mucous follicles like those of the velum palati, lips, &c., and which open upon the tongue byORGANIZATION Ol" THE TONGUE. 589 i^ery perceptible orifices, cither superficially, or at the bottom of a iinall depression. They receive many filaments of the glosso- Ipharyngeal nerves, and are situated above the entrance of the lat- ler into the tongue. 2. Fungiform Papillee. Their number is indeterminate, but iLlways greater than that of the preceding. They are irregularly lilisserainated near the edges and point of the tongue, and present I i rounded and flattened head, supported upon a short and narrow loedicle. Their colour is whitish. Their true nature is not ;inown. 3. Conical Papillce. These are the most numerous of all.— IThey occupy the space comprised between the lenticular papillae, ,;ind the edges and point of the tongue. Their arrangement is iiore regular behind than before. They resemble small cones, attached to the tongue by their base, and free at the summit. The 'i)osterior are larger and vertical. The anterior, which are smaller, are a little inclined, and have a more mobile summit. Those vhich are placed upon the fore part of the edges of the organ are lliform. They appear produced by the expansion of the filaments of the lingual nerve (1668), and are enveloped by a very apparent -yascular kce-work. They lie close upon each other, but frequent- )\y leave, from space to space, intervals in the form of irregular iclefts, which are more frequent anteriorly than posteriorly. 2081. The nerves of the tongue are furnished by the inferior nnaxillary (1666), glosso-pharyngeal (1698), and hypo-glossal (1723), nerves. The filaments of the two latter belong especially do its muscles or mucous folhcles. The first is distributed to the mucous membrane, and to the conical papiUos in particular. 2082. The arteries of the tongue are furnished by the lingual 3Dranches of the external carotid arteries, and by the palatine and tconsillar twigs of the labial. Its veins are the superficial lingual, vanine, lingual, and submental. They open into those of the pha- Tynx and larynx. Its lymphatic vessels go to the ganglia situated JDU the edge of the hyoglossi muscles. 2083. Under the mucous membrane, there scarcely occurs any :cellular tissue, unless it be beyond the foramen coecum, between lithe fleshy fibres and the glosso-epiglotic folds (1487), where a [Ithick, membraniform layer of it is seen, which never contains fat, jand is fixed upon the concavity of the hyoidbone. It is about an (juv;h in length, and receives anteriorly some fibres of the genio- i,glossi muscles and of the base of the tongue. I -Between the fleshy fibres of the tongue, there is besides found a ^ very fine fat, more abundant posteriorly than before, and which ^does not appear to be enveloped by any tissue. ! 2084). Behind each of the fringes formed under the tongue by l^the mucuous membrane, there is perceived a glandular, amygda- I 'loidal granular mass, of a reddish-gray colour, traversed by a great quantity of blood-vessels, and by filaments of the lingual nerve of Mhe inferior maxillarv.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 590 ARTICLE FIFTH. OF THE SKIN. 2085. The Skin constitutes the general envelope of the body, under the form of a dense, compact, firm membrane, of consider- able thickness, very flexible, very extensible, possessed of great sensibility, exposed to the immediate contact of the air, and conti- nuous with the mucous membranes opposite the eyes, nostrils, ears, mouth, anus, and genital organs, by orifices of greater or less size, but always furnished with more or less strong and appa- rent hairs. 2086. The outer surface of the skin is surmounted by a great number of small eminences resembling papillae, and furrowed with a mviltitude of wrinkles, some depending upon the action of mus- cles, as on the forehead and eyebrows, in the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot; others produced by the rows of papillae, as at the extremities of the fingers and toes, or by the presence of an articulation; or, lastly, by a particular disposition of the cellular tissue, as in the neck. This surface is covered with hairs which vary according to the regions which they occupy, and which do not exist at all the pe- riods of life. It presents moreover a multitude of pores, which are the excretory orifices of sebaceous follicles. 2087- The colour of the skin is not the same in the different nations distributed over the globe, and even varies in individuals. It is black in the negro, copper-coloured in the American, tawny in the Arab, white in the European. In general, also, this mem- brane is finer and whiter in women and children, than in adults and men. In old people, it becomes dry and shrivelled. 2088. The inner surface of the skin is connected with the dif- ferent parts which it covers by a cellular tissue, the nature and disposition of which are not the same in the whole extent of the body. It is in general filled with adipose vesicles (781) ; but, in some parts, absolutely destitute of them, as in the eyelids, scrotum, penis, &c. The adhesion of the skin to the subjacent organs is subject to similar variations, being frequently slight, as in the neck and belly, while at other times this membrane fur- nishes points of attachment to muscles, as on the forehead, and eyebrow, and in the palm of the hand. 2089. The skin is composed of three very distinct layers, the dermis or cJiorion, the retc mucosicm, and the epidermis or cu- tide.OF THE DERMIS AND RETE MUCOSUM. OF THE DEHMIS. * 2090. This is the thickest part of the skin. It is of a white (colour, and possesses great strength. It rests above the adipose (Cellular tissue, and is composed of a cellulo-fibrous base, arteries, ' veins, and nerves, intermingled in an inextricable manner. The tis- :sue which results from this intermixture is firmer and denser exter- I nally, softer and looser internally. The thickness of the dermis varies according to the regions of t the body, the age, and sex. In aU the posterior part of the trunk, i it has nearly double the thickness that it presents at its anterior j part. On the mammee, penis, scrotum, and labia pudendi, it is ; remarkable for its thinness. Its inner surface is distinguished i from the cellular tissue only by a difference of density. Along the ' whole median line, excepting on the fore part of the neck, its ad- ! hesion is pretty firm, although less intimate than on the palm of I the hand or on the sole of the foot. The inner surface also pre- : sents apertures by which hairs introduce themselves into the der- 1 mis to pass through it. They are nearly a third of a line in dia- I meter, and are more or less numerous. In the adult there are com- 1 jnonly about a hundred of them in the square inch on the thigh, ; and two hundred on the arm. The outer surface of the dermis, which is very vascular, is co- ' vered with more or less distinct prominences, named Papillce, 1 which contain numerous nerves and vessels, the latter of which 1 have an erectile disposition. OF THE UETE MUCOSUM. 2091. The rete mucosum, which is situated between the dermis i and epidermis, is a spongy membrane, consisting of three very dis- I tinct layers, which are from within outwards : 1°, a white tissue ; : 2°, an assemblage of small granulations; 3°, another white tissue." 2092. The First Layer rests upon the vascular surface of the I dermis, and its outer surface presents the same eminences and de- pressions that are observed on the epidermis. 2093. The Second Layer is charged with colouring matter which is brown in the Negro, and of an opaque white in the Euro- ! pean. ! , 2094. The Third Layer is white, and of extreme tenuity. It : forms a general membraneous envelope, perforated by the haurs, ' and adhering to the epidermis. * A;^fta, Xa/jiev of tlic Greeks.ORGANS OF SENSATION. 50^2 OK THE EPIDERMIS Oil CUTICLE. 2095. This is a dense impermeable envelope, entirely superficial, and separated from the dermis by the rote mucosum, to the third layer of which it adheres by its inner surface. The epidermis is of variable thickness, and in some places appears formed of several superimposed layers. It is it that presents all the wrinkles and furrows of which we have spoken in describing the outer surface of the skin. It is thin and transparent, and is not altered by exposure to the air. Its tissue is firm and close; but its intimate structure is yet little known. No nerves or blood vessels are found in it. 2096. The arteries of the skin come by numerous and short ra- mifications from several trunks concealed in the substance of the muscles or in their interstices. They first divide and anastomose in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and then penetrate into the dermis, whence issue, moreover, the radicles of the veins of the skin, which are less known than its arteries, and probably also lymphatic vessels. All these vessels, therefore, form above the dermis a layer of which we have spoken, and in which their tenui- ty is so great that several may be injured at once by the point of a needle. 2097' The nerves of the skin are very numerous and very slen- der, and cannot be traced beyond the dermis. It is not known how they terminate, although they are supposed to constitute the papillae. 2098. In the whole extent of the skin, excepting on the palms and soles, there occur a multitude of sebaceous follicles which pour upon its surface an unctuous fluid which keeps up its flexibility, and protects it against the action of external bodies. Their ex- istence is always connected with that of the hairs, so that the places which present most of the latter, such as the skull, the pubes, the axillse, &c. are also those in which there occurs the greatest quan- tity of those follicles, of which some are isolated, more voluminous, utricular, and have a very short excretory duct, while the others are much smaller, and agglomerated into a crown in the capsule in which the root of each hair is contained. OF THE APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. 2099. The Hairs, (pili, crines,) are filaments of a horny struc- ture connected by one extremity to the skin, and free at the other; the attached extremity is fixed into a follicular depression of the skin called the bidb, which seems to be formed by a reflection of the dermis and rete mucosum. From the bottom of the cavity of the bulb there projects a conical vascular papilla from which the hair grows.OF THE APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. .593 The epidermis towards the orifice of the bulb is reflected on the hair, and is incorporated with its external surface. 2100. The nails, (iingues), arc those horny laminae cover- ing the backs of the extremities of the fingers and toes. A i nail is divided into the root, body, and free extremity: the root v.which is soft and white, is the posterior extremity of the nail, and i^s fixed into a groove of the dermis ; the body is the next part: oy its inner surface it is intimately joined to the dermis, which, (ex- ceept in the toes, where there are irregular papillae), here presents ongitudinal papillae separated by grooves into which a series of corresponding laminae, found on the inner surface of the body of tbhe nail, are received ; viewed externally, the posterior part of the oody of the nail is white and of a semi-lunar form, whence called Muida, the rest appears of a reddish colour, which is owing to this Dart of the nail's being transparent, and the dermis underneath very i7ascular; the free extremity of the nail is that part which projects liver the finger or toe. The epidermis at the root of the nail passes in towards the r^roove of the dermis into which the root of the nail is inserted, but iS soon reflected on the surface of the nail with which it is incor- worated; at the point of the finger or toe, likewise, the epidermis covering the skin under the free part of the nail, is reflected from bhe former to the inner surface of the latter, with which it is con- abunded.594 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. CLASS SECOND. ORGANS OF THE NUTRITIVE FUNCTIONS. ARTICLE FIRST. ORGANS OF DIGESTION. OF THE MOUTH, PHARYNX, AND OESOPHAGUS, OR OF THE ORGANS OF MASTICATION AND DEGLUTITION. Of the Mouth* 2101. The Mouth (Os) is a nearly oval cavity, comprised be- tween the two jaws, bounded laterally by the cheeks, anteriorly by the lips, posteriorly by the velum palati and the pharynx, above by the arch of the palate, and below by the tongue. Its direction is horizontal. Its vertical diameter is liable to the greatest variations, on account of the motions of the lower jaw ; the antero-posterior is more fixed, and only varies by the motions of the lips; the transverse is in the same condition, being limited by the cheeks. All these dia- meters, moreover, present numerous individual differences. The walls of the mouth and the various organs which it contains, are invested by a common mucous membrane. OF THE COURSE OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE MOUTH. 2102. Inferiorly it commences on the free edge of the under lip, of which it lines the posterior surface, to be afterwards reflected upon the body of the maxillary bone; there it forms opposite the symphysis of the chin, a fold, more developed below than above, named the FrcBnum of the under lip, which is lost insensibly upon the lip. The membrane then sends into each alveolus a pro- longation which strengthens the insertion of the roots of the teeth, and is continuous with a membraneous lamina which lines these cavities. From thence it proceeds over the posterior surfiice of the • 2t«^« of the Greeks,OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. 595 body of the inferior maxillary bone, forms opposite the symphysis, the Frceimm of the tongiis (207^), covers, as we have said, the whole surface of that organ, gains the epiglottis, and is continued iito the mucous membrane of the larynx (1487), and that of the pharynx. 2103. Superiorly it commences on the free edge of the upper ip, forms between it and the superior maxillary bones a frcBmim ^similar to that of the lower lip, gains the upper alveolar arch, sends Drolongations into the corresponding alveoli, passes to the vault of ihe palate, of which it closes the anterior and the two posterior ■ibramina, receives the nerves and vessels which pass through them, mad is reflected over the fore part of the velum palati, on the tree edge of which it is continuous with the pituitary membrane (2058). 2104. On either side, this membrane, proceeding from the com- missure of the lips, Imes the cheeks, at the middle of which it pre- eents the orifice of the parotid duct, and proceeds over the branches )6f the inferior maxillary bone, forming a vertical fold opposite their interior edge. At the backmost part, it turns over the constrictor sBthmi faucium (1051) and palato-pharyngeus muscles (1048), m form the pillars of the velum palati, between which it covers the i>;onsils. Beyond this, it is continuous with the membrane of the ibharynx. 2105. The raucous membrane of the mouth presents numerous variations of structure, according to the region of the cavity in Vhich it is examined; there may, however, be assigned it as a ge- laeral character, that it contains in its substance a great quantity of mucous folUcles, which even seem to form a particular membrane- lus layer in some places, and that it is covered by a very distinct fpitheliura. OF THE LIPS, AND ANTERTOR APERTURE OF THE MOTTTH. 2106. The Zips (Labia) are two moveable veils, composed aff various muscular bundles, interspersed with nerves and vessels, Wmd covered by the skin and common mucous membrane of the fiviouth, which terminate that cavity anteriorly, and are subservient ) the mastication of the food, and the pronunciation of words, 'he lips, which are distinguished into upper and under, are placed lefore each of the maxillae, and have a thickness subject to numer- us individual variations, but peculiarly great in the negro. Be- (ween them is a transverse slit, which is the anterior aperture of •he mouth. The upper lip, which is generally a little more advanced than he other, presents anteriorly and in the middle, a vertical groove, ather broad but shallow, which seems to be continuous with the rpptum of the nose (2046). Posteriorly, it is covered by the mu- cous membrane, which there forms a particular fold. Its freeOllGANS OF DIGESTION. 590 edge, which is directed downwards, is rounded and covered witli <a very thin red iielliclc, on which are observed some wrinkles di- rected across the lips, and a very distinct epithelium. At the mid - dle part of this edge there exists a small prominence, limited later ally by two depressions which are more or less distinct according to the subject. The under lip presents, anteriorly and in the median line, a very slight vertical prominence, and a transverse depression of con- siderable extent, which separates it from the chin. Posteriorly, it is covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth, which forms ;i bridle for it much shorter than that of the upper. Its free edge is also larger than that of the upper lip; it is directed upwards, depressed in the middle, somewhat prominent on either side, and in other respects precisely similar to the upper. The vinder lip has less vertical extent than the upper. Both are laterally united by means of two acute angles, which are called their commissures. These commissures, which are a little depressed, present no trace of fibrous tissue, and are entirely fleshy. 2107. Skin of the Lips. The skin which covers the lips diflcrs in nothing from that which is met with in the other parts of the body ; only it is much thinner and more delicate. The cellular tissue which connects it with the subjacent parts contains no fat. In the adult male it is covered with a greater or less quantity of liair; in the female it does not present the same disposition, ex- cepting in some rare instances. On the upper lip, these hairs are very numerous, and form two oblique rows, meeting under the nose, and prolonged as far as the commissures ; these are what are called the moustaches. On the under lip they are not so thick, and form part of the heard, properly so called. They are especially nu- merous in the depression which separates it from the chin. 2108. Muscular layer of the lips. This has been already des- cribed. It is formed, on either side: in the upper lip, by the leva- tor labii superioris alseque nasi, levator proprius, zygomaticus minor, and depressor alae nasi; in the under lip, by the quadratus and levator menti; in the commissures, by the buccinator, trian- gularis, levator anguli oris, and zygomaticus major; lastly, their free edge is especially constituted by the orbicularis oris. 2109. Mucous layer of the lips. Here the mucous membrane is remarkable for its redness, the small number of villosities which appear upon its surface, and its very distinct epithelium. Between it and the muscular layer, there occurs a multitude of large mucous .follicles, rounded and prominent, mostly separated from each other, and opening by a very distinct orifice upon the posterior surface of the lips. They are commonly named labial glaoids. 2110. The arteries of the lips are all furnished by the external carotid, and in particular by its facial, submental, mental, buccal, infra-orbitar, alveolar, and transverse branches. The veins cor- respond to them, and open into the two jugular veins. Their lym- phatic vessels descend towards the ganglia which are situated597 OF THE VELUM PALATI. .leneath the chin, in the course of the submental artery. Their .lerves arc supplied by the infra-orbitar (1G59), mental (1669) and ■acial (1684) nerves. OF THE VELUM PALATI AND POSTERIOll APEKTURE OF THE MOUTH. 2111. The Velum palati is a soft, broad, thick, mobile partition, pppcnded to the extremity of the vault of the palate, and separat- ing the mouth from the pharynx. Its form is nearly quadrilateral. Its two surfaces, the anterior and posterior, are smooth, and pre- Knt nothing remarkable, unless it be the anterior, which offers at ;is middle part a small prominence formed by the azygos uvulae nuscle (1047). Their direction varies according to the motions performed by the velum palati. Its upper edge is very thick and sxed to the vault of the palate; the loiver edge is free and floating Hbove the base of the tongue. It presents at its middle part an i)ppendage or prolongation named the Uvula. The uvula is of a conical form, and varies in size in different ;ubjects. It forms the inferior edge of the velum palati into a i>ouble arch, terminated on each side by two pillars which are con- inuous with the tongue and the pharynx. These pillars of the velum palati are placed the one before the tither, and separated by a triangular space in which are lodged the ansils; they are imited above but diverge below. The anterior ^) oblique, and contains in its substance the constrictor isthmi fau- iium muscle. The posterior is nearly vertical, and formed by a mortion of the palato-pharyngeus muscle internally. H 2112. Mucous Layer of the Velum Palati. It forms a kind 1 fF duplicature in which is contained the muscular layer, and is con- I mued anteriorly into the membrane of the movith, and posteriorly jmto those of the nasal fossae, so that the palatine and pituitary I laembranes unite upon the free edge of the velum palati. The linaterior lamina of this layer is less red than the posterior, and |lovers a multitude of mucous follicles, which are extended over the )re part of the muscles, and are so close as to be in contact with ich other ; they form of themselves nearly the whole thickness of me uvula. They are yellowish, rounded, and compressed; their vflccretory orifice is not easily perceptible. These follicles are much less numerous, and of smaller size, under the posterior la- lina. 2113. Muscular Layer. The muscles of which it is formed •ave already been described. They are the levator palati mollis, -nd circvimflexus palati, (1041), the constrictor isthmi faucium IIOSI), the palato-pharyngeus (1048), and the azygos uvulaj 2114. The arteries of tlie palate arc furnished by the internal iiaxillary, labial and superior pharyngeal arteries. Its veins uniteQUGANS OF DIGESTION. 508 with those of the tongue and pharvnx, and open into tlic jugulai vein. Its nerves are furnished by MeckePs ganglion, and come from the palatine twigs (18(>9). I'lie glosso-pharyngeal nerve also furnishes some filaments to it (1698). 2115. Beneath the velum palati is the posterior aperture of the mouth, the form of which is nearly quadrilateral; it is limited by the base of the tongue, the velum and arch of the palate, and the lateral pillars of the velum, as well as the tonsils. Its size is in no case equal to that of the anterior aperture. It is however subject to vary, but only from above downwards, for on the sides it is li- mited by the pterygoid processes, which are incapable of motion. OF THE TONSILS. 2116. The Tonsils (TonsilltB seu Amygdala;) are bodies lodged between the pillars of the velum palati, the form of which has been compared to that of an almond invested with its woody covering. Their size varies in different subjects, which is also the case witli their figure. They represent an ovoid, of which the large extre- mity, directed upwards, corresponds to the point at which the pillars of the velum meet, while the small extremity, which looks downwards, rests upon the base of the tongue. Theu- external surf ace SLAhQxes to the constrictor pharyngis superior muscle. The internal, which is convex and free, projects more or less, and con- stitutes the sides of the isthmus of the fauces. Their anterior edge is applied against the constrictor isthmi faucium muscle, and the posterior against the palato-pharyngeus. 2117. The tonsils seem to be contmuous with the mucous folli- cles of the base of the tongue (2080,1°), and are divided into several lobes, sometimes continuous with and sometimes separated from, each other. They have a grayish colour, more or less tinged with red, and appear formed by a pulpy tissue resembhng that of those follicles. They are filled internally by cellules which manifestly open on their inner surface, where their orifices, which are very large, are distinctly seen. These cellules, which vary much in their form and disposition, are larger above than below. They communicate most commonly with each other, but are also sometimes isolated. The mucous membrane of the mouth introduces itself into them and lines their wall. In their bottom, excretory ducts are observed to open from a mass of follicles, forming the substance of the tonsil externally. 2118. The arteries of the tonsils come from the lingual, inferior, palatine, and internal maxillary arteries. Their nerves are furnish- ed by the Circulus tonsillaris, which is formed by the lingual and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, (1698). The nature of the fluid sepa- rated by these organs is still unknown, although it appears analo- gous to the other mucous humours. The cellules of which we have spoken form reservoirs for it.099 OF THE CHEEKS. , OF THE CHEEKS. 2119. The Cheeks {Gence) form the lateral walls of the mouth. lExternally they have no precise limits ; above, they are continuous vwith the prominence of the cheek and the lower eyelid; below, tthey descend as far as the base of the jaw; and, anteriorly, termi- mate at the wings of the nose and the parotid gland. Internally tthey are distmctly hmited, above and below, by replications of the rmucous membrane of the mouth, which leaves them to gain the tmaxillary bones; posteriorly, by the anterior piUars of the velum ipalati; and, anteriorly, by the commissure of the lips. Their thickness varies much according to the condition of the [individual. Pretty frequently, they form a projection outwards, jand sometimes they seem to fall in towards the mouth. 2120. Skin of the Cheeks. The skin which covers the cheeks Lis very delicate, and, in the adult male, is covered with a great quantity of hair, which partly constitutes the Beard. We ob- •^serve, however, that this hair does not exist in its middle region, >sio that there it is perfectly bare. It also appears in this place to 0 contain a great quantity of blood-vessels, and is generally more L coloured than elsewhere. It is commonly separated from the buc- > cinator muscle by a great quantity of fat, which even frequently forms an isolated mass. . In old people and valetudinarians, the cheeks are frequently ffurrowed with wrinkles, which do not exist in young subjects or i;persons in good health. 2121. Muscular Layer. It is composed of the buccinator, rmasseter, zygomaticus major and minor, and a portion of the pla- ttysma myoides. Between the zygomaticus major and the buccin- ;iator, there also occurs a great quantity of soft and yellowish fat, ccontained in a very loose cellular tissue. 2122. Mucous Layer. Here the common membrane is thin- rner than in the other parts of the mouth. It covers a great num- 1 ber of follicles, which are commonly named Buccal Glands. They liliave the greatest resemblance to those of the hps (2109)- Their norifices are irregularly dispersed over the inner surface of the cchcek, and easily distinguished from that of the parotid duct, 'which is marked by a particular prominence at the middle of this region, nccir the third molar tooth of the upper jaw. At the back part, between the massetcr and buccinator muscles, are two small bodies formed of the assemblage of several of these follicles. They are designated by the name of Molar Glands, because the orifice of their excretory duct is situated opposite the ..last molar tooth. 2123. The arteries of the cheeks come from the facial, traus- »versalis faciei, buccal, upper alveolar, and infra-orbitar arteries. I The veins correspond to them, and discharge themselves into the two jugular veins. Their lymphatic vessels go to the ganglia of600 ORGANS OP DIGESTION. the neck. Their nerves are supplied by the infra-orbitar, facial, buccal, and masseteric nerves. Some of them come also from the cervical plexus. OF THE PALATE. 2124. The Palate {Palatum seu Fornix Palati) is the upper wall of the mouth, limited anteriorly by the adhering edge of the upper lip, posteriorly by the base of the velum palati, and laterally by the cheeks. It represents a kind of parabolic arch, a little longer than broad, horizontal, but slightly hollowed, and perfectly fixed. A white line, slightly depressed, traverses the palate from before backwards, in the course of the median line of the body. At the anterior extremity of this line, between the two middle in- cisors of the upper jaw, is a small tubercle which corresponds to the inferior orilice of the anterior palatine canal (333). 2125. Bony Portion of the Palate. It is formed by the upper alveolar arch, the inferior surface of the palatine processes of the superior maxillary bones, and the horizonal portions of the palate - bones; and has already been fully described (332). 2126. Palatine Membrane and Gums. On the vault of the palate, the common mucous membrane is denser, thicker, and less red than in the other parts of the mouth. At its anterior part, it presents transverse rugosities, varying in number and extent, and at this place it is thicker than behind. In the rest of its extent, it is smooth and interspersed with numerous holes, which are the orifices of mucous follicles situated between it and the bony arch of the palate. These follicles become more numerous as we ap- proach the velum. In their intervals, very distinct prolongations connect the periosteum with the mucous membrane, so as to ren- der the latter perfectly motionless. It is between the two lamina? which result from this union that the nerves and vessels creep. The membrane of the palate is continuous anteriorly, and on the sides, with the gums, which are formed of a firm and compact reddish tissue, covering the two sides of each alveolar arch, and filling the intervals which remain between the teeth, the necks of which they closely surround. The gums are continued anteriorly into the internal membrane of the cheeks and lips. Their intimate nature is rather difficult to be made out. They are confounded with the periosteum, receive blood-vessels, and appear composed of two layers, a pulpy and a fibrous, covered by the mucous mem- brane. No follicles are discovered in their substance; but the mucous membrane which enters into their constitution, is pro- longed into the alveoli, and from the bottom of these cavities, sends into the cavity of each of the teeth a bulbous prolongation which exactly fills it, and which has been named the 'pulp or nudeus of the tooth (271). Bonn, Walther, and Lavagna first pointed out this fac which is now generally admitted.OF THE PHAUYNX. do I 2127. The arteries of the palate and gums come from the pa- lilatme, alveohir, infra-orbitar, facial and buccal branches, and for the ; lower gums in particular, from the submental and mental. The \ veins correspond to the arteries. The nerves are furnished by the 1 palatine (186H), facial, infra-orbitar, superior and inferior dentar ; nerves, and by the oaso-palatine ganglion (1873,2°). Of the Pharynx.* ■I GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2128. The Pharynx is a kind of musculo-membraneous, sym- 1 metrical canal, placed in the median line of the body, and irregu- !larly funnel-shaped. It extends from the base of the skull to near tthe middle of the neck. Limited above by the basilar process of tthe occipital bone, it is continuous below with the oesophagus, and ' anteriorly with the nasal fossse, the mouth, and the cavity of the ! larynx, corresponding to the velum palati in their interval. Pos- ■ teriorly, it rests upon the vertebral column and the longi colli and r recti capitis antici muscles. On its sides, it is in contact with the c common and internal carotid arteries, with the internal jugular 1 "freins, the pneumo-gastric nerves, and, at its uppermost part, with 1 a small portion of the internal pterygoid muscles. It is connected i^th these different parts by a lamellar cellular tissue, destitute of i fat, and very extensile. 2129. The cavity of the pharynx, which is of a form that < cannot be precisely described, has no wall anteriorly, opposite \the nasal fossae and mouth. Vertically elongated, it is narrow I above, where it is limited on each side by the pterygoid processes ; i in the middle it becomes much wider, extending there as far as the I extremities of the great horns of the hyoid bone and the thyroid I cartilage. Below, it gradually contracts until opposite the trachea, 'where the oesophagus commences. From this disposition, the ] pharynx really exists only behind. It is therefore in reality rather i a mere half cavity than an entire one. From the base of the : skull to below the aperture of the larynx, its walls are always se- ] parated, while farther down they are in contact with each other. 2130. The Inner Surface of the pharynx may be viewed as con- ! sisting of several walls. The posterior, which is flattened, presents 1 nothing remarkable, and may be perceived at the bottom of the 1 mouth when the latter is opened. The anterior presents, above, ' the posterior apertures of the nasal fossae, at the middle, the poste- 1 nor surface of the velum palati and uvula, farther down, the gut- I tural aperture of the mouth, the base of the tongue, the epiglottis, I Hie entrance of the larynx, and lastly, the posterior surface of that I' organ. The two lateral walls are narrow; at their upper park " 'Pa^uy'i of tlic Greeks.602 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. there is observed the entrance of the Eustachian tubes (2013), I close upon the apertures of the nasal fosste. 2131. Above, the pharynx is attached in a solid manner to the basilar process by the cephalo-pharyngeal aponeurosis, to which are attached some of the fibres of the superior constrictors of the pharynx (1033). Stronger and denser at the middle than on the sides, it there constitutes of itself the fixed part of the organ. It is gradually confounded below with the mucous membrane. 2132. Inferiorly, the termination of the pharynx in the oeso- phagus is indicated by a sudden contraction at the exterior, and rendered very remarkable by a change in the direction of the mus- cular fibres. ORGANIZATION OF THE PHARYNX. 2133. Muscular Layer. The muscles of which it is composed are the six constrictors, the two stylo-pharyngei (1029 et seq.), and the two palato-pharyngei (1048), all which have been already des- cribed. We only observe that their fibres, which differ in their ob- liquity, form planes which cross each other in different direc- tions. 2134. Mucous Membrane. It is continuous above with the pituitary membrane, in the middle with the membrane of the mouth, below with those of the larynx and oesophagus, and on the sides with those of the Eustachian tubes. After covering the ce- phalo-pharyngeal aponeurosis and the posterior wall of the pha- rynx, to the muscles of which it is attached by a rather loose cel- lular tissue, it is prolonged over the velum palati, is reflected up- on its pillars, sinks into the two spaces which separate laterally the thyroid and cricoid cartilages (1492), lines the posterior part of the latter, passes over the sides of the larynx, and is appUed upon the arytenoidei, crico-arytenoidei postici and thyro-arytenoi- dei muscles (1482). This membrane has a very decided red tint. It is smooth, des- titute of villosities, and presents only a few inequalities arising from the presence of the mucous follicles. It is evidently thicker above than below. It is covered with a very thin epithelium, and is folded in the part which corresponds to the larynx. A multitude of capillary vessels are scattered over it. Its follicles are more numerous above than below. They are of an oval form and pretty large, and their orifices are very distinct. 2135. The pharynx receives on each side two principal arteries, the superior and the inferior pharyngeal, the latter from the ex- ternal carotid, the former from the internal maxillary. The in- ferior palatine and superior and inferior thyroid arteries also send some ramifications to it. Its veins go to the internal jugular, thy- roid, and labial veins. Its lymphatics direct themselves towards the ganglia, placed near the bifurcation of the internal jugularORGANIZATION OF THE OESOPHAGUS. G03 vein. Its nerves come from the glosso-pharyngcal and pneumo- o-astric nerves, and from the superior and middle cervical ganglia, the interlaced filaments of which constitute the Pharyngeal Fleams (1704.) O/' the CEsophagus. * GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2136. The (Esophagus or Gullet (Gtila) is a rausculo-mem- braneous canal, which extends from the lower part of the pharynx to the superior orifice of the stomach. It commences, therefore, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and terminates between the crura of the diaphragm. Its general direction is vertical; but presents some partial inflections. At its commencement, immedi- ately under the pharynx, it is placed in the median line, which it leaves under the larynx to deviate to the left, so that, at the lower part of the neck, it is placed behind the corresponding side of the trachea. On entering the thorax, it approaches its original direc- tion as far as the origin of the bronchi, where it regains it entirely, and continues in it until it leaves that cavity. It then directs it- self again to the left, passing into the abdomen, where it terminates after a very short course. 2137- This canal is cylindrical and slightly compressed from be- fore backwards whilst empty. It is connected with the neighbour- ing parts by an extensile cellular tissue, which is very loose, and contains some lymphatic ganglia. 2138. In its cervical portion, the cesophagus corresponds, an- teriorly, and from above downwards, to the larynx, the left lobe of the thyroid body, the left half of the trachea, the left inferior thy- roid vessels, whose direction it crosses, and the sterno-thyroideus inuscles; posteriorly, to the anterior common vertebral ligament and the longus colli muscle of the left side ; laterally, at first to the common carotid arteries and internal jugular veins, and after- ■wards on the right side to the trachea, and on the left to the recxir- rent nerve and carotid artery of that side. 2139. In its thoracic portion, the oesophagus, which is here en- tirely contained in the posterior mediastinum, corresponds ante- riorly, in part to the trachea, then entirely to the left bronchus, ■whose direction it crosses, and lastly, to the base of the heart and the posterior part of the pericardium ; posteriorly, to the vertebral column, the curve of the vena azygos, the thoracic duct, and at its lowest part to the aorta; while laterally, it lies near the lungs, having the aorta to the left. 2140. This canal is a little wider at its origin than in the rest • 0(«, fero; fuya, comedo.OIICANS OF DIGESTION. of its extent, excepting wliere it joins the stomitcli. fts on/cr mirface is smooth in its wliole extent; reddish above, and assum- ing a white tint as it descends ; it presents numerous parallel lon- gitudinal striae. Its inner surface is much whiter than tliat of the pharynx, and always presents longitudinal folds. ORGANIZATION OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 21-41. Like the pharynx, the oesophagus is composed of a mus- cular coat and a mucous membrane. 2142. Muscular Coat. It is thicker and stronger than the fleshy coat of the pharynx, and especially than those which are observed in the stomach and intestines. It is obviously formed of two planes of fibres, an external and internal; the fibres of the former arc longitudinal, and seem to come in part from the sides of the cricoid cartilage, so that, superiorly and behind, they pre- sent a separation in which those of the inner plane are seen expos- ed ; these last are transverse, annular, frequently interrupted in the circle which they describe, and not so close as the preceding. The highest are disposed in small distinct bundles connected by the cellular tissue ; they are of a red colour. But in the rest of the canal, the fibres of the two orders are placed close upon each other. Their redness besides diminishes much, and at length they even become almost white. Towards the stomach, the longitudinal fibres expand and diverge in a sensible manner, so that the internal mucous membrane is dis- tinctly seen in the intervals of their bundles. They are continue^ upon the stomach, while the circular fibres entirely cease. Between the muscular coat and the inner membrane of the oeso- phagus, there is found a layer of dense and compact cellular tissue, ■jvhich never contains fat. 2143. Mucous Membrane. It is soft, spongy, delicate, rather f.hin and white, especially below. It is continuous above with the membrane of the pharynx, and below with that of the stomach. In its whole extent, and in the empty state of the organ, it pre- sents more or less numerous longitudinal folds, arising from the contraction of the transverse fibres of the muscular coat, and fre- quently running into each other. In the substance of these folds there are prolongations of the cellular tissue of which we have just made mention, and to which the older writers gave the name of Nervous Coat. On their projecting surface are seen minute tuber- cles, or rather villosities of a cylindrical or conical form, resembling on a small scale the papillas of the tongue. 2144. The mucous follicles of the oesophagus are much smaller, and less numerous than those of the pharynx. They are thinly scattei-ed in the cellular tissue lying between the two layers which form it. Their orifices arc very small, and occur in the depressionsOF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STOMACH. 605 irwhich separate the longitudinal folds. They are sometimes called r.ccmphcujeal glands. They are surrounded by a circle of tubercles ,>or villositics. 214-5. The arteries of the oesophagus are in general of inconsi- ilderable size. They come, in the neck, from the inferior thyroid iiarteries; in the thorax, from the bronchial and directly from the laorta; in the abdomen, from the inferior diaphragmatic arteries and ffrom the coronary artery of the stomach. Its veins terminate in [the inferior thyroid veins, the superior vena cava, the internal imammary veins, the vena azygos, the bronchial and phrenic weins, and the coronary vein of the stomach. The lymphatic ves- ssels go to the gangha which surround it. Its nerves are furnished Iby the pharyngeal and pulmonary plexuses (I7IO), the cardiac inerves (1893), the thoracic nervous ganglia (1903), and especially tthe pneumo-gastric nerves and their recurrent branches (I7O8). :AU these nerves form around it a large plexus -which envelopes it tthe whole way to the stomach. . OF THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES, OR ORGANS BY WHICH THE CHYME AND CHYLE ARE ELABORATED. Of the Stomach. GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2146. The Stomach, (Ventriculus)* the principal organ of I digestion, is a conical, elongated musculo-membraneous reservoir, I curved from before backwards and from below upwards in the I direction of its length, slightly depressed on two opposite sides, continuous on the one hand with the oesophagus, on the other with the duodenum, situated beneath the diaphragm, between the liver and spleen, behind the left false ribs, occupying, at the upper part of the abdomen, the epigastrium and a portion of the left hypo- chondrium, and destined to convert the alimentary substances into chyme before transmitting them to the intestines. 2147. The volume of this viscus is liable to change much in the different circumstances of life, so that very freqviently it is no longer concealed by the false ribs, but descends beneath them, behind the parietes of the abdomen. This happens in particular when it is much distended with food. In general, also, the stomach is larger in individuals who eat much than in other persons. Its greatest diameter is transverse. The small diameter, which is vertical, gradually diminishes in proceeding from the oesophagus towards the duodenum. Its two orifices are considerably contracted, and arc directed upwards and backwards. • Tarof of the Greeks.Gog organs of digestion. I Its direction is generally nearly transverse, and only a little inclined downwards, to the right and forwards, so that its right extremity is a little anterior and inferior to the left. When the viscus is filled with food, this obliquity is increased, and the sto-| mach approaches the vertical direction. 2148. There are distinguished in the stomach an outer surface, an inner surface, two curvatures and two extremities, each having an orifice, a larger to the left, and a smaller to the right. OF THE STOMACH CONSIDERED AS TO ITS EXTEKIOR. I I 2149. Its anterior surface, which is more convex than the I posterior, and turned a little upwards in the state of repletion, \fi corresponds, from right to left, to the left lobe of the liver, to the |tl; diaphragm and the false ribs, and in the state of distention only, li; to the anterior wall of the abdomen, over a greater or less extent^ \r It is always inclined downwards and forwards. | 2150. Its j)osterior surface, which is flat, oblique, like the pre- I ceding, but of less extent than it, and directed downwards when the organ is full, is always entirely concealed in the posterior cavity of the omenta, and is in connexion with the transverse mesocolon, and sometimes even with the arch of tjie colon and the duodenum. 2151. These two surfaces are smooth and polished, continually moistened, traversed by a great number of blood vessels, and of a whitish colour. 2152. Great Curvature of the Stomach. This name is given to the place where the two surfaces of the stomach meet externally downwards and forwards. The edge here produced is convex, and extends from the one orifice to the other; in the vicinity of the spleen, and to the left, its convexity is greater than elsewhere. It corresponds to the transverse mesocolon and to the arch of the colon. It is as it were lodged in a separation of the lamellae of the anterior I lamina of the great omentum, so that, in the empty state, the peritoneum is not exactly applied upon it. It is to this space that the right and left gastro-epiploic arteries, and a certain number of lymphatic ganglia correspond. To the right, the great curvature of the stomach forms a kind of bend, which corresponds to an internal depression, which is named the Small CuUde-Sac. To the left, it presents a considerable prominence, named the Tuberosity or Great Cul-de-Sac of the Stomach, which, placed beneath the oesophageal orifice, is pro- longed into the hypochondrium, and diverges from the general di- rection of the viscus. It increases its length in a decided manner, and corresponds to the anterior half of the internal surface of the spleen, with which it is connected by a fold of the peritoneum, which lodges the vasa brevia. 2153. S7nall Curvature of the Stomach. It is concave, and unitesGO7 OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STOMACH. : the two surfaces of the stomach above and behind. It corresponds : to the aorta, the great fissure and lobulus Spigelii of the Hver, and i extends from the one orifice to the other, without presenting either . dilatation or cul-de-sac, on which account its dirnensions are •smaller than that of the great curvature. But, like it also, it is I not immediately invested by the peritoneum ; for it sinks between I the two laminaj of the hepato-gastric omentum, and is coasted by I the coronary artery of the stomach. OF THE INTERNAL SURFACE OF THE STOMACH. 215i. It is of a reddish white colour, having a marbled appear- ; ance, constantly covered with a thick mucosity, and lined by the 1 mucous membrane. Its form corresponds perfectly to that which I the viscus presents at its exterior; only, there are observed upon i it numerous and irregular wrinkles, which disappear when the or- I gan is full. OF THE EXTREMITIES AND ORIFICES OF THE STOMACH. 2165. Of the Cardia {Cardiac, Left or (Esophageal Orifice). ' It separates the two curvatures on the left side, and is placed be- I neath the diaphragm, and above the large extremity of the sto- I mach, at the union of the two right thirds and the left third of that viscus. It is in it that the oesophagus terminates. It is surrounded 1 by a circle formed by the coronary artery and vein, and by the ex- tremities of the oesophageal cords of the pneumo-gastric nerves (1711-) It is also in relation with a part of the left lobe and lo- bulus Spigelii of the liver, and with the corresponding anterior side I of the vertebral column. 2156. Of the Pylorus* {Pyloric, right or intestinal orifice). It is situated in the epigastrium, lower and more anteriorly than the cardiac orifice. It terminates the stomach to the right, form- ing the summit of the cone represented by that viscus, and makes : it communicate with the duodenum. Placed in the direction of the two curves at once, it commences by a funnel-shaped expan- sion, and terminates abruptly by a circular contraction. It gene- rally ascends backwards and a little to the right, as far as the union ' of the two fissures of the liver. It corresponds above and before to the liver, below and behind, to the pancreas, posteriorly, di- : rectly to the right gastro-epiploic artery, and on the right side to t the neck of the gall-bladder. It is often coloured by the transuda- 1 tion of the bile through the walls of that reservoir, and is always " Ilt/Xn porta ; Ougof, cusios; tliat is to say, a porter.(Jos ORGANS OF DIGliSTlON. surrounded by a great number of vascular twigs and nervous fila- ments. OKGANIZAXION OF THE STOMACH. 2157. The walls of the stomach are formed by three superim- posed membranes, a serous, a muscular, and a mucous. There also enter into their composition cellular tissue, vessels and nerves. 2158. Serous Membrane or Coat. It is formed by the perito- neum, and does not exist along the curvatures when the stomach is empty, as we have already :,aid. There results from this disposi- tion that the stomach, in the state of vacuity, is no longer covered by the same portions of peritoneum which were in connexion with it during its distention; for it is then prolonged between the laminte of the omenta. Here also, as in the rest of its extent, the peritoneum is white, transparent, smooth, and lubricated externally by a serous fluid. It is united to the muscular membrane by a cellular tissue, which is very loose on the edges of the stomach, but very dense in the middle part of its two surfaces, where there is an intimate adhe- sion. 2159. Muscular Memh) 'ane or Coat. It is very thin, and differs essentially in this respect from the muscular coat of the pharynx and (t'sophagus. It is composed of fasciculi of soft whitish fibres, never red, placed beside each other, and running in three different directions. 1st, Some of these fibres, which are more superficial, are longitudinal. Less numerous and less uniformly diffused than the others, they form the continuation of the external muscular layer of the oesophagus (2142), which may be satisfactorily seen on examining them near the cardiac orifice, where they are found to separate from each other. The principal fasciculi form a bundle which runs along the small curvature as far as the pylorus. Another bundle descends on the great cul-de-sac, and is prolonged in the di- rection of the great curvature. Those which are expanded over the two surfaces of the stomach are much shorter and irregularly dis- posed. Some of these latter collect, however, into two small bands, the one before, the other behind, which arrive at the pylorvis after a course of about an inch. 2dly, The fibres of the second kind, lying immediately under the former, are circular, and belong pe- culiarly to the stomach; they appear to have no connexion with those of the oesophagus. Less numerous at the cardia than on the rest of the stomach, and especially at the middle, and running pa- rallel to each other, they never entirely encircle the stomach; but it is very difficult to assign their precise points of origin or termi- nation. 3dly, Lastly, the fibres of the third kind are ohliqiie; they constitute two broad bands, one of which extends from the left side of the cardia over the two surfaces of the stomach, while the other is prolonged from the right side of the cardia over the 2ORGANIZATION OF THE STOMACH. great extremity, where it seems to replace the circular fibres, which occur there only in small number. A layer of dense and close filamentous cellular tissue unites the muscular to the mucous membrane. This layer the older writers improperly named the nervous coat. 2160. Mucous Membrane or Coat. It is of this membrane that the inner surface of the stomach is formed. Soft, spongy, of a red- dish white colour, having a marbled appearance, covered with villo- sities and continually moistened with an abundant inodorous viscid fluid, it presents numerous and purely accidental irregular wrinkles when the stomach is empty. When examined with a lens, especi- ally at some distance from the orifices, it is found to be perforated with a multitude of holes disposed pretty regularly in quincun- cial order, not more than a fifth of a line in diameter separated from one another by partitions, and thus constituting a kind of reticular warp, the tissue of which recurs between the folds and villosities of the mucous membrane of the duodenum, and around Peyer's glands or follicles. It does not at first sight appear to be a conti- nuation of the inner membrane of the oesophagus, there being an apparent line of demarcation perceived between the two mem- branes, caused by the abrupt termination of the epithelium or epi- dermis of the mucous membrane of the cesophagus. The longitu- dinal folds which that of the oesophagus forms terminate at the car- dia by so many maramellae or tubercles; the mucous membrane of the stomach is thicker than that of the oesophagus, which is not covered with villosities. 2161. Between the muscular and mucous coats of the stomach, and along the two curvatures only, are observed mucous follicles, of small size, opening on the inside of the viscus by sunk and not very apparent orifices. They are commonly called Brunner''s Glands, from the name of an anatomist who first described them. 2162. At the place where the pylorus presents the least width, there occurs internally a circular rim, which is flattened and per- pendicular to the walls of the orifice. It has been improperly called the Valve of the Pylorus. It is merely a rephcation of the muscular and mucous coats of the stomach, corresponding by one of its surfaces to the cavity of that viscus, and by the other to that of the duodenum, the small circumference of which is thin, free .and floating, so as to circumscribe a narrow aperture by which the chyme passes into the intestines. But its great circumference is .formed by a particular fibrous ring, of a solid texture and white co- lour, placed between the two forementioned membranes. This ling is the Pyloric Muscle of some authors. 2163. The arteries of the stomach are very numerous and large, compared with the volume of the organ and the thickness of its walls. They come from the two gastro-epiploic, the pyloric, the coronary, and the splenic arteries. They creep at first in the cel- lular tissue between the peritoneal and muscular coats; but their secondary divisions pass through the latter, and their ultimate ra- 2 11610 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. mifications form a very delicate net-work in the substance of tl)e mucous membrane. These arteries arc extremely flexuous, on ac-r count of the changes of volume to -which the stomach is exposed. The veins of the stomach bear the same name, and follow the same course as the arteries. They pour their blood into the trunk of the vena porta, or into one of its principal branches. Like the arteries, they anastomose with each other a great number of times. 2164. The lymphatic vessels of the stomach ai-ise at its inner or outer surface, and present for the most part their principal trunks under the peritoneum. They may be referred to three orders. They go particularly to the ganglions placed along the two curvatures, as we shall make known afterwards. 2165. The nerves of the stomach come particularly from the pneumo-gastric nerves (1712), and the three divisions of the caliac plexus (1915). Of the Duodenum. CONFOUMATION AND GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2166. The Duodenum,* (Ventriculus succenturiatm,) by wliich the intestines, properly so called, commence, immediately succeeds to the stomach. It is less voluminous than that organ, but has a greater diameter than the rest of the digestive canal, and is sus- ceptible of great dilatation. It occupies the deep middle part of the abdomen, where it is concealed by the transverse mesocolon or by the stomach. 2167- The direction of the duodenum is such that it may be divided into three portions. The first, which is about two inches long, commences at the valve of the pylorus (2162), proceeds ho- rizontally backwards and to the right, and ends near the neck of the gall-bladder, uniting angularly with the second, which has a variable length, and which descends vertically and a little to the left, as far as the third lumbar vertebra. The third portion is di- rectly continuous with the second, with which it does not form an angle; it proceeds transversely to the left, before the vertebral co- lumn, and ends by being directed upwards and forwards, toward the upper extremity of the mesentery, above the superior mesen- teric vessels, which cross its direction, and are embraced by a kind of curve which it forms for them. The first portion is covered, in the greater part of its extent, by the peritoneum, and is in connexion with the hepato-gastric omen- tum ; it is often tinged yellow by the transudation of the bile. The^ second has no other connexion with the peritoneum than that ot • It is so named ou account of its length being commonly estimated at twelve finger-breadtlis.611' ORGANIZATION OF THE DUODIiNUM. I beino- covered by the upper lamina of the transverse mesocolon. The third is contained between the two laniinas of that fold. From this disposition, the duodenum forms a kind of semicircle which circumscribes the pancreas, and has its concavity to the left, and its convexity to the right. It only appears to be kept in a fixed position in its two inferior thirds. 2168. The relations of the duodenum to the neighbouring or- gans are the following; above, it corresponds to the liver and part of the neck of the gall-bladder ; heloio, it is limited by the inferior lamina of the transverse mesocolon; anteriorly, it is covered by the superior lamina of this fold inferiorly, and by the stomach and right extremity of the arch of the colon above; posteriorly, it is applied upon the anterior and right side of the vertebral column, the right kidney, the vena cava inferior, the aorta, and the right pillar of the diaphragm. By its whole inner gide, it embraces the pancreas, from which it is separated below by the superior mesen- teric vessels. Its outer side is immersed in the sub-peritoneal cel- lular tissue, between the right kidney and the ascending portion of the colon. ■ 2169- The inner surface of the duodenum is mucous like that of the stomach. There is seen upon it a multitude of circular folds, which differ extremely in their configuration, and are very close to each other; these are the valvulce conniventes. They are formed by the mucous membrane alone, and their existence is constant in all states of the duodenum. They project three or fovu" lines in its cavity ; some of them are oblique and cross each other, or run into those next them ; their length is not the same in all; they never form entire circles, only representing arches •which embrace the half, two-thirds, or three-fourths of the intes- tine, whose pointed extremities advance unequally beyond each bther ; their breadth varies as much as their length. The use as- signed to them is that of retarding the progress of the alimentary substances for the purpose of favouring the absorption of the chyle. The reticular tissue which we pointed out at the inner surface of the stomach shows itself in the bottom of the grooves by which they are separated. • 2170. There is also observed in the interior of the duodenum, at the point of union of the second and third curvatures, a small tubercle, at the summit of which are seen the united or isolated ori- fices of the choledochus and pancreatic ducts. 2171. At its lower part the duodenum is continuous with the small intestine, without any very distinct line of demarcation beino- observed. ORGANIZATION OF THE DUODENUM. 172. From what we have just said, it has already been seen the duodenum is not, like the stomach, invested with a serous612 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. membrane, the peritoneum being only applied upon it in a small portion of its extent. It is to this partial deficiency of the perito- neal coat that the intestine owes the faculty of dilating to such a degree as almost to equal the stomach in size. 2173. Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is pretty thick ; all its fibres are transverse or circular, and have a great similarity to those of the stomach. The layer of dense and solid cellular tissue which unites it to the mucous membrane was called the Nervous Coat by the older anatomists. 2174. Mucous Membrane or Coat. It is reddish, very soft, spongy, villous, and as if downy. It is of its reduplication that the valvulae conniventes are formed. It possesses all the charac- ters of the internal membrane of the stomach, and is truly continu- ous with it (2160). Between it and the preceding coat, there is observed a great quantity of flattened mucous follicles, the orifices of which are more visible than in the stomach. 2175. The arteries of the duodenum are very numerous, and come from the superior mesenteric, pyloric, pancreatic, and gastro- epiploic arteries. Its veins exactly correspond to the arteries. Its lacteals and lymphatics go to the ganglia situated above the pan- creas. Its nerves come from the solar plexus (1914). Of the Small Intestine. CONFOEMATION AND GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2176. The Small Intestine (Intestinum tenueJ, in which the duodenum terminates, is the longest portion of the digestive canal. It forms a general great curve, of which the concavity is connected with the mesentery, while the convexity is free and floating, and it is moreover folded upon itself in different directions a great number of times, which produces turns to which the name of convolutions is given. 2177- these convolutions, of which the convexity is directed forwards, and whose concavity faces backwards towards the verte- bral column, are placed close together, and constitute a consider- able mass, which occupies, in the abdomen, the umbiUcal and hy- pogastric regions, and a portion of the lumbar and iliac regions, as well as of the excavation of the pelvis. This mass is circumscrib- ed on all sides by the large intestines, that is to say, superiorly, by the transverse mesocolon and arch of the colon which separate it from the stomach, the pancreas, the liver and the spleen ; to the right, by the coecum and ascending colon ; to the left, by the de- scending colon and the sigmoid flexure. 2178. The small intestine commences under the superior mesen- teric vessels, on the left side of the transverse mesocolon, and ter- minates in the right iliac region, opening into the coecum. ThereORGANIZATION OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 613 BtBults from this that its general direction is mclined from above downwards and from left to right. Its length is great, being about four or Hve times the total length of the body. Many anatomists have divided it into two portions, although they have failed to as- sign fixed and distinct hmits to each of them. Of these two por- tions, the upper is named Jejunum, on account of its being com- monly found empty ; the other is called Ileum. The jejunum oc- cupies the two upper fifths of the small intestine, and the ileum the rest of its extent. It is easy enough to see that such a division is arbitrary and has no sufficient foundation. 2179. The small intestine has a much smaller calibre than that of the other parts of the digestive canal; it is wider above than be- low. Its whole outer surface is perfectly smooth, excepting on its posterior edge, where it is destitute of peritoneum and lodged be- tween the two laminae of the mesentery. It is seldom that it pre- sents fatty appendages, as are observed on the large intestines. Its inner surface has the same appearance as the duodenum (2169). There are seen upon it numerous viUosities, disposed in the form pf more or less prominent fringes, and extremely large valvulae conniventes. But the latter are more numerous the nearer to the duodenum the intestine is, and diminish progressively towards the the coecum. OKGANIZATION OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 2180. Serous Membrane or Coat, and Mesentery* The peri- toneum covers the entire surface of the small intestine, excepting at the posterior edge, where it is reflected to be prolonged back- wards by two laminae which constitute the mesentery, and which leave between them and the intestine, at the moment of their com- ing together, a triangular space exactly similar to that which pre- vails along the curvatures of the stomach. In this space, the in- testine does not adhere to the peritoneum, a circumstance which is favourable to its dilatation. With respect to the mesentery itself, it may be considered as a fold of the peritoneum which suspends and keeps in position the small intestine. One of its laminae is continuous above with the transverse mesocolon; the other is attached below to the vertebral column, in the course of a line which descends from left to right, from the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa. Narrow in the greater part of its extent, it is very broad anteriorly, near the intestine. It is evidently this inequality in the dimensions of the mesentery that is the cause of the exist- ence of the convolutions of the small intestine ; and it has been not inaptly compared to a semicircular piece pf chamois leather, having the larger edge drawn out and much elongated in opposite direo- 5 * dittos, mcdius ; iiit({»v, iiilcsiimim.614 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. tions. This edge in fact corresponds to the whole length of the small intestine, while the posterior has no greater extent thr-n the lumbar portion of the vertebral column. The mesentery contains between its two larainfB a great quantity of lymphatic ganglia, larger in children than in adults, and very ir- regularly disposed m a thick layer of cellular tissue always loaded with fat. There are moreover observed in it, the trunks and branches of the mesenteric vessels and the nervous plexuses which accom- pany them, together with a great number of lacteal and lymphatic vessels. 2181. Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is not so thick as that of the duodenum, and its fibres are pale and not very apparent. The superficial fibres are longitudinal, very thin, not numerous, and collected especially along the convex edge of the intestine. They do not, however, by any means run along its whole extent, but are interrupted from space to space, and seem composed of shorter fibres whose extremities are interlaced with each other. The deep fibres form a more distinct layer; they are curved in the transverse direction of the intestine; but none of them pass entirely round it, they being interrupted like the longitudinal. The muscular membrane is connected with the peritoneum by a layer of cellular tissue, in general very thin, but pretty thick and loose on the side next the mesentery. It is separated from the mucous membrane by another layer of denser and more compact cellular tissue, which continues the nervous coat of the older writ- ers, of which we have already spoken. 2182. Mucous Membrane or Coat. It is whitish and thicker than in the stomach. We have pointed out the valvuke connir ventes which it forms by being folded upon itself (2179). Its vil- losities, which are excessively numerous, and very apparent, are thin, flexible, and collected into pellets or fringes. On examining them with the microscope, it is discovered that each of them is terminated by an oval ampulla perforated with a small hole, which Lieberkuhn considers as the entrance of a lacteal vessel. The walls of this ampulla are lined with a very dehcate and close netr work of arteries and veins. The intervals which exist between these villosities are furnished with a great number of mucous fol- licles, commonly designated by the name of Peyer's Glands, which form shght prominences on the inside of the intestine. They are more numerous on the side next the mesentery than anywhere else. Their form is round or oval; there are also more of them in the lower region of the intestine. 2183. The arteries of the small intestine come from the con- vexity of the terminating branch of the superior mesenteric artery. Its veins join the vena portae. Its lacteals, which are more nume- rous above than below, end in the ganglia of the mesentery. Its nerves arise from the superior mesenteric plexus (1918).615 OF THE CCECUM. Of the Large Intestine (Intestinum Crassum), or of the Ccecum and Colon. OF THE C(ECUM. CONFORMATION AND DISPOSITION. 2184. The Ccecum*, which is placed between the end of the small intestine and the commencement of the colon, in the right iliac fossa, which it almost entirely fills, has been so named because it is prolonged inferiorly under the form of a cul-de-sac. Its vo- lume is often triple that of the small intestine, and surpasses that of the colon or rectum. Its length is about three or four finger- breadths, and no other limits can be assigned it, to distinguish it from the colon, than the termination of the small intestine. It has nearly the appearance of an irregular triangular prism. Its outer surface presents very large bulgings, irregularly disposed, and in- terrupted in three places by very distinct longitudinal depressions, formed by the union of the longitudinal muscular fibres. One of these depressions is anterior; the other two are posterior; but one is turned to the right and the other to the left. The outer surface of the ccecum is in connexion anteriorly with the walls of the abdomen, posteriorly with the psoas magnus and iliacus internus of the right side, internally with the small intes- tine, of which it receives the lower extremity, which is inserted in- to it so as to form an acute angle below and an obtuse or nearly right angle above. There is observed in this place a circular groove, deeper and more distinct below than above. 2185. The ccecum is surmounted by several appendages formed by particular folds of the peritoneum, and filled with fat; their number, form, and size, are equally indeterminate. Below, to the left, and posteriorly, there is always seen arising from it a parti- cular appendage, of the same nature as itself, the appendix ver- imformis. It is of the size of a writing quiU, varying from two to four inches in length, cylindrical, flexuous, and bent upon itself; free nearly in its whole extent, but bound down to the right upon the ccecum by a fold of the peritoneum. Its surface is free, po- lished, whitish, and traversed by some vessels. It is hollow in its ■whole extent, and communicates with the cavity of the coecum. Its walls are veiy thick, and it is constantly filled with a mucous fluid. In the foetus, the appendix vermiformis is remarkable for its great development. Its uses are entirely unknown. 2186. In its interior, the coecum is Uned by a mucous mem- brane, which we shall afterwards describe. It presents three loh-' gitudinal prominences, which correspond to the three external de- * luteilinuvi cacitm, the blind intestine.ORGANS 01-' DIGESTION. 616 pressions mentioned above (2184), and cellules occupying their intervals, separated by transverse folds, and forming externally prominences which we have also mentioned. Inferiorly, and pos- teriorly, is seen the entrance of the appendix vermiformis, which is always free and open, and a little widened. To the left are the orifice of the small intestine and the ileo-colic valve or valvule of Baukin. This valve, which is destined to prevent the return of the excremen- titious matters from the coccum into the small intestine, is ellipti- cal, broad, soft, thick, without support, and directed transversely. In the direction of its great diameter it is divided by a slit wliich separates it into two hps united at their extremities, adhering to the intestine by their convex edge, and floating in its cavity by their concave edge, Of these two lips, the upper, which is nar- rower, corresponds above to the colon and below to the small in- testine ; while the lower, which is broader, faces the small intestine above, and the coecum below. Their extremities unite and form a prominent line on each side, which terminates insensibly in the straight part of the coecum. These rugie were called by Morgagui the Frcena of the Valvule of Bauhin. ORGANIZATION OF THE CCECUM. 2187- Serous Membrane or Coat. The peritoneum wholly covers the inferior portion of the coecuni, and invests the greater part of it above. It then leaves it to pass upon the walls of the abdomen, without in general forming any fold. Sometimes, how- ever, a'more or less distinct fold is observed, to which the name of Meso-ca;cum is given. 2188. Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is composed of longi- tudinal and circular fibres. The latter present nothing particular, and have exactly the same disposition as in the small intestine; but the longitudinal fibres are united into three distinct bands, and are shorter than the intestine itself, so that they oblige it to become puckered, shortened as it were, and to present the promi- nences of which we have already made mention (2184). These fasciculi seem to arise from the appendix vermiformis, and on cut- ting them transversely, the coecum is immediately seen to elon- gate, and the transverse folds and prominences which it presented, entirely disappear. The layer of cellular tissue Avhich connects this membrane with the following is thicker than in the smaU intestines, but in other respects presents nothing remarkable. 2189. Mucous Membrane or Coat. Its villosities are much less apparent than those of the small intestine. It has no valvulas conniventes, and contains a greater quantity of mucous follicles; but they are isolated from each other. 2190. The ileo-colic valve is formed by the mucous coat of the small intestine and the cellular coat which lines it, folded uponORGANIZATION OF THK COLON. 617 ■Iitself, ill such a manner as to project into the coecum before being . continued into the same membranes of that intestine and of the i-colon. There results from this that it is formed of four mucous llaminas, two for each of its lips, and that in their interval there I occurs cellular tissue. But moreover, there is observed in the lower Hip, a layer of strong muscular fibres of a whitish colour, which are (continuous with those of the small intestine. 2191. The appendix vermiformis is exactly similar to the rest (of the ccecum in its structure; only its fleshy coat is very thick, land principally formed of longitudinal fibres. It is from it that < $he three bands of the intestine seem to come, as we have said. OF THE COLON.* CONFORMATION AND GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2192. The Colon forms the most considerable portion of the \ large intestine. It extends from the right iliac region to the left^ i between the ccecum and the rectum, with which it is continuous, i and describing various turns which have caused it to be divided i into four portions : 1°. The Right Lumbar or Ascending Colon ; '. 2°. The Arch of the Colon or Transverse Colon; 3°. The Left Immhar or Descending Colon ; 4°. The Sigmoid Flexure or Left Iliac Colon. 2193. The Ascending Colon commences at the ccecum, and ascends vertically and a little backwards to near the edge of the corresponding false ribs. Anteriorly, it is covered by the peri- toneum and small intestine; j^osteriorly, it corresponds immedi- ately to the quadratus lumborum and kidney of the right side; internally, it is connected with the inferior lamina of the trans- verse mesocolon and the right lamina of the mesentery (2180) ; externally, it is applied against the walls of the abdomen. Its volume does not much exceed that of the small intestine. Its mobihty is not great, on account of its being connected with the kidney and quadratus lumborum by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. Sometimes, however, the peritoneum forms for it, posteriorly, a more or less loose fold, which is named the Right Lumbar Mesocolon. 2194. The Arch of the Colon occupies the anterior and inferior region of the epigastrium, beneath the stomach, above the small mtestine, behind the great omentum and before the transverse mesocolon. It commonly proceeds directly from one hypochondrium to the other; but sometimes also it is inflected in the middle and descends into the umbilical region. This is the longest and largest of the four portions of the colon. Its upper surface is free and smooth; it corresponds to the liver and the great curvature of the t KwX«v ol' tlic Greeks, I'lom Ku^vu, perldhco.ORGANS OF DIGESTION. G18 stomach, which advances more or less upon it, and at its left end is in relation with tlic spleen. Its lower surface, which is also smooth and polished, rests upon the mass of the small intestine. Its anterior edge, which is convex, gives attachment to the great omentum, and is in contact with the walls of the abdomen; the posterior is concave, and embraced by a fold of the peritoneum named the Transverse Mesocolon. 2195. The Descending Colon commences under the spleen, and bears the greatest similarity, in respect to size, fixedness, and relations, to the ascending portion. Like it, it is placed behind the small intestine, and before the left kidney and quadratus lum- borum, with which it is connected by cellular tissue, or by a fold of the peritoneum named the Left Lumbar Mesocolon. 2196. The Sigmoid Flexure of the Colon, which is of moderate size, very mobile, and in this respect similar to the small intestine, occupies the deeper part of the left iliac fossa, where it describes a double curve in the form of the letter S, whence its name. It commences at the end of the left lumbar region, and terminates at the upper strait of the pelvis, near the articulation of the last lum- bar vertebra with the sacrum. It is surrounded in nearly its whole circumference by the peritoneum, which fixes it above and behind, by means of a very extended and rather loose fold, direct- ed obliquely from left to right, named the Iliac Mesocolon. An- teriorly it corresponds to the small intestine; posteriorly, to the left psoas and iliacus muscles, as well as to the spermatic vessels and ureter of the same side. 2197- From the above account, it is easy to see that the colon describes in the abdomen a circle which measures nearly its whole circumference, and which contams the convolutions of the small intestine (2177)- In its whole extent, the colon, hke the coecum, presents interrupted bulgings, produced by three longitudinal bands; but these prominences, which are not quite so large as in the ccecum, are almost entirely obliterated in the sigmoid flex- ure. It also presents a very great number of fatty appendages, owing to particular folds of the peritoneum, and so multiplied in its ascending and descending portions, that they seem to envelope it with a continuous layer. There are fewer upon the arch, and scarcely any upon the sigmoid flexure, where they are also much less voluminous. 2198. In its interior, the colon presents the same disposition as the coecum. ORGANIZATION OF THE COLON. 2199. Serous Membrane or Coat. It is formed by the peri-- toneum, which, after having enveloped the intestine, fixes it to the neighbouring parts by diflcrent folds, which take their name from the portion to which they belong. The largest of these folds is theOF THE RECTUM. 619 ' Transverse Mesocolon, which proceeds from tlie concave edge of : the arch of the colon which it supports, and forms a horizontal :iand moveable partition, which separates the epigastric region from tthe umbilical, and the stomach, liver and spleen, from the small iintestine. It is broader at the middle than at its two extremities, ■and has a nearly semicircular form. It is composed of two la- iminae, an inferior and a superior: the former is continuous with tthe mesentery (2180) ; the other is prolonged into the posterior (cavity of the peritoneum, and covers a part of the dviodenum. In tthe interval of these two laminae are found the vessels and nerves (destined for the arch of the colon, together with a great number of lymphatic ganglia. Between them and the concave edge of the iintestine, there is observed an empty triangular space, similar to (those which we have already described in the stomach and small iintestine. These two laminae, after uniting upon the colon, give J rise to the posterior lamina of the great omentum. The Iliac Mesocolon varies much with respect to its extent, and i is similar to the other folds of the same kind. It is broader at the I middle than at its extremities. It is continuous above with the ( descending mesocolon, or terminates in a point behind the colon, ; and inferiorly is united to the meso-rectum. It also contains vessels, nerves, and some lymphatic ganglia. 2200. The Muscular and Mucous Membranes are absolutely the same in the colon as in the coecum (2188). 2201. The arteries of the coecum, of the ascending colon, and of the right half of the arch of the colon are furnished by the supe- rior mesenteric artery. Those of the other parts of the colon come from the inferior mesenteric. The veins of these two intestines form the two meseraic veins and open into the vena portse. The lacteals are less numerous on it than upon the small intestine. Its nerves are furnished by the two mesenteric plexuses. 2202. The total length of the large intestine is about seven feet in a man of ordinary size. It forms about the fifth of that of the small intestine. The large intestine differs essentially from the small, in having a greater diameter, in having its longitudinal muscular fibres united into three bands, in the presence of a great number of adipose appendages, in its situation at the circumference and on the sides of the small intestine, in its mode of connexion with the adjacent parts, and in the origin, number, and disposition of its vessels. OF THE RECTUM, OR ORGAN OF DEFECATION. CONFOllMATION AND GENEUAL DISPOSITION. 2203. The Rectum occupies the posterior part of the pelvis, and termmatcs the digestive canal. It succeeds the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and extends from the lef t side of the aacro-vcrtcbral ar-620 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. ticiilation to the summit of the coccyx, where it opens externally. It is a little inclined from left to right at its commencement; but afterwards follows the median line of the body nearly in a verti- cal direction, accommodating itself to the curve of the sacrum, and thus describing a curve, the general concavity of which is anterior. Frequently also it presents lateral inflections more or less distinct. It is cylindrical in the greater part of its extent; but, near its in- terior extremity, commonly presents a more or less considerable expansion. Less voluminous than the ccecum and colon, it is yet susceptible of very great dilatation, and does not present at its surface either bulgings or muscular bands; only in the state of vacuity, it is marked with some irregular transverse wrinkles, which arise from the falling in of its walls. 2204. The rectum being immoveably fixed in its place, its rela- tions are not subject to variation, although they differ anteriorly in the different sexes. Thus in the male, it corresponds, inferiorly. and anteriorly, to the fundus of the bladder, the prostate gland, and vesiculfc seminales, while in the female, it is covered by the. vagina, with which it is connected by a very considerable vascular lace-work. To this union the name of Recto-vaginal Septum, is given. But anteriorly and superiorly, the rectum is covered by the peritoneum in both sexes, and is in contact with the uterus in the female, and the body of the bladder in the male. Frequently, one or two convolutions of the small intestine glide between it and these organs. Posteriorly, and in both sexes, the rectum lies upon the sacrum and coccyx, from which it is separated by the hypogastric vessels and nerves, contained in a fold of the peritoneum, broad above, where it is continuous with the sigmoid mesocolon, narrow below, and bearing the name of Meso-rectum. At its lowest part, it is in contact with the levator ani muscle. On its sides, this intes- tine is only connected with the adipose cellular tissue which occurs abundantly in the pelvis, and with the levatores ani. 2205. The outer surface of the rectum is smooth, polished, and white, being covered above by the peritoneum; it presents in its whole extent vertical and parallel striae, which are owing to the presence of longitudinal muscular fibres uniformly diffused over its whole circumference, so that it has a considerable resemblance to the oesophagus considered also with reference to its exterior. There are, moreover, observed upon it, the numerous anastomoses of the hjEmorrhoidal vessels, and some fatty appendages towards the base of the sacrum. 2206. The inner surface of the rectum is commonly smooth in its upper half, but, in the lower, there are observed some parallel longitudinal wrinkles, which arc thicker near the anus, and of variable length. These wrinkles, whose number varies fa-om four to ten or twelve, and which arc called the Columns of the Rectum, are formed by the mucous membrane and the layer of subjacent cellular tissue. Between these columns, there arc almost alwaym (5OF THE RECTUM. Q21 to be found membraneous semilunar folds, more or less numerous, oblique or transverse, of which the floating edge is directed from below upwards towards the cavity of the intestine. These folds form a kind of lacunae, the bottom of which is narrow and directed downwards. There are observed, moreover, on the inside of the rectum the orifices of mucous follicles which are directed from above downwards, and reddish villosities belonging to the mucous, membrane. The foUiclqs in question pour into the rectum a white and pretty thick mucus. 2207. The upper extremity of the rectum communicates witli the end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The lower, which is very contracted, is terminated by the Anus,* which is situated at about an inch before the coccyx. On the edges of the anus, the inner membrane of the intestine is continuous with the skin, which, there, is very delicate, furnished with radiating plicJE, and covered with a greater or less quantity of hair which exists only in the adult male. This extremity is embraced by the sphincter am (1299), and by the two levatores ani (13J3). OKGANIZATION OF THE RECTUM. 2208. Serous Membrane or Coat. The rectum is entirely des- titute of this coat in its lower part, as we have just said. The case is very different with respect to its tipper region, behind which the peritoneum even forms the fold named Meso-rectum (2204). When the uterus is greatly distended during gestation the perito- neum is raised up by that organ, and almost entirely leaves the rectum. In the male, the distention of the bladder causes the same phenomenon, but in a less degree. 2209. Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is thicker than in the other intestines, and has a great resemblance to that of the oeso- phagus. Its outer surface is separated above from the peritoneum by a layer of adipose cellular tissue. The inner is connected with the mucous membrane by a loose cellular tissue which is not adi- pose. It is composed of two planes of fibres, the one superficial, the other deep. The superficial fibres, which are longitudinal, predo- minate in a decided manner in the two upper thirds of the rectum ; the others, which are circular, exist in its lower third and near the anus. The former also have a white tint; the others acquire a reddish hue, which is so much the deeper the lower they are. This circumstance has induced many anatomists to describe around the lower part of the rectum a fleshy ring under the name of htter- nal Sphincter of the Anus. 2210. Mucous Membrane or Coat. It is similar to that of the rest of the digestive canal, only thicker, redder, more spongy, and " TifUKlof of the Greeks.ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 622 covered with a thicker and more abundant mucosity. It presents the rugae, lacunae, and orifices of follicles of which we have already spoken. Its villosities are not numerous, nor has it any valvulaj conniventes. 2211. No, intestine receives so many blood-vessels as the rectum in proportion to its volume. Its arteries come from the inferior mesenteric, hypogastric and internal pudic arteries. They are col- lectively designated by the name of HcBinorrhoidal Arteries, and are distinguished into superior, middle, and inferior. Its veins go partly to the hypogastric, and partly to the 'inferior meseraic. Its nerves come from the sciatic (1830) and hypogastric (1930) plexuses.* ARTICLE SECOND. ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. OF THE LUNGS. CONFOUMATION AND GENERAL IHSPOSITION, 2212. The Lungs {Fulmones)f are two spongy, cellular, ex- pansible organs, contained within the cavity of the thorax, separa- ted from each other by the mediastina and the heart, surrounded by membranes which are named pleurse, and destined to produce changes upon the air and blood which penetrate into them, on which is essentially founded the act of respiration. Although the lungs are to appearance separate and distinct, they are yet really connected with each other, since they receive the air by a single canal, and as the blood is transmitted to them by a single vessel. Their volume is not equal however, but on account of the projection of the diaphragm on the right side caused by the liver (1280), and the obliquity of the mediastinum to the left, the right lung is thicker than the left, which in its turn has a great- er vertical extent. The left lung is also a little smaller than the right. • According to the physiological order, we ought to describe here the organs of absorption: but as their study is considerably facilitated by that of the organs of circulation, we shall defer their examination until wc have described the latter. n»ii/(K«vsf of the Greeks.623 OF THE LUNGS. In all cases, the volume of the lungs is exactly proportioned to I the capacity of the cavity of the thorax, being so much the larger ! the wider the latter is. They follow very accurately the motions : impressed upon its walls, against which they are always applied, , and dilate and contract like them ; nor does any vacuity ever exist i in the interior of the chest. 2213. The lungs are proportionally much lighter than the other I organs; they never sink in water so long as they are in their na- I tural state, and this lightness depends upon the air which pene- trates their whole tissue. In infants which have never breathed, the lungs generally sink in the fluid in which they are immersed. But the absolute weight of the lungs varies much in different individuals in which they are examined, which may depend upon the greater or less quantity of blood that remains in them at the : moment of death, or upon a larger development. It is also to be 1 observed, that in children which have not breathed, the lungs are, with respect to the total weight of the body, in the variable rela- tion of 55, or 70 to 1; whereas the proportion is as 28, or 35 to 1, • when respiration has taken place. The act of respiration, there- 1 fore, diminishes their gravity in a great degree, a circumstance ' which it is of importance to know with reference to medical juris- ] prudence. 2214. The colour of the lungs, in the healthy and adult state, i is a pale yellowish red, more or less approaching to white or gray. ' This tint is equally observed in the interioi*, and at the exterior I of the organ. But if the blood happens to be too much accumu- ! lated in its parenchyma, the colour is a dark red or purple, uni- : formly diffused, or only dispersed in patches, which produces a : marbled appearance. It is for this reason that the lungs are always : more coloured on the side on which a dead body has lain. The reddish, or grayish colour of the lungs, is interrupted by smaU. black and brown spots, irregularly dispersed at their surface, and more or less numerous; they are exactly defined, and in general ; affect a linear form. They are seldom isolated from each other; ; some are entirely superficial, others penetrate more or less deeply into the tissue of the lungs, and there are some which seem limited to the pleura or membrane which immediately envelopes these or- : gans, in the substance of which they also occur. Buisson consi- ' ders them as analogous to the lymphatic ganglia of the bronchi. They only begin to make their appearance about the age of ten or I twelve years. 2215. Of all the solid organs of the body, the lungs are those ' which have the smallest density. They may be compressed with ! the greatest ease, and only resume their original state imperfectly. . Although flexible and soft, however, they have a tissue which is I Hot easily torn. 2216. The form of the lungs is not very easy to be described. : It may, however, in a general manner, be likened to that of a cone, • I having its base directed downwards, and its summit upwards, and IORGANS OF DIGESTION. flattened internally. The right lung is divided into three unequal lobes, by two oblique fissures ; the left presents only a single fis- sure, and consequently has but two lobes. Their outer surface, which is convex, especially behind, and nearly plain anteriorly, is free in its whole extent, and corresponds to the walls of the thorax, from which it is separated by the cos- tal layer of the pleurae. It is smooth and polished, and constant- ly bedewed with a serous fluid. On the left lung, it presents a fissure which descends obliquely from the posterior to the anterior edge, and divides the organ into two lobes, a superior and anterior, which is smaller, and a posterior and inferior, which is larger: this fissure nearly penetrates through the whole thickness of the organ. A similar fissure is observed on the right lung; but in ifc the upper lobe is divided into two portions by a secondary fissura running obliquely downwards and outwards, and consequently in a direction the reverse of the great fissure, and which varies much as to depth and extent. In the two lungs, the upper lobes, which are large above, terminate below in a point, while the contrary takes place in the lower lobes, which are always larger. In the right lung, the middle lobe is triangular, presenting its summit outwards, and its base inwards, and is smaller than the other two. The internal surface of the lungs, which is plain or slightly concave, to accommodate itself to the shape of the heart, cor- responds, posteriorly; to the mediastinum, and the vertebral column. About the middle of its height is seen the insertion of the bronchi and pulmonary vessels. Its two anterior thirds are contiguous to the pericardium and thymus gland. Their anterior edge is thin, sharp, especially below, oblique, sinuous, more or less uneven, directed obliquely downwards and forwards, and notched on the left side only, to receive the point of the heart. Their posterior edge is thick, rounded, nearly vertical, and lodged in a groove which the ribs form on the sides of the verte- bral column (103). Their base, which is slightly concave, rests upon the upper sur- face of the diaphragm (1280), and is inclined a little downwards, and outwards on each side. It is circumscribed by a sharp and sinuous edge, which is lodged between the ribs and the insertions of the diaphragm, and on which tliere occurs the end of the in- terlobular fissure. ' Lastly, their summit, which is narrow, obtuse, and a httle bulged, is situated at the level of the first rib, which it frequently sur- mounts a little. ORGANIZATION OF THE LUXGS. 2217. The tissue of the lungs is very complicated. It .'jeenis01'" Tin: PLEURA. , essentially composed of prolongations and successive ramifications . of the bronchi, and pulmonary arteries and veins, which stick to-^ gether in all their divisions, and are sustained by a very fine cellu- ': lar tissue, so as to constitute a series of lobules which are covered : and united by the pleurae, and interspersed with nerves, vessels, and lymphatic ganglia. OF THE PLEUR.E.* 2218. The Pleicrce are two thin, diaphanous, perspirable mem- i branes, which hne the inside of the chest, and are reflected from 1 thence over both lungs. Like all the serous membranes, to • whose order they belong, their internal surface is always in con- I tact with itself, and they thus represent each a bag without aper- 1 ture. By their meeting together they form the mediastina, and 1 their course is precisely the same on either side. Proceeding from the sternum, the pleurae direct themselves out- ' wards, line the inner surface of the ribs, their cartilages and the I muscles which occupy their intervals, separated, however, from the I latter by the intercostal vessels and nerves, and by adipose cellular r tissue. They thus advance as far as the vertebral column, re- : fleeted inferiorly over the diaphragm, of which they cover the tho- . racic surface, and superiorly under the upper ribs, behind which t they form a kind of cul-de-sac for lodging the summits of the lungs. Towards the articulations of the ribs with the vertebrae, they J are applied upon the thoracic nervous ganglia (1903) and their I branches, and then direct themselves over the lateral parts of the I body of the vertebra. There, the two pleurae approach each other, but there remains 1 between them a narrow and irregularly triangular space, in which (are lodged the descending aorta, the oesophagus, the vena azygos, tthe thoracic duct, the lower part of the trachea, the coramence- iment of the bronchi, and a great number of lymphatic ganglia, the 1 whole immersed in a cellular tissue. This place is the Posteriw .Mediastinum, the direction of which is vertical and parallel to that (of the vertebral column. Anterior to this space, the pleurae, which are very close to each I other, do not yet come into contact, but pass to the sides of the pe- iricardium, cover it at first over a small extent, and are reflected over the posterior part of the pulmonary vessels and over the lungs themselves. They cover at first the convex surface of the latter, their summit and base, diving deeply into the interlobular fissures. From thence they return upon their plain surface, the 1 anterior part of the pulmonary vessels, and the other portion of • the sides of the pericardium, at the fore part of which they again »approach each other. They then gain the posterior surface of the * riAji/jKi of the (i recks, 2 sOIIGAMS or UESPIllATION. 6^6 sternum, and the point wlience we Iiave considered tliem as setting out, intercepting between them a space not parallel to the ster- num, but inclined from above downwards and from right to left, broader below than above, very narrow at its middle part, and re- presenting a kind of cross, of which the lower branches are more widely separated than the upper. This space, which is commonly named the Anterior Mediastinum, lodges the thymus gland above, and is filled below with cellular tissue, which communicates with that of the abdomen through a separation of the fibres of the diaphragm, on the sides of the ensiform cartilage (I277.) On leaving the anterior part of the mediastinum, the pleurte cover the intei-nal mammary vessels and a certain number of lymphatic ganglia. 2219. The degree of adhesion which the plevirae contract with the subjacent organs is not the same in their whole extent. They are easily detached from the sternum, ribs, intercostal muscles, and sides of the vertebral colvnnn, but are united in a more inti- mate manner to the svirface of the lungs, although there exists be- tween them and the parenchyma of the organ a kind of rather dense membrane, formed of celkdar tissue. They are connected in a loose manner with the anterior and posterior parts of the lateral surfaces of the pericardium, but on their middle region, and oppo- site the pulmonary vessels, they adhere with extreme firmness. 2220. The inner surface of the pleura? is smooth, pohshed, moistened by a serous fluid, and free of all adhesion in the natural state ; those which are frequently observed upon it, being always the effect of some disease. By boiling, they lose their transpa- rency, and acquire an opaque opaline tint. On the sides of the diaphragm, they present small adipose appendages, similar to those which we have described as occurring on the large intestine (2197)t and they are a little thicker at the posterior surface of the chest than at the anterior. 2221. The arteries of the pleurjE come from the intercostal, in- ternal mammary, phrenic, inferior thyroid, thymic, pericardiac, and bronchial arteries. The veins exactly correspond to the ar- teries. A prodigious quantity of lymphatics is perceived in these membranes; but no nervous filaments have yet been traced in them. ■ OF THE AKRTFEROtJS CANALS OF THE^LUNGS, Oil THE TRACHEA AND BROKCHI. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2222. The Trachea * or Windpipe, (Aspera. Arteria,) is a cylindrical, cartilaginous and membraneous tube, a little flattened Tfax^oi aflvfk of tlic Grccks.OF THE TRACHEA AND BIIONCHI. I posteriorly, placed before the vertebral column, extending from the ! lower part of the larynx to opposite the second or third dorsal vertebra, in the posterior mediastinum. Running along the me- dian line of the body, symmetrical and regular in its whole extent, shghtly mobile and extensible, the trachea has a diameter of about eight or ten lines, which remains the same in its whole extent, varying only according to the age and certain individual peculiari- ties. It is in general proportional to the size of the lungs. 2223. The anterior side of the trachea is convex, and covered above by the thyroid gland, inferior thyroid veins, and sterno- hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei muscles, from which it is separated by a layer of pretty thick loose cellular tissue. Inferiorly, it corres- ponds to the thymus gland, the left sub-clavian vein, the arteria innominata, and the arch of the aorta. Its posterior side, which is flattened, covers the oesophagus, and a little to the right, the bodies of the vertebras, which is owing to the obliquity of the oeso- phagus (2136.) Laterally, it is contiguous to the common carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, the pneumo-gastric nerves, and the communicating twigs of the cervical gangUa, which are sepa- rated from it by a mass of adipose cellular tissue. 2224. At its inferior extremity, the trachea bifurcates, and gives rise to two canals which penetrate into the lungs. These are the Bronchi, which are distinguished into right and left, and which separate from each other, directing themselves downwards and outwards, at nearly a right angle. The Right Bronchus is wider, shorter, and more horizontal than the left, and is a little anterior to it. It penetrates into the lung opposite the fourth dor- sal vertebra, is embraced in its course by the curve of the vena azygos, and by the arch which the right branch of the pulmonary artery forms. The Left Bronchus, which is a little smaller, but longer and more obUque, is embraced by the aorta and left branch of the pulmonary artery. The bronchi enter the lungs by their internal surface, and di- vide into two branches, which, after a very short course, subdivide, and thus give out branches becoming gradually smaller, which take all kinds of directions. These ramifications seem to divide the whole tissue of the organ into lobules separated from each other by cellular tissue, and absolutely exist in all points. It is ex- tremely difficult to trace them to their termination. Malpighi thought that they end by rounded and membraneous vesicles, which, according to WiUis, are pedicellate. Senac imagines the lobules of the lungs to be composed of polyhedral vesicles, the sixth of a hne in diameter, into each of which a twig of the bronchi opens. But it appears demonstrated, on the contrary, that the divisions of the bronchi ultimately terminate by a small undilated cul- de-sac, and that it is from the union of several of these minute twigs, kept together by the cellular tissue in which they are im- mersed, that what is called the Pulmonary Lobule results.OltGANS OF RESPIRATION. ORGANIZATION OF THE TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. 2225. The aeriferous canals of tlie lungs are composed of car- tilaginous rings, membranes, arterial and venous vessels, lympha- tics, nerves, mucous follicles, and the Bronchial Ganglia. 2226. Cartilaginous Rings. There are from sixteen to twenty of these rings in the trachea. They are not complete, however, being interrupted in their posterior third. They are placed hori- zontally above each other, and separated by narrow membraneous intervals. Curved upon themselves, and flattened in the plane of their direction, they have all the same length, but vary much as to breadth ; their form approaches that of a very elongated right-angled triangle, when they are stretched out. They are com- monly thicker at their middle part than at their extremities, which are sometimes bifurcated. By their convex surface, they corres- pond to a fibrous membrane, and by the concave are in connexion with a mucous membrane. Their rounded edges give attachment to the first of these membranes, and project a little more on the inner than on the outer surface of the canal. Sometimes also seve- ral of them are seen to unite and be confounded with each other. The first is commonly very broad, and sometimes joins the cricoid cartilage; the last is still broader, and very different from the others. It is triangular, and its middle part is prolonged inferior- ly, bending a little backwards, to accommodate itself to the origin of the bronchi. In the first ramifications of the bronchi, the cartilaginous rings are entirely similar to those of the trachea, only thinner, smaller, and sometimes formed of several pieces. But in the secondary ra- mifications they are merely small irregular grains, varying in form, united or separate, which gradually diminish, so as to disappear entirely in the ultimate divisions of these canals. The colour and consistence of the cartilages of the trachea and bronchi are the same as in those of the ear, the apertures of the nose, &c. Their elasticity is very remarkable. They seldom os- sify, even in the most advanced old age. 2227. Fibrous or Outer Membrane. It comes from the infe- rior circumference of the cricoid cartilage, and is prolonged to the last extremities of the bronchi, becoming gradually thinner to an excessive degree. It is formed of longitudinal and parallel fibres, of which the more superficial are reddish, the deeper white. This membrane alone forms posteriorly the solid portion of the trachea, which gives that canal a rounded form in this place. An- teriorly it is continually interrupted by the cartilaginous rings which appear developed in its substance, and it only sends before them a very small number of fibres. The outer surface of this membrane is sprinkled posteriorly with reddish, oval, or rounded granulations, varying in their figure.OF THE TRACHEA AxNI) BRONCHI. 629 iTliese are mucous follicles, the excretory ducts of which traverse tithe whole substance of the canal to open upon its inner surftice : t they are commonly named the Glands of the Trachea; they are ^wanting anteriorly. Its inner surface corresponds anteriorly, and in the intervals of tithe cartilages, to the mucous membrane, from which it is separated hby a multitude of other smaller granulations, varying in colour, vAvhich also appear to be follicles. But posteriorly, it is immediate- l;ly applied upon a layer of transverse fibres, very close and dense, ;iattached to the extremities of the rings, and of a muscular nature. JThese fibres are disposed in small bundles, and form a perfectly tliistinct plane. 2228. Mucous or Inner Membrane. This is a continuation of tUie membrane of the larynx (1487)? and extends to the termina- tition of the bronchi. Thin, reddish, and plicate in the direction oof its length, especially at the back part, where it is applied against lihe fibres of muscular appearance which we have just noticed, it iGorresponds in the rest of its extent, to the inner surface of the ixartilaginous rings, and, between them, to the fibrous membrane. Mt has in general little adhesion to these different parts. Its inner ■ surface is perforated by the excretory orifices of its mucous folli- cles, which constantly pour out a rather thick and not very plentiful ".fluid. Its organization presents nothing remarkable. 2229. The vessels of the trachea come from the superior and in- [ierior thyroid. Its nerves are furnished by the pneumo-gastric merves (I7O8, I709) and cervical gangha (1884, 1893). The bbronchi have arteries which bear their name, and which arise iiTi- nmediately from the aorta; they are commonly two in number, a riright and a left. They have corresponding veins, which empty ;hheir contents, to the right into the vena azygos, and to the left nnto the superior intercostal vein. Their nerves are supplied by hhe two pulmonary plexuses (I7IO, 1899, 1906). 2230. Lymphatic Ganglia of the Bronchi {Bro7ichial Glands). IThey are very numerous, and are situated before the bifurcation 't)f the trachea, around the bronchi, and even in the interior of the dungs, where they are irregularly disseminated. Their form pre- sents numerous variations, being sometimes oval, or rounded, iometimes lobular, Sec. They also vary much as to size: the larger are lodged above the trachea, the smaller in the intervals of '-he bronchi. Their colour is black, or of a dark brown in the adult, reddish in children. Their tissue has in general little con- sistence ; they may be crushed under the fingers, to which they communicate their colour.* * I have iiuver been able to discover tlie excretory ducts wliicli some anutomists :^ive them, and by whidi they are supposed to pour out a peculiarfluid into tlie bron- chi, but bave distinctly seen several times, as Ilaller states, lyniphutie vessels going o tliem, or issuing from them to throw themselves into tlie thoracic duct. Four- •roy thought their black colour owin^c to the accumulation of the carbon, whicli he uppo.sed to be separated from the blood during tlie act of respiration.ORGANS OF KESPlllATlON. 630 OF THE PKOPEIl TISSUE OF THE LUNGS. 2231. We have already, to a certain degree, an idea of the in- timate structure of the lung, as we know several of the organs which enter into its composition. But when we come to consider it with some attention, without reference to its constituent parts, we find that it is divided into several lobules, distinct even at the exterior, and separated from each other by small whitish grooves. They are especially very Avell seen on tearing the tissue of the or- gan after it has been boiled. They vary much as to volume and I form. "^ITiey present, in general, a number of small surfaces, bounded by prominent angles, and present in their intervals a loose, filamentous cellular tissue, destitute of fat, very extensible, and ca- pable of becoming emphysematous with tlie greatest ease, whether during life, by the rupture of a division of the bronchus, or after death, by insufflation. Each of these lobules is divided into smaller, withovit its being possible to discover the precise termination of this division. The intimate structure of these last lobules is unknown, j Willis asserted that they have a racemiform arrangement around the ramifications of the bronchi, which, however, does not appear to be the case. It is only very probable that they are formed by the vmion of the last extremities of the bronchi, vessels and nerves which are distributed in the lungs. 2232. Besides the parts which we have already seen to enter into the composition of the lungs, there also occur the pulmonary arteries and veins, of which we shall speak when we come to treat of the heart. They in fact establish an intimate connexion between the organs of respiration and those of circulation. OF THE THYMUS GLAND* 2233. This name is given to an organ, the uses of which are entirely unknown, but which, on account of its position in the an- terior mediastinum, naturally comes to be examined after the organs of respiration. It is parenchymatous, bilobate, glandiform, oblong, soft, lobular, and of very variable colour and size. It is to be ob- served that in the foetus it extends nearly from the thyroid gland to the vicinity of the diaphragm, and progressively diminishes with age, so that in the adult it is, as it were, in a state of atrophy, and in old persons can only be discovered with difficulty in the midst of the cellular tissue. 2234. The thymus gland occupies the upper separation of the anterior mediastinum, and corresponds posteriorly to the trachea (2223), the inferior thyroid veins, the left subclavian vein, the vena • Qvfios of the Greeks.631 OF THE THYMUS GLAND. i cava superior, the .irch of the aorta, and the pericardium. Antc- r riorly, it is covered by the upper part of the sternum and by the 1 lower part of the sterno-thyroidei muscles. Its edges arc in contact with the pleura? below. Its upper extremity is divided by a notch into two portions, of which the right is generally thicker and longer than the left. Its inferior extremity, which is larger, is also notch- ed, and presents the same relation between its two portions. These two notches are continued into each other, by a groove which pre- vails along the anterior surface of the thymus gland. 2235. This organ is enveloped by a. very thin cellular capsule, which sends prolongations into its interior, and thus divides its soft yellowish or whitish parenchyma into lobules of unequal size, in each of which there are distinguished several vesicles filled with a milky and slightly viscous fluid, and appearing to communicate with each other in the whole extent of the organ. No excretory duct has been discovered for it, but it is traversed by blood-vessels and lymphatics. Its arteries, although of a small size, are pretty numerous. They arise from the inferior thyroid, internal mammary, bronchial, mediastinal and pericardiac arteries. The veins precisely correspond to the arteries. It receives some nervous filaments from the pneumo-gastric and phrenic (1737) nerves, and from the inferior cervical ganglia. ARTICLE THIRD. ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. OF THE HEART AND ITS ENVELOPES OR OF THE CENTRAL ORGAN OF CIRCULATION. OF THE PEllICARDIUM.* 2236. The Pericardium is a membraneous bag which envelopes the heart and the arterial and venous trunks which issue from, or enter into, it. It is lodged in the inferior separation of the ante- rior mediastinum, above the central aponeurosis of the diaphragm, to which it is strongly united. Its form is, at first sight, that of a cone, with the base directed downwards and a little to the left, while the .summit looks upwards, backwards and to the right; but when freed of the fat in which it is, as it were, immersed, and ex- tricated from the laminse of the mediastinum, it is found to be ex- * riij;, circa ; K«{'ia, cur"OJIGANS OF CIRCULATION. actly moulded upon the heart. Its size is proportioned to the vo- lume of the organ which it incloses. 2237. Afiteriorly, the pericardium is covered by the pleura, ex- cepting in its middle part, where it corresponds to the separation of the mediastinum and to the thymus gland, and by intervention to the sternum and cartilages of the last true ribs of the left side, from which it is separated laterally by the fore part of the lungs. Posteriorly, it is of a very small extent, and rests upon the bronchi, oesophagus, and descending aorta. To the riijht and left, it is in connexion with the pleura.', the phrenic nerves (1737)> and the in- ternal surfaces of the lungs. Inferiorly, it corresponds to the apo- neurotic centre, and a little to the left, to the fleshy fibres of the diaphragm. 2238. The pericardium is composed of two membranes, an outer or fibrous, and an inner or serous. 2239. Fibrous Membrane. Intimately united below with the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, it ascends around the heart, which it embraces as far as its base, and there is continued to a greater or less distance upon the great trunk of the vessels, dividing into several distinct sheaths which aecompany them to a certain dis- tance. The pericardium, therefore, is not perforated to allow these vessels to pass, as many anatomists have alleged; but its 6brous lamina loses itself insensibly on their walls, and even seems to be united with them. These sheaths are eight in number; one, which is very short, for the vena cava superior; four, still shorter, for the pulmonary veins ; one which is indefinitely prolonged, for the aorta ; two for each branch of the pulmonary artery. The vena cava inferior penetrates into the pericardium through the centre of the diaphragm, and has no fibrous sheath. i'k.. This fibrous membrane corresponds directly to the pleurte by the greater part of its oviter surface. It is separated from them by a layer of more or less thick adipose tissue, excepting in its middle, where the contact and adhesion are more intimate. Its inner sur- face is lined in nearly its whole extent by the serous membrane, excepting when it is continued upon the vessels. 2240. This membrane presents the greatest resemblance to the dura mater in its structure, only it is not so thick. Its colour is pearly and aponeurotic. Its fibres are sometimes isolated, often . collected in distinct bundles, of variable thickness and breadth, irregularly disposed, and crossing each other in all directions. Hie greater number, however, ascend vertically and parallel to the axis of the pericardium, being continuous below with the phrenic apo- neurosis, and separating above upon the vessels. 2241. Serous Membrane. It has a much more extended course than the fibrous membrane, as, after lining its inner surface, it is reflected over the heart and covers it entirely, without, however, containing it in its interior, in which respect it is similar to the other ycrous membranes which we have already examined, as the arach-633 OF THE I'EIIICARDIUM. noid membrane and the pleurae. Applied below, directly and in a very close manner, upon the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, it ascends forwards along the fibrous membrane to the place where the latter is prolonged upon the great vessels of the base of the heart. There, it is reflected upon the aorta, above its first curve ; to the left upon the pulmonaiy artery, before its bifurcation ; to the right upon the vena cava superior, about an inch above its en- trance into the auricle, and on the right pulmonary veins, imme- diately after their issuing from the lung. It covers the anterior surface of all these vessels, penetrates into their intervals to a great- er or less distance, and invests the aorta and pulmonary artery in their whole circumference, excepting the place where they are in immediate contact. It also covers, between them, the ductus ar- teriosus, or the ligament by which it is substituted. In the place where this membrane is reflected, the separation of the two laminae t)f the pericardium may be very distinctly seen, a very perceptible triangular space existing between them. Having thus arrived at the base of the heart, the serous mem- brane of the pericardium proceeds directly from the pulmonary artery over the ventricles, and from the vena cava over the right auricle. On leaving the aorta, it is prolonged into a depression which exists between that artery and the right auricle, whence it also directs itself towards the ventricles. From the summit and edges of the heart, it goes to its posterior surface and covers it, ascends again to its base, embraces it to the right and be- low the vena cava inferior, to the left and above the left pulmonary veins, and is reflected over the posterior part of the fibrous mem- brane. This membrane dives into all the irregularities which the heart presents at its sui'face, where it is so thin and transparent, especi- ally upon the ventricles, that it becomes very difficult to demon- strate its existence, excepting in the places where it is separ- ated from the fleshy fibres by adipose tissue. It adheres inti- mately to the fibrous membrane, and can only be detached from it in points of small extent, or at the place of its reflection. It has very little attachment to the vessels, and can easily be raised from their surface. '22i2. The inner surface of this membrane, which is everywhere in contact with itself, is smooth and polished, and continually mois- tened by a serous fluid. 2243. The arteries of the pericardium are very small, and arise from the thymic, phrenic, bronchial, and oesophageal arteries, the coronary arteries of the heart, the internal mammary arteries and the aorta itself Its veins correspond to the arteries, and partly terminate in the vena azygos. Its lymphatic vessels go to the ganglia which surround the vena cava superior, and the origin of the aorta. Nervous filaments have not yet been traced into the substance of its laminae.OllGANS or ClUCULATION. 03h OF THE HEART.* GENEllAL CONFORMATION. 2244. The Heart (Cor), the centre of the circulation, is a hol- low muscular organ of an irregular conical or pyramidal form, in- clined forwards, downwards, outwards and from riglit to left, flat posteriorly and infc-riorly, convex anteriorly and superiorly, and lodged in the pericardium. We have already pointed out its gene- ral relations in describing the latter organ. Its volume varies much in different individuals. Its mass, com- pared with that of the body, is very small; but, in general it is so much the greater the younger the subject is. Although it is re- tained by the pericardium, the mediastinum and large vessels, its situation changes every moment during life, because it follows the motions of the diaphragm, or because its weight drags it in dilferent directions, according to the position that is assumed. 2245. Its anterior surface, which is turned a little upwards, is convex, and presents, in its middle, a groove which traverses it obliquely from above downwards, and from left to right, and in which are lodged the anterior coronary artery and vein, in the midst of a considerable quantity of adipose tissue. The portion of this surface which is situated to the right of the groove, is much broader than that to the left. 2246. Its posterior surface is directed downwards, and is nearly horizontal. It is flat, and rests upon the ajioneurotic centre of the diaphragm, from which it is separated only by the serous mem- brane of the pericardium. It is traversed nearly vertically by a groove which receives the posterior coronary artery and vein, and which joins the preceding at the apex of the heart. The portion of the posterior surface of the heart which is to the left of the groove is much broader than that which occupies its right side. 2247. The right margin of the heart is at the same time mferior. It is thin and sharp, longer than the left, and resting upon the diaphragm. The left margin is directed backwards and upwards ; it is obtuse, rounded, very thick, and coasted by the posterior co- ronary artery. 2248. The base of the heart, which is situated above, behind, and to the right, slightly inclined from above downwards, and from left to right, is separated from the vertebral column by the aorta and oesophagus, and is connected with the pericardium through the medium of arteries which issue from, and of veins which go to, it. There is observed upon it an oblique groove, which indicates the junction of the auricles and ventricles. The summit, which looks forwards, downwards, and to the left, is lodged in a notch of the • Kn«, Kaqo'm Ol' the (iieclis.635 RIGHT AURICLE. lung of that side (2216), corresponds to the interval of the carti- lages of the fifth and sixth ribs, is furnished with much fat, and presents a depression which marks the point of union of the two grooves, of which we made mention in describing its surfaces. 2249. The heart contains four cavities, which are named its ventricles and auricles. The two auricles occupy its base, or its superior and posterior region. The two ventricles are contained in its inferior part. An auricle and a ventricle are placed to the right, and to the left the same disposition is observed. On each side, the auricle communicates with the corresponding ventricle; but the right cavities never communicate directly with the left in the natural state and after birth. In the right cavities there is found black blood, which is to be submitted to the action of the air in the lungs. In the left, there is found red blood which has already undergone this action. The former receive the blood from all parts of the body, and drive it into the lungs; the latter receive the blood from the lungs, and drive it through the whole body. RIGHT PART OF THE HEART. OF THE RIGHT AURICLE. 2250. The right or anterior auricle, {Auricula dewtra seu anterior) occupies the inferior, right, and anterior part of the base of the heart, and rests upon the diaphragm. Its form is very ir- regular and difficult to be described. Transversely elongated, it presents its greatest breadth to the right and behind, its narrowest part before and to the left, in which latter direction it is prolonged by a flattened loose appendage (proper auricle J, terminating in a point, irregularly dentated on its edges, and placed transversely between the aorta and the right ventricle. It is in general wider than the left auricle. 2251. Its outer surface is free externally; but internally it is united with the left auricle, below with the right ventricle, behind with the orifices of the two venag cavas. Anteriorly, it is surmount- ed by the appendage mentioned above. 2252. Its inner surface presents four sides for examination. 1°. Its posterior side presents at its upper part the orifice of the vena cava superior, directed obHquely forwards and downwards, and furnished with a rounded, thick, and fleshy projecting edge, more distinct and stronger posteriorly than anteriorly. This orifice is narrower than that of the vena cava inferior, which is situated be- low and more behind it, and which is directed obliquely upwards and inwards. These two apertures are very close to each other, and are even continuous by a portion of their circumference; in this common portion there is sometimes observed a more or less distinct tubercle (Tuhercuhcm Lowerij, which is nothing else than a prominence formed by fat or by a fleshy bundle.ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 036 • ■ Inferiorly, the orifice of the vena cava inferior is furnished with a membraneous fold, which advances into the cavity of the auricle, and is named the Eustachian Valve. The breadth of this valve varies much in the adult, but can never entirely close the aper- ture of the vein; its dimensions arc more considerable in children, and especially in foetuses, and it becomes gradually obliterated with age, so as to be very indistinct in old persons. Its position is nearly vertical, and its form semilunar. Its posterior surface, which is directed backwards, to the right and upwards, corresponds to the cavity of the vena cava inferior. The anterior^ which has an opposite direction, corresponds to the cavity of the auricle. Its free edye, which looks upwards and backjvards, is sometimes reti- cular ; it is more or less concave, but is always very thin. Its riyht eivtremitij is connected with the circumference of the vena cava inferior, while the left is prolonged upon the inner wall of the auricle, and is continuous Avith the anterior pillar of the fossa ova- lis, of which we shall presently speak. Under the Eustachian valve, and above the entrance of the ven- tricle, is the common aperture of the coronary veins, which is also furnished with a semilunar valve, broad enough to close it entirely, the free edge of which is directed downwards. 2°. Its anterior side presents at its upper part the small cavity of the appendage, remarkable for the prominences which are formed in it by a multitude of fleshy columns {rnusculi pectinati) crossing each other, and inferiorly, the wide aperture by which the two right cavities of the heart communicate {right auriculo-veiifri- cidar opening). This aperture is circular when the heart is full, elliptical when it is empty, and is margined with a kind of white zone, of which we shall subsequently speak. 3°. The outer side presents nothing remarkable but a great number of irregular prominences, formed by muscular bundles which leave between them spaces of various dimensions, and of which the principal are in general directed from behind forwards. These prominences are commonly less numerous than in the ap- pendage. 4°. Its inner side is formed by a septum which separates the right auricle from the left. In the adult it presents under its mid- dle part a depression ( fossa ovalis s. vestigium foraminis ovalis), which is more distinct above than below, where it disappears in- sensibly, becoming continuous with the vena cava inferior. The surface of this depression is sometimes smooth, sometimes uneven and reticulated. It does not appear to have any fixed limit be- hind ; but, anteriorly, it presents a kind of very thick semilunar valve, of which the inferior extremity is continuous with the Eus- tachian valve. By its inner surface, this valve corresponds to another valve which projects in the left auricle, and forms of itself the bottom of the fossa ovalis.* * On pushing from beliind forwarils the hitudle of a .scalpel between these two valres, a passage is, for the most part, easily obtained from the right auricle into the left.RIGHT on ANTERIOR VENTRICLE. 087 In the space occupied in the adult by the fossa ovalis tlierc is in the foetus an aperture wliich is named the foramen ovale (Foramen ofBotal), and which sometimes remains open after birth. Its use is to transmit, before the period of birth, tlie blood of the vena cava inferior directly into the left auricle. 2253. There are observed moreover, in the whole extent of the inner surface of the right auricle, a great number of small orifices not furnished with valves ( foramina Thebesii), which are suppos- ed to belong to the veins of the walls of the heart. OF THE KIGIIT OR ANTEUIOIl VENTUICLE^ (Ventriculus dexter seu anterior.) 2254. Wider and broader, but less extended in length than the left, at the right and anterior part of which it is situated, the right ventricle has a considerable resemblance to a triangular pyramid, of which the base is turned upwards and backwards, and is confound- ed with the corresponding auricle. It has more extent on the an- terior surface of the heart than on the posterior. 2255. Its anterior and outer wall is rather thin and very con- cave. The posterior and inner is formed by a septum, which equally belongs to the left ventricle, and constitutes a semi-ovoidal projection : their thickness is unequal in the different parts of their extent. Both are pretty smooth towards their base ; but in the rest of their extent, they present a great number of muscular bundles, commonly designated by the name of Columnce carnece, which vary much as to size, length, and direction. Their dis- position is in general rather irregular, some directing themselves vertically from the summit to the base, while the others cross them in all sorts of directions, and form with them a very confused net-work. Of these columns, some (from three or four, to eight or nine) are much larger than the others ; they are rounded, and differ so much in length, that some of them resemble mere tubercles, while others have an extent of nearly an inch. All arise from some point of the walls of the ventricle, direct themselves, becoming larger, from its summit towards its base, and terminate abruptly, each by several small tendons, {chordce tendinece) which are insert- ed into the points of the tricuspid valve, diverging sensibly from, and sometimes anastomosing, as it were, with, each other. Some of these tendons are bifurcated, and most of them enlarged at their termination. Other fleshy columns of the right ventricle, more numerous than the preceding, are attached to its walls by their two extremities, but are free in their circumference. Others again are attached to the walls in their whole extent, and in the manner of pilasters. These are the most numerous and theORGANS OF CIRCULATION. thinnest. They follow all kinds of directions, and are interlaced with each other, so as to represent a net-work, leaving between them depressions, differing in form and dimensions. 2256. The base of the right ventricle is perforated by two aper- tures. One of these, the Right Auriculo-ventricular Orifice, which is situated posteriorly, is separated from the other by an interval of abovit an inch, communicates with the auricle, and is furnished with a membraneous fold, named the Tricuspid valve, on account of its commonly being divided into three triangular portions. One of the surfaces of this valve is turned towards the walls of the ven- tricle, and the other towards the cavity of the auricle. Its adhe- rent edge is attached to the circumference of the orifice, and sur- rounds it without interruption. Its free and mobile edge is con- nected with the chordfE tendineaj (2255). It is very irregular, and presents variable intersections, among which, however, there are always remarked three of larger size than the rest. One of these, which is triangular, longer and broader than the others, and di- rected upwards and forwards, exactly closes, when it is laid down, the entrance of the pulmonary artery. This valve, which is thin and transparent in its whole extent, becomes decidedly thicker at its free edge, for the attachment of the small tendons, of which we have spoken. The other aperture of the base of the ventricle is of smaller size than the preceding, and leads to the pulmonary artery. OF THE PULMONARY AKTERY. (^Art. Pulmonaris). 2257. This artery, which carries into the lungs the blood to be submitted to the action of respiration, arises from the upper and left part of the right ventricle, within which its orifice is surrounded by a callous ring, indicating the limit of the fleshy fibres of the heart; but, externally, these fibres descend upon the artery, over an extent of about half a line. This orifice is moreover furnished internally with three membraneous folds, which are named Sig- moid or Semilunar Valves. They adhere to the artery by their whole convex and inferior surface, and present above a free, hori- zontal, and straight edge, on the middle of which there is a small prominent tubercle, of a fibro-cartilaginous consistence (corpuscu- lum Arantii). They are in contact at their extremities, and are thin and transparent. When let down, they completely close the artery, and prevent the blood which it contains from entering into the ventricle. 2258. Immediately after its commencement, the pulmonary ar- tery directs itself obliquely upwards and to the left, crossing the course of tlie aorta, to which it is united by an abundant adipose639 OF THE PULMONARY VEINS. cellular tissue. It is placed at its left side, and at the end of a course of two inches, at the height of the second dorsal vertebra, it divides into two trunks, one for each lung. These trunks sepa- rate from each other almost transversely, and circumscribe between them and the bronchi, which are above, an irregular rhomboidal space. In their interval, there is seen rising, in the adult, a kind of pretty thick, rounded ligament, seeming to follow the course of the artery itself, and passing from its walls to the concave part of the arch of the aorta- In the fretus, this ligament is a true vessel, which is named the Ductus arteriosus, and transmits to the aorta the blood of the right ventricle of the heart. 2259- The right pulmonary trunk, which is longer and less vo- luminous than the left, passes transversely behind the aorta and vena cava superior, forms an arch which embraces anteriorly the corresponding bronchus (2224) ; gains the lung, and divides into three principal branches. 2260. The left pulmonary trunk passes obliquely before the aorta and below its arch, embraces the bronchus of its side, and divides into two branches only, one for each lobe of the Ivmg. 2261. Once entered into the lungs, the first divisions and the successive ramifications of the pulmonary artery accompany the bronchi to their last extremities, multiplying like them, so that there is no part of the organ however small which does not receive twigs from them. At their termination these minute twigs anasto- mose with the roots of the piUmonary veins, and with the bronchial arteries and veins. 2262. The pulmonary artery has the same structure as the aorta, of which we shall speak as we proceed; only its walls are much weaker, and are observed to be collapsed in the state of va- cuity. OF THE rULMONAKY VEINS. (VencB Piilmonares.) .2263. They arise from the extremities of the pulmonary ar- .teries, and are collected into small twigs and branches, becoming successively larger, which accompany the divisions of the bronchi and those of the arteries, it being observed that in general the ve- iious twig is placed beneath, and the arterial above, the bronchial ttwig. At length all the branches of the pulmonary veins unite •into four trunks which leave each lung, two and two, at the middle ^of its internal surface, and penetrate into the pericardium. o-i'^The Superior Right Pulmonary Vein emerges under the .bronchus, directs itself obliquely downwards, and opens into the upper and right part of the left auricle of the heart. The Infv- rior comes from the lower lobe of the lung, and ascends obliquely towards the inferior and right part of the same auricle. TheyORGANS OF ClUCULATIOV. they are destitute of valves. ' I are both difficult to be exposed, being concealed by the vena cava superior and the neighbouring part of" the right auricle. The two Left Pulmonary Veins follow the same course, and are merely a little nearer each other. 2264. The pulmonary veins have the same structure as the other veins of the body, from which they differ in the circumstance that during life they contain red blood. It is by them that the blood is carried to the left cavities of the heart, after its elaboration in the lungs. LEFT PART OF THE HEART. OF THE LEFT AURICLE. (Auricula Sinistra s. Posterior.) 2265. Situated at the upper, posterior, and left part of the lieart, the Left Auricle is almost entirely concealed by the great vessels of the base of that organ, so that, at first sight, there is nothing perceived but its appendage (proper auricle), near the left side of the pulmonary artery. Its form is somewhat cubical, while that of the right auricle may be in some measure compared to a segment of an ovoid. Its capacity is about a fifth less than that of the latter. Posteriorly, it rests upon the vertebral column from which it is separated by the pericardium. Anteriorly and internally, it is unit- ed to the rest of the heart. From its inner and upper part there is seen rising an appendage similar to that of the right auricle (2250), but smaller and directed to the right. Its edges are equally jagged, but its form is triangular. 2266. Its inner surface presents four walls or sides for exami- nation :— 1°. The posterior side is smooth and presents nothing remark- able below. Above it receives the right pulmonary veins. 2°. The anterior presents, below, a wide apperture which leads into the left ventricle, and, above, the cavity of the appendage, ' •which contains much fewer muscuH pectinati than that of the right appendage (2252, 2°). 3°. The right is smooth and formed by the inter-auricular sep- ' turn (2252, 4°). There is observed upon it a semilunar valve which ' presents its concave edge anteriorly and to the left, and forms the bottom of the fossa ovaUs, of which we have spoken. J 4°. The left is perforated by the two corresponding pulmonary I veins, the orifices of which are very near each other, and even seem 1 often to be confounded. Like those of the right pulmonary veins, I2 T 4 LEFT VENTRICLE. ' CLI OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE. ( Ventnculus Sinistei- s. Posterior.) 2267- It occupies the posterior and left part of the heart. It is aa Uttle narrower, but longer than the right, and advances more laipon the summit of the organ. Its form is that of a pyramid a llittle flattened; but, as its walls are very thick, it never presents tthe same falling in as the opposite ventricle. At its exterior, it ppresents nothing remarkable, only that the fat is less abundant tbhere than on the right side. In the interior, it presents columnje earner similar to those of tthe right ventricle (2255), but less numerous and less irregularly [disposed. Two of these fleshy bundles, which are larger than the ^others, and free at their circumference, arise, the one before, tho it)ther behind, and a little beneath the middle part of the walls of :;;he ventricle, by several distinct and smaller bundles, ascend ob- iquely towards the base of the heart, and terminate by a round- xl or bifurcated extremity, from the summit of which proceed a multitude of very slender divergent tendons, frequently cross- ng each other, which attach themselves to the free edge of the nitral valve. 2268. The base of the left ventricle presents two apertures. One of these, the Left, Auricula-ventricular Ori^ce, which is ' posterior and larger, leads into the auricle, and is nearly elliptical, .^ike that of the right side, it is surrounded with a whitish zone, ii,nd furnished with a membraneous fold, called the Mitral Valve, (oecause its free edge is divided into two slips, to which are attach- dd the chordie teudineae; one of these slips is applied upon the iiiouth of the aorta, which it almost entirely closes when the ventri- 'ile is dilated. This valve is thicker than the tricuspid valve, and ro-equcntly contains small hard fibro-cartilaginous tubercles, and vometimes even bony plates. The other aperture is to the right and anteriorly of the latter. ; t leads into the aorta, and is furnished with three Semilunar ^alves, similar to those at the entrance of the pulmonary artery :*2257)- It is above their free edge that the orifices of the two noronary arteries of the heart are seen. This orifice of the aorta is urrounded with a callous ring, forming the true boundary between iirte tissue of the heart and that of the artery. It is right to ob- ■fsrvc also, that in the places which correspond to the sigmoid ^lalves, the walls of the aorta are dilated, and thus form three pro- liaeuces {Sinuses of Valsalva) at the exterior ORGANIZATION OF THE HEART. i 2269. Muscular Tissue of the Auricles.—The v!9\\fi of tlie au-ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 642 ricles are much thinner than those of the ventricles, which evident- ly depends upon the smaller quantity of muscular fibres which en- ter into their formation. In the Right Auricle, the muscular tissue constitutes a pretty thick layer of longitudinal fibres towards the point of union of the two vena; cavoc, where it is separated from the serous lamina of the pericardium by a considerable quantity of fat. In the rest of the auricle, this tissue only presents itself in the form of thin bundles crossing each other, in the intervals of which the serous lamina of the pericardium is in immediate contact with the inner membrane of the cavity. These bundles, although smaller, are more numerous in the appendage. One of them sur- rounds the orifice of the vena cava superior in a circular manner. The disposition which we have just pointed out causes a part of the right auricle to appear transparent. In the Left Auricle, the fleshy layer is much thicker and more uniform than in the right. Here the muscular fibres seem to come from the pulmonary veins, on which they begin to appear by pa- rallel bundles when these vessels issue from the lungs. On the auricle itself, they retain their original direction at the surface, and form a transverse plane; but more deeply, they cross each other irregularly, without however being disposed in isolated bundles as in the right auricle. Between the two auricles, the muscular tissue forms a thicker and more uniform layer, from which results the inter-auricular sep- tum. 2270. Muscular Tissue of the Ventricles. The walls of the right ventricle are rather thin. A uniform fleshy layer invests it externally. More deeply, the muscular tissue collects into bundles disposed like those of the auricles, but stronger and more numer- ous ; several of these, detached from the walls of the cavity, give rise to the columnge carneae. The Left Ventricle has much thicker walls than the right. Its superficial fibres seem directed longitudinally from the base to the summit. The middle fibres are intermingled in an inextricable manner. The deeper contribute to the formation of the columnas carneae. In the septum, the muscular fibres of the right ventricle are in- terlaced with those of the left, forming very acute angles. They may be separated, however, so as to divide the heart into two por- tions, the one right and the other left. 2271. The muscular fibres of the heart are extremely numerous and very close upon dach other. Their red colour is less florid and darker than that of the muscles of locomotion. Their direction is very difficult to be determined: they intermingle with each other, without any cellular tissue being interposed, as happens in the other muscles, to form distinct bundles. Their origin also cannot be determined ; they rise at different points of the surface of the organ, without passing over its whole extent. They are fleshy in643 ORGANIZATION OF TPIE HEART. their whole length, the internal columnae alone being terminated by tendons. 2272. Membrane of the Right Cavities of the Heart. This is evidently continuous with the membrane which lines the vessels destined for the circulation of the black blood. On leaving the venie cavje it lines the whole extent of the auricle, being applied upon the muscular bundles, and, in their intervals, against the se- rous lamina of the pericardium, to which it is united by a dense but spare cellular tissue. Beneath the vena cava inferior it is fold- ^ ed upon itself to form the Eustachian valve, and afterwards that of : the coronary vein of the heart. At the circumference of the auri- I culo-ventricular orifice, it is separated from the muscular tissue by ; a layer of thin and semi-fluid fat, which constitutes the white zone I of which we have spoken. There also, it is folded upon itself, on Heaving the walls of the organ, to give rise to the tricuspid valves ; ; after which it hues the whole ventricle, becoming excessively thin, i introduces itself into the pulmonary artery, forms at its origin the t three semilunar valves, and is continued to the last ramifications of t that vessel. 2273. Membrane of the Left Cavities of the Heart. It forms ppart of that which lines the walls of the vessels that carry red blood. . It commences at the extremities of the pulmonary veins, lines them :in their whole extent, and the whole cavity of the auricle without ■.'presenting any fold, and penetrates into the ventricle. At the en- trance of the latter, its thickness increases a little, and it is folded lupon itself to form the mitral valves, but afterwards becomes vvery thin. It leaves that part to proceed into the aorta, and from tkhence into all the arteries of the body. It is of it that the three seemilunar valves are formed, which are found in that vessel near tits origin. 2274. The arteries of the heart are two in number. They rise ammediately from the aorta, and are called Coronary. Its veins, which are known under the same name, discharge themselves into khe right auricle. Its lymphatics, which are very numerous, go to khe ganglia situated before the arch of the aorta and left bronchus, tfts nerves, which are also very numerous, and which have already ween described, come from the cardiac ganglion (1900). Lastly, we may consider a portion of the serous lamina of the pericardium as entering into the composition of the heart, the outer surface of bemg invested by it in its whole extent.ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. loc, cit. vol. V p. 53. G44 OF THE ARTERIES* Or Vessels which carry the Blood from the Heart to all parts of the Body. GENERAL OBSEEVATIONS. 2275. The Arteries are vessels whose disposition is like that of a highly ramified tree, of which the common trunk, formed by the aorta, commences at the left ventricle of the heart, and of which the twigs end at the circumference of the body and organs. They are found in all parts of the animal economy in general, with the exception of the hairs, the epidermis, and a few other organs.-f- [ From the aorta therefore arise secondary trunks, branches, twigs and ramuscules in great number. It is observed however, that for each of the arteries which it furnishes, the number of divisions does not exceed twenty or twenty-five, which is much less than has sometimes been asserted. . In dividing, the branches of the arteries form very variable angles. Thus the superior intercostal arteries leave the aorta at an obtuse angle, the lumbar arteries at a right angle, the spermatic at an acute angle. At the place of each division, in the interior of the vessel, is a prominence formed by the internal membrane, which is circular when the division takes place at a right angle, semi-cir- cular and more distinct when the angle is acute. 2276. The arteries communicate frequently together by true an- astomoses, so that the blood can pass from the one to the other. These anastomoses take place between equal trunks, or between a more voluminous trunk and a small twig. In the former case, the anastomosis forms an acute angle, as when the two vertebral arte- ries unite to form the basilar. Or a transverse branch unites two separate trunks, as in the anterior cerebral arteries; or, lastly, the two trunks inosculate forming an arch, as is seen in the mesenteric arteries. The more the divisions of the arteries begin to remove from the • 'AjTwjiai of the Greeks; from anj, aer rn^em ferre, because the ancients siip- piosed them to contain air. f Prffiter pulmones, organon illud quam maxime sanguinosiim, in aliquot mcni- branis, ut: in membrana nariuih pitOitaria, in choroidea oculi, in externa lingiiffi, in vasculosa cerebri, in interna canalis intestinorum membrana; porro in glandulffl thyreoidcEE substantia, in substantia cinerea cerebri, in bene, renibus, in glandulis salivalibus, in glandulis muciparis, sebaceis atque absorbentibus numerosissima; in- veniuntur. Permultas arterias mnsculi habent. Pauca; et parvre artcriw niedullsc cerebri atque spinali contigenmt; pauciores car- tilaginibus ac tendinibns, longe pauciores ossibiis. Nullas adhuc arterias in epidcrmidc ejusque productionibus, ut in unguibus atque crinibus ; in substantiii dentium vitrca, in membrana cerebri aracbnoidea, in niom- hrana amnios, in substantia funiculi umbilicalis gelatinosa deprelicndcrunt. Sucvifi-OF THE ARTERIES, OR VESSELS OF THE HEART. 645 : heart, the more anastomoses do they present. In the last twigs, ; these inosculations are so numerous as to constitute an inextrica-' cble lacework. 2277. Viewed in a general manner, the arteries form an assem- tblao-e of vessels which go on decreasing in succession ; but on com- {paring them with each other, it is discovered that this progressive cdecrement is far from being a constant law. Frequently two or t three branches arising from the same trunk have each the volume oof the trunk itself Frequently, also, very small ramifications come (Idirectly from the largest branches. Another remarkable circumstance is, that the calibre of the ar- iteries does not diminish in the ratio of the number and volume of (the branches which they furnish. Thus the aorta is nearly as vo- iiuminous before the lumbar vertebrjE as at its origin. In this imanner each artery is cylindrical, and instead of considering their :i2ggregate as a series of cones whose bases are directed towards the haeart, and their summits towards the organs, we must view them lias a series of cylinders successively added to each other, and suc- ocessively decreasing. A third general consideration is, that the sum of the luiited dia- nmeters of all the arterial branches much exceeds the diameter of uthe aorta, so that the arteries may be viewed as constituting, in •their aggregate, a cone of which the summit ends in the heart, .while its base embraces all the rest of the body. 2278. The last divisions of the arteries ramify to infinity, and form net-works, whose disposition varies in the different organs.* iFrom the extremities of the arteries the veins seem to come, but tbhe precise manner in which the communication between the arte- ries and veins takes place, the most minute inquiries have not yet satisfactorily made known. The existence of such a comnaunica- ::;ion, however, is placed beyond doubt. 2279. The arteries are composed of three membranes lying up- VA each other, which are named Coats. The innermost of these nembranes is a continuation of that which lines the left cavities of ! ;he heart (2273). It is very thin, fine, transparent, absolutely • lestitute of fibres, smooth, and as if serous; it breaks and tears :vith the greatest facility. Externally, there occurs another dense ] • Diversitas multitudinis et crassitiei ramorum, qui alii post alios a trunculo ali. I luo arterioso secedunt,—angulorum, sub quibus discedunt diversitas flexioiuim, nex- ii.um et anastomosium arteriaruni, quas in ipsis subtilissimis, nec nisi microscopii r»pc distingucndis arteriaruna per varias partes dispersionibus cernis, adeo constans '"^t, ut facta felicitcr retium vasculosorum artificiosa repletione, his ipsis retibus va- rorum hepatis aliquod fragmcntupi a frustulo glandulae thyreoidea; vel renis et sic • lorro, facile possit distirigui—Sic arteriarum in intestinis distributio quodammodo j-jmilis est arbusculo foiiis destituto; in placenta uteri cirrulo ; in liene peniculo ad- k«persorio; in musculis sarniontorum fasciculo ; in lingua penicillo ; in jecoris mcm- liina Stella;; in testiculos et in plcxu cerebri clioroideo cinciiino; in iride antror- iin coronu?, rotrorsum plicula;; in lento crystallina crista;; in niembrana vasculosa rebri fimbria;; in mcmbiaua iiarium pituitariu caiicello—iSom/H. loco cil. toni. 1). 78.ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 646 and compact coat, which seems to be formed of the surrounding cellular tissue, in a state of condensation. It is commonly named the Cellular Coat. But it is the coat which is placed between these two that proper- ly forms the arteries. It is dense, close, thick in proportion to the calibre of the trunks, yellowish, sometimes grayish, composed of very distinct fibres, adhering to each other, easily separable how- ever, disposed in concentric layers, nearly circular, and intimately united externally to the cellular coat, but not so much so to the internal membrane. None of these fibres follow a longitudinal di- rection. They do not at all appear to be muscular, but form what is called the Elastic Tissue (16, F, c). 2280. The walls of the arteries receive minute arteries which form very complicated net-Works at their surface, and to which suc- ceed less apparent venules, which go to the neighboviring trunks. No lymphatics have yet been traced in them. Their nerves are pretty distinct, and come especially from the system of the ganglia. OF THE AllTEMIES IN PARTICULAR. OF THE AOIITA.* 2281. The Aorta, arises from the base of the left ventricle (2268) ; but it is only really connected with the heart by the inner membrane of that ventricle, which prolongs itself into its interior and there forms three semilunar valves. The proper membrane or coat of the artery is in no way continuous with the fleshy iibres of the heart; but it commences by three semicircular festoons, which correspond to each of the semilunar valves, and leave between them and the muscvilar fibres an interval of two or three lines, so that they give rise to small triangular spaces in the places where their extremities approach each other. 2282. At its origin, the aorta is concealed by the pulmonary ar- terv, which leaves it at the end of a few lines, because the aorta im- mediately after its origin directs itself upwards and to the right. It presently ascends before the vertebral column, describing a curve, which extends as far as opposite the fourth or fifth dorsal verte- bra. It there entirely disengages itself from the pericardium, and then continues to bend, directing itself a little backwards and to the left almost transversely to opposite the second dorsal vertebra, and above the left branch of the pulmonary artery ; this second curve is called the Arch of the Aorta, (Arcus Jorfcp). In sub- jects advanced in age, it presents at its commencement a certain enlargement, which appears owing to the force of the blood, called by some authors the Great S/nvs of the Aorta. It ends on the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra, from which point • 'Ao^Tti of the Greeks.OF THE RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY OF THE HEART. Gi"/ the aorta entirely changes its direction, and becomes vertical. It descends in the posterior mediastinum, upon the anterior and left part of the other dorsal vertebrae, arrives at the diaphragm, passes along with the thoracic duct, between its two crura, by means of an aperture which belongs peculiarly to itself (1279), and enters the abdomen, where it terminates by bifurcating opposite the fourth or fifth lumbar vertebra. From the end of the arch to its division, the aorta assumes the name of descending, and is dis- tinguished into Thoracic Aorta and Abdominal Aorta. 2283. While within the pericardium, the aorta is embraced, on the left and posteriorly, by the pulmonary artery and its right branch. On the right it corresponds to the vena cava superior and lung. Anteriorly, the mediastinum separates it from the sternum. In its circh, this artery is at first immediately applied upon the trachea, a little before the commencement of the bronchi, and af- terwards upon the bodies of the second and third vertebrae. So long as it remtxins in the posterior mediastinum, the aorta lies upon the left part of the vertebral column, to the left of the oesophagus, thoracic duct and vena azygos, covered at first by the origin of the bronchi and afterwards by the pericardium. The pleura covers it on its left side. In the abdomen, it corresponds posteriorly to the anterior part of the bodies of the lumbar vertebra, on the right to the vena cava inferior, on the left and before, to the peritoneum, the stomach, and the small intestine. Of the Arteries which the Aorta gives off at its Origin. OF THE RIGHT COJIONARY AllTEIlY OF THE HEART. {Arteria Coronaria Cordis Dextra). 2284. It arises from the aorta immediately above the free edge of one of the semilunar valves (2268), to the right side of the pul- monary artery, and opposite the base of the right ventricle. It presently proceeds from within outwards, in the groove which se- parates the right auricle from the corresponding ventricle, the aorta, and pulmonary artery. It describes several flexuosities, winds over the base of the heart, arrives at its free edge, changes its di- rection, and gains the groove on the posterior surface of that or- gan. There, it divides into two considerable branches, of which the larger follows the same groove as far as the summit of the heart, while the other directs itself transversely between the left auricle and ventricle, and descends upon the thick edge of the heart to its extremity. 2285. At its commencement, the right coronary artery gives off very slender ramifications to the aorta and right auricle. One of them loses itself upon the commencement of the pulmonary arteryORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 6i8 and in the fat which surrounds it, and anastomoses witli a twig oi' the left coronary artery. Afterwards, iive or six other small branches ascend upon the right auricle, three before and three be- hind, and extend over the vena; cavtc and the inter-auricular sep- tum ; while some others, of larger size, and indeterminate num- ber, descend and ramify upon the two surfaces of the right ventri- cle. The most remarkable of these latter follows the thin margin of the heart, separates into two twigs, and anastomoses upon the summit of the organ with the left coronary artery. 2286. The branch which creeps in the posterior groove of the heart sends an uncertain number of twigs to the right and left, over the corresponding wall of the two ventricles. I'hey are pro- longed as far as the two margins of the organ. It also furnishes two or three pretty large twigs, "which dive horizontally into the septum of the ventricles, and there unite with those of the oppo- site coronary artery. 2287- The other branch throws backwards small twigs over the left auricle, and others of somewhat larger size over the ventricle of the same side. In descending along the thick margin of the heart, it gives off ramifications which anastomose with those of the pre- ceding branch or of the left coronary artery. OF THE LEFT COUONAKy AllTERY OF THE HEAllT. (Arteria Coronaria Cordis Sinistra). 2288. Much smaller than the preceding, and a little higher, it arises like it from the commencement of the aorta, but to the left side of the pulmonary artery. It immediately directs itself down- wards and a little to the left and forwards, between the pulmonary artery and the left auricle, by the appendage of which it is at first entirely concealed. It then enters the groove of the anterior sur- face of the heart, and runs along its whole extent to the summit of that organ. 2289. Before arriving at the base of the ventricle, the left co- ronary artery gives off no branch; but there, it sends to the right a rather small branch to the aorta and pulmonary artery, and a more considerable one to the left, which winds between,the auricle and ventricle, and descends upon the thick margin of the heart, subdividing into several twigs, which anastomose with one of the branches of the preceding artery. Frequently also at the same place, there arises a third, branch which penetrates vertically into the septum of the ventricles. 2290. In the anterior gi'oove of the heart, the artery of which we speak sends off laterally several more or less oblique branches, which subdivide in the anterior wall of the two ventricles, particu- lariy of the left, and which, towards the summit of the heart, inos- cidute with those of the right coronary artery. Others, uuim-. AUTKIllES OF THE AORTA. f ortant as to size and of an indeterminate number, separate from it posteriorly to lose themselves in the septum of the ventricles. Of the Arteries ivhich arise from the Arch of the Aorta. 2291. The convexity of the arch of the aorta produces three large arterial trunks, destined for the head and superior extremi- ties, which, are designated, proceeding from right to left, by the names of Arteria imiominata, Left Carotid, and Left Subclavian arises. These three arteries arise in the course of a line inclined from before backwards and from right to left, so that the arteria inno- minata is anterior and the left subclavian posterior to the other. The first two, which are very close to each other, include between them the trachea. Frequently the left vertebral artery comes directly from the arch of the aorta, and forms a fourth trunk. It is also not vmcoraraon to see a small artery issuing between the arteria innominata and left carotid, and ascending upon the trachea as far as the thyroid body.* 2292. The Arteria innominata, ascends obliquely to the right, on the side of the trachea, and after a course of an inch, divides into two trunks, of which the one is the right carotid, the other the subclavian of the same side. It is covered by the left subclavian vein, the sternum, and the sterno-thyroidei muscles, and corre- sponds posteriorly to the trachea and longus colli muscle of the right side. 2293. The left carotid artery forms a right angle with the aorta at its origin, and the subclavian of the same side comes off ob- liquely, as does the arteria innominata. OF THE COMMON CAROTID AETERIES. ( Carotides communes). 2294. We are already acquainted with their difference of origin, which makes the left longer than the right by nearly the whole extent bf the arteria innominata. Their size is precisely the same. They ascend a little obliquely outwards on each side of the neck, to the upper part of the larynx, where they divide into the ewter- nal carotid and the internal carotid arteries. Inferiorly the right carotid is a little anterior to the left, but as It ascends it places itself in the same plane. • I'or a full account of 1 ho varieties in tJii; origin of llic nrterios from tlie arcli a . r B^'"^^ '^"»»-'tl'--mmin's Flatcb of ilic Aitciics by Dr. Hiid 1'. \V. itowi,, burgeon.650 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. The interval which these two arteries leave between them is filled below by the trachea and oesophagus, and above by the larynx. 2295. Anteriorly, the left carotid is covered in its lower part by the left vena innominata, the thymus gland and the clavicle. In the lower part of the neck both carotids are covered by the sterno-mastoidei, sterno-hyoidei, sterno-thyroidei and platysma myoides muscles, but higher up in the neck, after having ascended behind the omo-hyoidei, they are directly covered by the platysma myoides only. 229(j. Posteriorly, the common carotids are applied upon the vertebral column, and more immediately upon tlie inferior thyroid arteries, and the longi colli and recti capitis antici majores muscles. 2297- Internally, they correspond to the trachea, the thyroid body, which advances a little upon them, the larynx and the pharynx. That of the left side is moreover in relation witli the oesophagus. 2298. Externally, they correspond to the internal jugular veins, tlic pneumo-gastric nerves, and the communicating cords of the superior and middle cervical ganglia (I876). All these parts are connected by a filamentous cellular tissue, which forms the sheath of the vessels. 2299. In their whole course, the common carotid arteries pre- serve the same calibre. In fact they give off no branch, excepting some very slender ramifications which lose themselves in their own walls or in the neighbouring muscles. OF THE EXTERNAL CAKOTIU AllTERY. ( Carotis externa J. 2300. This artery is particularly destined for the face and the exterior of the head. Its size is equal to that of the internal ca- rotid, excepting in children, in whom the latter is larger, on account of the greater development of the brain and organs of sense. 2301. The external carotid artery extends from the upper part of the larynx to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw. Placed near the internal carotid at its commencement, and even situated internally and anteriorly of it, it ascends parallel to it until under the digastric muscle,, where it crosses its direction winding out- wards and backwards to gain the angle of the jaw, and become more superficial. It then proceeds between the ear and the posterior edge of the lower jaw, concealed by the parotid gland, and divides into two branches which arc named the Temporal and Internal Maaillary Arteries. 2302. Infcriorly, the external carotid is only covered by theOF THE SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY. 651 platysma myoides and the skin ; but it presently sinks under the hypoglossal nerve and the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus muscles, and lastly under the parotid gland. Internally, it is in relation below with the internal carotid artery, at the middle with the stylo- pharyngeus and stylo glossus muscles, and above with the styloid process of the temporal bone. 2303. The branches which this artery furnishes may be dis- tinguished into those which arise from its anterior part, which are three in number, viz. the Superior Thyroid, Lingual, and Facial Arteries; those which come from its posterior region, which are two in number, viz. the Occipital and Auricular Arteries; that which issues from its inner side, the Inferior Pharyngeal Artery ; and, lastly, those by which it terminates, the Temporal and the In- ternal Maxillary Arteries. OF THE SUPEEIOll THYROID ARTERY. (Art. Thyreoidea Superior.) 2304. It arises from the fore part of the external carotid very near its origin, and even sometimes opposite to it, then descends inwards and forwards towards the side of the larynx, where it changes its direction, and proceeds almost vertically downwards to- wards the summit of the corresponding lobe of the thyroid body, where it arrives after describing different sinuosities, which vary in different subjects. In this course it is covered from without in- wards, by the platysma myoides, omo-hyoideus, and sterno-thy- roideus muscles, to which it gives some small ramifications, which go to the skin and neighbouring muscles, as the sterno-cleido-mas- toideus, sterno-hyoideus, thyro-hyoideus, and constrictor pharyngis medius. 2305. Laryngeal Branch. Towards the upper part of the la- rynx, the superior thyroid artery furnishes this branch, which directs itself transversely behind the thyro-hyoideus muscle over the thyroid membrane, gives the latter, and the muscles of the hyoid bone, some small twigs, which anastomose with those of the opposite side, and traverses it in company with the internal-laryngeal nerve of the pneumo-gastric (1705). On entering the larynx, this twig bifur- cates. One of its branches throws itself into the crico-arytenoi- deus lateralis, and crico-thyroideus muscles ; the other winds around the base of the arytenoid cartilage, and loses itself in the crico-ary- tenoideus posticus muscle. Both unite with those of the opposite side, and send a great number of ramifications over the epiglottis, and the mucous membrane of the larynx. 2306. C rico-thyroid Branch. A little smaller than the preced- ing, it descends obliquely inwards over the thyroid cartilage, gives twigs to the tl;yro-hy()ideus muscle, and passes transversely over the crico-thyroid membrane, at the middle of which it anastomosesORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 65^ with that of the opposite side, after furnishing ramifications to the ci-ico-thyroideus muscle. 2307. When the superior thyroid artery has arrived at the thy- roid body, it separates into three branches'. One of these dives be- tween the thyroid body and tlie walls of the larynx. Another, which is larger, proceeds along its outer edge. The third follows its inner edge, and before the cricoid cartilage unites by a reversed arch with the branch of the opposite superior thyroid artery, while the two first anastomose with the twigs of the inferior thyroid ar- tery of the same side. They are all distributed, by a great num- ber of divisions, in the parenchyma of the thyroid body. OF THE LINGUAL ARTERY. (Arteria lingualis.) 2308. The next artery given off from the external carotid, is the Lingual, which sometimes arises by a common trunk with the facial artery. It ascends at first a little, winding and directing itself in- wards and forwards ; it then enters between the hyo-glossus muscle, near its inferior attachment, and the constrictor pharyngis medius ; after which,bending upwards, it ascends between the hyo-glossus and genio-glossus muscles, and between the latter and the sublingual gland, above the great horn of the hyoid bone, as far as the root of the tongue. There, it becomes horizontal, and, under the name of Ranine Artery, advances, accompanied by the lingual nerve, between the genio-glossus and lingualis muscles, to the point of the tongue, where it anastomoses with that of the other side by an arch. This artery is consequently nearly horizontal from its commence- ment, until it bends back towards the anterior edge of the hyo- glossus muscle; it is vertical during its course along the genio- glossus muscle, and horizontal again from the base to the point of the tongue. This disposition allows it to be distinguished into three portions. 2309. Under the hyo-glossus muscle and behind it, the lingual artery furnishes some inconsiderable branches, to that muscle and the constrictor pharyngis medius. Some, others pass through it to the thyro-hyoideus aud digastricus muscles, whilst others proceed to the genio-glossus muscle, and anastomose with those of the oppo- site side. It is from the same point also that the Dorsal Artery of the Tongue arises, which directs itself upwards and outwards to- ward the base of that organ and the epiglottis, and whose ramifica- tions are chiefly distributed to the stylo-glossus muscle, the back of the tongue, the tonsils and the velum palati. Although some authors mention this branch as constant, I have yet very frequent- ly found it wanting. 2310. Upon the genio-glossus, llicrc arc detached from the lin-OF THE LINGUAL ARTERY. 653 glial artery several twigs which penetrate that muscle. But there also arises from the same place a larger branch, named the S7ih- Ungual Artery, which is sometimes a division of the submental (2314). Directed horizontally forwards between the mylo-hyoideus and genio-glossus, and above the sublingual gland, this artery fuiv nishes a great number of twigs to tliose parts and to the mucous membrane of the mouth. Some of them unite with those of the submental, or of the sublingual artery of the other side. There are some also which pass through the mylo-hyoideus muscle, and arrive at the anterior belly of the digastricus. 2311. Lastly, under the tongue, the lingual artery gives off late- rally a great number of large twigs 'to the hnguaUs and genio- glossus muscles, and the tissue of the tongue, which anastomose with each other, and with those of the opposite side. At the very tip of the tongue, and above the frenum of that organ, the two lincrual arteries, which have assumed the name of mnine, anasto- mose with each other. OF THE FACIAL ARTERY. (Art. Labialis vel Maosillaris vel Angularis Externa.J 2312. It arises from the fore part of the external carotid, above the lingual artery, and behind the digastricus muscle. Its size is considerable. Immediately after its origin, it directs itself almost transversely inwards and forwards; and, after describing several flexuosities, gains the inner part of the angle of the lower jaw, covered in this course by the hypoglossal nerve, the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus muscles and the sub-maxillary gland. It then turns between that gland and the base of the inferior maxillary bone, changes its direction, ascends very obliquely towards the commis- sure of the lips, between the triangularis and masseter muscles, forms a great number of flexuosities, and is covered by the skin and the platysma myoides. Near the free edge of the upper lip, it en- ters under the union of the levator anguli oris and triangularis muscles, and ascends upon the side of the nose, as far as the inner angle of the eye, where it terminates either by anastomosing with the nasal twig of the opthalmic artery or with the infra-orbitar, or by spreading out its twigs in the neighbouring parts. In the se- cond part of its course, the facial artery is separated from the skin by a greater or less quantity of fat, and corresponds successively and posteriorly to the inferior maxillary bone, the buccinator muscle, from which it is separated by a mass of adipose tissue of which we have already repeatedly spoken, the orbicularis oris, leva- tor labii superioris and levator labii superioris alseque nasi. 8ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. Branches wliicli the Facial Artery gives off under the Jaw. 2313. Inferior Palatine Branch. It is of very small size, and comes off from the facial artery a few lines above its origin. Some- times it even comes from the external carotid. It immediately ascends between the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo-glossus muscles, furnislies them with some ramifications, applies itself against the la- teral and superior wall of the pharynx, arrives between the pillars of the velum palati, and separates into a great number of small twigs whicli are distributed to the pharynx, the corresponding ton- sil and Eustachian tube. Some of them ascend into the velum palati, and are distributed to its muscles and membranes, or anasto- mose with those of the superior palatine artery. 2314. Submental Branch. It is furnished by the facial artery near the base of the jaw, and is larger than the preceding. Direct- ed forwards, between the platysma myoides, digastricus and mylo- hyoideus, it runs along the attachment of the latter muscle, fur- nishes it with a great number of twigs, which pass through its sub- stance to anastomose with those of the sublingual artery, which is itself frequently a division of the submental. Near the median line it bifurcates : one of the twigs passes before the insertion of the digastricus muscle, and unites with that of the opposite side ; the other ascends upon the chin, and after giving twigs to the in- teguments, inosculates with the ramifications of the inferior dentar artery which emerge from the mental foramen. 2315. Besides these two branches, the facial artery furnishes, in its lower half, twigs to the muscles of the superior hyoid region, to the substance of the maxillary bone, to the submaxUlary gland, to the pterygoideus internus, to the mucous membrane of the mouth and the corresponding side of the tongue. Branches which the Facial Artery gives to the Face. 2316. External Branches. They are numerous, but small and of a variable disposition. They are distributed to the masseter, platysma-myoides and buccinator muscles, to the adipose cellular tissue and skin of the cheek, to Steno's duct, and the parotid gland. Some of them communicate with the twigs of the transversalis fa^ ciei and buccal artery. 2317. Internal Muscular Branches. They are distributed to the triangularis and quadratus muscles, and to the skin of the chin, and anastomose with the ramifications of the submental artery, and with those of the inferior dentar artery which issue by the mental foramen. 2318. Inferior Coro?tanj or Labial Branch. L,arger than the preceding branches, it arises from the facial artery at a considerable655 OF THE OCCIPITAL ARTERY. distance from the commissure of the Hps, passes under the trian- oularis muscle, and advances tortuously in the substance of the free edge of the under lip, on the middle of which it joins the op- posite coronary branch, after sending numerous twigs to the mem- brane of the mouth, and to the orbicularis, triangularis, quadratus and levator menti muscles. These last form a very complicated net-work in the integuments, by their numerous anastomoses with the ramifications of the submental and inferior dentar arteries. 2319. Superior Coronary or Labial Branch. It arises above and very near the commissure. Large and flexuous, it proceeds inwards in the substance of the edge of the upper lip, at the mid- dle of which it anastomoses with that of the other side by a parti- cular twig, itself ascending vertically towards the septum of the nose on which it terminates. Its twigs form a very complex net- work in the mucous membrane of the upper lip, in the integu- ments and orbicularis oris and depressor aloe nasi muscles. Some of them go to the gums and unite with those of the alveolar artery.* 2320. Dorsal Branches of the Nose. These vary much in number and disposition. Sometimes they terminate the facial artery, which then only communicates by a twig with the ophthal- mic. Frequently also they occupy only the lower part of the nose; while, in other cases, they are uniformly distributed in its whole extent. But they always anastomose in the median line with those of the opposite side, and are distributed to all the parts of that or- gan, its muscles, cartilages, integuments, &c. Several of their ra- mifications turn over the edge of the nostrils, or pass through the cartilages, to gain the commencement of the pituitary membrane. 2321. Superior Muscular Branches. Their number varies much. They are very small, and distributed in an irregular man- ner to the levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris, levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, zygoraaticus minor and orbicularis pal- pebrarum, as well as in the integuments. They communicate with the ramifications of the infra-orbitar and ophthalmic arteries. OF THE OCCIPITAL ARTERY. (Arteria occipitalis.) 2322. It arises from the posterior part of the external cai-otid, under the parotid gland, and opposite the lingual artery. It as- cends at first obliquely backwards, beneath the sterno-cieido-mas- * When the fingers arc passed into the mouth the coronary arteries will be felt beating near the angles, being, in fact, placed close to the mucous mcinhrane. A little pressure of the lip, therefore, between the fingers, applied in that situation will arrest haemorrhage from any part of the lip mesial to the pressure.ORGANS OF CIIICULATION. toideus muscle, along the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle and the hypo-glossal nerve. It then passes horizontally between the transverse process of the atlas and the mastoid process, after crossing the direction of the internal jugular vein and pneumo-gas- tric nerve, above which it is situated. It then bends bade upon the occipital bone, covered by the splenius muscle, under the inner edge of which it emerges to become subcutaneous, and ascends in a tortuous manner upon the back part of the head where it termi- nates. 2323. Branches of the Deep Portion. Some of these, which are superior, and of small size, are distributed to the digastricus, sterno-cleido-mastoideus and stylo-hyoideus muscles, and commu- nicate with the twigs of the deep cervical artery. One of them, which is larger and more constant than the others, {Posterior Mas- toid Artery,) enters the cranium by the mastoid foramen, and loses itself in the portion of the dura mater which lines the poste- rior and lateral fossse of the base of the cranium. The others, which are inferior, descend in the substance of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, splenius and trachelo-mastoideus muscles, where they anastomose with the ramiiications of the deep cervical and vertebral arteries. 2324. Branches of the Subcutaneous Portion. They are very numerous. The inferior lose themselves in the muscles of the posterior region of the neck, and occasionally extend as far as the back. The superior ascend in a tortuous manner along the course of the lambdoid suture, and ramify in the integuments and occipi- talis muscle, anastomosing with the divisions of the opposite occipi- tal artery, or with those of the temporal and posterior auricular ar- teries of the same side. Frequently one of their twigs passes through the parietal hole, and loses itself in the dura mater. OF THE POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY. {Art. auricularis posterior.) 2325. This is one of the smallest branches of the external caro- tid artery, from which it separates in the substance of the parotid gland, above the digastricus muscle, to extend to the inner surface the auricle and over the side of the head. It ascends at first back- wards, covered by the gland, between the mastoid process and au- ditory canal. On arriving at the lower part of the auricle, it bi- furcates : one of its branches, placed before the other, expands over the inner surface of the auricle, between the skin and the cartilage; the other, which is posterior, passes over the mastoid process, and divides into a multitude of twigs which belong to the temporalis and retrahens auriculam muscles, the epicranial apo- neurosis, the cellular tissue and integuments of the lateral part of the head.OF THE INFEUIOU PHARYNGEAL ARTERY. 657 2326. But previous to its bifurcation, the artery sends some small twigs into the parotid gland, the stylo-hyoideus and digastri- cus muscles, and the walls of the auditory canal. It also furnishes the Stylo mastoid Artery, which sometimes comes from the occipi- tal, and which, after seudmg some ramifications into the auditory canal and upon the membrana tympani, enters, by the stylo-mas- toid foramen, into the aqueduct of Fallopius, runs along it, spreads out its subdivisions in the mucous membrane of the tympanum, the mslstoid cells, the semicircular canals, the muscle of the stapes, the periosteum of the aqueduct itself, &c. where it terminates by anastomosing with a twig of the middle meningeal artery, which has penetrated by the hiatus of Fallopius. INFKlllOR I'HARYNGKAL ARTEllY. (Arteria Fhary7igea.) 2327- This branch is smaller than the posterior auricular artery, and is more deeply situated than the other branches of the external carotid, from which it arises at the same level as the facial. It as- cends at first vertically along the lateral and posterior part of the pharynx, between the external and internal carotids, covered below by the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and above by the constrictor su- perior. 2328. After a short course, and after furnishing some irregular twigs which descend obliquely behind the pharynx and in its con- strictor muscles, this artery divides into two branches of equal size. 2329. Pharyngeal Branch. Lying transversely upon the con- strictor pharyngis superior, it divides into two or three twigs, of which one is distributed to that muscle, ascending in its substance, while the others, proceeding obliquely downwards, lose themselves in the two corresponding middle and inferior constrictors. Its last divisions anastomose with some twigs of the superior thyroid and Ungual arteries. 2330. Meningeal Branch. It ascends between the internal ca- rotid, the pneumo-gastric nerve and the internal jugular vein, gives ramifications to these different parts, to the superior cervical gang- lion, the Eustachian tube, rectus capitis anticus major, rectus anticus minor and longus colli muscles, and at length enters the cranium by the foramen lacerum posterius, to ramify upon the dura mater. Some of its twigs penetrate separately into that cavity, and have the same destination; one in particular is observed which passes through the fibro-cartilage of the foramen lacerum medium •, another passes through the anterior condyloid foramen. 2 u658 OKGANiS OF CIllCULATlON. OF THK TEMI'OllAL AIITKHY. (Art. Temporalis). 2331. Not so large as the internal maxillary artery, from which it separates opposite the neck of the condyle of the jaw, and fol- lowing the original direction of the external carotid, this artery ascends at first a little obliquely outwards between the ramus of the jaw, the auditory canal, and the parotid gland which covers it as far as the zygomatic arch. But above the latter it glides in a tortuous manner under the anterior and superior muscles of the ear, and becomes subcutaneous. Arrived at the middle of the temporal region, it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. 2332. Anterior Branches. The temporal artery gives off a cer- tain number of branches which direct themselves forwards towards the masseter and the articulation of the lower jaw. Among these there is to be distinguished the Transiierse Artery of the face, which arises from the temporal immediately after its origin, varies much in size, passes over the neck of the condyle of the jaw, gives off' a twig which is distributed in the masseter, and there anasto- moses with a division of the internal maxillary artery, crosses the direction of that muscle, proceeding above Steno's duct, and ter- minates opposite its anterior edge, ramifying on that duct, in the parotid gland, in tlie two zygomatici and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles, as well as in the integuments. Several of its twigs anas- tomose in the substance of the cheek with those of the facial, buccal, and infra-orbitar arteries. 2333. Posterior Branches. They are of considerable size and vary in their number. They are called the Anterior Auricular Arteries, and are distributed to the external auditory canal and to the auricle. 2334. Internal Twig or Middle Temporal Artery. It comes from the temporal artery immediately above, and sometimes under the zygomatic arch. It almost immediately perforates the aponeu- rosis of the temporal muscle, into which it passes, and where it separates into a great number of ramifications, of which several are seen to communicate with the deep temporal arteries. 2335. Of the two branches by which the temporal artery termi-, nates, the anterior ascends in a serpentine manner towards the forehead, and subdivides into a great number of twigs which run in all directions, and diffuse themselves in the frontalis and orbi- pularis palpebrarum muscles, and in the integuments. Of these twigs, some which are transverse, anastomose with the frontal and superciliary arteries, while the others bend towards the top of the head, where they meet those of the opposite side. The posterior branch ascends obliquely over the parietal and oc- cipital bones, describes there a great number of sinuosities, andOF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 6d9 gives off' many twigs which are uniformly spread out in all direc- tions in the integuments, the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle, tlic attollens auriculam and the pericranium, communicating with those of the anterior branch, and of the opposite temporal, occipital and posterior auricular arteries. OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY AUTEIIY. (Art. Mcuvillaris interna.) 2336. This is larger than the temporal, with which it forms the termination of the external carotid ; it is remarkable for its complex course and for the great number of important branches which it gives off to the deep parts of the face. Immediately after its ori- gin, it passes behind the neck of the condyle of the jaw, bending inwards and downwards, then advances directly inwards, between the dentar and lingual nerves, and arrives in the interval which separates the two pterygoidei muscles, where it changes its direc- tion a little to proceed forwards to the maxillary tuberosity. It then bends, becomes vertical, glides between the two fixed inser- tions of the pterygoideus externus muscle (954), and ascends in the bottom of the zygomatic fossa between it and the temporalis muscle. Finally, arriving near the floor of the orbit, it again takes a horizontal and transverse direction, enters the spheno-maxillary fossa, and divides into several branches in the middle of the adipose cellular tissue which fills that cavity. The internal maxillary artery is consequently horizontal near its origin and termination, and vertical in the middle. It describes, moreover, several very distinct sinuosities, which vary in different subjects. Branches which arise from the Internal Maxillary Artery, behind the Neck of the Condyle of the Jaw. 2337. The middle Meningeal Artery. This is the largest branch of the internal maxillary artery. It ascends vertically towards the skull, between the two pterygoidei muscles, accompanied by two filaments of the inferior maxillary nerve which go to unite with the facial nerve. It gives off at first some small twigs to the pterygoi- deus externus, circumflexus palati, and constrictor pharyngis superi- or muscles, as well as to the temporal and sphenoid bones; some of these latter pass through the sphenoid bone by particular aper- tures, and lose themselves in the dura mater. It thus arrives at the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, by which it enters the cranium. But before this there separates from it a pretty large branch, which glides forwards and inwards, between the superior wall of the zygomatic fossa and the origin of ihe deep temporal VORGANS OF CIRCULATION. (360 nerves (1662), and afterwards descends vertically between the cir- cumflexus palati and pterygoideus internus muscles, in the sub- stance of which it separates into a great number of twigs. 2338. Having entered the cranium, under the dura mater, the meningeal artery furnishes twigs to the portion of that membrane ■which covers the middle lateral fossa of the base of the cranium and to the trifacial nerve. One or two of them proceed forwards, into the orbit, between the sphenoid bone and the malar bone, and terminate at the lachrymal gland, in the parenchyma of which they communicate with the lachrymal artery. Another enters into the aque- duct of Fallopius by the hiatus of the same name, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid artery (2326), after sending some ramifica- tions over the trunk of the facial nerve. The canal of the internal muscle of the malleus also contains one which is distributed to that muscle, and to the mucous membrane of the walls of the tympan- um. This cavity itself receives several other smaller ramifications, which penetrate into it by narrow fissures, observed at the place where the petrous process unites with the rest of the temporal bone. 2339. After giving off these different twigs, the artery itself di- vides into two principal branches of unequal size. The anterior^ which is larger, ascends from behind forwards, towards the anterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone, where it is lodged in a deep groove, and frequently even in a true canal formed in the inner surface of that bone (189). It gives off some twigs, which anas- tomose with the lachrymal artery, issues from its groove and sub- divides into a great number of twigs, which are expanded over the whole internal surface of the parietal bone, which receives them in grooves, disposed so as to resemble the nerves of a leaf, and ex- lending as far as the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater (188). All these twigs have the appearance of small tubes formed in the substance of the dura mater; they belong entirely to that membrane, and only send off opposite to the sutures some small twigs, which anastomose with similar twigs of the arteries of the pericranium. The posterior branch, which is smaller, ascends, bending from before backwards, upon the inner surface of the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and upon that of the pa- rietal bone ; it divides in the same manner into a great number of twigs, which expand over the lateral and posterior part of the dura mater. Like those of the anterior branch, they anastomose frequently together, and correspond to grooves formed upon the bones. The last ramifications of the middle meningeal jirtery communi- cate with those of the opposite artery, of the ethmoidal arteries, and of the other small branches which pass over jhe dura mater. 234,0. The Inferior Dentar or Inferior Maxillary Artery. It arises inferiorly from the internal maxillary artery, at the place where the middle meningeal separates from it above, sometimes, however, a little farther on It descends anteriorly along the inner surftice of the ramus of the jaw, at the outer side of the ptcrygoi-OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 061 deus internus, behind the inferior dentar nerve, and before the internal lateral ligament of the articulation of the lower jaw, as far as the aperture of the dentar canal (249), which it traverses along its whole extent, to make its appearance again at the mental fora- men. 2341. Before passing into the dentar canal, this artery gives oft' at first numerous ramifications to the pterygoideus internus and inferior dentar and lingual nerves. Close to the orifice of that canal, it furnishes a twig which descends forwards in a small groove on the inferior maxillary bone along the attachment of the mylo- hyoideus muscle. Accompanied by a filament of the inferior den- tar nerve (1669), this twig loses itself by a great number of sub- divisions in the mucous membrane of the mouth, and in the mylo- hyoideus muscle. 2342. The trunk of the artery itself then enters the canal, along ■with the inferior dentar nerve, sometimes, however, by a separate aperture. As it passes transversely beneath the alveoli, it sends off, from its upper side, twigs into these cavities, which are destined for the pulps of the teeth. Under the first small molar tooth it bifurcates; one of its branches, which is very small, emerges by the mental foramen, throws itself into the quadratus and triangu- laris muscles, and anastomoses with ramifications of the facial ar- tery ; the other branch which is larger, continues its course in the bone to the symphysis of the chin, and ^ives twigs to the pulps of the corresponding canine teeth and incisors. 2343. Frequently, at the very place where the dentar artery arises, the internal maxillary artery furnishes some isolated twigs. One of them ascends upon the temporal bone, behind the auricular canal, and is distributed to its walls, to the membrane of the tym- panum, and to the ceruminous follicles (2001). Another penetrates into the tympanum by the glenoid fissure, and gives ramifications to the mucous membrane of its walls, and to the external muscle of the malleus. Branches which arise from the Internal Maxillary Artery between the two Pterygoid Muscles. 2344. The Posterior deep temporal Artery. It arises a little after the preceding, and is even sometimes produced by it shortly after its commencement. Concealed at first between the temporalis and pterygoideus externus, it afterwards ascends obliquely under the first of these muscles, becomes vertical, creeps over the tempo- ral fossa, and divides into a great number of ramifications, which are distributed to the periosteum of that fossa, and to the fibres of the temporal muscle. These ramifications anastomose anteriorly with the anterior deep temporal artery, and externally with the middle and superficial temporal arteries.ORGANS OK CIIICULATION. G02 2345. The Masseteric Artery. Smaller than the preceding, it sometimes arises along with it by a common trunk. Directed out- wards, between the posterior edge of the temporal muscle and the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, it passes over the notch which separates the latter part from the coronoid process (252), sends some small twigs into the upper portion of the masseter muscle, then descends obliquely forwards, between it and the ramus pf the maxillary bone, enters its substance, subdivides and anasto- moses there with the transverse artery of the face. 2346. The Pterygoid Arteries. They vary much in number, .size, and origin. They almost all come from the maxillary artery itself, but some arise separately from the middle meningeal and posterior deep temporal arteries. They are distributed to the two pterygoidei muscles, and especially to the outer. Their course is very irregular; some of their smallest ramilications accompany the deep temporal nerves. Branches which arise from the Internal Maxillary Artery in the Zygomatic Fossa. 2347. The Buccal Artery. It is sometimes wanting. Pretty frequently it does not come from the internal maxillary artery it- self, but arises from the anterior deep temporal, or from the alve- olar, or lastly from the infra-orbitar. Of very inconsiderable size and very flexuous in its course, it descends obliquely forwards, be- side the buccal nerve (1C64), between the pterygoideus intemus muscle, and the ramus of the jaw, advances towards the cheek, becomes transverse, and separates, at a greater or less distance from the commissure of the lips, into a great number of twigs which are spread out in the buccinator, zygomaticus major, zygomaticus minor, and platysma myoides muscles, the integuments, the mu- cous membrane of the cheeks and their mucous follicles. It anas- tomoses with the facial (2312), infra-orbitar and transverse artery of the face (2332). 2348. The Anterior Deep Temporal Artery. Its volume is pretty considerable. It ascends vertically in the anterior part of the temporal fossa, between the internal and anterior region of the temporalis muscle, the malar and sphenoid bones. One of its twigs enters into the orbit by one of the holes with which the malar'^bone is perforated, and anastomoses with one of those of the lachrymal artery. Several others of smaller size also pass through the same bone, but lose themselves in the adipose tissue which envelopes the ball of the eye, or upon the lachrymal gland. Last- ly, the ^irtery itself terminates by subdividing in the substance of the temporal muscle, where it communicates with the ramifications of the posterior deep temporal artery (2344), and of the middle and superficial temporal arteries.OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 665 2349- The Alveolar Arteri/. It is of considerable size, and arises opposite the maxillary tuberosity, on which it descends from behind forwards, describing numerous turns. In some cases it comes from the infra-orbitar or anterior deep temporal. After sending some small twigs into the superior and posterior den tar canals (204), for the roots of the large molares and the mucous membrane of the maxillary sinus, it advances tortuously along the gums, to which it gives some ramifications. Arrived at the fossa canina, it still sends a dentar twig to the small molares, and termin- ates by subdividing in the cellular tissue of the cheeks, the buccin- ator muscle, and the periosteum of the maxillary bone, anatomos- ing with the infra-orbitar by one of its principal twigs. 2350. The Infra-Orhitar Artery. Of equal size with the an- terior deep temporal, it separates from the internal maxillary to- wards the upper and fore part of the zygomatic fossa, gives at its commencement ramifications to the periosteum and fat of the orbit^ and introduces itself into the infra-orbitar canal (198). It travers- es it in its whole extent, placed beneath the nerve of the same name (1659), and sends through its walls some twigs into the rectus inferior and obliquus inferior muscles of the eye, into the orbicularis palpebrarum, and over the lachrymal sac. Near the orifice of this canal, it sends a small branch into the superior and anterior dentar canal (198), for the roots of the corresponding ca- nine teeth and incisors, and for the membrane of the maxillary sinus. Emerging at length by the infra-orbitar foramen, behind the levator labii superioris, it separates into a great number of branches, which subdivide in the muscles of the upper lip and upon the lower part of the nose, anastomosing with the facial, alveolar, buccal, and ophthalmic arteries. Branches which the Internal Maxillary Artery produces in the Spheno-Maxillary Fossa. 2351. The Vidian or Pterygoid Artery. It is very slender and sometimes comes from the superior palatine. It enters, along with the vidian nerve (1872), into the pterygoid canal, runs through its whole length from before backwards, and issues from it to be distributed to the Eustachian tube and the vault of the pharynx, after sending some small twigs into the spongy tissue of the sphe- noid bone and the membrane of the sphenoidal sinuses. Its rami- fications anastomose particularly with those of the inferior phar- yngeal (2327). 2352. The Pterygo-Palatine or Superior Pharyngeal Artery. Still smaller than the preceding, it directs itself obliquely back- wards and upwards, and enters a little internally and inferiorly of it, into the ptery go-palatine canal, to proceed backwards to ter- minate at the pharynx, like the pterygoid, after giving some smallORGANS OF CIRCULATION. twigs to the cellular tissue of the .sphenoid bone and the Kdstachi- an tube. It sometimes arises from the spheno-palatine. 2363. The Superior Palatine Artery. Much larger than the two last, it separates from the internal maxillary behind the sum- mit of the orbit, descends vertically in the pterygo-maxillary fis- sure, and enters the posterior palatine canal. Before entering, it furnishes three or four twigs which penetrate into the accessory palatine canals, and issue from them on the tuberosity of the same name to be distributed to the velum palati. With respect to the trunk itself, after leaving its canal, it is reflected from behind for- wards between the membrane and vault of the palate, lodged in a particular groove of the latter. In this course, the artery is very flexuous, and furnishes a great number of twigs to the mu- cous membrane and follicles of the palate. One of these twigs ascends to the nasal fossaj by the anterior palatine foramen. 2354. TJie Spheno-Palatine Artery. This may be considered as the terminating branch of the internal maxillary artery. It pro- ceeds through the spheno-palatine foramen to the posterior part of the superior meatus of the nasal fossae (356), beneath the pituitary membrane of which, it divides into two or three principal twigs ; but frequently this division takes place previously, in the spheno- maxillary fossa itself. One of these twigs is distributed to the septum of the nasal fossae ; the others lose themselves around the ethmoidal turbinated bone, in the superior and middle meatus, the maxillary sinus and the posterior ethmoid cells. Their ramifica- tions anastomose with those of the ethmoid arteries, and give a deep red tint to the pituitary membrane, on account of their great number and sviperficial position. or THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. (Carotis interna seu cerehralis.) 2355. It separates from the external behind the digastricus muscle, entei's the space which exists between the ramus of the inferior maxilla and the pharynx, and ascends a little inwards be- fore the vertebral column, becoming deeper and deeper as it ap- proaches the skull, into which it enters by the carotid canal. It is accompanied externally by the internal jugular vein, internally by the pneumo-gastric nerve, the superior cervical ganglion and the twig by which it communicates with the middle cervical gan- glion. It is connected with these different parts by a loose and filamentous cellular tissue. It forms at first a curve whose con- vexity rests upon the vertebral column ; near the skull it presents another having its convexity directed dowuAvards, and sometimes a third whose convexity is outwards. These flexuosities are ex- tremely variable, and very rarely found the same in two sub-of Tilt INTERNAL CAUOtID ARtEUY. 665 jects. In nil this part of its covxrsc, the internal carotid artery fur- nishes no branch. 235G. In passing through the carotid canal, it accommodates itself to the different directions which it follows (179), so that from being at first vertical, it afterwards directs itself a little obliquely forwards and upwards. This portion of the internal carotid artery is surrounded by the ascending filaments of the superior cervical ganghon (1875) and the lamina of the dura mater •which lines the canal. Before emerging, it gives off a small branch, which penetrates by a particular aperture into the cavity of the tympanum, to be distributed to its mucous membrane and to the promontory, on which it anastomoses with a twig of the middle meningeal artery. Frequently also it furnishes another which enters from behind forwards into the Vidian canal, and there anastomoses with the artery of the same name (2351.) 2357. On emerging from the canal, the internal carotid artery directs itself upwards and a little forwards, enters into the caver- nous sinus of the dura mater (1579), and follows anteriorly its lower wall, on the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone, to above the anterior clinoid process, being enveloped by the inner mem- brane of the sinus and accompanied by the sixth nerve and caver- nous ganglion (1873). In this course, the artery forms two curves which pretty exactly resemble those of a Roman S. The convex- ity of the first is turned backwards and upwards, and that of the second forwards and downwards. While contained in the caver- nous sinus, the internal carotid artery sends two or three twigs to the dura mater, the pituitary body, the membrane of the sphe- noidal sinuses and the trunks of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixtli pairs of nerves. 2358. Arrived under the anterior clinoid process, it curves ver- tically upwards, then directs itself a little backwards, is embraced by the dura mater (1560) and arachnoid membrane (1589), and enters into the cranium a little externally and posteriorly of the optic nerve. It is afterwards enveloped with a sheath which is furnished to it by the arachnoid membrane, ascends obliquely back- wards and outwards, and separates into several branches opposite the fissura Sylvii (1-506), where it terminates. But before this, ■whilst ascending along the anterior clinoid process, the internal carotid artery furnishes a very remarkable branch, which is the following. OPHTHALMIC AUTERV. 2359. The Ophthalmic Artery CArt. ophthahnica) is not large. Immediately after its commencement, it enters into a small canal which the dura mater presents to it, places itself on the outer and lower part of the optic nerve, passes along with it through the optic foramen, and enters the orbit between the nei-vc of the sixthORGANS OF CIKCULATION. 066 pair and the rectus externus muscle of the eye. It then ascends on the outer side of the optic nerve, passes above it crossing its direction obliquely from -without inwards, being covered by tlie rectus superior oculi muscle, and becomes horizontal a second time to pass forwards, along the inner edge of the nerve, between the obliquus superior and rectus internus muscles of the eye, as far as the internal angle of the orbit, where it ends by dividing in- to two branches. Branches which the Ophthalmic Artery gives off* before ascending upon the Optic Nerve. 2360. The LachrTjmal Artery. It is one of the largest branches of the ophthalmic artery, from which it separates immediately af- ter its entrance into the orbit, to glide, between the outer wall of that cavity and abductor oculi muscle, as far as the lachrymal gland, into which it enters. At its commencement, it gives some ramifications to the abductor oculi, attollens oculura, depressor oculi and levator palpebrae superioris muscles, the periosteum of the orbit and the envelopes of the optic nerve: sometimes it also gives rise to the posterior ethmoidal artery. Close to the la- chrymal gland, it furnishes some small twigs to the periosteum and abductor oculi muscle, and gives off" a small branch which de- scends backwards and outwards, and presently bifurcates, so that one of its twigs loses itself in the periosteum of the orbit, whUe the other passes through the malar bone, arrives in the temjjoral fossa, and anastomoses with the anterior deep temporal artery (2348). 2361. Arrived at the lachrymal gland, the artery passes above it, or surrounds it with a vascular net-work. In all cases, it sends a great number of twigs into its parenchyma. At the same time there arise from it two twigs, the External Palpebral, one of which, the inferior, passes under the gland to gain the orbicularis palpe- brarum muscle, where it anastomoses by an arch, upon the lower edge of the corresponding tarsal fibro-cartilage, with ramifications of the inferior palpebral and superficial temporal arteries; while the other, or superior, passes over the gland, and is distributed in the same manner in the vipper eyelid. 2362. Beyond the gland, the lachrymal artery loses itself in mi- nute twigs in the two eyelids and in the tunica conjunctiva. 2363. Sometimes the lachrymal artery comes off' from the mid- dle meningeal. In that case, after giving a twig to the dura mater, it enters into the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure. 2364. The Central Artery of the Retina. Excessively slender, it comes off" from the ophthalmic artery, a little after the preced- ing, or sometimes from one of the ciliary arteries. It per- forates obliquely, and at a greater or less distance from the ball ofOF THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. GC7 : the eye, the envelopes of tlie optic nerve, places itself in its centre^ and accompanies it into the eye, where it penetrates sometimes singly, sometimes divided into two or three brandies. It then ■ sends to the internal lamina of the retina (1972) a multitude of I twigs which there form a very apparent net-work, and which may I be followed as far as the ciliary body, without its being ascertained whether they pass flirther. One of these twigs penetrates into the vitreous body, furnishes it with some ramifications of excessive tenuity, and seems to arrive at -the posterior part of the capsule I of the crystalline lens. 2365. Pretty frequently other two or three small arteries are obr served, which arise from the ophthalmic, and like the central artery pass into the envelopes of the optic nerve, but without reaching so far as the retina. Branches which arise from the Ophthalmic Artery during its pas- sage above the Optic Nerve. 2366. The Supra-orhitar or Superciliary Artery. It some- times comes from the lachrymal artery. It proceeds from behind forwards, along the upper wall of the orbit, above the levator paU pebrae superioris and attollens oculum muscles, under the perios- teum, at the inner side of the frontal nerve (1651). Arrived at the base of the orbit, after furnishing some minute ramifications to the periosteum and the two muscles above mentioned, it issues from that cavity by the superciliary notch, giving off in its passage a small twig to the diploe of the frontal bone. It then divides in- to two branches, of which the inttrnal, which is larger, ascend.^ upon the forehead, behind the corrugator supercilii and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles, and separates almost at once into a great number of twigs, which are distributed in a divergent manner ia these muscles and in the frontalis, anastomosing with those of the frontal and superficial temporal arteries (2335). The other or ex- ternal branch follows nearly the same course ; but its twigs do not extend so far, and communicate externally with those of the la-, chrymal artery. 2367- The Posterior or short Ciliary Arteries {Art. ciliares bre- ves). These arc very numerous, sometimes amounting to thirty or forty. Almost all of them come from the ophthalmic artery ; but the lachrymal, posterior ethmoidal, and supra-orbitar or inferior muscular arteries almost always furnish some. They are extreme- ly flexuous, and are found immersed in the soft fat which surrounds, the optic nerve, upon which they are more or less accurately ap- plied. They give off in general some very slender twigs which dive into the groove embracing that nerve at its entrance in- to the eye. These twigs anastomose with each other, and there form a veryORGANS OF CIRCULATION^ 66S apparent circular net-work, which is joined by Bome ramifications of the other branches of the ophthalmic artery. 2368. Arrived at the posterior part of the ball of the eye, these arteries separately penetrate the sclerotica near the entrance of the optic nerve. Some of them remain in that membrane, and there anastomose with the twigs which it receives from the muscular arteries ; others supply it alone with very slender ramifications; but the greater number pass between it and the choroid membrane, and divide into a very great quantity of twigs which come off'at a very acute angle, and afterwards direct themselves forward, run- ning nearly parallel to each other. All these twigs are limited in a great measure to the external surface of the choroid membrane, and form by their subdivisons and numerous anastomoses, a very delicate net-work, of which the areolae are quadrangular, and much looser before than behind. Some of these twigs communicate with those of the anterior ciliary arteries; others pass through the cihary body and throw themselves into the great arterial circle of the iris; but almost all go to lose themselves in the ciliary pro- cesses, and in so great number, that twenty or thirty are counted for each of these small bodies. They proceed a short way in a tortuous manner in their substance, then unite into twigs progres- sively larger, which, behind the iris, bend toward each other, and anastomose in the manner of an arch. 2369. The Long Ciliary Arteries are a little larger than the preceding, and generally two in number, an external and an internal. They pass through the sclerotica at a greater distance from the optic nerve than the posterior ciliary arteries, and, after giving some small twigs to that membrane, proceed horizontally forwards between it and the choroid membrane, to which they dis- tribute very few ramifications. They thus arrive at the ciliary body, where they divide, each into two twigs which separate at a very obtuse angle, unite with some small twigs of the anterior ciliary arteries, anastomose together, and form a very apparent vascular circle upon the large circumference of the iris. 2370. From the whole inner side of the circumference of this circle, arise a great number of smaller twigs, each of which pre- sently bifurcates, and anastomoses with the neighbouring twigs so as to form a second vascular circle internally of the preceding. From this circle, which is also joined by some ramifications of the anterior ciliary arteries, proceed other twigs, which are extremely numerous, but of the greatest tenuity : these proceed in a serpen- tine manner, under the form of radii, towards the small circum- ference of the iris, where they anastomose with each other, so as to form a third circle which embraces the pupil. Some of these twigs do not anastomose however, and go directly to the pupil. In the foetus, there are seen setting out for the membrana pjipil- laris (1968), about thirty flexuous and radiating ramifications, which leave the concavity of the great arterial circle of the irisOF THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. OGO to anastomose thousands of times between the two laminaz of the membrane, forming very flexuous arches of variable figure and size, between which there remains towards the centre of the pupil, an empty space of an irregular form, and destitute of blood- Tessels. 2371. The Superior Muscular Artery. It is sometimes want- ing. Immediately after its commencement, it gains the inferior surface of the attollens oculum muscle, and divides into several twigs which are distributed to its fleshy fibres, and to those of the levator palpebrae superioris and obiiquus oculi superior muscles, . as well as to the periosteum of the orbit. When this branch does not occur these twigs arise from the lachrymal artery, the supra-orbitar artery, and the ciliary arteries. 2372. The Inferior Muscular Artery. More voluminous than the preceding, it is never absent. It arises from the ophthalmic artery between the ciliary arteries, or after the lachrymal, and directs itself from behind forwards between the optic nerve and the depressor oculi muscle. Its twigs are distributed to that muscle, to the abductor oculi, the obiiquus oculi inferior, the periosteum of the orbit and the lachrymal sac. It presents the most numer- ous variations; its trunk sometimes accompanies the abductor oculi muscle, and issues from the orbit to anastomose by an arch with the infra-orbitar artery. It sometimes gives rise to the central artery of the retina. 2373. From the two muscular arteries principally, and occa- sionally from the lachrymal and infra-orbitar at the same time, come the Anterior Ciliary Arteries, which, to the number of four or five, proceed from behind forwards to the anterior part of the ball of the eye, where they divide into several twigs which perforate the sclerotica or are distributed to the tunica conjunctiva. The first enter, therefore, into the eye at the distance of two or three lines from the circumference of the cornea ; they then traverse the ciliary circle, and lose themselves, for the most part, in the great arterial circle of the iris (2369). Some of them, however, gain the anterior part of the choroid membrane, while others are dis- tributed to the iris. Branches which the Ophthalmic Artery gives off in its Course along the inner side of the Optic Nerve. 2374. The Posterior Ethmoidal Artery. This artery is of pmall size, does not always exist, and occasionally comes from the lachrymal or infra-orbitar. It directs itself towards the inner wall of the orbit, between the obiiquus oculi superior and adductor oculi; and enters into the posterior internal orbitar canal. It passes through its whole extent, furnishing very slender twigs to the membrane of the posterior ethmoid cells. It then enters 4.ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 670 the sl<ull, and loses itself by subdividing in the portion of the dura mater which lines the middle anterior fossa of the base of that cavity. Some of its twigs communicate with those of the an- terior ethmoidal; others enter the nasal fossa? along with the ol- factory nerves by the holes of the ethmoid grooves. 2375. The Anterior Ethmoidal Artery. It separates from the ophthalmic opposite the anterior internal orbitar foramen, into which it penetrates along with the internal nasal nerve (1653). Before entering the skull, it throws several twigs into the membrane of the frontal sinus and anterior ethmoid cells; and when it has arrived there divides into a great number of twigs, some of which ascend upon the falx cerebri, whilst the greater part enter into the nasal fossae by the holes of the ethmoid bone, and are spread out to a greater or less distance upon the pituitary membrane. 237c. The Inferior Palpebral Artery. It arises from the oph- thalmic a little beyond the cartilaginous pulley of the obliquua oculi superior muscle, and is even sometimes given off by the nasal artery. It descends nearly vertically behind the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and furnishes at first some twigs to that muscle, the lachrymal sac and the caruncula lachrymalis. It then bifurcates. One of its branches loses itself in the inferior half of the orbicularis palpebrarum; the other directs itself out- wards, along the attached edge of the inferior tarsal fibro-carti- lage, and is distributed to that cartilage, the Meibomian glands, the tunica conjunctiva and the skin. 2377- The Superior Palj)ebral Artery. It arises beside and a little before the preceding, and even frequently by a trunk common to both. It sends at first a branch into the upper half of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and some small twigs to the lachry- mal sac, the caruncula lachrymalis, and the tunica conjunctiva. It is not rare to see one of the anterior ciliary arteries also sepa- rating from it at the same point. It then passes between the fleshy fibres of the muscle, proceeds outwards along the superior tarsal cartilage, and terminates by anastomosing with one of the twigs of the lachrymal artery. In its course, it exhibits precisely the same circumstances as the preceding. Branches which terminate the Ophthalmic Artery. 2378. The Nasal Artery. Its volume varies much and is sometimes very large. It issues from the orbit above the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum, passes over the side of the root of the nose, and in descending gives some twigs to the lachrymal sac and the neighbouring muscles. It anastomoses more or less low with the last extremity of the facial artery (2312), after having formed by its numerous ramifications a very apparent vascular net- work.Of THIi CEIlliUliAL AllTEIUES. G7I 2379. The Frontal Artery. It is smaller than the nasal, and directs itself a little outwards, to issue by the upper and inner part of the orbit. It ascends upon the forehead, between the bone and the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, and divides at once into two or three branches which become subcutaneous, and subdivide in all directions, in the orbicularis palpebrarum, frontalis and cor- rugator supercilii muscles. Its ramifications anastomose with those of the opposite frontal artery and superficial temporal. 2380. After giving rise to the ophthalmic artery, the internal carotid produces in the interior of the cranium several branches distinguished into posterior and anterior. The first are the com- municatiny and choroidal arteries; the others, the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. OF THE COMMUNJCATING AUTEIIY OF WILLIS. 2S8I. It directs itself obliquely backwards and a little inwards, passes over the side of the infundibulum and mammillary emi- nences, above the arachnoid membrane, and internally of the thick- I ened edge of the middle lobe of the brain, and goes to open into the posterior cerebral artery, which is furnished by the basilar. Its size, which is in general rather moderate, frequently varies how- ever, and is not always the same on both sides. In its course, it sends very slender ramifications to the optic ■ thalami and nerves, the mammillary eminences, the tuber ciner^um (1506), the infundibulum, the choroid plexus, and the crura of 1 the brain. Frequently the twig which belongs to the optic tha- '. lamus is much larger than the others. OF THE ARTEKY OF THE CHOJIOID PLEXUS. 2382. Always less than the preceding, it arises above it, and j proceeds obliquely backwards and outwards, towards the crus of I the brain, close to which it enters into the corresponding lateral • ventricle by its inferior fissure, to lose itself by subdividing in the I choroid plexus. But before this, it gives a great number of twigs I to the thalamus of the optic nerve. OF THE ANTERIOR CEREBRAL ARTERY. 2383. The anterior Cerebral Artery directs itself obliquely for- 1 wards and inwards, between the optic nerve and the posterior re. \ gion of the anterior lobe of the brain, as far as the great fissure 1 which separates the hemispheres of that organ from each other. ' There, after furnishing small twigs to the pia mater, and optic ( olfactory nerves, it comes very near the corresponding arteryORGANS OF CIIICULATION. of the other side, and unites with it by a very short, but pretty large transverse branch, which is named the anterior commmii- cating artery. Sometimes this branch is substituted by three or four parallel twigs; but in all cases, it sends one or more small twigs to be distributed to the fornix, the anterior commissure and the septum of the ventricles. 2384. After thus communicating with each other, the two an- terior cerebral arteries change their direction, proceed forwards and dive, parallel to each other, between the two anterior lobes of the brain, turning over the corresponding extremity of the corpus cal- losum. They then proceed from before backwards over its upper surface, at the posterior part of which they terminate by subdi- viding, so as to embrace that body entirely in an arch which ex- actly represents its form. It is to this arch that the name of ar- tery of the corpus callosum is commonly given. In this second part of its course, tlie anterior cerebral artery sends from its concave side a great number of small twigs to the corpus callosum, while, by that which is convex, it furnishes some- what larger twigs to the plain surface of the cerebral hemispheres. These twigs are lodged and subdivide in the anfractuosities which this surface presents, and are prolonged as far as the convex part of the same hemispheres, where they communicate with those of the middle and posterior cerebral arteries. OF THE MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY. 2385. The Middle Cerebral Artery is much larger than the anterior, it seems to be truly the terminating branch of the inter- nal carotid. Directed outwards and backwards, it gives at first a great number of twigs to the lower part of the brain, to the pia mater which covers its crura, and to the choroid plexus; it then enters into the fissura Sylvii, and divides into two large branches, the one to the anterior lobe, the other to the middle lobe of the brain. These branches bend backwards, following deeply the fis- sure, and end towards the posterior part of the brain, where they subdivide into a great number of twigs. In their course, they al- so furnish some, and all enter together into the cerebral anfractu- osities forming many windings, and ramifying in the pia mater, to such a degree as to convert that membrane into an extremely fine and close vascular net-work, from which issue the arteries which are distributed to the substance of the brain. It is only in some particular places, which we have already made known, that this organ receives trunks of any size, as in the optic thalami, near the medullary roots of the olfactory nerves, &c. * • It is necessary to study the arteries wliieh are I'uriiished to the brain by tiie vertebral arteries of the sub-elaviaii, at the Same time that those which the iiiternHl carotids transmit to it are examined.OF THE SUB-CLAVIAN AllTEUIES. OF THE SUB-CLAVIAN ARTERIES. (Arteries SuhclavicB.) 2386. They are situated upon the superior part of the thorax, aand lateral and inferior parts of the neck. At their origin, they ppresent some differences on the right and left, which it is of iraport- aance to observe. ' 2387- The right, which is generally a little larger than the left, aarises upon the corresponding side of the trachea from the ar- tteria innominata. The left separates from the aorta at the end oof its arch : Both extend as far as the upper part of the first rib, iin the interval of the scaleni muscles; but the right is obvi- oously shorter than the left. They also differ in their position, di- rrection, and relations to the neighbouring organs. Thus the right subclavian is more superficial than the left, which sappears to depend especially upon the direction of the arch of the aaorta. The right directs itself obliquely outwards and upwards as ffar as the interval of the scaleni muscles ; the left ascends vertical- Hy to near them ; and suddenly turns outwards to pass into their iinterval. Thus the anterior side of the right subclavian is covered, from within outwards, by the clavicle, the sterno-hyoidei and sterno- t'thyroidei muscles, the corresponding sub-clavian vein, and the right ppneumo-gastric and phrenic nerves, which cross its direction. Its ^posterior side is separated from the vertebral column and longus ccolli muscle by a pretty large interval. Its outer side comes some- what near the top of the lung, and the inner leaves a triangular sspace between it and the right common carotid artery. The anterior side of the left sub-clavian is covered at first by ithe lung and vena innominata, then by the pneumo-gastric nerve, wwhich instead of crossing its direction, runs parallel to it. Lastly, •the first rib, the clavicle and the sterno-thyroideus muscle are ap- |iplied upon it in a distant manner. Its posterior side rests imme^ ddiately upon the vertebral column and longus colli muscle. Its I'oUfer side lies upon the pleura, which separates it from the lung ; itthe inner corresponds to the common carotid artery. I '*'2388. ' The subclavian arteries traverse a considerable space ^without furnishing any branch ; but in the vicinity of the first rib, 'before passing between the scaleni muscles; they give off a pretty large number, of which the vertebral and inferior thyroid come off from its upper side; the internal mammary and superior intercostal ' from its lower, and the transverse cervical, supra-scapular and deep . cervical from the outer. 2 X674 OIIGANS OF ClllCULATlON. OF THE VEUTEBUAL ARTERY. 2389. The Vertebral Artery, {Art. Vertehralis), is the largest branch of the subclavian, almost equalling the axillary artery in size. It is especially destined for the cerebrum, cerebellum and spinal marrow. It arises deeply from the upper and back part of the subclavian, near the place where the latter changes its direction. To the right it forms a very obtuse angle with it, while on the left side it seems to continue it in the same direction. On both sides, immediately after its commencement, the verte- bral artery proceeds directly upwards, behind the inferior thyroid artery, upon the vertebral column, between the longus colli and sca- lenus anticus muscles. At the end of a more or less short course, it enters the hole with which the base of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is perforated, and sometimes that of the fifth, without having given rise to any branch ; in other rarer cases, it enters these holes only at the fourth or third vertebra. It then ascends in the canal which results from the aggregate of all those holes, with which the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrjE are perforated, and which is completed by the inter- transversalcs muscles. In this part of its extent, it passes before the trunks of the cervical nerves. It thus arrives at the axis, hav- ing only described very slight flexuosities ; but it then leaves the canal, directs itself backwards under the trachelo-mastoideus, and forms, between the two first vertebrae, a vertical curve, the con- vexity of which is directed backwards, upwards, and inwards. It then proceeds upwards and outwards as far as the transverse process of the atlas, of which it perforates the base directly up- wards, under the obliquus capitis inferior muscle ; after which, it passes backwards and inwards, and describes, between that verte- bra and the occipital bone, in the triangular space of the recti postici and obliqui capitis muscles, a second transverse curve, ■whose convexity, also directed backwards, is covered by the com- plexus and rectus capitis posticus major muscles, while its con- cavity embraces the side of the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament (584). Lastly, the two vertebral arteries pass through the apertures of the two extremities of the same ligament, and through the dura mater, and enter the cranium by the occipital foramen, on the sides of the spinal marrow. They then converge and ascend in a tor- tuous manner inwards and forwards, between the corpora pyrami- dalia and olivaria (1516) and the basilar groove, on which they unite angularly, to give rise to the basilar artery. 2390. In f./ie canal of the transverse processes, the vertebral artery sends off sevei-al branches in all directions, of which the ex- ternal, anterior, and posterior emerge between these processes, go to the intertransversales, scaleni, rectus capitis anticus major,OF THli VERTEBRAL ARTERY. tracliclo-mastoidcus, and splcnius muscles, and communicate with the neighbouring arteries, while the internal penetrate into the vertebral canal, by the inter-vertebral foramina, to expand upon the spinal marrow and dura mater, anastomosing with those of the opposite side. 2391. In ite uer^/ca/c?«-oe, the vertebral artery sends internally and inferiorly of the obliquus capitis inferior a small branch, which bifurcates as it descends. One of its twigs is distribvited to the semi-spinalis colli and multifidus spinje, and the other, {Art- me- ningen posterior,) ascends under the posterior arch of the atlas, to be distributed to the dura mater. Moreover, there also separate from it some twigs for the obhquus capitis inferior and trachelo- mastoideus. 2392. In Us transverse curve, it sends a considerable number of twigs to the recti postici and obliqui capitis muscles. One of them, larger than the others, is transverse, directs itself inwards, and presently divides into two branches, one of which, anastomos- ing with that of the opposite side, constitutes a kind of arch be- tween the complexi and recti capitis postici majores muscles, wliile the other, descending obliqviely, is distributed to the latter and to the rectus posticus minor. 2393. Posterior Spinal Artery, {Art. spiyialis posterior'). It arises from the vertebral artery, near the corpora pyrami- dalia, and sometimes from the inferior cerebellar artery. It directs itself downwards and a little obliquely inwards, passes behind the spinal marrow, and continues to descend parallel to that of the opposite side, as far as the second lumbar ver- tebra. It is extremely slender. All its twigs arc ti'ansverse, and anastomose with those of the opposite side, or lose themselves upon the proper membrane of the spinal marrow, sending only some absolutely capillary ramifications to the pulpy substance of the latter. 2394. Anterior Spinal Artery {Art. spinalis anterior). It is a little larger than the preceding, and arises, internally, near the termination of the vertebral artery. It even sometimes comes from the inferior cerebellar or basilar artery. It descends in a tortuous manner upon the anterior surface of the upper extremity of the spinal maiTow, gives some ramifications to it, and unites angularly with that of the opposite side opposite the occipital foramen. There results from this union a very llexuous common trunk, which descends as fiir as the lower extremity of the spinal marrow, giving olF, to the right and left, twigs similar to those of the ■ posterior spinal arteries, and which is afterwards prolonged, without < dividing, in the midst of the nervous filaments forming the cauda ' equina, as far as the articulation of the sacrum with the coccyx, • where it terminates by anastomosing with the twigs of the lateral ! sacral arteries. 2395. Inferior Cerebellar Artery {Art. inferior cerehelli). It : arises externally from the end of the vertebral or even from theORGANS or CIRCULATION. 07G basilar trunk. Its size is very variable, although almost always pretty considerable. It directs itself transversely outwards, cross- ing the corpus pyramidale, passes between the origins of the corresponding pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, and advances in a serpentine manner upon the inferior surface of the cerebellum. Its first twigs, which are very small, are distri- buted to the superior extremity of the spinal marrow, the origins of the pneumo-gastric and hypo-glossal nerves, and the walls of the fourth ventricle. But the last, which are much larger, creep under the hemisphere of the cerebellum, as far as its circumference, where they communicate with those of the superior cerebellar ar- tery. There are only some which penetrate into the anfractuosi- ties; the rest subdivide at the surface, and form a very fine net- work in the pia mater. OF THIS BASILAll AllTKllY. 2396. The Basilar Artery (Jrteria basilaris), results from the union of the two vertebral arteries. Larger than either of them individually, it has yet a smaller calibre than that of the two to- gether. It commences posteriorly towards the groove which sepa- rates the cerebral protuberance from the medulla oblongata, ascends, describing some Hexuosities, in the groove which runs along the middle part of the protuberance, and ends anteriorly in the inter- val which sejiarates the crura of the brain. It therefore corres- })onds above to a groove of the protuberance, and rests below upon the basilar groove. 2397- III its short course, the basilar artery gives off on each side a great number of small irregular and flexuous twigs, which are distributed to the protuberance, the cerebellum, the corpora olivaria and pyramidalia, and the acoustic, facial and trifacial nerves. But there also separate from it two somewhat more remarkable branches, which are the superior cerebellar. 2398. Superior Cerebellar Artery {Art. cerebelli svperior). Arising from the basilar artery, near its termination, it directs it- self outwards and backwards under the protuberance and crus of the brain, around which it turns to ascend upon the upper surface of the cerebellum, opposite the tubercula quadrigemina, and after sending a great number of twigs over the protuberance, the crura cerebri and cerebelli, the tubercula quadrigemina, and into the pineal gland, the choroid plexus and the valvule of Vieussens, it divides into a great number of branches, some of which ascend in a very flexuous manner upon the posterior lobe of the cerebrum, whilst others descend upon the upper surface of tiie cerebellum, where they are distributed like those of the inferior cerebellar artery (2395). 2399. The basilar artery terminates by separating mto two branches, which are the posterior cerebral arteries.OF THE INFEIlIOll THYIIOID AllTERY. (377 OF THE POSTEllIOR CEKEBllAL ARTERY. 24)00. The Posterior Cerebral Artery {Art. cerebri profunda), iis much larger than the superior cerebellar, from which it is separ- ated at its commencement by the nerve of third pair, (1633). It [.proceeds at first forwards and outwards, then presently directs itself Lbackwards, turning over the corresponding crus of the brain, 'whence it gains the lower part of the posterior lobe of that organ. Ilmmediately after its commencement, it furnishes several small ttwigs to the mammiUary tubercles, and to the crura of the brain; it ^sends a pretty large one into the third ventricle for the thalamus of :the optic nerve, the tuber cinereum, and the anterior pillars of the ifornix. Precisely in the place where it is in contact with the nerve oof the third pair, it receives the communicating artery of Willis, which comes from the internal carotid (2381). Afterwards there sstill proceed from it a considerable number of twigs for the cerebral pprotuberance, the crus of the brain, the choroid plexus, the thalamus oof the optic nerve, the cornu Ammonis, the corpus striatum, the ppineal gland and the tubercula quadrigemina. 2401. The branches which this artery sends over the brain dive iinto the anfractuosities of its posterior lobe, and subdivide in the ppia mater like those of the other cerebral arteries, with which their rtamifications anastomose. 2402. The posterior cerebral arteries, the communicating arte- rries of Willis, the anterior cerebral, and the anterior communicat- iiing artery, form a sort of polygon, in the area of which are situated tfche mammiUary eminences, the tuber cinereum, the pituitary body, Hand the infundibulum. 2403. It is also to be observed, that the principal trunks of the arteries of the brain occupy the base of that organ, and are placed wetween it and the bony surfaces, so that the motions of the arte- irial circulation are communicated to the brain, as was first distihct- yy proved by Duverney. This impulse is transmitted to it in a unij (form manner, on account of the extensive anastomoses of these iflifl'erent trunks. The principal branches of these same trunks are dodged in the fissures and anfractuosities. The twigs subdivide to innfinity in the pia mater, and it is in reality only the capillary extremities of the vessels that penetrate into the pulp of the nrgan. OF THE INFEllIOR THYKOID AKTERY. (Art. Thyreoidea Inferior.J I 2404. Proportionally larger in children than in adults, it is of nnuch smaller size than the vertebral artery, and is more super- >.cial. It arises from the upper part of the subclavian, almostORGANS OF CIRCULATION. G78 opposite the internal mammary, and a little externally of the verte- bral. It ascends at lirst vertically upon the scalenus anticus, and, on arriving before the fifth vertebra, suddenly bends inwards, passes transversely behind the common carotid artery (2296), and goes in a tortuous manner to the thyroid body. 2405. Internal Branches. The inferior thyroid artery fur- nishes some internal branches of small size and indeterminate num- ber. They lose themselves by descending in the longus colli mus- cle, or are distributed to the oesophagus and trachea, which they accompany as far as the thorax. These latter are expanded upon the origin of the bronchi, and in the surrounding lymphatic gang- lia (2230), and anastomose with the bronchial arteries and the up- per intercostal. 2406. Ewternal Branches. The posterior and superior scapu- lar arteries often arise externally from the inferior thyroid; but tlic latter always furnishes in that direction a certain quantity of small branches, more or less slender, which ascend in the scalenus anti- cus and longus colli muscles, and another much larger branch which is of constant occurrence, and named 2407- Ascending Cervical Artery. {Art. cervicalis ascendens.) It ascends vipon the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, ar- rives at the rectus capitis anticus major, furnishes ramifications to both, and sends some, moreover, into the splenius muscle and lym- phatic ganglia of the neck. It anastomoses with the vertebral, posterior cervical, and occipital arteries. 2408. Arrived at the lower and outer part of the corresponding lobe of the thyroid body, the inferior thyroid artery divides into two large branches which separate from each other, pass behind the organ, and send it numerous twigs which subdivide in its sub- stance, anatomosing with the opposite inferior thyroid artery and with the two superior thyroids. It also sends some very small twigs to the mucous membrane of the trachea. OF THE INTERNAL MAMMAUY ARTERY. 2409- The Internal Mammary Artery, (Art. mamynaria in- terna J, arises from the subclavian at the same level as the inferior thyroid. It descends at first a little inwards before the scalenus anticus muscle, and externally of the phrenic nerve. It then enters the thorax, where it is situated on the outside of the pleura, along the posterior surface of the sterno-costal cartilages and internal in- tercostal muscles, whose direction it crosses. In descending, it gradually approaches the sternum, places itself between the trian- gularis sterni and the walls of the thorax, and, towards the xiphoid .cartilage, divides into two branches which are prolonged to a greater or less distance into the walls of the abdomen. 2410. Near its origin, the internal mammary artery sends a great(379 OF THE INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY, iinumber of branches to the thymus gland, the sterno-hyoidei and >sterno-thyroidei muscles, and the neighbouring lymphatic ganglia. 2411. Atiterior Mediastinal Artery. It comes off from the up- jper part of the mammary artery, and sometimes from the arch of tthe aorta itself, to descend into the upper part of the anterior me- tidiastinura. At its commencement, it gives some ramifications to tthe portion of the pericardium which surrounds the origin of the aaorta, and presently after divides into two branches. One of these tbranches ascends towards the lower part of the neck, behind the ssterno-thyroideus muscle, and loses itself in the parenchyma of the tthyroid body, anastomosing with the inferior thyroid arteries. The iother, which is larger, continues to descend in the mediastinum, 3 and divides into two twigs which separate from each other, and go tto subdivide in one or other pleura, still sending ramifications to tthe thymus, to the substernal lymphatic ganglia, and to the cellu- llar tissue of the mediastinum. 2412. Superior Phrenic Artery, (Art. comes nervi phrenici i&. pericardio-diaphragmatica.) Although of very small size, it al- iways exists, and comes off from the internal mammary artery op- ] posite the sternum. Directed inwards, backwards and downwards, I between the heart and lung, it exactly accompanies the phrenic I nerve, forming several sinuosities. It furnishes some small twigs I to the fibrous membrane of the pericardium, among which there is I observed one which descends as far as the diaphragm, and there I turns backwards to lose itself upon the oesophagus. It also sends ; some to the phrenic nerve, the thymus gland, the mediastinum, the i internal surface of the lung, and the walls of the pulmonary veins. When this artery has arrived at the middle and fore part of the I diaphragm, it divides into several branches which are consumed : in its fleshy fibres, and anastomose there with the inferior phrenic I arteries. 2413. In its passage behind the sterno-costal cartilages, the in- ternal mammary artery gives off on each side branches which are I distinguished into internal and external. 2414. External Branches, (Art. intercostales anteriores). Their number in general equals that of the intercostal spaces to which the artery corresponds. Their size and length are so much the greater, the lower the intercostal spaces are in which they are examined. They arise opposite the inferior edge of each cartilage, follow it for some extent, and descend afterwards upon the inter- costal muscle, in which most of them are entirely lost, communicat- ing with the twigs of the intercostal arteries. There arc some, however, which perforate the intercostal muscles, and are distribut- ed to the two pectoral muscles, the mamma and the integuments. Sometimes each intercostal space contains two of these branches, one of them following the inferior edge of the cartilage, the other the superior. 2415. Internal Branches. They are so much the larger the higher they are, which is the reverse of the preceding branches.080 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. Their number is the same as theirs. Immediately after their com- mencement, they throw some transverse twigs into the fibrous tis- sue which covers the posterior surface of the sternum, and direct themselves to the exterior of the thorax, passing through the inter- costal muscles near that bone. They then bend upon themselves, and send twigs in a radiating manner into the pectoralis major, obliquus externus abdominis, rectus abdominis and intercostales interni. They anastomose with the preceding branches, and with the external thoracic branches of the axillary artery. The last of these branches directs itself transversely over the xiphoid cartilage, and anastomoses there by an arch with that of the opposite side, whence it frequently descends between the linca alba and the peri- toneum to the suspensory ligament of the liver, where it com- municates with ramifications of the hepatic artery. 2416. Of the two branches which terminate the internal mam- mary artery, one is external, the other internal. The external (art. mmculn-phrenica) descends outwards behind the cartilages of the last ribs, furnishes some twigs to the diaphragm, passes between its insertions, and terminates in the transverse and oblique muscles of the abdomen ; it anastomoses with the inferior intercostal, lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries. The internal (art. epigastrica su- perior) descends behind the rectus muscle, gives it a great num- ber of twigs, and anastomoses towards the umbihcus with the epi- gastric artery. OF THE SUPERIOR TNTERCOSTAL AliTEIlY. (Art. intercostalis superior). 2417- Its volume and length vary much. Arising from the lower and back part of the subclavian, opposite the deep cervical artery, it descends before the neck of the first rib, externally of the inferior cervical ganglion, and forms some flexuosities. Opposite the lower edge of that rib, it gives off two twigs, the one posterior, the other external, and sometimes terminates there. But most commonly it passes before the neck of the second rib, and on arriv- ing at the second intercostal space, furnishes two other twigs. In some subjects it proceeds still lower. In the whole of this course, the superior intercostal artery is covered by the pleura. 2418. Before the first rib, it frequently sends a pretty large twig to the lower part of the scalenus anticus muscle. The pos- terior hranch which it furnishes in the first intercostal space is very small; and, after throwing some small twigs over the spinal marrow, by the intervertebral foramen, it emerges posteriorly be- tween the transverse processes and goes to lose itself in the muscles of the back. The external hranch, which comes off from it at the same point, is distributed to the two intercostal muscles^ after fur-OF THE TRANSVERSE CERVICAL ARTERY. G81 nisliing some ramifications to the periosteum of the vcrtebrao, the oesophagus and bronchi. 2419. In the second intercostal space, the artery terminates by- dividing into two branches, which follow precisely the same course as the preceding, and are lost in the muscles, or anastomose wide- ly with the first aortic intercostal artery. OF THE TRANSVERSE CEUVICAL ARTERY. (Art. transversalis colli)- 2420. Next to the vertebral, inferior thyroid, and mammary ar- teries, this is the largest branch of the sub-clavian. It sometimes arises from the inferior thyroid. Directing itself transversely out- wards, it winds along the scaleni muscles above the nerves which form the brachial plexus, in the triangular space which exists be- tween the sterno-cleido-mastoideus and trapezius muscles and the clavicle, where it is covered by the first of these muscles. It then curves and descends obliquely backwards, under the trapezius and levator anguU scapulae muscles, changes its direction again, and descends vertically under the rhomboideus muscle, along the pos- terior edge of the scapula, where it gets the name of posterior sca- pular {art. scapularis posterior), to terminate by subdividing near its inferior angle. 2421. Near its origin, this artery gives off several branches to the scaleni muscles, which ascend vertically, and another larger and more superficial branch (Superjicial Cervical Artery), which proceeds in a tortuous manner from within backwards, and goes to be distributed to the splenius and trapezius muscles, the cellular tissue and skin of the inferior and lateral region of the neck. In passing under the levator anguli scapulae, it sends upwards a pretty large branch to this muscle and the trapezius, and downwards se- veral branches, which descend under the latter muscle as far as the supra-spinatus, and are equally distributed among them, communi- cating with several branches of the supra-scapular artery. 2422. Opposite the rhomboideus muscle, the transverse cervical artery separates into two equal branches, one of which follows the posterior edge of the scapula, and spreads out in the sub-scapula- ris, serratus magnus, rhomboideus, serratus posticus superior, la- tissimus dorsi and trapezius muscle, as well as in the integuments of the back ; while the other proceeds outwards, under the scapula, and is destined for the serratus magnus and sub-scapularis alone. 2423. In some subjects the transverse cervical artery comes from the axillary, and then, instead of passing above the nerves of the brachial plexus, it glides in one of the intervals which they leave between them.ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. OF THE SUPUA-SCAPULAR ARTERY. {Art. scapularis superior seu transversalis humeri.) 2424. Less voluminous than the preceduig, it more commonly comes off from the inferior thyroid than from the subclavian itself; sometimes it has a trunk common to it and the transverse cer- vical or internal mammary artery. In all cases it proceeds in a tortuous manner from within outwards, behind the clavicle, cover- ed by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, platysma-myoides and trape- zius muscles, and arrives at the upper edge of the scapula, follow- ing exactly the course of the supra-scapular nerve (1753). On arriving near the supra-spinatus muscle, it passes above the cora- coid ligament, dives between the supra-spinatus muscle and the fossa of the same name, directs itself outwards under the arch form- ed by the clavicle and acromion process united, winds over the edge of the spine of the scapula, and enters into the fossa infra-spinata, between the bone and the infra-spinatus muscle. 2425. In the first part of its course this artery furnishes several twigs to the subclavius and platysma myoides muscles, to the clavicle, the cellular tissue and lymphatic ganglia of the lower part of the neck. Before passing over the coracoid ligament, it sends to the supra-spinatus muscle a pretty large superficial branch, which gives twigs to the trapezius muscle and acromio-clavicular articulation : they anastomose with the transverse cervical artery. Lastly, in the fossa infra-spinata the supra-scapular artery anasto- moses with the sub-scapular which comes from the axillary artery, and divides into two principal branches, of which one follows the anterior edge of the scapula and belongs to the teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles, while the other proceeds transversely back- wards under the spine of the scapula, and throws a multitude of twigs into the infra-spinatus muscle. OF THE DEEP CEUVICAL ARTERY. 2426. The deep cervical artery, (Art. cervicalis profunda) arises from the posterior and deep part of the sub-clavian, exter- nally of the inferior thyroid, behind the scalenus anticus muscle, and immediately before the transverse processes. It has been seen to come from the inferior thyroid or vertebral artery, or to have a common trunk with the superior intercostal. Immediately after its origin, it ascends obliquely outwards, passes between the two last transverse processes of the neck, after giving small twigs to the scaleni, longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major muscles, directs itself backwards, vipwards and inwards, between the com- plexus and semi-spinalis colli muscles becomes vertical, and ends by anastomosing, towards the head, with the vertebral and occipi-OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. G83 tal arteries, sending numerous ramifications into the muscles and integuments of the back part of the neck. OF THE AXILLARY* ARTERY. (Arteria a.viUaris.) 2427. It forms the direct continuation of the subclavian. Si- tuated at the superior lateral part of the thorax and in the axilla, it commences in the interval between the two scaleni muscles, and directs itself obliquely downwards and outwards, as far as the level of the inferior edge of the latissimus dorsi muscle, where the bra- chial artery commences. In this course, it describes a curve of which the convexity is directed outwards and upwards, and the concavity inwards and downwards. 2428. The anterior side of the axillary artery is at first cover- ed by the platysma myoides, in a small triangular space which is formed by the scalenus anticus muscle, the nerves of the brachial plexus and the clavicle. It is then in relation with the clavicle itself, whose direction it crosses, and with the subclavius muscle. Still lower, the pectorahs major muscle, then the pectoralis minor, and lastly, the tendon of the pectoralis major and the coraco- brachialis and biceps muscles are applied upon it. From the cla- vicle to the lower joart of the axilla, the axillary vein lies upon the artery of the same name. 2429. Its posterior side rests internally upon the brachial plexus. At the middle it corresponds to the cellular interval which sepa- rates the serratus magnus and subscapularis muscles. Externally it lies upon the teres major and latissimus dorsi. 2430. Its tinder or inner side is at first lodged in a more or less deep groove which the upper surface of the first rib presents for it; it then corresponds to the first intercostal muscle, the se- cond rib, and the upper digitation of the serratus magnus, from which it is afterwards more or less separated by the brachial plexus, or by cellular tissue and lymphatic ganglia. 2431. Its upper or outer side is at first covered by the skin, the platysma myoides and a layer of adipose tissue; afterwards by the clavicle and subclavius muscle, and lastly, by the capsule of the shoulder-joint, the subscapularis muscle, and the tendon of the teres major and latissimus dorsi, wliich separates it from the upper part of the humerus. 2432. The axillary vein is always placed before the artery, as we have already said. The brachial plexus is situated behind the latter until oear the lower edge of the subscapularis muscle, where the principal branches of this plexus embrace the artery and form for it a kind of sheath (1749). Axilla, the arm-pit.ORGANS OF CmCULATION. est Branches which the Axillary Artery gives off opposite the Thorax:. 2433. The Acromial Thoracic Artery. It is of considerable size, and comes off from the fore part of the axillary artery, oppo- site the upper edge of the pectoralis minor, and frequently by a trunk common to it and the superior thoracic. Concealed at its commencement by the pectoralis major, it descends obliquely outwards towards the deltoid muscle, throwing some small twigs into the subclavius, serratus magnus and first intercostal muscle. Arrived at the narrow interval which separates the deltoid from the pectoralis major, it divides into two branches, a superior and an inferior. The Superior Branch ascends in a tortuous manner in the in- terval which we have just mentioned, and arrives at the clavicle. There it gives off a transverse twig which is distributed to the skin of the top of the shoulder and upon the deltoid muscle. It then dives under that muscle, and still divides into two twigs, one of which follows the edge of the clavicle to its acromial articula- tion, while the other, which is larger, forms a net-work upon the fibrous capsule of the shoulder joint. It anastomoses with the su- perior scapular artery. The Inferior Branch follows the course of the cephahc vein be- tween the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles (1072), and divides into two twigs which are distributed to each of them, anastomosing with the thoracic and circumflex arteries. 2434. The Superior Thoracic Artery. Most commonly it arises along with the acromial. Its size is variable. It descends obliquely forwards between the pectoralis major and pectoralis mi- nor muscles, to which it is distributed by a great number of twigs, some of which run superficially as far as the mamma. It anasto- moses with the intercostal arteries and the internal mammary. In some subjects there are two or three superior thoracic arteries. 2435. The Long Thoracic or External Mammary Artery. It sometimes arises along with the superior; but more commonly it comes off from the axillary a little lower than it. It descends at first almost vertically, and only a little from behind forwards on the lateral part of the thorax, between the lower edge of the pecto- ralis major, which covers it and the serratus magnus on which it lies. It then bends inwards, becomes subcutaneous, and divides in- to several branches which embrace the mamma. This artery gives numerous twigs to the pectoralis major, serra- tus magnus, and intercostales muscles, the lymphatic ganglia of the axilla, the integuments and mamma. It anastomoses with the intercostal, internal mammary and superior thoracic arteries.685 OF THE SUB-SCArULAJl AllTEIlY. Branches which the Axillary Artery gives off' in the Axilla and upper part of the Arm. OF THE SUB-SCAPULAR ARTERY. 24'3G. The Sub-Scapular Artery {Art. infrascapularis), is of considerable size, and comes off from the lower part of the axillary artery, opposite the lower edge of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle, and behind the brachial plexus. Immediately after its origin, it gives off three or four pretty large branches which pro- ceed transversely either to the lymphatic ganglia of the axilla, or to the subscapularis muscle. It then descends obliquely along the lower edge of that muscle, and presently divides into two con- siderable branches, an inferior and smaller, and a superior and larger. 2437- Inferior Branch. It descends vipon the subscapularis muscle, and along the anterior edge of the scapula, as far as the lower third of the latter, between the latissimus dorsi and serratus magnus muscles, and in the midst of cellular tissue. It divides in- to a very great number of twigs, all of large size, which are ex- panded partly in the middle and inferior portions of the serratus magnus, and partly in the latissimus dorsi and integuments of the back. Some of them run along the edge of the scapula and turn over its inferior angle, to anastomose posteriorly with twigs of the superior branch, and of the transverse cervical artery. 2438. Superior Branch, {Art. dorsalis scapulce). It runs ho- rizontally from before backwards, first between the latissimus dorsi and subscapularis, teres major and minor, and then between the triceps extensor and subscapularis muscles, to turn over the ante- rior edge of the scapula. At its commencement it gives a re- markable twig to the latissimus dorsi, near its tendon, and throws some small twigs into the subscapularis, teres major and teres mi- nor muscles. After turning over the edge of the scapula, it enters into the fossa infra-spinata, where it divides into two twigs. One of these twigs, which is superficial and smaller, glides between the skin and aponeurosis of the infra-spinatvis muscle ; while the other, Avhich is deep and much larger, passes under the teres minor and infi-a-spinatus muscles, and is distributed in their substance by three or four large secondary twigs. One of them ascends under the acromion to enter into the fossa supra-spinata, and goes to an- astomose with a branch of the supra-scapular artery. OF THE CIHCUMFLEX ARTERIES OF THE HUMERUS. 2439. The Posterior Circumjlcv Artery. Less voluminous thanORGANS OF CIIiCULATION. G86 the preceding, it arises from the posterior part of the axillary artery, and passes backwards round the upper part of the shaft of the hume- rus, between the subscapularis and teres major muscles, and before the long portion of the triceps extensor. It gives them some twigs, then dives under the deltoid, and arrives at the fore and outer part of the humerus. There then come off from it superior twigs which ascend to be distributed to the capsule of the shoulder joint, and to the teres minor and infra^spinatus muscles, as well as to the fleshy fibres of the deltoid, between which it anastomoses with the acromial artery ; and inferior tivigs, which descend in the sub- stance of the deltoid as far as its tendon. 7'he artery itself is dis- tributed to that muscle, and there communicates with the anterior circumflex artery. 2440. Tlie Anterior Circunr/le.v Artery. It is very small, and is frequently furnished by the preceding. It directs itself horizcm- tally forwards and outwards, under the coraco-brachialis muscle and under the short portion of the biceps flexor, running along the up- per edge of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major mus- cles. It then turns over the upper part of the humerus, runs be- tween that bone and the deltoid as far as the bicipital groove (442), passes under the tendon of the long portion of the biceps, and dives into the substance of the deltoid where it loses itself. This artery is always immediately applied upon the bone, and adiieres to it in a decided manner.. It gives but very few twigs to the deltoid muscle until its termination; but it sends a great number upon the fi- brous capsule of the shoulder joint, and upon the subscapularis muscle, near its attachment. Pretty frequently, instead of losing itself in the deltoid, the an- terior circumflex artery ascends in the bicipital groove and is ex- panded over the capsule. OF THE BRACHIAL OR HUMERAL xMlTERY. (Arteria Brachialis sou Humeraria). 2441. Placed at the inner and fore part of the arm, from the axilla to a finger's breadth beneath the bend of the elbow, it forms the true continuation of the subclavian and axillary arteries. Pretty deep, and altogether internal above, it becomes more superficial and anterior as it descends. 2442. Anteriorly, the brachial artery is successively covered from above downwards, by the coraco-brachialis muscle, which is separ- ated from it by a considerable thickness of cellular tissue, the bra- chial aponeurosis, and the skin along the inner edge of the biceps muscle, and lastly at the bend of the elbow, by the inferior aponeu- rosis of the biceps, the median basilic vein and the skin, from which it is separated by a pretty thick layer of cellular tissue. 2443. Posteriorly, it is free in its upper third, which is scparat-687 OF THE HUMERAL AUTEIIY. ed from the triceps extensor muscle by a great quantity of fat; but, in the rest of its extent, it is applied upon the brachialis internus muscle. 2444.. Internally, it is accompanied by the brachial vein and median nerve (1763), and covered by the integuments. 2445. Eatternally, it is applied, in its upper third, upon the in- ner surface of the humerus, from which it is only separated by the lower extremity of the coraco-brachiahs muscle. Farther down it is lodged in the groove between the biceps and brachialis internus muscles ; and at its lowest part, corresponds to the tendon of the biceps. 2446. The brachial artery gives off a great number of branches which are distinguished into anterior, posterior, internal and exter- nal. Inferiorly, it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries Of the Anterior Branches of the Brachial Artery. 2447- They are all distributed to the biceps flexor or the inte- guments. They are in general very slender, and their number indeterminate, as well as their place of origin and their disposition. Most commonly however there are two constant branches towards the upper third of the arm, which descend forwards in the sub- stance of the biceps muscle, and subdivide as far as its lower part. Of the Posterior Branches of the Brachial Artery. 2448. Very short and slender, and irregular as to number, they dive immediately after their origin into the brachialis internus muscle, subdividing there into radiating twigs. Some are seen which proceed downwards as far as the tendon of the muscle, and then change their direction to enter into the bleeps; others bend upwards, and send some ramifications as far as the deltoid muscle. Of the External Branches of the Brachial Artery. 2449. They are small and few in number. They go to the coraco-brachiahs muscle, or pass between the brachialis internus and biceps to be distributed to the integuments. Of the Internal Branches of the Brachial Artery. 2450. The Superficial and Superior Internal Branches. Their number is indeterminate, although always considerable. Some of them ascend towards the fore part of the axilla, and spread out an- teriorly upon the pectoralis major, and externally upon the deltoid,ORGANS OF ClilCULATION. G88 anastomosing with the thoracic and circumflex arteries. Others direct themselves transversely inwards and backwards, round the long portion of the triceps extensor, in which they descend to a greater or less extent, ramifying much. Lastly, there are some which arise lower and descend, some backwards in the long por- tion of the same muscle, the others forwards in its inner portion. Among these latter there is commonly one which follows the ulnar nerve to the lower part of the arm, where it anastomoses near the inner condyle with the twigs of the ramus anastomoticus. 2451. The Deep Humeral Artery. {Art. profunda humeri.) It is of considerable size, but does not always come from the bra- chial artery, being sometimes given off' by the posterior circum- flex, sometimes by the subscapular. When it is furnished by the brachial artery, it separates from it above the inner portion of the triceps extensor muscle, opposite the groove of the humerus in ■which the musculo-spiral or radial nerve winds, and follows the course of that nerve exactly, being placed above it (1777)- It therefore passes at first between the triceps extensor and the hu- merus, directing itself backwards and downwards, and when it has arrived at the middle of the posterior surface of the arm, enters be- tween the triceps extensor and brachialis internus, emerges through the interval which separates them, and becomes superficial. It then descends vertically, and at a greater or less distance from the elbow joint separates into two branches. 2452. Near its origin, the deep humeral artery gives off poste- rior twigs which descend to a greater or less distance in the triceps extensor muscle, and of which one follows its inner portion to near the olecranon. At the same point there also separate from it ex- ternal branches which go to the outer portion of the muscle, the brachialis internus, and over the periosteum of the humerus. One of them {art. nutritia humeri) enters the nutritious canal of that bone, and is distributed to its medullary membrane, 2453. Two branches terminate this artery ; one of them follows its original direction and loses itself in the triceps extensor muscle, near its insertion into the olecranon. The other directs itself be- tween the brachialis internus and the integuments, and gives a great number of ramifications to them as well as to the upper part of the supinator longus. 2454. In many cases, the trunk itself of the deep humeral ar- tery anastomoses a little above the outer condyle with a branch given off farther down, and with which it forms a transverse arch, which embraces the humerus externally. The twigs which issue from this arch are diffused over the elbow joint and the origins of the extensor muscles of the hand. 2455. The Ramus Anastomoticus. It arises from the brachial, very near the inner condyle, and directs itself transversely inwards, before the brachiahs internus muscle and behind the median nerve, whose direction it crosses. It passes through the aponeurosis placed between the brachialis internus and the inner edge of theOF THE RADIAL ARTERY. 689 : triceps extensor, and there divides into two twigs. One of them j follows the edge of the humerus as far as the inner condyle, on ' which it subdivides, and wliere it communicates with the anterior I ulnar recurrent artery; it sends oft' a secondary twig which de- scends upon the fore-arm, between the olecranon and inner condyle, : and accompanies the ulnar nerve to a certain distance. The other ; passes backwards into the olecranal cavity, subdivides and throws 1 itself into the lower part of the triceps muscle; it anostomoscs ' with the posterior ulnar recurrent artery. The ramus anastomoti- ) cus magnus moreover furnishes many small twigs to the brachialis i internus and pronator teres muscles, the elbow joint, the integu-* 1 ments, and the ulnar nerve. A second anastomosing artery is frequently met with. Branches by which the Brachial Artery terminates. 2456. They are two in number, the ulnar artery and the radial ; artery, and separate from each other at an acute angle, under the i bend of the arm, and at the place where the tendon of the biceps I flexor dives between the anterior muscles of the fore-arm. This « division of the brachial artery is not always situated at the same ] point, and not unfirequently takes place about the middle of the : arm, and even sometimes in the axilla. Before furnishing the ra- ( dial and ulnar arteries, this trunk sends in all cases some isolated : and small twigs into the bundle of muscles which are attached to t the inner condyle. OF THE EADIAL ARTERY- {Arteria Radialis.) 2457. More superficilal and smaller than the ulnar, it follows the « original direction of the brachial artery, and extends at the fore and outer part of the fore-arm, from the bend of the elbow to the ' wrist joint, where it winds outwards, and dives under the tendons ( of the extensor muscles of the thumb, to place itself in the interval ' of the first two metacarpal bones. From thence it descends be- : twcen the second of these bones and the abductor indicis (1241), and passes into the palm of the hand, where it constitutes the deep i palmar arch. OF THE RADIAL ARTERY IN THE FORE-ARM. 2458. Before the radial artery arrives at the wrist, it has the ' following relations to the neighbouring parts : 2 YOltGANS OF CIRCULATION. 1". Posteriorly, it is applied upon the anterior surface of the ra- dius, from which it is separated above by fat and by the supinator brevis, in the middle by the pronator teres, farther down by the flexor longus pollicis, and still lower by the pronator quadratus muscle, below which it rests immediately upon the bone. 2°. Anteriorly, it is covered by the radial vein, in its whole ex- tent, and in its two upper thirds by much adipose tissue, and by the supinator radii longus ; but below, it becomes subcutaneous, and its pulsations may be very distinctly felt through the skin dur- ing life. 3°. Internally, it is applied against the pronator teres above, the flexor carpi radialis at the middle, and flexor digitorum subli- piis below. 4°. Externally, it corresponds only to the supinator longus and the radial nerve. 2459- The branches which the radial artery gives to the fore- arm are distinguished into anterior, posterior, external, and in- ternal. 24()0. Jnterior Branches. Their number is as uncertain as their disposition. They pass through the aponeurosis and arc dis- tributed to the integuments of the fore-arm. 2461. Posterior Branches. They are very slender, and de- scend obliquely towards the flexor longus pollicis and pronator quadratus, in which they are lost. 24C2. External Branches. The largest of these branches se- parates from the radial artery at its commencement. It is named the Radial fiecurrent (Art. recurrens radialis). Directing it- self at first transversely towards the supinator longus, it pre- sently bends to ascend between it, the supinator brevis and bra- chialis internus muscles, to the neighbourhood of the olecranon. It thus forms a kind of arch, ftom the convexity of which pro- ,ceed several twigs, which descend between the two supinator muscles, to which they are distributed, as well as to the two exten- sores carpi radiales, the extensor digitorum communis, and the ex- tensor muscles of the thumb. In terminating, this artery divides into several other twigs, which anastomose with those of the deep humeral artery (2451). The other external branches are numerous, but their occurrence is not always reguLar. They descend obliquely in the supinator longus and extensores carpi radiales, as well as in tlie extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 2463. Internal Branches. Very numerous, but irregular, they are distributed in the muscles of the anterior and superficial layer of the fore-arm. Two of them, however, are constant, and arise from the radial ar.tery, close to the wrist. The first, Avhich is very small and deep, directs itself transversely inwards, along the infe- rior edge of the pronator quadratus muscle, and anastomoses with similar branch of the \ilnar artery, forming an arch wliich fur-OF THE RADIAL AUTEllY. 691 nishcs twigs, above, for the pronator quadratus, and, below, for the 1 ligaments of the wrist. 2464. The second branch {superjicialis voice) is superficial, and varies much as to size. It descends obliquely before the an^ :terior annular hgament of the wrist, and gains the palm of the hand, after passing through the upper extremity of the abductor pollicis. It anastomoses with the extremity of the superficial palmar arch, formed by the ulnar artery, and sends a great num- ber of twigs to the muscles and integuments of the external palmar : region. ' OF THE RADIAL ASTEHY BEHIND THE WIIIST. 2465. It is only covered, in this region, by the tendons of the textensores pollicis, and by the integuments. It is applied upon ( the ligaments of the carpus, and upon the upper part of the first ! metacarpal Ibone. The branches which here come off from it are i distinguished into internal and external. 2466. External Branches. They are three in number, and are distributed to the thumb. The first descends under the ten- dons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii, • pollicis, and goes to the attachment of the abductor pollicis, where i it loses itself The second, which arises a little lower, is called I the Dorsal Artery of the Thumb, (Art. dorsalis pollicis). It I descends obliquely outwards, behind the first metacarpal bone and ( over the first phalanx of the thumb, and terminates by anastomos- i ing with its external collateral artery, after distributing some very : small twigs to the periosteum, the integuments and the abductor 1 muscle of the thumb. The third descends along with the tendon ! of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, upon the inner edge of I the first metacarpal bone. It gives ramifications to the periosteuiri and abductor muscle of the fore-finger. 2467- Internal Branches. They are two in number. One be- I longs to the carpus, the other to the metacarpus. 1°. Dorsal Artery of the Carpus, (Art. dorsalis carpi a radiali). '. It arises opposite the outer edge of the tendon of the extensor carpi ! radiahs longior, and directs itself transversely inwards over the posterior surface of the second row of carpal bones, covered by the tendons of the extensores carpi radiales and extensores digitorum, : and terminates by anastomosing with a similar branch of the ulnat artery, or by dividing into several twigs. But, in its course, it gives off very short superior twigs, which lose themselves upon the ' hgaments of the radio-carpal articulation, and communicate with \ those of the anterior interosseous artery, and longer inferior twigs, i in indetcnninate number, which descend towards the superior ex- ' tremitics of the metacarpal bones, where they anastomose with the ! perforating arteries of the deep palmar arch. They then proceedORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 692 behind the interossci muscles, and lose themselves in their sub- stance and in the integuments of the back of the hand. 2°. Dorsal Artery of tke Metacarpus. It comes off from th( radial artery when it is about to enter into the upper extremity of the abductor indicis muscle. It passes immediately over the second matacarpal bone, along which it descends obliquely to the middle of the back of the hand. Sometimes it is prolonged as far as the index. Its twigs are distributed to the abductor indicis and integuments; some of these communicate with the dorsal artery' of the wrist. 2468. Before entering into the palm of the hand, the radial artery gives off a branch which descends between tlie flexor brcvis poUicis and abductor indicis muscles, and divides into two twigs, one of which follows the inner edge of the thumb, the other the outer edge of the forefinger, at the extremities of which they anas- tomose with the collateral vessels; these two branches sometimes come off separately from the radial. ,? OF THE RADIAL ARTERY IN THE PALM OF THE HAND. 24G9- On entering the palm of the hand the radial artery gives off the arteria magna pollicis, which proceeds downwards and towards the lower extremity of the first metacarpal bone, and divides into two branches, which run, the one along the radial side, and the^ other along the ulnar side, of the anterior surface of the thumb. 2470. Deep Palmar Arch, (arcus palmaris profundus). It is formed by the continuation of the radial artery, which passes transversely to near the ring-finger, describing a slight curve hav- ing its convexity directed downwards. It is covered by the addvictor pollicis, the tendons of the two flexor muscles of the fingers, and the lumbricales, and rests upon the extremities of the metacarpal bones and upon the interossei muscles. The twigs which it furnishes are superior, inferior, anterior and posterior. 2471. Superior Twigs. They are very slender and not nume- rous. They ascend before the carpus and are distributed to its ligaments and to the adductor, flexor brevis and opponens pollicis muscles. 2472. Inferior Twigs, {Arteries interosseai volares). More voluminous and longer, they are generally five in number. The first is generally larger than the others, and proceeds along the whole length of the forefinger, forming its digito-radial branch. The next three descend in the interosseous spaces, from the second to the fourth, and at the articulation of the metacarpal bones with the fingers, divide into small twigs which are distributed upon the fingers. The fifth is a little inclined downwards, and passes be- tween the flexor brevis and opponens minimi digiti, in which it loses itself.OF THE ULNAR ARTERY. 693 2473. Anterior Twigs. Very short and small, they are en- ttirely destined for the lumbricales muscles. . 2474. Posterior Twigs or Perforating arteries, (Art. per^ fforantes). They are three in number. At their commencement, tthey pass through the corresponding interossei muscles, and go to lanastomose on the back of the hand, with the twigs of the dorsal aartery of the wrist (21G7)- . 2475. The deep palmar arch terminates, toward the inner edge oof the hand, by anastomosing with a branch of the ulnar artery, liunder the flexor brevis and opponens pollicis muscles. OF THE ULNAR ARTERY. 24?76. The Ulnar artery (Arteria ulnar is seu cubitalis) is Harger than the radial, and descends at the anterior and inner part lof the fore-arm, from the bend of the arm to the palm of the hand, lit is at first directed a little obliquely inwards, and enters between ttwo layers of the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, whose direction lit slightly crosses. At the middle part of the fore-arm, it becomes vvertical and emerges from beneath the muscles, in the place where tithe flexor digitorum sublimis muscle separates from the flexor carpt ulnaris. It preserves its direction as far as the pisiform bone^ where it is nearly as superficial as the radial artery. It then bends ooutwards, passes over the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, aand forms in the palm of the hand the superficial palmar arch. The ulnar artery, in this course, is a little flexuous. Its upper ppart describes a slight curve, of which the convexity is directed iinwards and backwards. 2477- Its anterior side is covered above, at first by the median nnerve, afterwards by the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, pal- nmaris longus, flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris lanuscles, Inferiorly, it is in relation with the aponeurosis and siskin, from which it is separated only by the lateral projections I of the flexor sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris. In the hand, it i-is entirely concealed beneath the palmaris brevis and palmar apo- aneurosis. 2478. Its posterior side is applied, from above downwards, upon |tlthe brachialis internus, flexor digitorum sviblimis and pronator qquadratus muscles, the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and the tendons of the two flexor muscles of the fingers. 2479. Its inner side is accompanied by the ulnar nerve and flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. It corresponds below to the pisiform bone. I 2480. Its outer side is applied upon the flexor digitorum sub- lilimis. 2481. Anterior Ulnar Recurrent Artery, (Art. recnrrens td- »mri$ anterior). It arises from the inner side of the ulnar artery, " lat its commenGement, and descends at first a little outwards betweenORGANS OF emCULATION. 694 the brachialis intcrnus and pronator teres and flexor carpi radialLs muscles. It then ascends towards the fore part of the inner con- dyle, where it anastomoses with the ramus anastomoticus (2455). It is of small size, and gives twigs to the pronator teres, flexor carpi yadialis and flexor digitorum sublimis muscles, the periosteum of thq humerus and the integuments. 2482. In the fore-arm, the ulnar artery gives off branches whicli are distinguished into internal, external, and anterior. 2483. Internal Branches. The largest and most constant is the Posterior Ulnar Recurrent Artery, {Art. recurrens ulnaris posterior), which much exceeds the anterior in size, and comes off from the ulnar artery a little lower than it, and sometimes along with it. It descends at first inwards, behind the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis and flexor digitorum subhmis, and before the flexor digitorum profundus. It then ascends behind the inner condyle, between that eminence and the olecranon, beside the ul- nar nerve, passes between the two origins of the flexor carpi ulnaris (•1159), and anastomoses with the deep humeral (2451) and the ramus anastomoticus (2455). It gives off a great number of twigs which arc distributed to the flexor muscles of the fingers, flexor carpi ulnaris, and triceps extensor muscles, to the ligaments of the elbow joint, and to the ulnar nerve and integuments. 2484. Nothing can be less regular as to number and dispo- sition than the other internal branches. One of them however, which is somewhat larger than the rest, separates from the ulnar artery at its lowest part, and goes to unite with the dorsal artery of the carpus, or to lose itself upon the corresponding edge of the Hand. 2485. Ext^nal Branches. Very numerous and small, they almost all throw themselves into the flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris. One of them however is constant in its occur- rence ; it follows the inferior edge of the pronator quadratus, and goes to communicate with a similar branch of the radial artery (2463). 2486. Anterior Branches. They are very numerous, and are all distributed to the superficial and anterior muscles of the fore- arm. One of them only, which is longer and larger than the Others, and sometimes arises from the interosseal artery, descends behind the median nerve as far as the lower part of the fore-arm, and gives oft" laterally a great number of small twigs to the flexor digitorum sublimis. OF THE INTEROSSEAL ARTERY. 2487- The Interosseal Artery, (Arteria interossea), comes from the posterior part of the ulnar, a little beneath the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, and is always of considerable size. It di- rects itself horizontally backwards, and almost immediately divides695 OF THE ULNAR ARTEllY. into two branches which are named the anterior and posterior in- tcrosscal. 2488. Anterior Interosseal Artery. It descends vertically be-- fore tlie interosseous ligament, between the flexor longus pollicis and flexor tligitorimi profundus muscles, which conceal it by their approximation. Arrived at the upper edge of the pronator qua- dratus muscle, where its size is already sensibly diminished, it passes behind it, perforates the interosseous ligament near the in- ferior articulation of the radius and vdna, descends in the groove ■which lodges the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis muscles, passes over the carpus, and then divides, anastomosing with the dorsal artery of that part. In its course, the anterior interosseal artery gives off the nvtri- tious arteries of the radius and ulna, and numerous twigs, which direct themselves transversely or descend obliquely in the flexor longus pollicis and flexor digitorum sublimis. Anteriorly and in- feriorly, there also separate from it some twigs for the pronator quadratus muscle. Those which come off posteriorly pass through the interosseous ligament, and go to lose themselves in the pos- terior and deep muscles of the fore-arm, or to anastomose with the branches of the posterior interosseal artery. 2489. Posterior Interosseal Artery. It passes above the in- terosseous ligament, and appears at the posterior and upper part of the fore-arm, under the anconeus muscle, where it divides into two branches of nearly equal size. 1°. One of these, named the Interosseal Recurrent Artery^ {Arteria recurrens inierossea), ascends between the anconeus and extensor carpi ulnaris muscles, as far as the back part of the outer condyle, where it anastomoses with the twigs of the deep humeral artery (2451) and radial recurrent (2462). It distributes its divi- sions to the extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus and triceps extensor muscles, the elbow-joint, and to the periosteum of the humerus and bones of the fore-arm. 2°. The other branch, or Posterior Interosseal Artery, pro- perly so called, descends vertically between the supinator brevis and extensor ossis raetacarpi pollicis muscles, and afterwards between the two layers of the posterior muscles of the fore-arm, as far as the' posterior surface of the carpus, where it anastomoses with the an- terior interosseal. It becomes much smaller inferiorly, and gives a great number of ramifications to the extensor carpi ulnaris, ex- tensor proprius minimi digiti, extensor digitorum communis, exten- sores carpi radiales, supinator brevis, extensor ossis metaearpi pol- licis, extensor primi internodii and extensor secundi internodii pol- licis, and extensor indicis. One of its twigs, which is much larger than the rest, passes between the extensor ossis metaearpi poHicis, and extensor primi internodii pollicis, gains the inferior extremity of the radius, and loses itself separately at the posterior and ex- ternal part of the carpus. »ORGANS OF CIRCULATION^ G9G OF THE ULNAR AKtERY IN THE PALM OF THE HAND. 2490. Superficial Palmar Arch, (Jrcus superjitialis voice). When the ulnar artery has passed the pisiform bone, it descends at first vertically before the anterior annular ligament of the wrist^ then bends ovitwards in the palm of the hand, to form this arch, of which the convexity is directed downwards. Towards the up- per extremity of the fourth metacarpal bone, it communicates with a branch of the radial artery. The concavity of this arch gives off but very few twigs, which are distributed to the lumbricales muscles and annular ligament. But its convexity generally furnishes four larger branches, which arc called the Digital Arteries. The first of these digital arteries descends obliquely inwards upon the muscles of the little finger, to which it gives ramifica- tions, and whose direction it crosses at right angles. It is after- wards placed upon the inner edge of the little finger, and reaches as far as its extremity. The other three branches descend in the interosseous spaces to the heads of the metacarpal bones, where they divide each into two twigs, thus, the second divides into the digito-radial artery of the little finger and the digito-ulnar of the ring-finger ; the third into the digito-radial of the ring-finger and the digito-ulnar of the middle finger ; and the fourth into the digito-radial of the .mid- dle finger and digito-ulnar of the forefinger.* They anastomose by an arch with each other, in the substance of the pulp of the fingers, and give off in their course a great number of twigs, which are distributed to the tendons and sheaths of the flexor muscles, the periosteum of the phalanges, the ligaments by which they arc united, and especially to the integuments. OF THE ARTERIES WHICH ARISE FROM THE THORACIC AORTA. 2491. They are distinguished into those which come from its anterior part and those which issue from its sides. Branches which the Thoracic Aorta gives off Anteriorly. 2492. Of the Bronchial Arteries (Art. hronchiaks). There are commonly two, a right and a left. The right arises from the aorta itself, or, which is more common, from the first intercostal artery. * There is sometimes another artery wliich tlividcs.iiito a digilo-nulial hrancli for Ihe forciinger, and u digito-ulnar for tlio tlinml);AORTIC INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES. 097 Sometimes it is the internal mammary artery that furnishes it. At its commencement, it throws some twigs over the oesophagus. It then advances in a tortuous manner along the posterior part of the bronchus of its side, and sends some shght ramifications over the pleura, pericardium, and bronchial lymphatic ganglia. 2493. The left bronchial artery arises from the aorta, at the same level as the right, gives small twigs to the same parts, pro- ceeds behind the left bronchus, and arrives at the corresponding lung. 2494. Frequently the two bronchial arteries come from the com- mon trunk. Sometimes there are four of them, two for the right lung and two for the left. They present a multitude of variations ; but in all cases when they have arrived at the entrance of the bronchi into the lungs, the right commonly separates into five twigs, and the left into four. These twigs plunge into the paren- chyma of the organ, along with those of the bronchi, and sub- divide precisely like them, in such a manner, however, that each bronchial twig is accompanied by two or three very flexuous arterial twigs, frequently anastomosing together. There results a very fine net-work, which is especially distributed to the bronchi, al- though some ramifications also go to the parenchyma of the lung, and the walls of the pulmonary arteries and veins. The bronchial arteries communicate with the other vessels which enter into the composition of the lungs. 2495. Of the (Esophageal Arteries. Their number varies from two to five or six, and their size equals that of the bronchial. They arise from the fore part of the aorta, and give off at first some twigs to the pleurae, to the walls of the aorta and thoracic duct, and to the cellular tissue of the posterior mediastinum. Almost im- mediately after their commencement, they bend to the right and downwards, and ramify in the substance of the walls of the oeso- phagus. The lowest anastomoses with branches of the coronary artery of the stomach. 2496. Of the Posterior Mediastinal Arteries. They are ex- tremely numerous and very slender. They come from the fore part of the aorta, and from the oesophageal and intercostal arteries, and are distributed to the cellular tissue of the posterior mediasti- num and to the walls of the aorta: some of them anastomose by an arch with the thymic twigs of the internal mammary artery. Branches v/hich the Thoracic Aorta gives oflP laterally. OF THE AORTIC INTEECOSTAL AllTERIES. 2497- Tlicir number is commonly nine, but sometimes eight or ten on each side, according to that of the intercostal spaces to whicli the superior intercostal artery gives twigs (2417). They arise from the lateral and posterior part of the aorta at a slightlyORGANS OF CinCULATION, C98 acute angle, and immediately ascend obliquely outwards, before the vertebral column. This inclination upwards is always much greater in the upper than in the lower intercostals. 2498. The right intercostal arteries are longer than the left by the whole breadth of the oesophagus, under which they pass; in other respects, however, they are precisely the same on both sides. The first are lodged in the groove which each body of the vertebrae presents as far as the articulation of the rib with the spine, and are covered by the oesophagus and vena azygos, the direction of whicli they cross. The second are in relation with the vertebrae only in a much smaller space, and are only covered, in this first part of their course, by the pleura and thoracic ganglia. 2499. Near the articulations of the vertebra? with the ribs, on entering the space to which it is to belong, each intercostal artery divides into two branches. 2500. Dorsal Branch. It directs itself backwards between the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae, internally of the anterior costo-transverse ligament. It furnishes at first some small twigs to the periosteum of the vertebra?, together with small branches which anastomose by an arch, upwards and downwards, with the nearest intercostals- Then, through the intervertebral hole it sends off' another twig which is distributed to the spinal marrow and its envelopes. Lastly, it traverses the fleshy bundles of the multifidus spin;!? muscle, descends between it and the lon- gissimus dorsi, and loses itself in the latter and sacro-lumbalis muscle, sending some twigs to the skin. 2501. Intercostal Branch pi'operly so called. This, which is much larger than the preceding, may be considered as the continu- ation of the artery itself. It proceeds, winding a little, to the mid- dle of the intercostal space, between the pleura and external inter- costal mviscles, and in the midst of much adipose cellular tissue. Immediately after, it divides into two twigs which enter between the two planes of the intercostal muscles. 2502. Inferior Twig. It is rather of small size, and follows at first for some time the upper edge of the rib which is beneath, and then directs itself upon its outer surface to subdivide in the perios- teum. 2503. Superior Twig. It is much larger, and runs along the lower edge of the rib which is above, situated in the groove which that edge presents (86). Towards the anterior third of the rib, it leaves that groove and the bone, and directs itself to the middle of the intercostal space. There, as in the rest of its course, it gives numerous twigs to the intercostal muscles, the periosteum of the ribs and the pleura. Some of them pass to the superficial muscles on the outside of the thorax, while others anastomose with the di- visions of the inferior twig. Lastly, the branch itself terminates towards the fore part of the thorax, by anastomosing with the branches of the internal mammary artery (2414), if it belongs to one of the intervals which separate the true ribs; if, on the con-699 OF THE PHRENIC ARTERIES. frary, it occurs in the region of the false ribs, it disperses itself in the muscles of the abdomen, where it anastomoses with ramifica- tions of the internal mammary, epigastric, and circumflex iliac ar- teries. 2304. The last intercostal artery is concealed at its origin by the corresponding crus of the diaphragm, which receives some twigs from it. After giving off its dorsal branch, it continues its course along the inferior edge of the rib which is above, and arriving at its middle part, divides into two or three branches. One of them passes transversely into the abdominal muscles ; the others descend vertically, between the two oblique muscles of the abdomen, as far as the iliac crest, where they anastomose with the lumbar arteries, or with the cu-cumflex iliac artery. OF THE ARTERIES WHICH AEISE FROM THE ABDOMIMAL AORTA. 2505. They are distinguished into anterior, lateral, and inferior. Branches given off anteriorly by the Abdominal Aorta. OF THE INFERIOR I'HUENIC ARTERIES. 2506. Of the Right Phrenic Artery. It generally comes off from the aorta by itself, sometimes along with the left. It also occasionally comes from the coeUac artery. In the first case, it has its origin immediately beneath the interlacing of the fleshy fibres which go from one crus of the diaphragm to that of the op- posite side. It immediately ascends a little outwards, along the free edge of the right crus of that muscle, to which it gives several twigs, as well as to the supra-renal capsule, the pancreas and the liver. It then divides into two branches. 2507. Anterior Branch. It gives off at its commencement a transverse twig, which unites before the oesophagus with a similar twig of the left phrenic artery. It then traverses the adhesion of the liver to the diaphragm, gains the neighbourhood of the vena cava inferior, sends several ramifications to the pericardium, through the diaphragm, and separates into a great number of se- condary branches which lose themselves in that muscle, communi- cating with the corresponding superior phrenic. Others pene- trate into the posterior part of the liver. One of them, which seems to be the continuation of the original trunk, turns over the central aponeurosis, and anastomoses with the left phrenic. 2508- External Branch. Directed transversely outwards, above the liver, behind the right lobe of the aponeurosis of the dia- phragm, it terminates in the digitations by which the diaphragm is attached to the ribs. It furnishes two or three twigs to the su- pra-renal capsule (superior capsular arteries), and, by those which are diffused in the muscle, it anastomoses with the other branch, and with the inferior intercostal and lumbar arteries.ORGANS OF CIllCULATION. 700 2509- Of the Left Phrenic. Artery. Arising at tlic same point as the preceding, it ascends outwards, before the left pillar of the diaphragm, to which it furnishes some twigs. It also sends one of somewhat larger size over the oesophagus, which ascends upon that canal into the thorax, and communicates with one of the ojso- phageal arteries. It also gives three or four small branches to the left supra-renal capsule, and reaches the aponeurosis of the dia- phragm, where it divides into two branches, above the oesophageal aperture of the diaphragm. 2510. Anterior Bra?ich. Directed obliquely from behind for- wards, it gains the anterior region of the muscle, after giving off a twig which anastomoses with the opposite artery at the fore part of the oesophagus (2507)- On the diaphragm itself, it separates- into a great number of secondary branches, one of which directs itself to the right, and communicates, as we have said, behind the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, with the opposite artery ; the others are distributed precisely as on the right side. 2511. Exteroial Branch. It is larger. Directed transversely behind the left lobe of the phrenic aponeurosis, it ramifies in the fleshy fibres of the muscle, and anastomoses with the anterior branch, the last intercostal and the lumbar arteries. Some of its ramifications go to the spleen. OF THE CCELIAC* ARTERY. 2512. The Cceliac Artery (Art. cocliaca), is the shortest of the arteries which the abdominal aorta furnishes. It comes off at a right angle, between the crura of the diaphragm, opposite the union of the last vertebra of the back with the first of the loins. It is directed horizontally forwards and to the right, in the poste- rior separation of the two laminae of the hepato-gastric omentum. It corresponds, above, to the left side of the small lobe of the liver; below, to the upper edge of the pancreas, on which it rests; to the left, to the carcUa; to the right, to a pretty considerable space which separates it from the pylorus. 2513. This artery sometimes furnishes the capsular or the infe- rior phrenic. But it always separates after a course of about half an inch, into three branches of unequal size, which are named the coronary artery of the stomach, the hepatic artery, and the splenic artery. * KoiKiet, venter, vcntricuhts.701 OF THE HEPATIC ARTERY. OF THE CORONARY ARTERY OF THE STOMACH. (Art. Coronaria ventriculi.) 2514. This is the smallest of the three which arise from the cojliac trunk. It directs itself upwards, forwards, and to the left, approaching the cardia, over the right side of which it bends down- ;wards to follow the small curve of the stomach, to near the pylo- rus, where it anastomoses with the pyloric artery. In this second part of its course, it occupies the interval which the two laminae of the hepato-gastric omentum leave between them, when they are re- flected over the stomach (2158). The branches which it gives off may be distinguished into cesophageal and gastric. 2515. (Esophageal Branches. They vary in nvimber, and Jire either vertical or transverse. Frequently there is only one of the former. Arising from the bend which the artery forms near the cardia, it ascends upon the oesophagus, which it follows to a consi- derable distance in the posterior mediastinum, and is distributed to its walls by a great number of flexuous twigs, which anastomose with the aortic oesophageal arteries (2495). If there be two or a greater number, they follow precisely the same course. The transverse branches surround the cardia in a semicircular manner. Some of them subdivide on the widest part of the oeso- phagus ; the others extend as far as the great cul-de-sac of the stomach, and there anastomose with the vasa brevia. 2516. Gastric Branches. They come off along the small curva- ture of the stomach, and pass over the two surfaces of that viscus. Their number is irregular, and their size very variable. They se- parate into a great quantity of flexuous twigs, which ramify between the muscular and mucous coats of the stomach, and anastomose with each other, and with the two gastro-epiploic arteries. 2517. In many subjects, the coronary artery of the stomach scuds a very considerable branch to the liver. OF THE HEPATIC ARTERY. (Arteria hepatica). 2518. Much larger than the preceding, it directs itself trans- versely to the right and forwards under the small lobe of the liver to near the pylorus, whence it slightly ascends towards the neck of the gall-bladder, and the transverse fissure of the liver. In this course it furnishes only two branches, the pyloric and right gastro- epiploic. 2519. Pyloric Artery (Art. pTjlorica.) It arises from the an- terior part of the hepatic, on the right side of the pylorus, whence702 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. it ascends, from right to left, along the small curvature of the stomach, to anastomose with the termination of the coronary ar- tery of the stomach (2514), after a course of greater or less length. It gives to the two surfaces of the stomach and to the pylorus twigs, which inosculate with those of the right gastro-epiploic artery. 2520. Right Gastro-epiploic Artery (Art. gastro-epiploica dew- tra). It arises, to the right of the pylorus and beneath it, from the lower part of the hepatic. Its size is considerable. It de- scends at first vertically behind the stomach as far as its great curvature, applied posteriorly upon the second portion of the duo- denum, and covered to the left by the pancreas. It then proceeds from right to left along the great curvature of the stomach, be- tween the layers of the anterior lamina of the great omentum, as far as the middle part of that curvature, where it inosculates with the left gastro-epiploic artery. In its vertical portion, this artery gives off twigs of indetermi- nate number, and inconsiderable size, (^Art. pancreatico-duodena- les), which are distributed to the walls of the duodenum, and the posterior surface of the pancreas. In its horizontal portion, along the great curvature of the stomach, it gives off, superiorly, numerous twigs, which ascend in a flexuous manner over the two surfaces of that viscus, and anas- tomose with those of the pyloric artery and coronary artery of the stomach. Inferiorly, it sends oft' some which descend vertically between the laminae of the great omentum, and gain, by being reflected in the posterior lamina, the edge of the arch of the colon, where they inosculate with the colic arteries. 2521. When the hepatic artery has furnished these two arteries, it ascends, before the vena port^je, and on the left of the hepatic duct, to the right side of the lobulus Spigelii of the liver, and in the transverse fissure of the liver divides into two considerable branches, a right and a left. 2522. Right Branch (Art. Hepatica Dextra). Directed up- wards and outwards, it crosses the direction of the hepatic duct, beyond which it furnishes the Cystic Artery {Art. Cystica), which gains the neck of the gall-bladder, and spreads out in the lower part of the walls of that reservoir, tvhere it winds for some time between the serous and mucous membranes of which it is com- posed. The cystic artery, moreover, sends a very considerable twig between the liver and gall-bladder, to be distributed in the substance of both. After the origin of the cystic artery, the right branch of the hepatic artery dives into the transverse fissure of the liver, and loses itself by ramifying in its right lobe. 2523. Left Branch {Art. Hepatica Sinistra). Proceeding obliquely upwards and inwards, it enters the transverse fissure and loses itself in the left lobe and in the lobulus Spigelii of the liver, accompanying, like the preceding, the divisions of the vena porttc.OF THE SPLENIC ARTERY. 703 OF THE SPLENIC ABXERY. (Arteria Splenica.) 2524. In the adult it is larger than the hepatic, the reverse of which is observed in the cliild. At its commencement, it passes from right to left in a very tortuous manner along the upper part of the pancreas which lodges it in a particular groove. It thus arrives at the fissure of the spleen, after furnishing several branches,, which are the following. 2525. Pancreatic Branches (Art. PancreaticcB Medics et Sinis- trcB). They come off, in irregular number, from the lower part, of the splenic artery, dive perpendicularly into the substance of the pancreas, and there subdivide, to be united with the twigs of- pancreatic artery furnished by the right gastro-epiploic (2520). 2526. Left Gastro-epiploic Branch {Art. Gastro-epiploica Si-^ nistra). It arises from the trunk of the splenic artery, or only; from one of the branches by which it terminates. Its size is gener- ally equal to that of the right gastro-epiploic ; but it is frequently much larger, so as to appear to form the true continuation of the artery which gives rise to it, having its direction changed. It ascends at first a little to the left towards the great extremity of the stomach, is concealed for some time by it, and then descends along the great curvature. At its commencement, it sends some ramifications into the pancreas ; but along the great curvature, it sends upwards, over the two surfaces of the stomach, and down- wards, into the great omentum, twigs of larger size, which are dis- tributed precisely in the same manner as those of the right gastro- epiploic artery, with which it anastomoses toward the middle of the great curvature (2520.) 2527- At some distance from the fissure of the spleen, the ar- tery divides into two or three branches, which subdivide into seven or eight twigs, which diverge from each other, before entering the inner surface of the spleen. They penetrate into that viscus by so many separate apertures which are observed along its fissure, pre- sently subdivide to infinity, anastomosing with each other by arches, and seem in a great measure to constitute the proper tissue of the organ. 2528. Vasa Brevia. These are pretty large but very short twigSy which come from the terminating branches of the splenic artery be- fore their entrance into the spleen, and immediately pass to the large extremity of the stomach, near the cardia, where they expand over the two surfaces of that organ, anastomosing with the trans- verse oesophageal twigs of the coronary artery (2515). In this manner, they serve to complete the arterial circle which envelopes the cardia.OltGANS OF CIIICULATIOM. 704. OF THE SUrEIlIOH. MESENTERIC ARTEIIY. {Art. mesaraica superior). 2529- It arises from the anterior and right side of tlie aorta, very little below the coeliac, which it almost equals in size, but greatly exceeds in length. It immediately ascends a little to the left and forwards, behind the pancreas and before the third portion of the duodenum, and passing behind the left part of the trans- verse mesocolon, goes to the upper extremity of the mesentery, be- tween the two folds of which it enters, directing itself downwards and to the right, and describing a very elongated curve, the con- vexity of which is turned to the left and forwards, and approaches so much nearer the intestine the lower it is examined. Towards the end of the ileum, the superior mesenteric artery, now become very slender, anastomoses with the inferior branch of the inferior right colic artery. 2530. Near its origin, it gives off some very small branches, which go to the duodenum and pancreas, and communicate with twigs of the splenic and hepatic arteries. But, in the mesentery, it furnishes a great many large branches, which may be distin- guished into those which arise from its concavity, and those from its convexity. Branches which the Superior Mesenteric Artery gives oft' from its concavity. RIGHT COLIC ARTERIES. 2531. Superior Right Colic Artery (Art. colica media. It arises from the right and somewhat anterior part of the superior mesenteric artery, when the latter passes the transverse mesocolon. It immediately proceeds from behind forwards, between the two lamina of that replication, and runs horizontally to near the middle part of the arch of the colon. There, it divides into two branches, which separate from each other to right and left, forming a more or less open angle. The right branch runs along the right part of the arch of the colon, and presently anastomoses with a twig of the middle right coHc artery. The left follows the corresponding part of the same intestine, and in the lumbar region inosculates with the ascending branch of the superior left colic artery. 2532. Middle Right Colic Artery {Art. colica dextra). It arises a little beneath the preceding, which sometimes furnishes it, and directs itself obliquely to the right, forwards and a little up- wards in the mesocolon. On arriving near the upper part of theOF THE lUGHT COLIC AIITERV. 705; right lumbar colon, it divides, like the preceding into two branches, one of which bends to the left and inosculates with the right branch of the superior colic artery (2531), while the other descends to unite with the ascending twig of the inferior right colic. 2533. Inferior Right Colic Artery (Art. ileo-colica). It is a little larger "than the preceding, very near which it is found at its commencement. Directed transversely to the right in the meso- colon, it divides, near the coecum, into three branches. The first bends from beneath upwards, and communicates with the descend- ing branch of the middle right colic artery. The second descends in the mesentery, and unites with the extremity of the superior mesenteric artery itself (2529). The third is transverse, and arises from the angle of the other two ; it gains the posterior part of the colon and coecum, when these two intestines commvinicate. From thence it sends a small twig, into the peritoneal fold of the vermiform appendage, which, in descending, forms a small arch, from the convexity of which proceed parallel ramifications to the walls of the appendage. It then separates into two branches, of ■which one ascends behind the colon, while the other descends be- hind the coecum. Both divide into a multitude of small twigs which belong to the walls of these intestines. 2534. In anastomosing with each other, as we have pointed out, the right colic arteries form distinct arches, whose convexity is turned towards the intestine. These arches give off no twigs by their concavity, but by their convexity they send oS a very great number. These, for the most part, on leaving the arches, direct themselves parallel to each other as far as the colon ; but several of them, follpwing an oblique direction, meet and anastomose so as to constitute areolce of various forms, whence arise other secondary twigs which go directly to the intestine. When they have all ar- rived there, they subdivide, upon its two surfaces, into slender twigs which dive beneath the serous coat, and form a very fine net- work in the other coats. Those which belong to the coecum are much closer and more numerous than those of the colon. Branches which arise from the convexity of the superior Mesen- teric Artery. 2535. Their number is very variable, but commonly extends from fifteen to twenty. Their volume and length diminish from the upper towards the lower, which are mere twigs. They all direct themselves more or less obliquely downwards and to the left between the two laminae of the mesentery, towards the small intestine, for which they are destined, as well as for the lower third of the duodenum. At the end of a rather short course, each of them divides into two twigs which separate from each other, and unite by arches with those of the neighbouring branches. From the con- 2 zORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 70G vexity of these primary arches, there arise other smaller twigs, which presently divide in the same manner, and constitute second- ary arches by new anastomoses similar to the first. These second arches in like manner give rise to other twigs which form third arches ; and from these again come off others of a fourth order, which themselves produce a fifth, quite close to the intestine. 253G. All these twigs thus constitute in the mesentery a kind of net-work, of which the very numerous areohc vary in their form and size. These areolae are themselves traversed by very delicate twigs which go from one branch to another, and which by the way give ramifications to the mesentery and its lymphatic ganglia. 2537. Near the edge of the small intestines, in the place where the two laminsE of the mesentery leave a triangular interval be- tween them, the vascular net-work, which we have described, ab- ruptly ceases, and furnishes a great number of small parallel twigs, which proceed directly over the two surfaces of the intestine, and pass into the cellular tissue between the mucous and muscular coats, where they ramify and subdivide to infinity, taking the ap- pearance of small shrubs. When they have arrived at the convex edge of the intestine, those of one side anastomose with those of the opposite side, in such a manner as to represent rings. 2538. The capillary ramifications, which the mucous membrane receives from all these branches, form at its surface a net-work of the greatest delicacy, which spreads out in the valvular conniventes and in the villosities which it presents. OF THE INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. (^Arteria mesaraica inferior.) 2539. Somewhat smaller tlian the superior, it arises much lower from the anterior and left part of the aorta, at the distance of an inch and a half from its termination. It descends at first a httle to the left, behind the lamina of the peritoneum, which goes to form the corresponding lamina of the mesentery, then, bending to the right, it enters into the substance of the iliac mesocolon (2196), forming a much less extended curve than that of the su- perior mesenteric artery, and whose convexity also looks to the left. Arrived at the brim of the pelvis, it prolongs itself into the poste- rior separation of the mesorectum, and reaches near to the anus. 2540. The concavity of the curve formed by the inferior mesen- teric artery produces no branch, but there issue a great number from its convexity. Of these the three principal branches have received the name of Left Colic Arteries. 2541. Superior Left Colic Artery, {Art. colica sinisti-a superior.) It is the largest of the three, and comes off opposite the bifurcation of the aorta. Directed almost transversely to the left, it arrives near the lumbar colon of tlic same side, and there separates intoOF THE MIDDLE CAPSULAR ARTERIES. 707 two branches, one of which ascends as far as the arch of the colon, and anastomoses with the left branch of the superior right colic- artery (2531), while the other descends in the iliac mesocolon, and there inosculates with the ascending branch of the middle left colic artery. 2542. Middle Left Colic Artery, {Art. colica sinistra media.) It often arises from the preceding, and is sometimes wanting. It directs itself towards the first curve of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and there divides into two branches, one of which ascends to form an arch with the descending branch of the superior left colic artery, while the other unites with one of the branches of the inferior left colic. 2543. Inferior Left Colic Artery, {Art. colica sinistra inferior.) It directs itself towards the middle part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and also separates into two branches. The upper as- cends to form an arch with the preceding. The lower descends to unite with one of the twigs furnished in the meso-rectum by the inferior mesenteric artery. ' 2544. These left colic arteries, on arriving at the intestine, ex- hibit precisely the same arrangement as those of the right side (2534) ; that is to say, after forming arclies to which succeed some areolae, they send, over the two surfaces of the colon, twigs at first parallel, and afterwards divided a great number of times. 2545. After furnishing the three left colic arteries, the inferior mesenteric gives off some small, and in all respects very irregular arteries, and presently after divides into two branches, which de- scend along the posterior surface of the rectum, and which are called the Superior Hoemorrhoidal Arteries, (Art. hcsmorrJioidales superiores seu internee J. These two arteries, from being at first superficial, soon after conceal themselves in the layer of longitu- dinal fleshy fibres of the intestine, progressively diminish in size, and end by very minute twigs, after giving ofi" laterally a great number which embrace from behind forwards the circumference of the rectum, and anastomose on its fore part with each other and with the middle and inferior hasmorrhoidal arteries. Some of them leave the rectum upon its sides, and go to communicate with the lateral sacral arteries. Branches which are given off" laterally by the Abdominal Aorta. OF THE MIDDLE CAPSULAR ARTERIES. [Art. capsulares medicB.) 2546. These arteries, which are two in number, one on each side, are called middle, to distinguish them from those which the phrenic above, and the renal below, send to the supra-renal capsules.ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 708 Their size is very inconsiderable, and they come off from the late- ral parts of the aorta a little above the renal arteries. Sometimes they are produced by the cocliac trunk. Directed transversely over the sides of the vertebral column, they gain the anterior edge of the capsules, and divide into several branches which spread out upon the two surfaces of these organs, and ramify in their substance. Before arriving at the supra-renal capsules, they frequently send several small twigs to the crura of the diaphragm, and to the mass of adipose celkdar tissue which envelopes the kidneys. The left, moreover, gives some twigs to the colon and spleen; the right to the duodenum and liver. OF THE RENAL OR EMULGENT ARTERIES. {Art. Renales s. Emulgentes.) 2547. Of large size, and very short, and generally two in num- ber, one on each side, they come oft' below the capsular arteries and the superior mesenteric, forming with the aorta an angle ap- proaching more or less to a right one. The left is commonly a little more anterior and higher than the right. Immersed in a very abundant adipose cellular tissue, directed transversely over the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, covered by the renal vein and peritoneum on both sides, and, on the right only, by the vena cava inferior, they arrive, after a rathor short course, at the fissure of the kidneys, where they divide each into two, three, or four large branches. 2548. Before arriving at the kidney, they give off* only some slender twigs, which ascend towards the supra-renal capsvdes, or lose themselves, under the name of Adipose Arteries, in the sur- rounding fat. They also, however, frequently furnish the sper- matic arteries. 2549- The three or four branches which terminate each renal artery separate from each other, and enter the kidney, between the pelvis, which is behind and below, and the roots of the renal vein, which are before. They presently divide into a considerable number of twigs which pass between the walls of the pelvis and parenchyma of the kidney, and subdivide around the calyces into a number of small twigs. These pass round each of the bun- dles of tvibes which are to form one of the mammillae of the kidney, and anastomose with each other so as to constitute a distinct arch, the convexity of which is turned towards the cor- tical substance, which receives a great number of ramifications from it. 2550. In some subjects there are three or four renal arte- ries on each side; but this arrangement is not of frequent oc- currence.OF THE SPEIIMATIC AIlTElllES. OF THE SPERMATIC ARTERIES. {Art. SpermaticcB.) 2551. One on each side, very slender and of great length, they ccome off from the anterior or lateral parts of the aorta, and > sometimes from the renal arteries. They do not always both I come off fi*om the aorta at the same level, but pretty frequently . one of them is higher than the other. In all cases, however, ; forming with it a very acute angle below, they descend almost \ vertically, and only a Uttle outwards, over the sides of the verte- ! bral column, before the psoae muscles and ureters, whose direc- ition they cross, and behind the peritoneum. The right passes, I moreover, backwards, or before the vena cava inferior. Their (.course is extremely flexuous. They are presently after united tto the spermatic veins, and distributed very differently in the rmale and in the female ; after previously giving off, in either sex, wery small twigs to the fat and lymphatic ganglia of the sur- : rounding parts, as well as to the walls of the ureters and to the I peritoneum. 2552. In the Male, the spermatic artery, placed beside the \ vas deferens, issues by the inguinal ring, and is distributed to the t testicles, giving off by the way ramifications to the different parts ^ which constitute the spermatic cord. At its termination, it divides : into two biuidles of twigs, one of which goes to the epididymis, the other to the testicle. The first penetrate by the head of the epi- i didymis, are expanded in that body, and give some ramifications tto the tunica albuginea and the substance of the testicle. The others penetrate into the testicle by its upper edge, and give to the : tunica albuginea a great quantity of ramifications, which afterwards I lose themselves upon the fibrous septa lying between the masses of I the spermatic ducts. 2553. I71 the Female, after crossing the edge of the psoas mus- c de, the spermatic artery dives into the pelvis and goes to the ovary. ! Most of its twigs lose themselves in the tissue of that organ. The i others are distributed in the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, ; and on the sides of the uterus, where they anastomose with the I uterine arteries. OF THE LUMBAR ARTERIES. {Art. Lumbales.) 2554'. They are commonly four on each side. Five, however, ^arc not unfrcqucntly met with, and sometimes only three. Their ■ size is always greater than that of the intercostal arteries. They ( come off as much from the posterior part as from the sides of tlicORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 710 aorta, and direct themselves more or less transversely outwards over the middle of the bodies of the first four lumbar vertebrae, being covered by the psoas magnus, or by the crura of the dia- phragm. At the base of the transverse processes, they divide into a dorsal or posterior branch, and an anterior or lumbar branch, properly so called, after sometimes giving a few small twigs to the bodies of the vertebrae, the cellular tissue, and the lym- phatic ganglia of the loins, the crura of the diaphragm, and pso£E muscles. 2555. The dorsal branches of the four lumbar arteries are very slender. They send at first into the vertebral canal a twig which is distributed to the spinal marrow and its envelopes, and then dive into the substance of the fleshy mass of the sacro-lumbalis, and longissimus dorsi muscles, where they lose themselves, sending some ramifications into the intertransversales and multifidus spinas muscles, and into the integuments. They anastomose with each other. Anterior Branches of the Lumbar Arteries. 2556. First Lumbar Artery. It directs itself outwards, under the lower edge of the twelfth rib, following exactly the attachment of the diaphragm. It then bends downwards, and descends almost vertically between the peritoneum and transversus abdominis mus- cle, in which latter it loses itself. 2557- Second Lumbar Artery. Its anterior branch, which is of small size, descends in the substance of the quadratus lumborum and ramifies there. 2558. Third Lumbar Artery. Its anterior branch, which is very large, dives between the quadratus lumborum and transversus abdominis muscles, bends towards the iliac crest, and divides, towards the posterior third of the latter, into two large twigs, which pass through the broad muscles of the abdomen near their origins, and descend backwards into the glutaei muscles, where they com- municate with the twigs of the glutaeal artery. 2559. Fourth Lumbar Artery. Its anterior branch, which is still larger than that of the preceding, directs itself transversely between the psoas magnus and quadratus lumborum, along the inferior attachment of the latter, gives large twigs to the iliacus muscle, passes above the iliac crest, and is equally dispersed in the glutaei muscles. OF THE ARTERIES WHICH TERMINATE THE AORTA BELOW. OF THE MIDDLE SACRAL ARTERY. 2560. The Middle Sacral Artery (Artcria sacra media,) arises from the posterior part of the aorta, a little above its bifur-OF THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. 711 cation, before the fourth lumbar vertebra. Its size is about the same as that of the hunbar arteries; but it is frequently much less. It descends vertically, and in a flexuous manner, over the sacro-vertebral articulation, and upon the anterior surface of the sacrum, placed, in the median hne of the body, behind the rectum, the superior hemorrhoidal vessels, and the nerves of the hypogas- tric plexus. It is very slender when it arrives at the coccyx, and terminates towards the summit of that bone, anastomosing by two arches with the lateral sacral arteries, and sending small twigs into the fat which surrounds the rectum, and into the ischiorcoccygeus muscle. 2561. The middle sacral artery furnishes a great number of la^ teral branches. The first frequently take the place of one of the inferior lumbar arteries. They are generally very small and irre- gular, and commimicate with the ileo-lumbar arteries. The others which are larger, come oft' to the right and left, at the middle of each false vertebra of the sacrum ; they direct themselves trans- versely outwards, and unite, near the anterior sacral holes, with the branches of the lateral sacral arteries. Sometimes they pass through these holes, and are distributed upon the last vertebral nerves. In their course they furnish many ramifications to the periosteum of the sacrum. OF THE COMMON ILIAC ARTEillES. (Jrt. iliaccB Communes.) 2562. They result from the bifurcation of the aorta, opposite the hody of the fourth lumbar vertebra, or upon the fibro-cartilage which unites that vertebra to the fifth. They are of equal size, and descend, separating from each other at an acute angle, and di- , reeling themselves a httle forwards, as far as the sacro-iliac sym- physis, where they divide each into two large arteries which are called the Hypogastric and External Iliac. In the female, on account of the breadth of the pelvis, the two common iliac arteries form a larger angle than in the male. 2563. The right common iUac artery passes before the end of ihe vein of the same name, and covers, in a great part, the vena cava inferior. The left is accompanied internally and posteriorly by the left common iliac vein, and is only covered by the perito- neum. The ureters cross, anteriorly and at right angles, the direc- tion of each of them. Externally, they are both applied upon the psoae muscles. 2564. In their course, these arteries give olF no branch. They only give a few very slender twigs to the walls of the iliac veins the peritoneum, the lumbar lymphatic gangUa, and the ureters712 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. OF THE IIYPOGASTIIIC Oil INTERNAL ILIAC AIITEIIY. 2565. The Hypogastric Artery {Art. Hypoyastrica s. iliaca interna) which is a little smaller than the external iliac, dives almost vertically into the excavation of the pelvis, before the sacro- iliac symphysis, and, directing itself a httle forwards, forms a slight curve, of which the convexity is posterior. At the end of a very short course, it separates into a great number of branches, which arise sometimes separately, and sometimes by common trunks^ and which may be distinguished into posterior, anterior, internal and inferior^ Posterior Branches of the Hypogastric Artery. OF THE ILEO-LUMBAll AllTEllY. (Art. Ileo-lumbalis.) 2566. It comes from the hypogastric, opposite the base of the sacrum, or issues a httle farther down from the glutaeal. It varies much in size. It ascends a little outwards and backwards, before the lumbo-sacral nerve (1814), and behind the psoas muscle, which receives some ramifications from it. Towards the anterior edge of the base of the sacrum, it divides into two branches, the one ascend- ing, the other transverse. 2567- Ascending Branch. It ascends vertically between the psoas muscle, os ileum and last vertebra, and terminates by anas- tomosing with a branch of the fourth or fifth lumbar artery. It sends ramifications into the psoas, ihacus and quadratus lumborum muscles, and into the periosteum of the sacrum and the iliac bones. One of its principal twigs enters into the vertebral canal, under the fourth or fifth lumbar vertebra, and is distributed to the dura mater and nerves which terminate the spinal marrow anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side, the lateral sacral and the last lumbar. 2668. Transverse Branch. It directs itself outwards, between the psoas and ihacus muscles, and almost immediately subdivides in- to two orders of twigs. Some of these twigs, the superficial, spread out upon the anterior surface of the iliacus muscle, beneath the peritoneum, and anastomose anteriorly with the circumflex ihac. The other, or deep twigs, penetrate into the muscle, and are dis- tributed in all directions to its fleshy fibres and to the periosteum of the iliac fossa. One of them, of considerable size, enters the spongy tissue of the iliac bone, by the hole which is observed at the middle of the iliac fossa.OF THE LATERAL SACKAL ARTERY. 713 OF THE SACRO-LATEBAL AllTERY. (Art. Sacra Lateralis.) 2569. Sometimes there is only one on each side, more frequent- lly, two care met with. It arises from the hypogastric artery itself, I or from the ilco-lurabar or glutajal. Directed obliquely inwards and downwards, it descends before the anterior sacral holes, and reaches the summit of the coccyx, where it anastomoses by an arch . with the middle sacral artery. Sometimes it does not go so far, 1 but passes through the third or fourth sacral hole, and is distribut- i ed to the spinal marrow and the muscles of the sacral grooves. Its I twigs are external and internal. 2570. External or Posterior Twigs. They are larger than the i internal, and are commonly four in number; they introduce them- : selves into the sacral canal by the anterior sacral holes, and pre- ' sently divide each into two secondary twigs, one of which passes I over the anterior wall of the sacral canal, giving ramifications to : the membrane which lines it, and to the gangliform bulging of the sacral nerves, while the other issues by the posterior sacral hole, : and loses itself in the muscles of the vertebral grooves. Those of one side generally communicate with those of the opposite side. 2571. Internal Twigs. They spread out their ramifications in the sacral nerves and ganglia, in the pyriformis muscles, and upon the periosteum of the sacrum. They anastomose on the fore part of that bone with the lateral branches of the middle sacral artery. OF THE GLUTEAL ARTERY. (Art. Glutcea.) 2572. This is one of the largest branches of the hypogastric ar- tery, from which it rises a little beneath the preceding, which are often furnished by it. Directed downwards, outwards and back- wards, it issues from the pelvis by the upper part of the sciatic notch, above the pyriformis muscle, between the lumbo-sacral nerve and the anterior branch of the first sacral nerve. It gains the posterior part of the pelvis, is covered by the glutjeus maximus, and near the posterior edge of the glutaeus minimus, divides into two branches, the one superficial, the other deep. 2573. Before issuing from the pelvis, this artery sends some small twigs to the rectum, pyriformis muscles and neighbouring cellular tissue. 2574. Superficial Branch. It directs itself a little outwards, between the glutacais maximus and gluta?us mcdius muscles, and se- parates into a great many twigs which are tUfliised in their substance,ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. and in tlic posterior sacro-sciatic ligament. Some of them anasto- mose with those of the sciatic artery. 2575. Deep Branch. It ascends from behind forwards, between the ghitiPus mcdius and glutyeus minimus, gives first a nutritious twig to the posterior part of the os innominatum, and immediately subdivides into three secondary branches. Of these, the upper fol- lows the direction of the convex edge of the gluUeus minimus, ap- proaches the ihac crest, and forms a large arch which terminates near the anterior and superior spine, after furnishing numerous twigs to the glutoeus raedius by its convexity, and to the glutaeus minimus by its concavity. The second, middle and transverse twig, which is much larger, passes over the glutasus minimus, from which it is separated by much fat, gives twigs to it, and then throws itself into tiie glutseus medius, reaching to near the great trochanter. The third or lower twig, which is about the same size as the upper, first gives some twigs to the pyriformis and glutaeus minimus muscles, and then descends upon tlae latter, traverses its fibres, passes over the iliac bones, enters beneath the tensor vaginae fcmoris, and loses itself upon the capsule of the hip-joint, and in the glutfieus mcdius and minimus, and rectus femoris muscles, anasto- mosing with twigs of the femoral artery. Anterior Branches of the Hypogastric Artery. OF THE UMBILICAL ARTERY. (Art. Umbilicalis.) 2576- Directed obliquely forwards and inwards as far as the la- teral and upper part of the bladder, it then bends upwards to as- cend behind the anterior wall of the abdomen, where it is contain- ed in a fold of the peritoneum, and whence it directs itself towards the umbilicus, approaching the urachus and that of the opposite side. 2577- In the adult, this artery is in a manner obliterated. Be- yond the bladder, it no longer receives blood, and is converted into a ligament as far as the umbilicus. Even at the first portion of its course its walls are so thick, that the colour of the fluid which they contain cannot be perceived through them. 2578. But in the foetus, it is of large size, and appears to form the true continuation of the trunk of the hypogastric artery. On arriving at the umbilicus it issues by that aperture, forms part of \he umbilical cord, and gains the placenta, twisting vipon itself a great number of times. It then seems to furnish all the otlier branches of the hypogastric, while after birth it gives only a few yery sloiider twigs to the bladder and uterus.715 OF THE OBTUllATOll AllTERY. OF THE VKSICAL AllTERIES. (Art. vesicates.) 2579. They present many variations as to number and origin. 'The umbilical artery always furnishes three or four, which ramify iin the walls of the bladder, and anastomose there with each other, ; and with the neighbouring branches. The middle hasmorrhoidal, ! internal pudic, and obturator arteries furnish others. But the ! hypogastric produces one a little larger, which gains the fundus of I the organ, and sends it numerous twigs, as well as to the com- I mencement of the urethra, and in the male, to the prostate gland, vesiculas seminales and vas deferens. Its last ramifications reach as far as the rectum. OF THE OBTURATOR ARTERY. (Art. obturatoria.) 2580. It arises most commonly from the hypogastric or glutasal, but is also sometimes produced by the epigastric; and, in the lat- ter case, descends vertically behind the iliac bone as far as the ob- turator hole. In the former case, which, as we have said, is the most common, it directs itself forwards and outwards, then turns horizontally into the excavation of the pelvis, over the obturator internus muscle, under the nerve of the same name, along with which it issues from the pelvis through the empty space left by the obturator membrane. In this course it is slightly flexuous. 2-581. Near its origin, it gives off a pretty large twig which as- cends under the obturator nerve, arrives in the iliac fossa, and is distributed to the iliacus internus muscle. It then throws a great number of small twigs into the obturator internus muscle, upon the neighbouring lymphatic ganglia, and sometimes upon the blad- der. Immediately before entering into the obturator hole, it gives off a small branch which directs itself behind the symphysis pubis, spreads out some ramifications upon the periosteum, and anasto- moses with a similar branch of the opposite obturator artery. 2582. At its exit from the pelvis, on the upper edge of the ob- turator externus muscle, the obturator artery divides into two branches, a posterior and an anterior. 2583. Posterior Brancli. It descends along the outer edge of the obturator hole, placed between the two obturator muscles, in which it sometimes directly loses itself In general, however, it reaches as far as the sciatic tuberosity, bends outwards beneath the quadratus femoris muscle, and gains transversely the back part of the thigh, where it gives several twigs to the ileo-fcmoral articu- lation, and anastomoses with the descending branch of the sciatic716 OIIGANS OF CIRCULATION. artery. It loses itself in the surrounding muscles; but there is de- tached from it a very remarkable small twig, which penetrates into the cotyloid cavity by its inferior notch, and goes to be distributed to the reddish cellular tissue which fills the deepest part of that cavity. 2584. Anterior Branch. It descends between the long and short adductor muscles, giving off twigs to them, as well as to the adductor magnus, obturator externus, pectineus, and gracilis mus- cles, and to the integuments of the upper and inner region of the thigh and of the genital parts. It terminates by anastomosing with a twig of the internal circumflex artery, or by losing itself in the muscles and skin. Near its commencement, it sends off' a small twig which descends along the internal edge of the obturator hole, to anastomose with a twig of the posterior branch, so that this foramen is truly surrounded by a complete arterial circle. Internal Branches of the Hypogastric Artery. OF THE MIDDLE HEMORRHOIDAL ARTERY. {Art. hcamorrhoidea media.) 2585. It is sometimes wanting, and is of more constant occur- rence in the female than in the male. It varies much in its size and origin, frequently coming ofi^ from the ischiatic or internal pu- dic. It descends obliquely over the anterior part of the rectum, behind the fundus of the bladder in the male, and behind the va- gina in the female. It separates into a great number of twigs, which expand in these different parts, and anastomose superiorly with the haemorrhoidal twigs of the inferior mesenteric artery, and inferiorly with those of the internal pudic. OF THE UTERINE ARTERY. {Art. uterina.) 2586. Its volume is always in relation with the state of deve- lopment of the uterus, so as frequently to be very small, while in other cases, at the end of gestation, for example, it is larger than any other branch of the hypogastric artery. It arises from the hy- pogastric, either separately, or along with the umbihcal, or from the internal pudic. It directs itself at first upon the lateral and upper part of the vagina, between it and the bladder, giving off" a number of twigs to both these organs. It then ascends, in the substance of the ligamcntum latum, upon the sides of the uterus, and has an extremely flcxuous course. There, it divides into a great nvirabcr of twigs which penetrate into the tissue of the organ,OF THE VA-GINAL AND ISCHIATIC ARTERIES. 71? (oracecd transversely and in a flexuous manner over its two sur- Aixces, and anastomose in the median line mth those of the op- posite side. It also throws upon the Fallopian tube and round ijgament some small twigs which inosculate with those of the sper- linatic arteries (2553). There also commonly proceeds from it one rvhich goes to the vagina, and which frequently traverses its whole cength. OF THE VAGINAL ARTERY. (^Art. Vaginalis). 2587- Like the preceding, it exists only in the female. Some- iames even it is not met with, and is then replaced by twigs of the laterine, vesical and middle hjemorrhoidal arteries, which are distri- wuted in the walls of the vagina. It arises from the hypogastric aartery, the internal pudic, the umbilical, or the middle hfemor- rlfhoidal, sometimes from the obturator artery. It descends forwards, ifiirnishing a pretty large twig to the lateral region of the bladder, phen continues its course over the side of the vagina, gives it nu- merous branches, and reaches as far as its orifice, whence it distri- i6utes ramifications to the external parts of generation. Inferior Branches of the Hypogastric Artery. OF THE ISCHIATIC ARTERY. CArt. Ischiadica.) b2588. It arises from the hypogastric separately, or along with e glutaeal. A little smaller than the latter, it yet appears to be e true continuation of the trunk of the hypogastric. Directed almost vertically downwards between the rectum and the walls of ;lthe pelvis, before the pyriformis muscle, it issues throvxgh the lower ppart of the sciatic notch, between the inferior edge of that muscle land the anterior sacro-sciatic ligament, having behind it the great >«ciatic nerve. 2589. In the pelvis, this artery furnishes some twigs, not of very i constant occurrence, to the rectum, the bladder, the uterus, and tithe levator ani muscle. It also sometimes gives off the two pudic, tithe middle haemorrhoidal and the obturator arteries. 2590. At its leaving the pelvis, the ischiatic artery separates in- t<to several large branches. One of them directs itself obliquely Idovmwards and inwards, following the origin of the glutajus raaxi- :mus which covers it, gives off twigs to it, and arrives towards the coccyx, where it loses itself in the ischio-coccygeus and levator ani 3ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 718 muscles, and in the fat of that part. Another branch is distributed in the lower third of the glutaeus maximus and in the cellular tissue which surrounds the sciatic tuberosity. The third which seems to continue the course of the artery, accompanies the sciatic nerve as < far as the inferior and posterior part of the thigh and gives twigs to the glutEcus maximus, quadratus, gemelH, biceps, serai-tendinosus, (i semi-membranosus and adductor magnus. It ends by anastomos- u ing with the perforating and circumflex arteries. OF THje INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. {Art. Pudenda Communis.) 2591 • This is a little smaller than the ischiatic, from which it is very often given off. It descends before the sciatic plexus and pyri- formis muscle, and issues from the pelvis by the lower part of the great sciatic notch, between the pyriformis muscle and the poste- rior edge of the levator ani, close to the anterior sacro-sciatic liga- ment, and only separated from the ischiatic artery by a layer of fat. Immediately after, it proceeds downwards and inwards, passes be- tween the two sacro-sciatic ligaments, bends over the anterior, which it embraces externally, places itself upon the internal surface of the ischium, between the obturator internus and levator ani muscles, runs nearly horizontally forwards and inwards to near the common origin of the erector penis and transversus perinjpi muscles, and there divides into two branches, which are differently distributed in the male and in the female, and of which one is superficial and the other deep. 2592. In the pelvis, the internal pudic artery sometimes gives rise to the middle haemorrhoidal, obturator, &c. But it always sends some ramifications to the bladder, the vesiculae seminales, the prostate gland, the commencement of the urethra, the rectum, and, in the female, to the upper part of the vagina. 2593. After issuing from the pelvis, it gives off laterally a great number of twigs, of moderate size, which may be distinguished in- to internal and external. The internal are spread out in the midst of the abundant fat which surrounds the rectum, and are distri- buted to the sphincter and levator ani muscles. The others, which are much more slender, descend towards the tuber ischii, and lose themselves in the origins of the flexor muscles of the leg and in the integuments. 2594. Superficial Branch {Art. Perincea Superjicialis). Small- er than the superior, it runs from behind forwards, between the skin and transversalis perinei muscle, in the adipose cellular tissue which fills the triangular space between the erector penis and accelerator urinffi muscles. At first nearer the ramus of the ischium than the raphe, it approaches the latter as it advances, and givesOF THE INTERNAL TUDIC ARTERY, : numerous twigs, (one of which is tlie arteria transversalisperincel), to the anterior half of tlie sphincter ani muscle, and to the trans- versalis pcrinfti, erector penis and accelerator urinic muscles, as well as to the integuments. Some of them ascend towards the rectum under the name Inferior or Ewternal HcBinorrhnidat Ar- teries, and anastomose with the middle ha?morrhoidal and the ter- mination of the inferior mesenteric. Then the branch itself passes over the accelerator urinjE muscle, dives into the septum of the dartos, and is distributed to the scro- tum, the dartos, and the skin of the penis. 2595. Deep Branch, (Art. penis). It traverses the transversus perinjei muscle and then ascends above it, along the ascending ■ ramus of the ischium. Concealed by the erector penis muscle, i it amves at the triangular cellular interval which separates the I two roots of the corpus cavernosum, before the symphysis pubis, ' where it divides into two branches which are called the Dorsal Artery of the Penis, and the Artery of the Corpus cavernosum : 1 before this however it gives off 2596. The Artery of the bulb, (Ramus magnus ad urethrce ^ hulbum), which varies much in size. It directs itself inwards and forwards, above the transversus perinaii muscle, as far as the bulb of the urethra, into which it dives, subdividing into several twigs. I One of them penetrates into the corpus cavernosum, and there anastomoses with the cavernous artery. 2597- Before its division, and after giving off the artery of the \ bulb, the deep branch of the pudic sends small twigs into the I obturator internus, erector penis, and transversus perinaei muscles, J and into Cowper's glands. 2598. Artery of the Corpus Cavernosum, {Art. corporis caver- tnosi penis). It penetrates into the corresponding side of the ccorpus cavernosum, and presently divides into several secondary rtwigs, which run along its whole length, and distribute in all direc- IFtibns a great number of ramifications in the midst of the spongy Otissue. Some of them perforate the fibrous membrane, and intro- tl'duce themselves into the walls of the urethra. 2599. Dorsal Artery of the Penis, (Art. dorsalis Penis). It ppasses through the suspensory ligament of the penis, running along tithe dorsal surface of the latter, parallel to that of the opposite siside. Its course is very flexuous, and it gives numerous small twigs tito the fibrous membrane of the corpus cavernosum and to the skin. >Near the glans, it subdivides and loses itself in the tissue of that part. 2600. In the female, the superficial branch of the internal pudic siartery, after sending twigs to the transversus perinasi, sphincter ani iiand constrictor vaginae muscles, terminates in the substance of t.the labium. The deep branch, (Art. clitoridis), ascends along the ^ischium and pubes, as far as the interval between the roots of the corpus cavernosum of the clitoris, throws a twig into the retiform plexus which surrounds the orifice of the vagina, and separates, before the symphysis of the pubes, into two secondary branches,720 OilGANS OF CinCULATlON. one of whicli penetrates into the corpus cavernosum of the clitoris, (Art. cavernosa ditoridis), while tlio other creeps upon the back of that organ, {Art. dor salts clitoridis). OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTEEY. (Art. iliaca externa seu cruralis in pelvi.) 2G01. This arises from the bifurcation of the common iliac ar- tery, and extends to the crural arch, where it changes its name to assume that of femoral artery. It descends obliquely outwards, along the inner and fore part of the psoas muscle, applied posted riorly and internally upon the external iliac vein, and covered by the peritoneum. It is generally straight, but sometimes forms several curves of greater or less extent. 2602. In its course, it only gives off a few small twigs to the psoas muscle, the peritoneum, and the neighbouring lymphatic ganglia. But, before passing under the crural arch, it furnishes two considerable branches, which are named the Epigastric and Circumflex Iliac Arteries. OF THE EPiaASTRIC ARTERY. (Art. epigastrica). 2603. It arises from the lower and internal part of the external iliac artery, a little above the crural arch, and beneath the place where the peritoneum leaves the anterior wall of the abdomen to be reflected into the iliac fossa. It immediately directs itself in- wards and a little forwards, describing some flexuosities, crosses the direction of the spermatic cord, which conceals its origin, and ascends vertically to the inner side of it, and of the internal ixi- guinal ring, between the peritoneum and fascia transversalis. It still follows a little the outer edge of the rectus muscle, and at the distance of about two inches above the pubes, passes upon its posterior surface, along which it proceeds as far as the umbilicus, where it terminates by several twigs. 2604. Near its origin, the epigastric sometimes furnishes the obturator artery, opposite the crural arch. But it ahvays gives twigs to the peritoneum, the neighbouring cellular tissue, and the spermatic cord. One of these twigs enters the inguinal ring, and is distributed, in the male, to the cremaster muscle, the tunica vaginalis, and the skin of the scrotum, anastomosing with the sper- matic artery, and in the female, to the ligamentum teres, mons veneris, and upper parts of the vulva. 2605. Beyond the spermatic cord, the epigastric artery gives off numerous lateral branches which are distributed inwards to the rcc-OF THE CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC AND CRUUAL AllTICllIKS. 7'21 tus nuiscle, and outwards to the broad muscles of the abdomen. They furnish numerous ramifications to tlic peritoneum, and anas- tomose with the lumbar and last intercostal arteries. The termi- nating twigs communicate with those of the internal mammary ar- tery. OF THE CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC ARTERY. (Art. Circumfleooa ilei). 2606. It comes oft' from the outer part of the external iliac, sometimes beneath, sometimes opposite the preceding, which it commonly equals in size. Immersed in an abundant cellular tissue, and concealed by the peritoneum, it ascends obliquely outwards, cui'ving a little along the outer edge of the iliacus internus muscle, until above the anterior and superior spine of the ileum. Then threcting itself backwards, it separates into two branches, after giving off external twigs, which lose themselves in the transversus abdominis muscle, and internal tivigs, which are spread out upon the iliacus muscle, anastomosing with the ileo-lumbar artery. 2607. Of the two branches which terminate this artery, the ex- ternal is smaller, and ascends between the transversus and obli- quus internus abdominis muscles, in which it loses itself. The internal, which is larger and transverse, runs for some extent along the iliac crest, and afterwards ascends a little obliquely backwards, between the transversus and obliquus internus abdominis muscles, in which it divides, as well as in the obliquus externus, anastomos- ing with the internal mammary artery, the lumbar and inferior in- tercostal arteries. OF THE FEMORAL OR CRURAL ARTERY. {Art. cruralis seu femoralis communis). 2608. Immediately succeeding the external iliac artery, it com- mences under the crural arch, nearly at the middle of the space which separates the anterior and superior spine of the ileum from the spine of the pubes. Directed at first a little obliquely at the inner and upper part of the thigh, it bends backwards descending, and, about the lower third of the thigh, enters into the aponeu- rotic groove of the adductor magnus muscle (1356), on emerging from which it assumes the name of popliteal artery. It therefore extends from the middle of the crural arch to the end of the fleshy body of the adductor magnus. As the femoral artery is passing through the adductor magnus it gives oft' a branch, {ramus o,nas- iomoticus), which descends towards the inner condyle, along the round tendon of the adductor, where it anastomoses with the iu- ternal articular artery. 3 AORGANS OF CIllCULATION. 722 2C09. Its anterior side corresponds to the crural aponeurosis, the integuments, and to the inguinal lymphatic gangha, in a tri- angular space which is formed above by the crural arch, externally by the sartorius muscle, internally by the adductor longus and graci- lis, that is to say, in an extent of about four inches. It is separated from all these parts by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. Farther down, it is covered by the sartorius muscle which crosses its direction. 2610. Its posterior side rests at its uppermost part, upon the body of the pubes, from which it is separated by the pectineus njuscle, then upon that muscle itself, and upon the small and mid- dle adductors, which are separated from it by a thick layer of fat. 2011. Its outer side corresponds at first to the crural nerve, then to the tendon of the psoas and iliacus internus muscles, which separates it from the hip joint. It is then in rather distant rela- tion with the sartorius muscle; and lastly, below, is immediately applied upon the vastus internus, which separates it from the body of the femur. 2612. Its internal side is in contact superiorly with the femoral vein, then with the pectineus muscle, and it is at length placed be- tween the adductor longus and sartorius. The latter covers it at the lower part of the thigh. 2613. The branches of the femoral artery are distinguished into internal, external, anterior, and posterior. Internal Branches of the Femoral Artery. 2614. Of the External Pudic Arteries (Arteries pudendce ex- ternce). They are two in number, and may be distinguished into superficial or s^uhcutaneous, and deep or suh-aponeurotic. 2615. The Superficial arises from the femoral artery, at a very small distance from the crural arch. It proceeds transversely in- wards between the skin and the crural aponeurosis, directs itself towards the parts of generation, and, before arriving there, divides into two twigs, the one superior, the other inferior. The superior ascends towards the pubes, and loses itself in the skin of the lower part of the abdomen, communicating with the epigastric and su- perficial epigastric arteries. The inferior is distributed to the scrotum and skin of the penis in the male, where it extends as far as the prepuce ; and to the corresponding labium pudendi in the female. 2616. The second external pudic artery arises a little lower from the femoral or profunda femoris. It descends at first ob- liquely, and then runs transversely inwards under the crural aponeu- rosis, which it perforates, to gain the scrotum in the male, and the labium in the female. It anastomoses with the inferior twig of the preceding. Pretty frequently it is crossed anteriorly by the inter- nal saphcna vein.OF THE FEMORAL AIITERY. ^^'^ 2GI7. The Other internal branches of the femoral artery are a little larger than the preceding; but vary much us to number, origin, and disposition. They arc distributed to tlic gracilis and adductor longus muscles, and to the integuments. External Branches of the Femoral Artery. 2618. Of the Superjicial Clrcumjlecc Iliac Artery. It comes off from the femoral, nearly at the same place as the deep femo- ral from wliich it sometimes arises, and directs itself transversely outwards, between the sartorius and rectus femoris. After a short course it divides into ascending twigs, which pass outwards be- tween the iliacus, sartorius and tensor vaginae femoris, and are dis- tributed to these muscles, and to the glutseus medius; and into descending branches which are distributed to the sartorius and rectus muscles. One of them may be traced as far as the lower part of the latter muscle. 2619. The other external branches of the femoral artery are few and of small size. They lose themselves vipwards in the psoas an.d iliacus muscles, and downwards in the vasti and cruraeus. Anterior Branches of the Femoral Artery. 2620. Of the Superjicial Epigastric Artery (Art. epigastrica siiperfieialis) It is never absent, and is very slender and of great length. It arises from the artery immediately beneath the crural arch, and ascends obliquely outwards, between the abdominal aponeurosis and the integuments, as far as the umbilicus. It gives twigs to the lymphatic ganglia and cellular tissue of the groin, and to the skin and muscles of the abdomen. It anastomoses "with that of the opposite side, and with the epigastric and internal mammary arteries. 2621. The other anterior branches of the femoral artery are very slender, and are distributed to the cellular tissue, the integuments, or the sartorius. Posterior Branches of the Femoral Artery. OF THE ARTERIA PROFUNDA FEMORIS. 2622. It arises from the back part of the femoral artery, an inch and a half or two inches below the crural arch, opposite the middle of the space comprised between the pubes and the small trochanter, and is of large size, nearly equalling the femoral artery itself It descends obliquely backwards as far as the origin of the cruraeusORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 724 muscle, and there bends inwards, proceeding between the femur, the long and short adductors to the middle part of the thigh. It then diminishes in size, passes through the aponeurosis of the adductor longus, gains the posterior surface of the limb, and divides into two thick branches, one of which enters into the short portion of the biceps femoris, and the other into the semi-membranosus. 2623. In this course, the deep femoral artery gives off, outwards the external circumflex, inwards the internal circumflex, and back- wards the three perforating arteries. 2624. Ewternal Circumjiex Artery. (Art. circumfle.va femoris externa). It comes oft' from the outer side of the profunda, where the latter forms a bend to descend inwards. Its size, although generally rather moderate, sometimes equals that of the trunk from which it comes off. Directed almost transversely outwards, behind the sartorius and rectus femoris, it presently divides into two branches, the one transverse, the other descending. The first turns over the upper part of the femur, to gain the outer and back part of that bone. There it divides into several twigs, some of which ascend in the capsule of the hip-joint, while the others are distributed to the inner surface of the vastus externus to the glutseus medius, glutscus minimus, tensor vagina? femoris, and rectus femoris, muscles. The second branch {ramus descendens longus,) which is much larger, descends along the fore part of the thigh, between the crurjeus and rectus femoris, and divides into several twigs which are lost in their substance. Some of these twigs ex- tend as far as the patella, and anastomose with the superior articu- lar arteries. 2625. Internal Circiimjlew Ai'tery. {Art. circurnflexa interna.) Larger than the preceding, it arises from the very commencement of the deep femoral artery at its inner and back part. It almost im- mediately dives from before backwards, between the pectineus and the united tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles, turns over the inner part of the neck of the femur, running along the obturator externus muscle, under the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. It gives several twigs to these different muscles, the parts of gen- eration, and the hip-joint, and arrives behind the neck of the femur, where it divides into two branches. One of these, the as- cending, is smaller, mounts obliquely upon the neck of the femur, before the quadratus femoris muscle, and dives into the digital cavity of the great trochanter, where it loses itself, being distribut- ed to the quadratus femoris, gemelli, and obturator internus mus- cles. The other which is transverse and larger, passes at first outwards, between the quadratus femoris and the femur, and di- vides into two twigs, one of which loses itself in the common origin of the flexor muscles of the leg at the tuber ischii, while the other is distributed to the upper part of the adductor magnus. 2626. Upper Perforating Artery. It is larger than the other two, and arises from the back part of the profunda, below the small trochanter. Directed backwards, it passes through the725 OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. tendons of the second and third adductors, which receive twigs from it, and gains tlie back part of the femur, where it divides into two branches, one of which ascends in the substance of the gluta2us maximus, while the other is distributed in the long portion of the biceps, the vastus externus, in the semi-membranosus and upon the sciatic nerve. This artery anastomoses with the internal cir- cumflex, ischiatic and middle perforating arteries. 2627. Middle Perforating Artery. It comes off lower than the preceding, and is inferior to it in size. It also passes through the aponeurosis of the long and great adductor muscles, and on ar- riving at the back part of the thigh, divides into ascending twigs, which go towards the great trochanter in the glutaeus maximus and vastus externus muscles, anastomosing with those of the preceding artery, and into descending branches which go to the biceps, semi- tendinosus, semi-membranosus and vastus internus muscles, and to the sciatic nerve. The latter communicates with those of the in- ferior perforating artery. One of them {ramus nutritius ossisfe- moris) penetrates into the femur by the nutritious canal which is observed upon the linea aspera of that bone, (493). 2628. Inferior Perforating Artery. This is the smallest of the three. It comes off from the deep femoral artery much lower than the others, and passes through the aponeurosis of the adductor magnus nearly at the same time as the trunk which furnishes it. Its distribution behind the femur is the same as that of the other two. OF THE POPLITEAL ARTEKY. (Arteria Poplitcea). 2629. It is the direct continuation of the superficial femoral artery, which changes its name after perforating the adductor magnus. It descends a Uttle obhquely from within outwards into the ham, and extends from the commencement of the lower thu-d of the thigh to the end of the upper fourth of the leg, where it terminates by di- viding. 2630. Its posterior side is covered in the greater part of its ex- tent by the sciatic nerve and pophteal vein. The semi-membra- nosus muscle is moreover applied upon it above; farther down, a great quantity of fat separates it from the aponeurosis and integu- ments, and still lower it is protected by the gastrocnemii, plantaris gracilis and soleus muscles. 2631. Its anterior side is separated above from the femur by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue; in the middle, it rests upon the posterior surface of the knee-joint; and below, upon the pophteus and tibialis posticus muscles. 2632. Its outer side corresponds to the biceps muscle, wliichORGANS OF CIRCULATION. separates from it below, to tlie outer condyle of the femur, the external head of the gastrocnemius, plantaris and soleus. 2633. Its inner side is near the semi-membranosus muscle, which also retires from it as it descends, and afterwards corres- ponds to the internal popliteal nerve and the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle. 2634. The popliteal artery gives off a great numbet of small branches to the sciatic nerve, the adipose cellular tissue, and to the neighbouring parts; but their number is indeterminate, and their disposition far from regular. Some of them however, which are larger than the rest, merit a separate description. Branches which t|ie Popliteal Artery gives off in tlie Ham. 3635. They are three in number, and are designated by the name of Superior Articular Arteries. They are distinguished into internal, external, and middle. 2636. Of the Internal Superior Articular Artery {Art. Articu- laris Genu Superior Interna). It is seldom single, there being generally two or three. When it exists alone, it may arise from the popliteal artery, at the moment when the latter passes through the adductor magnus, or from any other part of its extent down to the level of the condyles. In all cases, it descends inwards, passes tinder the tendon of the adductor magnus, turns forwards over the inner part of the femur, above the corresponding condyle, and, after throwing some ramifications into the periosteum of that bone, di- vides into two branches. One of them descends obliquely out- wards, between the femur and the vastus internus muscle, to which it is distributed, as well as to the neighbouring cellular tissue, or is entirely expanded in the muscles, and anastomoses with the twigs of the external circumflex artery. The other branch reaches along with the tendon of the adductor magnus as far as the inner con- dyle, and there separates into a great number of twigs, which pro- ceed transversely inwards upon the femur, and are distributed to the vastus internus muscle, or sink into the knee joint, and anas- tomose with those of the external superior articular artery. 2637- Of the External Superior Articular Artery {Art. Artie. Getm Sup. Externa). It arises externally from the popliteal artery imme- diately above the outer condyle of the femur, and proceeds trans- versely outwards under the biceps muscle, winding over the femur. It also divides into two branches, of which the upper loses itself entirely in the vastus externus muscle, while the inner descends obliquely forwards upon the condyle of the femur, under the apo- neurosis, as far as the patella, on which it anastomoses with the internal superior articular artery. 2638. Of the Middle Superior Articidar Artery {Art. Artie. Genu Media s. Azyga). Much smaller than the preceding two,it arises from the fore part of the popliteal artery, sometimes above, sometimes op-OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. positc the joint. It almost immediately passes horizontally, from behind forwards, through the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and divides into two branches, one of which descends behind the crucial ligaments, and loses itself in the neighbouring cellular tis- sue, while the other dives into the depression which separates the two condyles of the femur, and is distributed in the fat which oc-; curs there, giving twigs to all the parts of the joint. Branches which the Popliteal Artery gives off at the upper part cf! the Leg. 2639- Of the Arteries of the Gastrocnemii Muscles. (Artp- rice Sarales). These arteries are two in number, and come off from the posterior and lateral parts, of the popliteal artery, separat- ed from each other at their commencement by the sciatic nerve. They direct themselves obliquely backwards, and gain the middle of the anterior surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. T^iey then dive into its substance, and terminate towards the place where it is united to the solevis by an aponeurosis. Near their origin, they give off some twigs to the plantaris and popliteus. 264)0. Of the Internal Inferior Articular Artery. {Art. Artie. Genu. Inf. Interna). It arises externally from the popliteal artery above the popUteus muscle, descends obliquely inwards, under the sciatic nerve and internal head of the gastrocnemius muscle. It winds over the corresponding tuberosity of the tibia, between the bone and the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint and the united tendons of the sartorius, gracilis and semitendinosus muscles. It then curves from beneath upwards, and ascends along the inner edge of the ligament of the patella, as far as the lower part of that bone, where it anastomoses with a branch of the internal superior articular artery, and with twigs of the external inferior articular. 2641. It gives off some small twigs to the popliteus and inter- nal head of the gastrocnemius muscle. The others are spread out upon the inner side of the articulation, upon the periosteum of the tibia, and even in the integuments. 2642. Of the External Inferior Articular Artery. (Art. artic. genu. inf. exterjia). It arises externally from the popliteal artery, farther down than the preceding, concealed at its origin by the plantaris muscle, under the outer condyle of the femur. It des- cends obhquely outwards, above the soleus muscle, between the popliteus and external head of the gastrocnemius, and enters be- neath the tendon of the biceps femoris and the external lateral li- gament of the knee joint. It gives twigs to all these muscles, then winds over the convex edge of the external semilunar fibro- cartilage, and advances transversely as far as the lower part of the patella. There, it divides into two twigs, a deep one, which first supplies some ramifications which descend upon the tibia, and anas-, tomose with those of the recurrent twig of the anterior tibial ar-728' ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. tery, then loses itself in the adipose cellular tissue placed between the tibia and the ligament of the patella, and a superficial, whicli ascends upon the latter bone, and anastomoses witli the external superior articular artery. 2643. Before dividing, this artery, as we have already said, gives twigs to the popliteus, plantaris and soleus muscles. All the others are expanded upon the other part of the knee joint. 2G44. After furnishing the inferior articular arteries, the pop- liteal descends vertically behind the popliteus muscle; and, near the liead of the fibula, gives off pretty large twigs to the upper part of the soleus muscle. There also separates from it anteriorly, about the same place, a large brancli which is named the Anterior Tibial Artery. Then after a course of about an inch, it divides into two branches, which are the Fibular and Posterior Tibial Arteries. OF THE ANTEllIOR TIBIAL ARTEEY. {Art. Tibialis Antica). 2645. Directed horizontally forwards at its commencement, it sends some twigs to the tibialis posticus and flexor longus commu- nis digitorum muscles, as well as to the posterior part of the knee joint, and immediately after passes through the upper extremity of the tibialis posticus and the interosseous ligament. It then places itself at the fore part of the leg, descends obliquely first between the extensor longus digitorum and tibialis anticus, and then be- tween the latter and the extensor longus pollicis, gradually ap- proaching the tibia over which it passes below. It then slips un- der the anterior annular ligament of the tarsus, between the ex- tensor communis digitorum pedis and extensor proprius pollicis, and henceforth assumes the name of Dorsal Artery of the foot. 2646. The jjosterior side of this artery lies, in its four upper fifths, upon the interosseous ligament, and in its lower fifth, upon the tibia. Its anterior side is successively covered by the tibialis anticus, extensor communis digitorum and extensor proprius polli- cis. The tendon of the latter muscle is the only part which sepa- rates it from the skin below. The inoier side is placed against the tibialis anticus muscle and the tibia. The outer corresponds above to the fibula and to the peroneus longus and extensor digitorum communis, and below to the extensor proprius polHcis alone. The anterior tibial nerve lies upon it in its whole extent. 2647- Immediately after passmg through the interosseous liga- ment, and sometimes even in its passage, the anterior tibial artery furnishes a considerable branch, the Recurrent Artery of the Knee^ (Art. recurrens) which ascends obliquely inwards in the substance of the upper extremity of the tibialis anticus, gives it many rami- fications, traverses the tibial aponeurosis, and divides into severalOF THE ANTERIOR TIBIyVL ARTERY. 729 ttwigs which anastomose, around the knee joint and in the integu- ! ments, with the inferior articular arteries. 2648. In the rest of its extent, this artery gives off laterally a ; great number of twigs tc the peronei, tibialis anticus and cxten- ! sores digitorum muscles, to the periosteum of the tibia and to the I integuments. These twigs anastomose internally with those of the posterior tibial artery, and externally with those of the fibular. It also furnishes several posteriorly, which pass through the inter- osseous ligament, and lose themselves in the posterior and deep muscles of the leg. 2649. Near the ankle, the anterior tibial artery gives off two branches of larger size, an inner and outer. The inner, which is named the Internal Malleolar Artery, (Art. malleolar is interna) passes transversely behind the tendon of the tibialis anticus, to the inner malleolus, and descends upon the neighbouring part of the tibio-tarsal articulation and of the tarsus itself, where it divides into small twigs, which communicate with those of the posterior tibial artery. The oiiter branch, or External Malleolar Artery (Art. malleolaris externa), gUdes behind the tendons of the ex- tensor communis digitorum and peroneus tertius muscles, descends along the outer malleolus, passes over the ankle-joint, and gives it some ramifications, as well as to the corresponding side of the tar- sus. It communicates with the peroneal artery, the dorsal artery of the foot, and the external plantar. 2660. Of the Dorsal Artery of the Foot. This is the direct continuation of the anterior tibial artery, and extends from the ankle-joint to posterior extremity of the first metatarsal bone, "where it enters beneath the first tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum pedis, to gain the sole of the foot by passing vertically through the first dorsal interosseous muscle (1465). In this course, the artery, which is shghtly flexuous, and directed obhquely from without inwards, and from behind forwards, is successively covered by the skin, the tendons of the extensor longus, and the extensor brevis, digitorum, and gives oflT branches, which are dis- tinguished into internal and external. 2651. Internal Branches. They are very numerous, but slen- der, and are distributed vipon the corresponding edge of the foot, ■where they anastomose with those of the internal plantar artery. 2652. External Branches. They are more numerous and of larger size. They ramify upon the back of the foot, and in the extensor brevis digitorum muscle. Two of them have received particular names. 2653. Tarsal Artery (Arteria tarsea). It arises opposite the head of the os naviculare, and proceeds outwards and a little for- wards under the extensor brevis digitorum muscle, as far as the outer edge of the foot, where it passes under the tendon of the peroneus longus. In this course, it gives a great number of twigs to the extensor brevis digitorum and to the ligaments of the tarsus, and terminates by several small twigs which anastomose with those of the external plantar artery.ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 730 2654. Metatarsal Artery (Arteria metatarsea). Smaller than the preceding, it arises from the dorsal artery of tlie foot, near the place where the latter enters the first interosseous space. Directed forwards and outwards under the extensor brevis digito- rum, it forms a curve of which the concavity is directed backwards, and furnishes ramifications to the extensor brevis digitorum, the periosteum and the articulations of the tarsal bones. Its convexi- ty, which is anterior, gives off three remarkable twigs, which are called Doraal Internsseous Arteries of the foot, (Art. inter- ossece clorsales). They pass forwards in the second, third, and fourtli interosseous spaces r and between the extremities of the metatarsal bones, communicate with the posterior perforating ar- teries of the external plantar. They then give twigs to the inter- ossei dorsales muscles, over which they pass, and to the integu- ments, and communicate with the anterior perforating arteries, close upon the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. At the same level each of them divides into two small branches which follow the corresponding edges of the toes, from the outer edge of the second to the inner edge of the last, and lose themselves in the skin. 2G55. Immediately before diving into the first interosseous space, the dorsal artery of the foot gives off a pretty large branch (Art. dorsalis hallucis) which runs on the outer side of the first metatarsal bone as far as its articulation with the first phalanx of the great toe, wliere it divides into two twigs, one of which runs along the outer edge of the first toe, while the other follows the inner edge of the second. 2656. Arrived in the sole of the foot, the dorsal artery turns outwards, between the accessory muscle of the flexor longus digi- torum and interossei plantares, and separates into branches of equal size. One of them continues the course of the artery ovitwards, and contributes to form the plantar arch by anastomosing with the external plantar artery. The other follows the interval of the two first metatarsal bones between the adductor poUicis aud flexor bre- vis pollicis muscles, to which it gives twigs, one ofVhich, larger than the others, winds to the inner side of the great toe, and ar- rives at its extremity. The branch then passes through the flexor brevis muscle, and divides into two principal twigs, which subdi- vide and run along the corresponding edges of the two first toes. OF THE FIBULAR OR PERONEAL AKTERY. (Art. Peronea.) 2657. Smaller than the posterior tibial, and situated very deeply at the back part of the leg, it directs itself a little obhquely out- wards, from the end of the popliteal artery to near the malleolus externus, along the edge of the internal surface of the fibula. Its posterior side is covered by the soleus and flexor longus pollicisOF THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 731 muscles. Resting above upon the tibialis posticus muscle, it pas- ses through its fibres lower down, and is placed below upon the interosseous ligament. The twigs which it furnishes in the whole of this course are dis- tinguished into 2658. External and Posterior Twigs. These are the largest. They descend obliquely in the soleus and gastrocneraii muscles, in which they lose themselves. Sotoe of them are distributed to the integuments. 2659. Internal Twigs. They are much smaller and distributed in the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum and flexor proprius pollicis. One of them, arising from the lowest part of the artery, directs itself transversely before the flexor muscles, and anasto- moses with the posterior tibial. 2660. Near the malleolus externus, the fibular artery divides into two branches, which are the following :— 2661. Posterior Fibular Artery. It follows the original course of the artery, descends behind the inferior articulation of the fibula, and passes over the outer side of the calcaneum. It distributes numerovis twigs to the tibialis posticus, flexores digitorum, pero- neus longus and brevis muscles, the ankle joint, the tendo Achillis, &c. On the calcaneum, it separates into several twigs, which ex- pand upon the outer, upper, and back part of the foot, and are distributed to the extensor brevis digitorum and abductor minimi digiti muscles, the integuments, and the surrounding adipose cellu- lar tissue. One of them passes imder the outer malleolus, and proceeds forwards to communicate with a twig of the anterior tibial artery (2649). 2662. Anterior Fibular Artery. It is sometimes wanting. When it exists, it perforates the inferior extremity of the interos- seous ligament, passes under the peroneus tertius, to which it gives some twigs, descends vipon the inferior articulation of the fibula with the tibia, bends forwards and inwards, and anastomoses with the anterior tibial, forming a small arch, from which proceed twigs in greater or less number, but generally of small size, and which immediately lose themselves in the neighbouring parts. OF THE rOSTERIOll TIBIAL AUTEIIY. (^Art. Tibialis Postica). 2663. Situated at the posterior part of the leg, but less deeply than the preceding, the Posterior Tibial Aytery directs itself a little obliquely inwards, slightly flexuous, and then descends verti- cally between the two pi anes of the posterior muscles of the leg, as far as under the arch of the calcaneum, where it separates into two branches, which are the Plantar Arteries. It follows the course ofORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 732 a line extended from the middle of the ham to the posterior part of the inner ankle. 2664. In its two upper thirds, it is covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. In its lower third, it is placed along the inner side of the tcndo Achillis, which at first covers it a little, but after- wards leaves it only in relation with the tibial aponeurosis and the skin. Anteriorly, it corresponds to the interosseous space and to the tibialis posticus muscle ; and at its lowest part rests upon the flexor longus communis digitorum, and corresponds to the posterior surface of the tibia. It is accompanied in its course by the poste- rior tibial nerve, which is placed at its outer side. 2665. In its course, the posterior tibial artery furnishes twigs of small size and indeterminate number. It sends very few to the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, frequently none at all. They are almost all distributed laterally to the tibialis posticus and flexor muscles, the skin and the periosteum of the tibia. One of the lat- ter is the Nutritious Artery of'the tibia {art. nutritia magna tibice) the largest of the arteries of that kind; it descends upon the pos- terior surface of the bone in a groove which is observed there, and penetrates into the medullary canal, where it ramifies. Sometimes it comes from the trunk of the popliteal artery itself. 2666. When the posterior tibial artery has arrived under the arch of the calcaneum, and before dividing, it furnishes pretty large twigs to the periosteum of that bone, the adductor muscle of the great toe, the flexor brevis digitorum, the cellular tissue and the skin. Some, which are of smaller size, ascend upon the inner edge of the foot, and anastomose with those of the anterior tibial artery. OF THE INTERNAL PLANTAIl ARTERY. {Art. Plantaris Interna). 2667- Concealed at its commencement by the internal annular ligament of the tarsus, and of much smaller size than the external plantar, it passes horizontally forwards, along the inner part of the sole of the foot, above the abductor poUicis, it then turns a little inwards towards the middle of the foot, passes under the flexor bre- vis poUicis, and ends by anastomosing with the first digital arteries. 2668. At its commencement, this artery gives numerous twigs to the ankle joint, abductor muscle of the great toe, flexor brevis digitorum, cellular tissue and integuments. Some of them, which are of considerable size, ascend above the muscles of the sole of the foot, and lose themselves in the lower part of the articulations of the tarsus. 2669. More anteriorly, the internal plantar artery gives twigs to the same muscles and to the flexor brevis poUicis. One of them, larger than the others, perforates the aponeurosis and is distributedOF THE EXTERNAL PLANTAU ARTERY. 733 to the skin. Several creep upon the inner side of the foot, and anastomose with those of its dorsal artery. OF THE EXTERNAL .PLANTAE. ARTEllY. (Art. Plantaris Externa.) 2670. This ought to be considered as the true continuation of the posterior tibial artery. It separates from the preceding, direct- ing itself obUquely downwards and inwards, in the groove of the calcaneum, and passes between the flexor brevis communis and ac- cessorius muscles. It then proceeds forwards, in the interval that exists between the first of these muscles and the abductor minimi digiti; after which it bends inwards, towards the posterior extre- mity of the fifth metatarsal bone, to dive between the adductor pol- licis and interossei muscles, and the posterior extremities of the metatarsal bones, describing a curve which brings it near the first of these bones, under which it anastomoses with the dorsal artery of the foot (2656). It thus forms with it the Plantar Arch {ar- cus plantaris), the concavity of which is directed backwards. From the course which we have described it as following, it is easy to perceive that the external plantar artery forms a great curve, whose convexity corresponds to the outer part of the sole of the foot, and that the point at which it terminates is nearly opposite that at which it commences. 2671. Before forming the plantar arch, this artery gives twigs to the superficial muscles of the sole of the foot and to the inte- guments. One of them, which is of considerable size, descends vertically upon the inner part of the calcaneum, and is distributed to the origins of the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum muscles. The accessorius and abductor minimi digiti also receive twigs from it. 2672. The branches which arise from the plantar arch are dis- tinguished into 2673. Superior Branches. They are three in number, and pass vertically through the interosseous spaces, bearing the name of Posterior Perforating Arteries (Art. perforantes posteriores.) They give at first twigs to the interossei muscles and to the peri- osteum of the metatarsal bones, and anastomose on the back of the foot with the interosseous twigs of the metatarsal artery (2654). 2674. Posterior and Inferior Branches. They are very small, and distributed to the interossei and lumbricales muscles, the cellular tissue and the articulations of the tarsal with the metatar- sal bones. 2075. Anterior Branches. These are the largest, and com- monly four in number. The first directs itself forwards and a little outwards under the flexor brevis minimi digiti, to which it gives numerous twigs, and terminates on the outer edge of the little toe.ORGANS OF ClUCULATION. The second, third, and fourth, follow the last three interosseous spaces, giving twigs to the muscles which occupy them and to the lurabricales. Near the anterior extremity of the metatarsal bones, they enter above the transversus pedis, sending each over the back of the foot an anterior perforating twig^ which communicates with those of the metatarsal artery (2654). Lastly, between the meta- tarso-phalangeal articulations, these branches separate each into two large twigs, which are distributed to the corresponding edges of the toes, from the inner part of the little toe to the outer part of the second, and which have exactly the same distribution as the colla- teral arteries of the fingers (2490). OF THE VEINS, Or Vessels which carry the Blood from the different parts of the Body to the Heart. GENERAL HEMAKKS. 2676. The Veins* (Vence) are vessels destined to contain th6 dark blood, as the arteries contain the red. They occur in all ' parts of the body to which arteries are distributed; but they may be distinguished into two systems, which are entirely se- parated from each other. One of these systems, which is much more extensive than the other, commences in all the organs by very minute radicles, and ends at the heart by the venae cavtu. The other, which is confined to the cavity of the abdomen, com- mences in like manner by a great number of radicles in the diges- tive organs and spleen, and terminates in the liver by a single trunk which subdivides in its substance. This is called the System of the Vena PortcE. 2677- With respect to their general disposition, the veins may, in some measure, be compared to the arteries, but they differ es- sentially from them in number, situation, functions, and organiza- tion. 2678. Their form is cylindrical like that of the arteries, and their calibre remains the same so long as they do not receive branches ; but this cylindrical figure is interrupted from space to space by more or less remarkable contractions, owing to the presence of valves in their interior. 2679. Each artery is accompanied by at least one vein, which divides like it, has as many roots as it has branches, and whose size is much greater than that of the artery. There results from this that, at first sight, there seem to be as many veins as arteries; but " tl>Xi\/. of tlic Greeks.735 OF THK VEINS. ilic number is found to be much greater when it is observed that an artery is often accompanied by two veins of equal size with itself; that the roots of the veins also are more numerous than the branches of the arteries, and that many veins are entirely isolated from the arteries, as is observed under the integuments of the limbs and trunk, in the braiu, S:c. 2680. The radicles of the veins unite successively so as to form trunks which become so much the larger the nearer they approach the heart; but as the sum of the diameter of all these radicles is much greater than that of the last trunks, there results that the venous system represents a cone whose summit is at the heart, while its base is at the circumference of the body. These radicles anastomose frequently together, and form net-works like those of the last ramifications of the arteries which give rise to them (2278). Somethnes also two principal venous trunks inosculate with each other. 2681. The walls of the veins are much thinner than those of the arteries, and have a grayish-white tint. They are formed of only, two coats. The outer is loose, extensile, composed of longitudinal fibres more or less apparent, and more or less close. It is fre- quently surrounded by a sheath of cellular tissue, the lamellse of which are placed very close upon each other. The inner coat is thin, smooth, and polished, having a considerable resemblance to that which lines the arterial tubes (2279), but never containing bony dots hke those which are so frequently met with in the latter. This coat is prolonged into the right cavities of the heart and the sinuses of the dura mater, and, by being folded in the veins, forms there a great number of semilunar valves similar to those which we have seen at the commencement of the pulmonary artery and aorta. These valves are sometimes isolated, more frequently disposed in pairs, but rarely three together. Their free edge is directed towards the heart, and is more or less concave. They are much more abundant in the veins of the inferior extremities than in those of the head or superior extremities. The system of the vena ports has none. Their use evidently appears to be to prevent the blood from returning, by the veins, from tlic heart towards the circum- ference of the body, and their number is so much the greater the farther we remove from the heart. 2682. The coats of the veins, like those of the arteries, contain minute arteries and veins ; but they are far from presentino- so great a number of nervous filaments. The vena porta; is the only one in which a very apparent nervous plexus is observed (1916). IORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 73G OF THE VEINS IN PARTICULAK, Of the Veins which concur in forming the Vena Cava Superior. OF THE VEINS WHICH GIVE IlISE TO THE EXTEUNAL JUGULAR VEIN, 2683. Internal Mawillary Vein. (Vena maxillaris interna). It arises by a multitude of radicles in all the parts to which the artery of the same name is distributed (2336), excepting in the dura mater, for the middle meningeal artery is not accompanied by any vein. It is, therefore, composed of the pterygoid, spheno-pala- tine, alveolar, infra-orbitar, mental, inferior dentar and deep tern- poral veins, whose distribution is precisely the same as that of the arteries of the same name. By means of its spheno-palatine root, it communicates with the sinuses of the base of the cranium. The small twigs which establish this communication pass through the foramina of that region, and are called hke all those of the same kind, Emissary Veins of Santorini. Moreover, upon the sides of the pharynx, there are observed frequent anastomoses between the roots of the internal maxillary vein and the facial and pharyngeal veins. This disposition produces the Pharyngeal Venous Plexus. Thus formed, the trunk of the internal maxillary vein passes be- hind the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and there unites with that of the superficial temporal vein. 2684. Superficial Temporal Vein. This vein, which is very flexuous, takes its rise in all the places where the corresponding ar- tery is distributed, and its first radicles anastomose towards the top of the head with those of the opposite occipital, frontal, and tempo- ral veins. It is composed of the middle temporal vein, the anterior auricular veins, the transverse vein of the face, and of some small twigs which come from the eyelids, eyebrow, prominence of the cheek, external auditory canal, and temporo-maxillary articulation. Thus formed, it descends before the ear, and unites with the pre- ceding. 2685. The trunk which results from this union then dives into the parotid gland, which transmits some small twigs to it. It im- mediately furnishes a thick and short branch which passes deeply inwards, above the digastric muscle, and opens into the internal jugular vein ; the trunk then emerges inferiorly from the gland, and receives the following vein. 2686. Posterior Auricular Vein, {vena auricidaris posterior). It comes from the integuments of the mastoid region of the head, and from the inner surface of the auricle ; one of the roots is the stylo-mastoid vein, which issues from the aqueduct of Fallopius. 5OF THE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. 737 2687. This trunk then takes the name of External Jugular Vein, {venajugularis externa). Jt is less voluminous than the in- ternal, descends nearly vertically along the lateral and anterior part of the neck, placed at the first between the sterno-cleido-mastoideus and platysma rayoides, the latter of which alone separates it from the integuments, crossing the direction of the first, and pretty ac- curately corresponding with that of the fibres of the second. It then passes under the omo-hyoideus muscle, and is separated from the platysma myoides by a pretty thick layer of fat, so that in de- scending it becomes less and less superficial. Lastly, near the outer edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, it opens into the upper part of the subclavian vein, a little externally of the internal luffiilar vein. Sometimes it bifurcates at its termination; but always in its course along the neck it receives some vems, which are the following. 2688. Cervical Cutatieous and Trachelo-scapiilar Veins. They are few in number above, and come from the muscles and in- teguments of the posterior region of the neck. But inferiorly and externally, the external jugular vein is augmented by several pretty large branches which arise from the muscles of the shoulder, fol- low the large divisions of the superior and posterior scapular arter- ies, and traverse the triangular space which exists between the trapezius and sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscles and the clavicle. At the same point, that is to say, near the termination of the exter- nal jugular vein, and internally, there are seen opening other veins which foUow the course of the clavicle, and whose roots, anastomos- ing with each other and with those of the opposite side, form be- tween the skin and the sterno-hyoidei muscles above the superior extremity of the sternum, a venous plexus remarkable for the ir- regularity and number of its twigs. This plexus is farther aug- mented by four or five pretty large veins, which commence, anas- tomosing with the facial veins, in the muscles of the superior hyoid region, descend vertically to the anterior and middle part of the neck, upon the sterno-hyoidei muscles, communicate frequently together, and receive branches which come from the lateral and superficial regions of the neck. I-OF THE VEINS WHICH GIVE RISE TO THE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. ( Venajugularis interna.) 2689- Superior Cerebral Veins. They are disseminated over the convex surface of the two hemispheres of the brain, from the substance of which they appear to issue by a multitude of very minute radicles placed towards the internal temporal fossae. They have a very flexuous course in the anfractuosities, and direct them- selves towards the great fissure of the hemisphere, uniting intO;738 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION, trunks becoming successively larger, and no longer exclusively oc- cupying the anfractuosities. Several of them, indeed, arc seen pass- ing transversely over the convolutions. The largest and most nu- merous are behind, and there are but very few before. These trunks are joined near the median line, by similar trunks arising from the plain surface of the hemispheres, and after this union, they leave the brain, are enveloped by particular sheaths of the arachnoid membrane, and by bending gain the lateral and in- ferior parts of the superior longitudinal sinus (1573), into which they open obliquely, as we have said. 2690. Vein of the Corjms Striatum. Its roots are extended at the surface of the corpus striatum. It commences near the an- terior extremity of the fornix, and turns obliquely outwards and backwards, in the groove which separates the optic thalamus from the corpus striatum, exactly following the course of the taenia semi- eircularis (1535) which covers it. It unites with the following. 2691. Vein of the Choroid Pleccus. Its roots are found in the choroid plexus and velum interpositum (1586). It winds over the optic thalamus, where it receives branches which descend from the fornix. Thus united, these two veins form, to the right and left, two trunks, which are called the VeiicB Galeni. 2692. VevicB Galeni. They direct themselves horizontally back- wards in the velum interpositum, placed in the canal which the pia mater forms by penetrating into the third ventricle of the brain, and externally of that which the arachnoid membrane presents at the same place. They issue from the brain towards the posterior curve of the corpus callosum, and immediately enter into the straight sinus of the dura mater by its anterior extremity (1575), crossing each other, so that the left goes to the right side of the sinus, and the right to the left side. 2693. Superior Cerebellar Veins. Arising from the substance of the cerebellum, and expanded over its whole upper surface, they unite into two or three trunks, which ascend obhquely forwards along the processus vermiformis superior (1508), bend upon themselves, leave the cerebellum, and penetrate into the straight sinus towards the middle of its length (1575). Some of these veins, which are smaller, than the others, open into the venas Galeni. 2694. Inferior Cerebellar Veins. Disposed nearly in the in- verse direction of the preceding, and at the inferior surface of the cerebellum, they unite on each side into two or three trunks, which 'bend over the great circumference of the organ, and ascend verti- cally to open into the corresponding lateral sinus, at considerable distances from each other (1577)- 2695. Lateral and Inferior Cerebral Veins. They are as nu- merous as the superior (2689), and have a similar disposition. United, on each side, into three or four trunks pretty near each other, and enveloped by sheaths of the arachnoid membrane, they leave the brain together, direct themselves obliquely forwards andOF THE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. outwards, and open into the upper part of the lateral sinuses, be- hind the base of the petrous process, and passing through the fibrous bundles of the tentorium cerebeUi. 2696. Ophthalmic Vein, (Vena ophthalmica cerebralis seu sinus ophthalmicus). It arises from all the parts contained within the orbit, from the pituitary membrane, the palpebras, &ec., and, in a word, from all the organs to which the ophthalmic artery is distributed.* The roots of the one have the same disposition as the twigs of the other (2359), and this vein is formed by the La- chrymal Vein, the Central Vein of the Retina, the supra-orbitar. Ciliary, Muscular, Ethmoidal, Palpebral, and Nasal Veins. We observe, however, that in the choroid membrane, the radicles of the ciliary veins form a distinct layer from those of the arteries (I960), and that they are so flexuous and anastomose so frequently toge- ther, that they receive the name of Vasa Vorticosa. Resulting from the union of aU the veins which we have enumerated above, the ophthalmic vein passes out of the orbit by the inner part of the sphenoidal fissure, and discharges itself into the cavernous sinus (1579). 2697- The sinuses of the dura mater, charged with all the blood that returns from the brain, the eye, part of the nasal fossae, &c. all terminate, as we have already said (1577)) foramen lacerum posterius. There, the internal membrane of the veins ceases to be in immediate contact with the dura mater ; there also, commences the internal jugular vein, by a dilatation which is named the Sinus of the Jugular Vein. Commonly larger on the right side than on the left, and lodged in the jugular fossa, this dilatation is invested externally by the fibrous membrane of the veins (2681), and is se- parated from the vein properly so called by a contraction. The vein descends a little forwards, along with the internal carotid ar- tery (2355), covered by the styloid process of the temporal bone, and by the muscles which are attached to it. It communicates at first with the external jugular vein, by a branch of large size (2685), and, a little before arriving opposite the upper part of the larynx, it receives the facial vein. 2698. Facial Vein. (Vena facialis). This vein commences on the top of the head, and on the forehead, by a great number of roots which unite into a pretty large subcutaneous branch, having frequent anastomoses with that of the opposite side, descending vertically upon the middle region of the forehead, and commonly named the Frontal Vein, {Vena preparata). When this vein has arrived upon the sides of the root of the nose, it assumes the name of Angular Vein, receives anastomosing twigs from the ophthal- mic, and is augmented by Palpebral and Superciliary veins. It is here that the Facial Vein properly so called commences; it descends under the integuments or levator labii superioris ala?que * No veins have yet been discovered in the mombrana pupillaris of the foetus.f citt TomTV.'pirn*Tanseunt, cumquchisultcriusprogrcdluntur. Socmm. op.ORGANS OF CIRCULATION, 740 nasi and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles, bends outwards, passes beneath the zygomaticus major at a considerable distance from tlic commissure of the lips, receives the dorsal veins of the nose, the superior and inferior coronary veins of the lips, and several buccal and masseteric veins, and directs itself towards the base of the jaw, without forming flexuosities like the artery to which it corresponds. It then directs itself obliquely downwards, backwards and outwards, between the platysma myoides and submaxillary gland, and ar- rives,at the internal jugular vein, after being augmented in the lat- ter part of its course by the ranine, submental, and inferior Pala- tine Veins. The first of these three veins arises from the point of the tongue, descends along its inferior surface, follows the hypoglossal nerve between the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glossus muscles, and dis- charges itself into the facial vein a little above the two following. The second commences in the tongue and sublingual gland, by a branch which accompanies Wharton's duct, and which is pre- sently augmented by other branches from the digastricus, platysma myoides and mylo-hyoideus muscles, and from the sub-maxillary gland. By their union, these branches constitute the trunk of the vein, which descends backwards between the body of the jaw and the anterior belly of the digastricus muscle, and opens into the facial vein or into the superior thyroid. The third arises chiefly from the tonsils and velum palati, ac- companies the inferior palatine artery, descends upon the sides of the pharynx, and receives some twigs from the pterygoideus in- ternus and stylo-glossus muscles. 2699- After receiving the facial vein, the internal jugular is augmented by the lingual and pharyngeal veins. 2700. Lingual Vein {Vena lingualis). It arises particularly from a very complicated net-work, which is placed towards the base of the tongue, beneath the mucous membrane, between the epi- glottis and the foramen ccecum (2072). It also receives many twigs from the tissue of the tongue, the sublingual gland, and the genio-glossus muscle : it anastomoses with the ranine vein, de- scends between the sublingual gland and the genio-glossus muscle, then between the hyo-glossus and mylo-hyoideus muscles, and di- rects itself horizontally backwards and outwards before the latter, along the upper edge of the hyoid bone. It frequently unites with the pharyngeal before opening into the jugular. 2701. Pharyngeal Vein {Vena phar^jngea). It commences at the pharyngeal venous plexus, of which we have already spoken, (2683), which is formed by the anastomosis of the two pharyngeal veins, of some emissary veins of Santorini, and of the internal max- illary veins. Its size is considerable. It opens into the jugular vein separately or along with the preceding. 2702. Opposite the upper edge of the larynx, the internal ju- gular vein receives the superior thyroid and occipital veins. 2703. Superior Thyroid Vein. {Vena thyroidea superior). It741 OF TtlE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. arises in the thyroid body by a multitude of roots which anasto- mose upon the upper edge of that organ with those of the oppo- site side, and which unite into a single trunk which passes between the sterno-thyroidei and sterno-hyoidei muscles, frequently receive the ranine and lingual veins, and always the laryngeal vein, which comes from the interior of the larynx, divides into two branches, and thus opens into the jugular vein by two different points. 2704. Occipital Vein. (Vena occipitalis). Its roots exactly follow the course of the twigs of the occipital artery (2322), and unite into a single trunk, which passes under the splenius muscle to open into the internal jugular vein, or into the external, but more rarely into the latter. 2705. Veins of the Diploe. They are situated in the substance of the diploe of the bones of the skull, and lodged in particular canals. They commence by very delicate and numerous radicles, which form a kind of net-work upon the soft membrane, lining the areolae of the diploe. By their successive union, these original radicles form branches becoming larger and larger, in the inte- rior of which are observed small valves, and which direct them- selves towards the base of the skull. The number and size of these principal branches vary much; but in general one or two arc found in the substance of the frontal bone, which discharge themselves into the frontal vein, two in the substance of the pa- rietal bone, which open into the lateral sinuses of the dura mater and into the deep temporal veins, and one in the occipital bone, which opens into the occipital vein. From this arrangement, it is easy to judge that these vessels contribute to the formation of the internal jugidar vein. Moreover, it is to be remarked that the veins of the diploe have numerous anastomoses with each other, and that they communi- cate, internally and externally of the skull, by a multitude of emis- sary twigs, with the venous trunks which creep upon that part, or with the sinuses formed in the dura mater. 2706. After receiving all the branches mentioned above, the in- ternal jugular vein forms a large trunk, which descends vertically along the anterior and lateral part of the neck, behind the omo- hyoideus and sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscles and the cervical branch of the hypoglossal nerve, before the rectus captis anticus major, the vertebral column, the commencement of the subclavian artery and the scalenus anticus muscle, and externally of the com- mon carotid artery and pncumo-gastric nerve. This vein joins the subclavian to form the I'tena innom'tnata, and presents on the right side the same direction as the vena cava superior, while on the left it forms a right angle with the subclavian. 2707. In this latter course, the internal jugular vein receives only a few cutaneous veins, and some branches which issue from the thyroid body under the name of Middle Thyroid Veins {venca thyroidece medics.7'1'^2 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. OF THE VEIKS WHICH, BY UNITING, FORM THE SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. 2708. Brachial Veins. The collateral arteries of the fingers, the branches of the palmar arches, these arches themselves, the ra- dial and ulnar arteries, and all their divisions, are accompanied each by two veins which exactly follow their course, and which become larger and larger as they ascend towards the elbow joint, where they form four principal and deep veins, which unite two and two, so as afterwards to constitute two large trunks. These run along the brachial artery, and embrace it at different points by anastomosing twigs, which they send off to each other. They re- ceive in their course all the veins which accompany the divisions of the artery, as the vena anastomotica, the deep humeral vein, he. and open into the axillary vein at the same place as the basilic. 2709. Cephalic Vein (vena cephalica). It commences by a great number of radicles, disposed in the form of a net-work on the back of the hand, and upon the muscles of the thumb. These radicles unite into a single trunk, which takes the name of Cephalic Vein of the Thumb (Vena cephalica pollicis) and bends inwards upon the muscles of the first interosseal space. This trunk ascends along the anterior and external part of the fore-arm, where it forms the Superficial Radial Vein. It receives on all hands numerous subcutaneous twigs, and on arriving at the bend of the arm, unites with the median-cephalic vein, which as- cends outwards in the triangular space formed in that place by the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, and is larger than the superficial radial vein. These two veins, thus united, form the trunk of the cephalic, which ascends vertically at the outer and fore part of the arm, along the external edge of the biceps muscle, at first under the skin, and afterwards in the cellular interval which separates the pectoralis major and deltoid. Then, bending inwards, under the clavicle, it opens singly, or by several branches, into the axillary vein, frequently communicating by a twig with the external jugu- lar vein. In all this course it only receives a very small number of secondary veins. 2710. Basilic Vein (Vena basilica). This vein, which is larger than the cephalic, is formed by two branches, which are named the Posterior Ulnar, and Anterior Ulnar Veins. The Posterior Ubiar, which is larger than the anterior, com- mences on the inner part of the back of the hand, and on the posterior surface of the fingers, by a net-work formed by a great number of radicles frequently anastomosing together, and with those of the cephalic vein of the thumb and superficial radial vein, and united internally of the hand into a single trunk, named the Vena saltmtella. This vein, ascending upon the inner part of the fore-arm, assumes the name of posterior ulnar. It receives743 OF THE SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. in this course a great number of subcutaneous secondary veins, passes behmd the inner condyle, and unites with the anterior ulnar vein. The Anterior Ulnar Vein, commences in the inferior region of the internal and anterior part of the fore-arm, and ascends before the inner condyle. It communicates with the preceding by a great number of anastomosing twigs. Thus formed by these different branches, the basilic vein, after receiving the median basilic, ascends along the inner part of the arm before the ulnar nerve, receiving but a small number of twigs, and anastomosing pretty frequently with the cephalic vein. It then throws itself deeply into the axilla, and is manifestly continuous with the axillary vein. The Median vein (vena mediana) comes from a great number of roots expanded over the whole anterior surface of the fore-arm, and is joined by a deep vein which is formed of detached twigs of the deep radial and ulnar veins. About the bend of the elbow the median vein divides into the median cephalic and me- dian basilic veins, the former of which ascends outwards to join the cephalic vein, and the latter ascends obliquely inwards along the tendon of the biceps, and unites with the basilic vein. 2711. Axillary Vein (vena axillaris). This vein is, there? fore, the result of the union of all those which we have exa- mined in the hand, fore-arm, and arm, whether deep or su- perficial. It ascends obliquely inwards under the clavicle, al- ways situated before the axillary artery, from the tendon of the pectoralis major to the inferior extremity of the scalenus anticus muscle. In this course, it receives the Circumjlex Veins, the Sub-Sca- pular, Long Thoracic, Superior Thoracic, and Acromial Vehis, which correspond to the branches furnished by the axillary artery. , 2712. To the axillary vein succeeds the Subclavian Vein (vena subclavia) which extends from the inferior extremity of the sca- lenus anticus muscle, before which it passes, to the vena inno- minata, which it forms by its union with the internal jugular. Both vencB innominatce proceed at first transversely inwards, and then bend downwards to enter the thorax. But they present differences according as they are examined on the right or on the left side, on account of the position of the vena cava su- perior. Thus the right vena innominata is very short, and approaches the vertical direction more in the second part of its course. It is covered by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, the sterno-clavi- cular articulation, the cartilage of tlie first rib, and a small por- tion of the sternum. It is applied externally and posteriorly against the right lamina of the mediastinum, the pncumo-gastric nerve, tiic right sub-clavian artery, and the scalenus anticusOKGANS OR CIRCULATION. muscle. It corresponds internally to the aorta. Moreover its size is always less than that of the left. The left is much longer, and approaches the horizontal direc- tion more than the right. It is also covered by the same parH^ and, moreover, by nearly the whole breadth of the sternum, and by the muscles which are attached to it. It covers the scalenus anticus muscle, the left subclavian artery, the left lamina of the mediastinum, the pneumo-gastric nerve, the arch of the aorta, and the arteria innoniinata. It is also always larger than the right. 2713. The left vena innominata receives two veins which the right does not receive. They are named the Left Internal Mam- mary, and the Left Inferior Thyroid. 2714. Left Internal Mammanj Vein. Its roots are seen wherever the corresponding artery sends its twigs, and are col- lected into a single trunk which ascends backwards and out- wards upon the posterior surface of the sterno-costal cartilages, and opens into the left vena innominata, beside the superior intercostal. In its course, this vein is augmented by the superior phrenic, left mediastinal and thymic veins. 2715. Left Inferior Thyroid Vein. Its roots, on leaving the ♦ inferior part of the thyroid body, anastomose with those of the right inferior thyroid vein, and thus form, before the trachea, an arch into which open numerous twigs frequently anastomosing to- gether, and expanded over the thyroid body and in the muscles which cover it. They communicate with the superior thyroid veins, and collectively constitute the Thyroid Venous Plexus. From this plexus comes off the trunk of the vein, which runs at first transversely outwards, then descends obliquely upon the tra- chea, from which it is separated by much fat, upon the pneumo- gastric nerve, and the common carotid artery, and opens inferiorly and posteriorly into the left vena innominata, which consequently covers it inferiorly. 2716. The two venae innominatae also receive the Vertebral and Superior Intercostal veins. 2717- Vertebral Vein {vena vertebralis). It commences in the muscles of the occipital and posterior cervical regions, by a great number of roots which collect into a single trunk towards the occi- pital foramen. This trunk directs itself forwards, above the atlas, penetrates into the foramen which occupies the base of the trans- verse process of that vertebra, and there communicates with the lateral sinus of the dura mater, by a twig lodged in the posterior condyloid foramen. The vertebral vein then descends in the canal which lodges the vertebral artery (2389), communicating by each of the interverte- bral foramina with the vertebral sinus, and receiving opposite each intervertebral space a twig from the muscles of the neck. It issues from its canal at the sixth or seventh cervical vertebra, receives a branch which corresponds to the deep cervical arteryOF THE TRUNK OF THE VENA CAVA SUPEIIIOU. 745 (242G), find unites with another considerable vein, which com- mences upon the lateral region of the head, where it communi- cates with the lateral sinus of the dura mater by the mastoid foramen, and which descends before the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrfe, sending numerous anastomosing twigs to the trunk of the vein itself, and receiving many twigs from the neigh- bouring muscles. After this union, the vertebral vein descends, beside the artery, between the rectus capitis anticus major and scalenus anticus mus- cles, passes on the left side before the subclavian artery, and on the right, behind it and the recurrent nerve, to open posteriorly and inferiorly into the vena innominata. 2718. Right Superior Intercostal Vein. It is sometimes want- ing, and is always smaller than the left. When it exists, it com- mences by branches distributed in the two superior intercostal spaces, and afterwards united into a single trunk, which issues from the thorax by its superior circumference, and opens into the poste- rior and inferior part of the vena innominata, near the vertebral. 2719. Left Superior Intercostal Vein. It is always larger and especially longer than the right. It commences in the eighth, se- venth or sixth intercostal space, by some twigs which partly anas- tomose with the vena-azygos and vena semi-azygos, and ascends vertically behind the pleura, on the side of the bodies of the ver- tebras, successively receiving branches from each intercostal space. Towards the third vertebra, it presents a third curve, which re- ceives three or four veins which descend from the two first inter- costal spaces ; it then passes behind the lung and aorta, a little ex- ternally of the latter, and there, the Left Bronchial Vein discharges itself into it. After this it issues from the thorax and opens into the left vena innominata. OF THE TRUNK OF THE VENA CAVA SUPERIOn. 2720. Formed by the union of the two venas innominatas which carry all the blood of the head, superior extremities, and a portion of the thorax, the vena cava srtperior commences opposite the car- tilage of the first rib, a little above the arch of the aorta,- and des- cends to the left and forwards as far as the base of the pericardium, from which it receives a fibrous sheath more or less prolonged upon its walls. It then enters into that membraneous sac, descends ver- tically to the right of the aorta, from which it is a Uttle separated, is invested by the serous membrane of the pericardium, and opens into the right auricle of the heart, behind its free appendage, a little above the vena cava inferior, and confounded with the latter in a greater or less extent. 2721. The vena cava superior corresponds anteriorly to the thymus gland and cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum ; pos- teriorly, to the superior right pulmonary vein and aorta; to theORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 746 right, to the lung; to the left^ to the portion of the pericardium ■which ascends upon the aorta. 2722. Before penetrating into the pericardium, the vena cava superior receives the Vena azygos, right internal mammary and inferior thyroid veins, and several thymic, mediastinal, pericar- diac and supei-ior phrenic branches, all from the right side. 2723. Right Internal Mammary Vein. It is precisely similar to the left (2714), differing from it only in its termination. Towards the umbilicus, its first roots anastomose with those of the epigastric vein. 2724. Right Inferior Thyroid Vein. In the first part of its course, it is in all respects similar to the left, with which it consti- tutes the thyroid venous plexus (2715). But farther down, it descends outwards, between the pneumogastric nerve and the ar- teria innominata, which are behind, and the sterno-thyroidei and sterno-hyoidei muscles, which are before, and opens into the vena cava superior, between the two venae innominatae. 2725. Vena Azygos. It forms a communication between the two venae cavae. It opens into the vena cava superior, immediate- ly above the right bronchus, forming around it and the right pul- monary artery, a kind of arch, by bending from before backwards, and a little from left to right. It then descends slightly forwards and to the left, upon the fore and right part of the bodies of the dorsal vertebras, alongside of the aorta and before the right inter- costal arteries. It then penetrates into the abdomen, passing tlirough the crura of the diaphragm along with the aorta and tho- racic duct, or sometimes to the outside of the right crus. In the abdomen, it opens into the vena cava inferior or into one of the lumbar veins. Sometimes, at its termination, it bifurcates. 2726. Near its origin, the vena azygos receives, by the convex- ity of its curve, the Right Bronchial Vein, the roots of which ex- tend into the lung and over the oesophagus, and some small twigs from the trachea, bronchial lymphatic gangUa, pericardium, and walls of the aorta and pulmonary artery. 2727. In its course, along the dorsal vertebrae, the vena azygos receives anteriorly several twigs from the aorta and oesophagus; some of the latter are very large, especially below. To the right, it receives the corresponding intercostal veins, which have the same distribution as the arteries of that name. To the left, towards the seventh rib, it receives the Vena semi-azygos, a considerable branch which commences, by anastomosing with the right renal vein or with the first lumbar vein, enters into the thorax by a particular aperture of the diaphragm, ascends parallel to the vena azygos on the left side of the vertebra;, and passes behind the aorta and oesophagus, receiving the inferior intercostal veins of the left side.OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 747 Oftlie Veins which unite to form the Vena Cava Inferior. OF THE VEINS WHICH, BY THEIE UNION, FOEM THE EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 2728. Popliteal Vein, (Vena poplitea). It commences deeply by three secondary veins, which have precisely the same course as the anterior and posterior tibial and fibular arteries. It is exactly similar to the artery whose name it bears, at the outer part of which it is first situated, and afterwards at its posterior part. It receives, moreover, a subcutaneous vein, which is the following. 2729. External Vena Saphena (Vena saphena externa seu mi- nor). It commences by several roots expanded on the one hand, upon the back of the foot, and upon its outer side, and on the other, embracing the external malleolus, behind which they unite into a single trunk, which ascends obliquely, approaching the tendo AchiUis, and afterwards directs itself vertically, between the inte- guments and the union of the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, towards the hollow of the ham where it is situated, beside the tibial nerve, and opens into the popliteal vein. 2730. Femoral o'i Crural Vein, {Vena femoralis). This imme- diately succeeds the popliteal vein, and ascends obliquely at the inner and fore part of the thigh, close to the femoral artery, and following precisely the same course up to the crural arch (2608). It is at first placed behind the artery ; but above, it is in contact with its inner side. It receives a great number of deep branches, precisely similar to those of the artery, and a superficial branch, which is the following. 2731. Internal Vena Saphena, (Vena sapJiena interna seu major). Its first radicles occupy the inner edge of the great toe, and form on the back of the foot, near the metatarso-phalangeal articulations, a transverse arch which unites with the external saphena, and whose convexity, which is directed forwards, receives a certain number of twigs from the toes. All these roots united ascend before the malleolus internus, over the-ankle-joint, and form a trunk which is further augmented by many branches from the tarsal and metatarsal regions. This trunk ascends at first vertically, afterwards obliquely backwards, along the inner part of the leg, and passes behind the internal condyle of the femur. It then ascends almost vertically on the inner side of the thigh, before the adductores and gracilis muscles, and receives branches which come from the posterior and superficial part of the thigh. One of these branches is larger than the rest; it commences at the fore part of the leg, or around the inner condyle of the femur, by several roots of considerable size, some of which anastomose withORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 748 the trunk of the vein itself; it then ascends obliquely between the skin and the fat, receiving many twigs from them. The internal vena saphena then ascends as far as the crural arch, where it discharges itself into the femoral vein. Tlicre, it receives several Abdominal Subcutaneous Veins, a vein which corresponds to the superficial circumflex iliac artery (2G18), and the External Pudic Veins. 2732. External Iliac Vein, {Vena iliaca externa). Placed beneath and a little internally of the artery of the same name (2601), this vein receives branches corresponding to those of the artery, and follows precisely the same course. 'J'he Epigastric and Cir- ctiinflex Iliac Veins open into it. It receives moreover in the male a pretty large vein which enters by the inguinal ring, united to the spermatic cord, and which comes from the envelopes of the testicle. or THE VEINS WHICH EOHM THE HYPOGASTKIC OR INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 2733. The Hypogastric Vein, (Vena iliaca interna), placed in the excavation of the pelvis, behind the artery of the same name, is composed of a number of branches corresponding exactly to those of the artery, with the exception of some which we proceed to describe. 2734. Vesical Veins. They are very numerous and of large size. They exhibit differences according to the sex of the subject in which they are examined. In the male, they commence upon the glans by a great number of radicles which unite into two large trunks, the Dorsal Veins of the Penis, which run upon the back of that organ, accompanying the dorsal arteries (2599), and afterwards wind from above down- wards at the exterior of the corpus cavernosum. There, these two veins subdivide into several secondary trunks, and unite with other veins which come from the substance of the scrotum and dartos, and from the external surface of the tunica vaginalis. They then proceed together, mingling with several brandies of the internal pudic vein, to the roots of the corpus cavernosum, enter by tlie arch of the pubes, and continue their course horizontally on the sides of the bladder. After this they unite with new branches ex- panded over the prostate gland and the walls of the bladder, form- ing by their anastomoses a very extensive plexus with numerous meshes, and at length, collecting again into a few trunks, open into the internal iliac vein, near the obturator vein, receiving by the way some veins from the rectum and vesicula^ seminales. In the female, the vesical veins commence by the Dorsal Veins of th e Clitoris, and by a great number of roots spread out in the skin and cellular tissue of the labia. They unite around the vulva,OF THE VENA CAVA INFERIOR. 74.9 and communicate with the internal and external pudie arteries. Several come from the constrictor vaginas muscle, and the whole together form on the sides of the vagina and bladder a very re- markable plexus, from which proceed the last trunks of these veins. They receive by the way a great number of twigs placed between the rectum and vagina, and between the latter and the bladder. 2735. Sacro-Lateral Veins. They communicate in the sacral canal, anastomosing with the vertebral sinuses, issue by the ante- rior sacral foramina, and direct themselves transversely before the sacrum to jom the hypogastric. The inferior are larger than the superior. OF THE COMMON ILIAC VEINS. (^VencB iliaccB communes). 2736. They result from the union of the external iliac and hy- pogastric veins, and are of very large size. They arise opposite the sacro-iliac symphysis, and ascend from thence converging ob- liquely inwards, to the articulation of the bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, where they unite to give rise to the vena cava inferior. The left passes successively under the left common iliac artery, then before the last vertebra, and, lastly, beliind the right common iliac artery. OF THE VENA CAVA INFERIOR OR ABDOMINALIS. 2737. It is much larger than the superior, and extends from the articulation of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae to the right auricle of the heart, at the inferior and posterior part of which it opens, being continuous a little with the vena cava superior. It ascends at first vertically on the right lateral part of the bo- dies of the lumbar vertebrae, to beneath the liver, covered by the right common iliac artery, then by the peritoneum and duodenum, and placed to the right of the aorta. Opposite the Hver its calibre frequently contracts a little, and sometimes, on the contrary, en- larges in a remarkable degree. It enters behind that viscus, de- scribing a shght curve, the convexity of which is turned to the left; it then sometimes passes through an aperture which the liver pre- sents to it; but, more commonly, is lodged in a notch formed be- tween its right lobe and the lobulus Spigelii. In the latter case, it corresponds to the middle and inferior part of the diaphragm. Above the liver, the vena cava inferior introduces itself into the pericardium, passing through a wide aperture of the aponeurosis of the diaphragm (1274). It directs itself a little obliquely to the left, backwards and upwards, then immediately enters the right750 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. auricle of the heart by an aperture which is bounded by the Eus^ tachian valve (2252). 2738. The branches which the vena cava inferior receives in this course are the middle sacral vein, the lumbar veins, the right sper- matic vein, and the renal, capsular, hepatic, and inferior phrenic veins. 2739. Middle Sacral Vein. It ascends upon the middle part of the anterior surface of the coccyx and sacrum, and opens into the vena cava, in the angle formed by the union of the two common iliac veins. 2740. Lumbar Veins, (VencB Iwnhales). They are four on each side, and commence each by an abdominal branch and a dor- sal branch, corresponding to the branches of the lumbar arteries (2554). Their first roots anastomose with those of the last intercostal veins, and of the epigastric and circumflex iliac veins. The dorsal branches communicate, by the intervertebral foramina, with the vertebral sinuses. These branches unite and form a trunk which directs itself transversely, from without inwards, along the lumbar arteries, between the bodies of the vertebrae and the psoas muscle. The lumbar veins of the left side pass under the aorta, and are in consequence longer than the right. Before the vertebral column, those of the same side communicate with each other by means of several vertical twigs. 2741. Spermatic Veins, (Vena; spermaticce). A little larger than the corresponding arteries, the spermatic veins differ in their origin in the two sexes. 2742. In the male, they commence by a plexus which is named the Sperinatic, the roots of which are expanded in the testicle, and issue from it for the most part through the tunica albuginea, before the head of the epididymis. None of these roots pass from the testicle to the epididymis; only, towards the small extremity of the latter, a pretty large branch issues from the testicle, extends along the upper part of the epididymis, and contributes to form the plexus, the roots of which then become more numerous and larger, and anastomose with the roots of the dorsal veins of the penis, and of the vesical, internal pudic and other neighbouring veins. Afterwards, the plexus collects into four or five branches which ascend externally of the tunica vaginahs, enveloping the vas de- ferens, and anastomosing frequently with each other. These branches then pass through the inguinal ring, unite and form a single trunk which directs itself inwards and upwards, running along the psoas muscle, as far as the upper part of the pelvis. There, the spermatic veins divide a second time to form another plexus under the kidney. This plexus has been named the Corpus pompiniforme. It is augmented by a great number of Adipose veins, which come transversely from the mass of fat surrounding the kidneys, and which communicate frequently together. Some of its twigs also come from the mesocolon and mesentery, where they anastomose with those of the vena portte. S751 OF THE VENA CAVA INFERIOR. Above the corpus pampiniformc, the spermatic veins unite again into a single one, ascend obliquely inwards between the peritoneum and psoas muscle, and open, the right into the vena cava, under the renal vein, the left into the corresponding renal vein. 2743. In the female, the spermatic veins derive their origin from a plexus expanded in and upon the ovarium, and of which several roots come from the sides of the uterus, where they anastomose with the uterine veins. They are afterwards joined by some branches which arise from the ligamentum teres and Fallopian tube. These different branches collect between the two laminae of the broad ligament of the uterus, pass over the external iliac ar- tery, crossing its direction, bend outwards, gain the brim of the pelvis^ and after this exhibit the same appearances as in the male. 2744. Renal or Emulgent Veins, (Venos renales seu emul- gentes). They are of great size. Their roots correspond exactly to the last ramifications of the renal arteries, in the substance of the kidneys. They unite in the fissure of the organ into several con- verging branches, which collect into a single trunk before the artery. The trunk directs itself transversely inwards, and opens upon the sides of the vena cava. The left renal vein is com- monly larger and longer than the right, which presents a slight obliquity. In their course, the renal veins receive some capsular and adi- pose twigs. The left is moreover augmented by the corresponding spermatic vein. 2745. Capsular Veins. There is one on each side. They fre- quently open into the renal veins, and in other respects have pre- cisely the same disposition as the arteries to which they corres- pond. 2746. Hepatic Veins (vence hepaticcB). They have their roots in the substance of the liver, where they are enveloped by a pro- longation of the fibrous capsule of that organ. Some of them of small size and irregular, enter the vena cava separately. Others, the venm cavce hepaticcB, to the number of two or three, are dis- tinguished into left and right. The Left comes from the left lobe of the liver, and issues near its free edge, not far from its left lateral ligament. It enters mto the vena cava before and opposite the aperture of the diaphrao-m, through which it passes. . The Right issues from the right lobe of the liver about the middle of its inferior surface, directs itself transversely to the left, and opens into the vena cava much below the preceding. 2747. Inferior Phrenic Veins. They are two in number and precisely similar to the arteries of the same name (2506). '752 ORGANS OF CIUCULATIOK. OF THE VERTEBRAL VENOUS SINUSES, AND VEINS OF THE SPINAJC MAHUOW. 2748. In the whole length of the vertebral canal, from the great occipital foramen to the extremity of the sacrum, behind the bodies of the vertebrae, before the dura mater, and on the sides of the pos- terior common vertebral ligament, there prevail two great venous canals, entirely different from the sinuses of the dura mater, nam- ed Vertebral Sinuses. Opposite the anterior condyloid formina, these sinuses commu- nicate each by a twig with the corresponding internal jugular vein, v^ithout having any kind of connexion with the sinuses of the dura mater. Their cahbre is always in the inverse ratio of the greater or less development of the posterior vertebral ligament: thus, in the neck, where it is broad, they are narrow, and in the back where it contracts, they increase in capacity. They are in general more developed upon the bodies of the vertebr.ne than opposite their fibro-cartilages, which is especially observable in the lumbar region, where they present very distinct successive contractions. Considered with reference to their interior, these sinuses have the same disposition as those of the dura mater; in other words, they are transversed in various directions by irregularly distributed membraneous bridles. By their inner side, they communicate with each other by means of prolongations which form true transverse 'sinuses constantly oc- cupying the middle of the body of each vertebra, passing under the .posterior vertebral ligament, and receiving by their middle and anterior part, the veins which arise in the spongy tissue of the ver- tebrae. By their outer side, the vertebral sinuses communicate with the posterior branches of the vertebral (2717)? intercostal (27I8) and lumbar (2740) veins, in the interval of the transverse processes. By their posterior side, they receive the numerous and very slender veins, which creep upon the dura mater enveloping the spi- nal marrow. 2749. In the sacral canal, the vertebral sinuses become much diminished, and change their appearance. Here they are only cylindrical veins of considerable size, immersed in an adipose cel- lular tissue, and have no adhesion to the osseous parts. Their in- ferior extremity is a very delicate twig, which is lost in the fat. Externally they form anastomoses with the lateral sacral veins (2735) ; and, internally, send transverse twigs of communication to each other. 2750. The veins of the spinal marrow have the same disposition as the arteries of that part. They accompany them, and open in- to the inferior cerebellar veins.SYSTEM OF THE VENA I'ORTiE. Of the Coronary Veins of the Heart. RIGHT CORONAKY VEINS. 2751. Great Riglit Coronary Vein. It commences towards the summit of the heart by several radicles which anastomose with those of the small right coronary and of the left coronary veins. It then ascends in the adipose groove of the thick margin of the heart, accompanying a branch of the corresponding coronary ar- tery. It receives a gi-eat nvnnber of lateral twigs, turns over the blunt margin of the heart, passes into the groove which separates the auricles from the ventricles, becomes horizontal, and directs it- self to the right and upwards, 2752. Small Right Coronary Vein. It arises like the pre- ceding, passes into the groove of the posterior surface of the heart, receives the veins of that surface and of the septum of the ventri- cles, ascends, vertically upon the wall of the auricle, and unites with the preceding. LEFT CORONAIIY VEINS. 2753. They are much smaller than the right, and vary much in number. Tiiey commence along with the preceding at the summit of the heart, by several roots which unite upon the con- vex surface of that organ into two or three branches. These often collect into a single trunk which ascends vertically over the groove which separates the ventricles from the auricles, and opens along with the others at the posterior part of the right auricle, un- der the vena cava inferior. Of the System of the Vena Portce. ORIGIN OF THE VENA PORTjE. 2754. The Vena Porta derives its origin from all the organs contained in the cavity of the abdomen, excepting the kidneys and bladder, and the uterus in the female. But these origins unite to form two principal trunks, which are called the splenic and supe- rior mesenteric veins. 275.5. Splenic Vein {iiena splenica). It arises from the spleen by a number of branches varying from three or four to seven or eight, which, after a short course, unite upon the pancreas into a single trunk. Less flexuous than the artery which it accompanies, the splenic vein then directs itself transversely from left to right, ■and beneath it, before the pancreas, to unite witli the auporior inc- 3 cORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 751. sentenc, opposite the vertebral column. In its progress, it receives the veins which correspond to the vasa hreviora (2528), in which M. Bauer discovered true valves which I also once observed, the Ti(jht and left Gastro-epiploic veins, the Duudenal and Pancrea- tic Veins, the Coronary Vein of the Stomach, and the Small Me- sara'ic or Mesenteric Vein. The last-mentioned vein receives the blood of the left part of the arch of the colon, and of the descending colon and rectum. Its roots correspond to the immediate branches of the inferior me- senteric artery, of which it even accompanies the trunk to above the sigmoid flexure of the colon. It then leaves it, ascends verti- cally behind the peritoneum of the left lumbar region, passes be- tween the transverse mesocolon and tlie vertebral column, enters beneath the pancreas, and joins the splenic vein nearly at a right angle. 2756. Superior Mesenteric Vein (vena mesaraica magna). Its disposition is almost precisely the same as that of the artery of the same name (2529), to the right and a little anteriorly of which It is placed. It is formed by all the veins of the small intestine, and by three veins corresponding to the three right coUc arteries. Its roots constitute, in the substance of the mesentery, a net-work similar to that of the ramifications of the artery. On arriving at the attached edge of the transverse mesocolon, its trunk enters be- neath the pancreas, and unites with the splenic vein at an obtuse angle, after receiving several duodenal and pancreatic veins. or THE TRUNK OF THE VENA PORT^ AND ITS DIVISIONS. 2757. The trunk of the vena portas results from the junction of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins : but its diameter is much smaller than the sum of their diameters. It as- cends obKquely to the right and backwards, and has about four inches of extent from the vertebral column, where it commences, to the groove of the liver, where it terminates. Lying at first un- der the small extremity of the pancreas and behind the second por- tion of the duodenum, the vena portag, united to the biliary vessels, and covered by the hepatic artery, cystic, and hepatic ducts, sur- rounded by a great number of nervous filaments and lymphatic vessels, arrives near the right extremity of the transverse groove of the liver, and bifurcates. Its two branches separate nearly at a right angle, and seem to form under the liver a horizontal canal which some anatomists have called the Sinus of the Vena Portae. They both accompany the two divisions of the hepatic artery. The right, which is not so long as the left, but larger, introduces itself into the great lobe of the liver, and ramifies in its interior. The left, which is smaller and longer, proceeds horizontally as far as the ligament of the umbilical vein, and divides in the left lobe. It throws a principal branch into the lobulus Spigelii.INJECTING or THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 755 2758. The vena portae, hepatic artery, ducts, and nerves, are, before their entrance into the liver, surrounded and connected together by a fibrous capsule, designated by the name of Cap~ side of Glisson, wliich some have supposed to be of a muscular na- ture. 2759. Injections thrown into the vena portae penetrate into the other vessels of the liver, and vice versa. OF INJECTING THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 2760. As there are no other valves in the arterial system but those at the commencement of the pulmonary artery and aorta, the arteries may be injected either from trunk to branches or from branches to trunk ; the veins, on the contrary, have numerous valves in their interior, and can only be injected from their bran- ches ; the veins of the abdominal viscera however have no valves, and may be injected either way. Injections are made of different materials and of different degrees of fineness. One for ordinary purposes may be made of four parts of tallow, one part of rosin and one part of bees wax, to which when melted together, there is to be added some oil of turpentine, hav- ing a sufficient quantity of colouring matter (vermillion for red, and king's yellow for yellow) suspended in it to colour the injec- tion. But if the injection is for a fine preparation, then the following may be used: 1°. The fine injection. This is composed of brown spirit var- nish and white spirit varnish, of each four parts ; turpentine var- nish one part, and colouring matter one part, or as much as is suf- ficient. A little of this while hot is first thrown into the arteries, into the minute branches of which it is to be forced by 2°. The coarse injection which is composed of bees-wax two parts, rosin one part, turpentine varnish one part, and colouring matter q. s. To the bees-wax and rosin melted together, add the turpentine varnish, and then the colouring matter suspended in some oil of turpentine. " Though instructions may be given to facilitate the acquisition of the art of injecting, yet they will be found insufficient for the dexterous performance of its operations ; a moderate share of ex- perience can alone remove the difficulties which result from the "want of it. " The truth of these sentiments will be better understood by the young practical anatomist, after he has met with a few disappoint- ments to his sanguine expectations, by the unexpected destruction of some preparations, which are the objects of his first experiments : for this he must prepare himself with an inflexible resolution and uniform patience. " In preparing for injecting any anatomical preparation, great careINJECTING OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 75G should be taken to have every thing in readiness, as the want of some one trifling thing will now and then frustrate the whole pro- cess, and perhaps ruin a valuable preparation. A proper quantity of hot water to thoroughly heat the preparation; a fire sufficient to melt the injections of the several colours intended to be used ; as large a quantity of injection prepared as will be necessary, and of proper consistence, are the circumstances first to be attended to. The syringe should be hot, but not so as to destroy the valves: the pipes should be previously cleared out, and securely fixed in the vessels. Every thing being ready for the operation, the seve- ral pots of injection are to be placed near the subject to be injected; an assistant should then hold the pipe thus fixed in the vessel, so that the operator may expeditiously introduce the point of his syringe, when filled with injection, and always observing in filling the syringe, to put the point to the bottom of the pot, to avoid drawing in air; and it is best to fill and empty it once or twice be- fore we proceed to inject; when filled, convey the point of it into the pipe held by the assistant, then the operator should take the pipe between the fingers of his left hand, and depress the piston with his right, so as to force the fluid into the vessels with freedom, till they are nearly filled, which he will be sensible of, by an in- creasing resistance to its passage ; and lest the resistance should be in the syringe, he should move the piston by a screwing motion, when, sometimes he will find, he may proceed a little further with safety ; after a prudent force has been apphed for a short time, he is to remove his syringe, and force the remaining injection into the pot he took it from, and the assistant should always be ready ira-- mediately to turn the stop-cock, to prevent the return of the injec- tion from the vessel. If there are several vessels to be injected with different colours, as arteries, veins, excretory ducts, &c. the mode of injecting each is similar to the first. "It is impossible to ascertain the exact force, with which the pis- ton of the syringe should be pressed in the act of injecting; it va- rying greatly, under different circumstances: the force which is re- quisite to inject some vessels, would rupture and destroy others. Arteries, in general, will sustain greater pressure than veins, and either of them will sustain less if they are weakened by any degree of putrefaction. " When a large system of vessels is to be injected by a large pipe, the injection may be thrown in boldly at first, but when there is reason to expect, that it is nearly filled, the piston should be moved with greater caution, and the resistance aflbrded to the passage of the fluid carefully attended to, or else the vessels will probably be ruptured; when this happens, the operator is sensible of it by the feel; for the resistance to the passage of the injection is immediately taken off, and the fluid passes with the greatest fiicility ; it will then be in vain making any farther attempt to fill the vessels, un- less such rupture happens where the part may be secured by the finger and thumb of an assistant, or by a ligature, unless it is veryINJECTING OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 557 small, or happens in a part where but little of the injection can escape. " Another inconvenience may arise from the vessels being over distended, even where no rupture happens, more especially in the arteries, which, though it is not of equal importance with the for- mer, will be better avoided ; that is, when they are thus pretcrna- turally distended, they become elongated, and thrown into a ser- pentine form, which is apt to give a wrong idea of their natural appearance. " When injecting through a very small pipe, the injection will pass proportionably slow, as the resistance to the passage of the fluid will, of course, be greater; this resistance, from not consi- dermg the cause, has been supposed by some, not much experien- ced in the art, to be owing to an entire obstruction in the pipe, and thence they have desisted from forcing the piston, whilst the injection was passing with as much freedom as the pipe would ad- mit, and only required a little more time to fill the vessels complete- ly, and this circumstance should always be kept in remembrance, when small pipes are used. "If the part to be prepared is bvilky, and the vessels not so super- ficial as to be easily chilled, as entire subjects, large extremities, &c. it may be taken out of the hot water, and laid on a table, or in a dish ; but if it is thin and membraneous, or the vessels pass near the surface, the contact of cold air, or the coldness of the table, &c. on which it is laid, would be in danger of chilhng the injection in its passage, and greatly injure the preparation, and therefore should always be injected in hot water."* ARTICLE FOURTH. ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 276I. The Organs of Absorption are arranged into two per- fectly distinct orders. The Lymphatic or Absorbent vessels, and the Lymphatic Ganglia {Lym,phatic or Conglobate Glands). • Pole's Anatomical Instructor, p. c.758 ORGANS OF ABSOriPTION. 2762. The Lymphatic Vessels ( Vasa Lymphatica) are extreme- ly numerous. Arising from the surface of the membranes and from the tissue 01 the organs, they transmit all the absorbed fluids to the venous system. Those which take up the chyle during the process of digestion in the intestines constitute a separate order, known by the name of Chyliferous or Lacteal Vessels or simply Lacteals. Although they differ in their uses from the other lym- phatic vessels, they have precisely the same organization and ana- tomical disposition. 2763. Lymphatic vessels occur in all parts of the body; but in whatever parts they are examined, they form two distinct planes, a superficial and a deep-seated. Thus, the whole periphery of the body is covered by a net-work of these vessels placed in the sub- cutaneovis cellular tissue, while others occupy the intervals of the organs. This disposition is not coniined to tlie limbs only, where it is more easy to observe it, but exists in each particular organ, the liver, lungs, pancreas, &c. We also observe that the superfi- cial absorbents are distributed in a uniform manner, while the deep- seated unite into bundles around the blood-vessels, whose direction they exactly follow. But these two planes communicate frequently together by numerous anastomosing twigs, and even entirely unite to form common plexuses, as is observed at the upper part of each limb. 2764. The lymphatic vessels are much smaller than the arteries or veins. Their calibre varies much, according to the state of the subject in which they are examined. Thus in subjects whose cel- lular tissue is infiltrated with serous fluids, they are much more apparent. The disproportion between the size of the roots and that of the trunks is still greater than in the blood-vessels. 27G5. The lymphatic vessels are in general cylindrical; but they present, at intervals, dilations of greater or less size, which give them a knotted appearance, and are owing to valves placed in their interior. 2766. In general, they are more or less straight, in their course; but their anastomoses are excessively numerous. They frequently cross each other, forming successive plexuses. Another still more remarkable fact, is the frequency of their alternate unions and di- visions, so that a great number of twigs, after being collected into a single trunk, separate a second time, and again form one or more trunks. 2767. The disposition and nature of the extreme roots of the absorbent vessels are entirely unknown. 2768. Before terminating in their principal trunks, the branches of the lymphatics have to traverse a greater or less number of Lymphatic Ganglia, that is to say, small organs of variable form and size, collected together in greater or less quantity, or isolated. These ganglia are not very numerous along the limbs ; but they occur abundantly in the abdomen and thorax. Each of them re- ceives one or more lymphatic vessels by one of its sides. TheseOF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA. 759 vessels subdivide to infinity in its substance or at its surface, with- out our being able to say precisely in what manner, and there are seen issuing from the opposite side, other lymphatic vessels, termed effiirentia, to distinguish them from the first, which arc designated by the name of inferentia or afferentia. There result numerous subdivisions of both kmds of vessels around the gang- lion, forming a true circular plexus, which embraces it on all sides. The lymphatic ganglia vary in diameter from the twentieth part of an inch to a whole inch. Their colour is in general reddish, sometimes, however, gray or blackish. Those which are situated at the exterior, have a more solid and denser tissue than those which are met with in the splanchnic cavities. They are all enve- loped by a compact membrane, glistening externally, and furnished with some blood-vessels. They receive numerous small arteries, from which issue cor- responding veins; and these vessels throw ramifications upon the walls of the neighbouring lymphatic vessels themselves. The lymphatic ganglia appear chiefly formed by an inextricable interlacement of these lymphatic vessels. 2769. All the absorbent vessels of the body discharge them- selves, by some trunks, into the subclavian and internal jugular veins. Two of these trunks are much larger than the others, and are designated by the names of Thoracic Duct, and Great Right Lymphatic Vein. The former receives the lymphatics of the ab- domen, the inferior extremities, the left side of the thorax, the left superior extremity, and the corresponding side of the head and neck. The other receives those of the right arm, and of the right side of the head, neck, and thorax. 2770- With reference to their structure, the lymphatic vessels appear formed of a cellular external membrane, and an internal membrane similar to that of the veins. The latter by being folded upon itself, produces at intervals valves which are generally dis- posed in pairs. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA IN PARTICULAR. OF THE LYMPHATIC GAKGLIA OF THE IJfFEBIOR EXTREMITIES. 2771- Anterior Tibial Ganglion. It is the only one that occurs along the leg. It is placed between the tibia and fibula, on the lower extremity of the interosseous ligament. 2772. Popliteal Ganglia. They are of small size, and si- tuated in the ham, to the number of three or four. They are concealed by the aponeurosis, and surround the popliteal artery. 2773. Inguinal Ganglia. They occupy the anterior and su- perior part of the thigh near the groin, and are distinguished into superjitial and deep. The former are placed between the skin and " aponeurosis, and surround the internal saphena vein, near its ter-ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. 7C0 minatloii; their number varief5 from six or eight to twelve, and they are sometimes seen to commence near the middle and inner part of the thigh, and to form a string extending to the groin. Their colour is red in children, of a grayish white in adults, and brownish in old people. The deep inguinal ganglia, to the number of two, three, or four, are placed under the aponeurosis, and around the femoral artery. They are often wanting in old persons. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE PELVIS. 2774. Hypogastric Ganglia. They occupy, to the number of ten or fifteen, the lateral parts of the excavation of the pelvis, and are spread out around the internal iliac vessels. Very small lymphatic ganglia are frequently met with on the outside of the pelvis, in the course of the glut<x\al and ischiatic ar- teries, or in the interior of that cavity upon the bladder, the uterus, or the vesicuLne seminalcs. 2775. Sacral Ganglia. They arc placed before the sacrum, in the substance of the mcsorcctum, and are continuous laterally witit the preceding, and above with the mesocolic ganglia. 277^>- External Iliac Ganglia. Their number varies from six to ten, twelve, or fifteen. 1'hey are situated along the course of the external iliac vessels, and form a cord from the crural arch to the lower part of the vertebral column, where they are continuous with the lumbar ganglia. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE ABDOMEN. 2777- Liimhar Ganglia. They are very numerous and of large size, and occupy the sides of the lumbar region of the vertebral co- lumn, placed between the transverse processes, or in the course of the vessels, or surrounding the aorta and vena cava inferior. They ascend upon the crvira of the diaphragm, and furnish the princijial roots of the thoracic duct. Some other ganglia, scattered over the renal arteries, seem to unite with them. 2778. Hepatic, Pancreatic, and Splenic Ganglia. They are situated around the vena portse, and along the splenic artery. They receive the lymphatic vessels of the liver, aorta, and pancreas. 2779. Mesenteric Ganglia. Very numerous, and in general of considerable size, they are placed between the two lamina? which constitute the mesentery. Their number, which is excessively va- riable, much exceeds a hundred. Their position is very irregular ; but from the intestine to about an inch from its concave edge, none are met with. Their size is so much the greater, the nearer they are observed to the place where the mesentery is in contact with 4LYMPHATIC CANCLIA OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 7GI the vertebral coliimn. These ganglia immediately receive the lac- teals. 27«(). MesocoUc Ganglia. Much less numerous than the pre- ceding, and placed between the laminiK of the mesocolon, they are distributed along the colon, and are more numerous in its trans- verse than in its lumbar or iliac portions. They are situated near its concave edge ; some of them, which are smaller than the rest, are even disseminated over its two surfaces. 278]. Gasfnt-epiploic Ganglia. They occupy the two curva- tures of the stomach, and surround the gastro-cpiploic arteries and the coronary artery of the stomach. They are not numerous, there being only five or six for each curvature. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE THORAX. 2782. Ganglia of the Medinstinum. There are observed three or four upon the diaphragm, and about the same number are dis- tributed upon the pericardium in the inferior part of the anterior mediastinum ; but twelve or fifteen at least surround the thymus gland and the large vessels of the base of the heart. 2783. Ganglia of the Walls of the Thorax. They are irregu- larly scattered between the two layers of the intercostal muscles- Twelve are also met with on each side of the vertebral column ou the articulations of the ribs. Some are placed around the oeso- phagus and aorta in the posterior mediastinvun. Lastly, there are eight or ten on each side which mark the course of the internal mammary arteries. 2784. Bronchial Ganglia. These have already been describ- ed (2230.) OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE SUPEIIIOU EXTREMITIES. 2785. Ganglia of the Arm. Tliey are distributed in the course of the brachial artery from the bend of the arm to the axilla. They are scarcely ever met with in the fore-arm. Not unfre- quently there is one at the bend of the arm, near the inner con- dyle. 2786. A.villnry Ganglia. They arc of large size, and vary in number. They are placed in the axilla, between the pectoralis ma- jor, serratus magnus, latissimus dorsi and subscapularis, around the axillary vessels and their branches, and in the midst of the cellular tissue. Some arc met with under the clavicles, and between the pectoralis major and the ribs.762 ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE HEAD AKD NECK. 2787. Ganglia of the Skull. No lymphatic ganglia are met with in the interior of the skull. The outside of that cavity pre- sents only two or three small ones behind the ear, upon the outer Burface of the parotid gland. One or two are also observed behind the zygomatic arch. 2788. Gamjlia of the Face. These occur only in small number. A few are observed upon the buccinator muscle. The others pre- vail along the base of the jaw, and surround the anterior belly of the digastric muscles. 2789. Ganglia of the Neck. They are superf cinl and deep. The former are irregularly disposed beneath the platysma myoides, in the course of the external jugular vein and its branches. The oth ers (^glaHdulce concatenatce^ occur in the vicinity of the inter- nal jugular vein and common carotid artery. Their number is very great, but their size is small. They form a kind of chain, from the mastoid process to the sviperior orifice of the thorax, and are prolonged backwards between the pharynx and vertebral column. ' OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS IN PARTICULAR. OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS WHICH TERMINATE IN THE THORACIC DUCT. OF THE SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 2790. They arise from the toes by very delicate radicles, which at the base of each phalanx form a net-work, from whence pro- ceed twigs which cover the two surfaces of the foot. Those of the upper surface, form by their successive union, from sixteen to twenty branches, which almost all gain the inner edge of the leg, ■where they meet the internal saphena vein. Those of the inferior surface, collect towards the heel, and form two or three branches around the tendo Achillis. 2791- The first ascend along with the internal saphena vein upon the anterior and inner side of the leg. Some of them run upon its outer side, accompanying the external saphena vein ; but at different heights, and especially near the knee, bend forwards and inwards, and anastomose with those of the inner side. A very small number also bend in the same manner behind the knee ; and in general, all the lymphatics which arise upon the back of the foot, and along the anterior surface of the leg, occur collected at the inner part of the thigh, above the patella. 2792. Those which come from the sole of the foot, and from the763 OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. posterior surface of the leg ascend around the tendo Acliillis, anas- tomosing inwards and outwards with the preceding. They then envelope the calf, and near the ham unite with the others after bending inwards. 2793. Thus united, all the superficial ahsorbents of the leg as- cend along the inner and anterior side of the thigh, approaching each other, and continually anastomosing, and at length terminate in the superficial inguinal ganglia. But, in their course, they are accompanied and augmented by other vessels of the same nature, arising particularly upon the fore part of the thigh, and by others, in small number, which come from its posterior region. 2794. All these vessels are so numerous, and their anastomoses «o frequent, that they form a net-work upon the foot, leg and thigh, which completely surrounds these parts. They are immers- ed in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE INFEPaOR EXTREMITIES. 2795. They follow the course of the blood-vessels, and may be distinguished into four kinds, according as they accompany the ex- ternal saphena vein, or the anterior and posterior tibial and fibu- lar arteries. 2796. Those which accompany the external saphena vein are two or three in number. They originate by a number of radicles on the outer part of the back and sole of the foot. All these radi- cles unite towards the outer malleolus, under the aponeurosis, and the two vessels which result from this union ascend along the outer edge of the tendo Achillis, where they receive some twigs from that tendon. They then place themselves between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, which also affords them several branches, and arrive in the ham, where they successively divide in the popliteal ganglia, to unite partly with the other deep ab- sorbents, and partly with the superficial, in the latter case perfora- ting the aponeurosis. 2797" Anterior Tibial Lymphatics. These are also two in number. One of them has its roots in the sole of the foot, around the plantar arch ; the other originates upon the outer part of the back of the foot. The first ascends upon the back of the foot along the dorsal artery (2650), between the first two metatarsal bones, whence it passes between the anterior muscles of the leg, to terminate in a small ganglion near the upper extremity of the tibia, or to pass through the superior aperture of the interosseus hgament at the posterior surface of the leg, where it unites with the other deep vessels. The second follows the same course as far as the middle third of the leg, where it traverses the interosseous ligament to unite with the fibular absorbents. 2798. Posterior Tibial Lymphatics. They originate deeply in764, ORGANS OF ADSORPTION. all parts of the sole of the foot, and form several trunks which ascend along with the posterior tibial artery, which they embrace on all sides as far as the popliteal ganglia. 2799. Fibular Lymphatics. They arise in like manner from the sole of the foot, follow the course of the fibular artery, and terminate in the popliteal ganglia. 2800. All the deep lymphatic vessels of the leg and foot thus terminate in the popHteal ganglia, which are united together -by a great number of short lymphatic vessels, which there form a true plexus, whence issue two, three, or four trunks, which ascend along the popliteal vessels, pass through the insertion of the adductor magnus muscle, follow the femoral vessels, receiving all the deep lymphatics of the thigh, and subdividing up to the deep inguinal ganglia, where they terminate. Some of them go to the first exter- nal iliac ganglia. SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE HIPS, PERINEUM, LOINS, EXTEKNAL PARTS OF GENERATION, SeC. 2801. Lymphatics of the Hips. They are immersed in a great quantity of cellular tissue, and communicate frequently together. They turn over the outer and inner parts of the thigh, to unite with the superficial absorbents and those of the perinaeum, and ter- minate at the superficial inguinal ganglia. 2802. Lymphatics of the Loins. They come from the posterior and lateral parts of the vertebral column, behind which those of one side communicate with those of the opposite. They then de- scend above the iliac crest, and divide in the superficial inguinal ganglia. 2803. Lymphatics of the lower half of the Walls of the Abdo- men. Their roots, which anastomose frequently together, com- mence opposite the umbilicus, and form a net-work over the whole anterior region of the abdomen. They unite inferiorly into a few trunks which terminate in the superficial inguinal ganglia. 2804. Lymphatics of the Perinceum, Scrotum, and Penis. Those of the scrotum are very numerous. They ascend on each side to the inner part of the thigh, where they unite with those of the peringeum and penis. The latter form two distinct bundles upon the lateral parts of the penis, and subdivide to unite with the others, as well as with a single lymphatic which runs along the back of the penis, and bifurcates towards its root. They all ter- minate together in the superficial inguinal ganglia. 2805. In the female, the lymphatics of the labia pudendi and clitoris have the same termination.DEEP OBTUllATOIi, &C. LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 7^5- DEEP OBTURATOK, ISCHIATIC, GENITAL, &C., LYMPHATIC VESSELS. ' 2806. Obturator Lymphatics. They arise from the adductor muscles and neighbouring parts, and ascend along with the obtur- ator artery, through the obturator foramen, to end in the hypo- gastric ganglia. 2807. Ischiatic Lymphatics. Their roots are distributed in the gemelli, pyriformis, quadratus and glutjEus maximus muscles. They follow the ischiatic artery, and terminate within the pelvis in the hypogastric ganglia. 2808. Glutceal Lymphatics. They commence in the three glu- tei muscles, pass along with the glutaeal artery through the great sciatic notch, enter within the pelvis, and end in the hypogastric gangha, along with some small vessels arising deeply from the anus and perinaeum. 2809- Deep Lymphatics of the Penis and Clitoris. They follow the course of the internal pudic artery (2591), and terminate in the hypogastric ganglia. 2810. Ljymphatics of the Testicle. They are very numerous and of great size in the adult. Arising from the coats and sub- stance of the testicle and epididymis, they unite upon the sperma- tic cord into a number of branches, varying from six to twelve, which ascend along with it, anastomosing very little, towards the inguinal ring, through which they pass to follow the spermatic ar- tery and terminate in the lumbar ganglia. 2811. Lymphatics of the Prostate Gland and Vesiculce Semi- nales. They unite in part with those of the bladder, and throw themselves into the hypogastric ganglia. 2812. Lymphatics of the Uterus. They are of large size at the period of gestation, but appear very small during the empty state of the uterus. They arise from the surface, or in the sub- stance of that organ, and unite with those which come from the vagina, to terminate in the hypogastric ganglia. The highest pro- long themselves upon the broad ligament, and unite with those of the ovarium. The latter are very numerous, and form a kind of plexus. They ascend together, along with the spermatic vessels, toward the lumbar ganglia. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE URINAllY OBGANS. 2813. Lymphatics of the Bladder. They arise from the whole extent of that organ, follow the course of its vessels, and open into the hypogastric gangha. 2814. Lytnphatics of the Kidneys. They are generally very small, and may be divided into superficial and deep. Their roots anastomose in the tissue of the organ, and their trunks unite to-766 ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. wards its fissure. They then proceed, upon the sides of the aorta, to end in the lumbar gangha. The ureters are also surrounded by a great number of lympha- tics, which ascend upon them anastomosing together. 2815. Capsular Lymphatics. They come frojn the supra-renal capsules, anastomose frequently together, and unite in part with tliose of the kidneys. Some of those of the right side terminate in the hepatic ganglia. Several of those of the left side end in the splenic gangha, or in those which cover the corresponding crus of the diaphragm. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE WALLS OF THE PELVIS AND ABJJOMEN. 28 J 6. Ilio-Lumbar Lymphatics. They originate in the substance of the iliacus muscle, and upon the iliac bone, uniting afterwards into two trunks which pass under the psoas muscle, and subdivide again to terminate partly in the inferior lumbar ganglia, and partly to contribute to the formation of the Eooternal Iliac Lymphatic Pleanis, or the assemblage of lymphatics which accompany the ex- ternal iliac vessels, passing from one ganglion to the other, and anastomosing thousands of times with each other. 2817. Sacral Lymphatics. These arise from the adipose tissue in which the rectum, sacral nerves, and pyriformis muscle are im- mersed. Some of them issue from the sacral canal by the anterior sacral holes, and all terminate in the inferior lumbar or hypogas- tric ganglia. Those which go to the latter contribute to form the Hypogastric Lymphatic Plexus, which, like the external iliac plexus, is constituted by an intertexture of vessels and ganglia, and is placed upon the sides of the pelvis. It is in it that the ob- turator, glutaeal, ischiatic, uterine and vesical lymphatics terminate. Externally, it is continuous with the corresponding external iliac plexus, internally with its fellow on the middle of the sacrum, and superiorly with the lumbar lymphatic plexus. 2818. Epigastric Lymphatics. Arising from the anterior wall of the abdomen, in the vicinity of the umbilicus, they pass from without inwards through the abdominal aponeurosis, and dive into the recti muscles, where they are joined by new twigs which come from these muscles themselves, and from the obliqui and tranversus muscles. They then unite into several trunks, descend along the course of the epigastric vessels, and subdivide in some small gan- glia situated near the crural arch, to terminate afterwards in the external iliac plexus. 2819. Circumflex Iliac Lymphatics. Their radicles are distri- buted in the integuments of the sides of the belly, and pass success sively through the substance of the transversus and obhqui muscles, where they are augmented by some others. They then collect in- to some trunks which descend forwards towards the iliac crest,OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. •which they follow, accompanying the circumflex iliac vessels as far as one of the external iliac ganglia. 2820. Lumbar Lymphatics. Their roots, which are extremely numerous, commence in the quadratus lumborum, obliqui and transversus abdominis muscles, and in the interior of the vertebral canal. The trunks which result from their union accompany the lumbar arteries, pass between the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles, divide into several ganglia placed between the transverse processes, and arrive before the vertebral column, where their nu- merous anastomoses, united with those of almost all the other trunks which we have hitherto examined, constitute the Lumbar Lymphatic Fleams. OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES. 2821. Lymphatics of the Intestines. These vessels are com- monly called Lacteals or Chyliferous vessels, on account of their conveying the chyle from the intestines to the thoracic duct. The name however is inappropriate as they are intimately mingled with other lymphatic vessels, whose roots are distributed in the substance of the coats of the intestines, while theirs open at the inner surface of the same tubes. Both also follow the same course, only that the deep ones, {the Lacteal Vessels properly so called), are transversely extended upon the intestine, while the superficial run in the direction of its length and parallel to its axis. After anastomosing and crossing each other a great many times, they gain the mesenteric and mesocolic ganglia, divide and subdivide to infinity, at their level, and at length arrive at the commencement of the thoracic duct. It is observed that the number of lacteal vessels is much greater in the course of the small intestine than any where else. Along tlie ccecum, ascending colon and arch of the colon, they are already in much smaller number. The descending colon and rectum present only a few common lymphatics which go to the lumbar and hypo- gastric ganglia, or those of the mesorectum. 2822. Lymphatic Vessels of the Stomach. They are disposed in two planes, a superjicial, situated beneath the peritoneum, and a deep plane, spread out between the muscular and mucous coats. They may also be referred to three distinct orders. Some of them, arising upon the large extremity of the stomach, descend to the left along the vasa brevia (2528), and join the lymphatics of the spleen. Others direct themselves along the small curvature of the sto- mach, and divide in the ganglia, which occur there. They then collect on the right side of the cardia to bend upon themselves to the right, pass through some other ganglia, and unite with the inferior lymphatics of the Uver, under the lobulus Spigclii. After this, they descend along with them behind tlie pancreas, and at- tain the roots of the thoracic duct.OllGANS OF AUSORPTION. Those of" tlic third order descend from the two surfaces of the stomach towards tlie ganglia placed along its great curvature, and unite into a few trunks towards the pylorus, pass between it and the pancreas, proceed for some time upon the anterior surface of that organ, then turn round it and descend behind it to divide in the ganglia wliich surround the coehac and superior mesenteric arteries, 2«23. Lymphatic Vessels of the Great Omentum. I'hey are not numerous, and ascend to unite with the preceding in the gan- glia of the great curvature of the stomach. LVJV11>1IATIC vessels of the spleen, I'ANCUEAS, and LIVKJl. 2824. Lymphatics of the Spleen. They are formed of a great number of superficial and deep branches, more numerous on the convex surface of the organ, and all uniting together, near its fis- sure, into a few trunks which form a plexus around the splenic vessels, divide in some ganglia, enter beneath the duodenal extre- mity of the pancreas, and unite with the inferior lymphatics of.the liver. 2825. Lymphatics of the Pancreas. They arise in the sub- stance of that gland, follow the pancreatic blood-vessels, and unite with the lymphatics of the spleen and stomach. 282(J. Lymphatics of the Liver. They are extremely numerous, nor does any organ in the body appear to contain so many. They also seem generally to a certain extent destitute of valves in their interior, or at least these valves are much looser than any where else. They are distinguished into superficial and deep. 2827. Superficial Lymphatics of the Upper Surface of the Liver. On the right lobe they are naturally collected into four bundles. The first is formed hy those which arise between the laminae of the suspensory ligament, which, uniting into two or three trunks, enter into the thorax, between the diaphragm and ensiform carti- lage, pass through one or two of the ganglia of the mediastinum, again subdivide, receive some lymphatics from the mediastinum and pericardium, pass into some other ganglia, ascend to near the left internal jugular vein, and open into the thoracic duct near its termination. The second arises by a great number of roots, near the circum- ference of the same lobe to the right side, passes between the la- minae of the right lateral ligament of the liver, and divides into two sets of vessels. The superior pass through the diaphragm, place themselves between it and the pleura, proceed to the left, forming a pretty complicated plexus, and re-enter the abdomen, along with the aorta, to terminate in the ganglia lodged between that artery and the vena cava inferior. The inferior vessels pass between the attachments of the diaphragm and the last ribs, and glide along the latter as far as their articulation with the vertebra-, where they unite with the intercostal lymphatics, to traverse some ganglia, and terminate in the thoracic duct.76D OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. The third, of which the roots are scattered upon the middle of the right lobe, gains the posterior part of the liver, and unites in part with the preceding. Some of the trunks of which it is com- , posed ascend in the thorax, between the oesophagus and aorta, and I open directly into the thoracic duct. The fourth comes from the anterior region of the right lobe. ; Some of its vessels ascend in the suspensory ligament to unite 1 with those of the first bundle. The rest descend in the fissure of I the liver, there join the deep vessels, and divide in some ganglia : near the pylorus. Several are seen following a retrograde course . along the free edge of the liver, and terminating to the right with t those of the second bundle. On the left lobe of the liver, the superficial lymphatics may be ( distinguished into three separate parcels. .V Those of the first parcel ascend from their commencement in the ; suspensory ligament, and there join those of the first bundle of the : right lobe. Those of the second parcel arise from the whole surface of the i left lobe, gain the left lateral ligament of the liver, and there divide ! into two portions. The inferior bend to the right, between the I lobulus Spigehi of the liver and the small curvature of the sto- ■ mach, and lose themselves in some gangha, where they meet those ■ of the stomach and lower surface of the liver. The superior pro- i ceed to the left, under the diaphragm, and join the lymphatics of I tlie spleen, near the large extremity of the stomach. Lastly, the lymphatics of the third parcel come from the poste- I rior part of the left lobe, descend towards the cardia, and go to the ; ganglia of the small curvature of the stomach. 2828. Superficial Lymphatics of the Inferior Surface of the . Liver. Some of them take their origin between the circumference { of the liver and gall-bladder. They are pretty numerous, descend I to the left, and divide in the ganglia which surround the vena cava ; and aorta. Others originate over the whole surface of the gaU- I bladder, unite into large trunks, which embrace the neck of that. I reservoir, and terminate in the ganglia situated behind the duode- I num. Some of them issue from the lobulus quadratus, forming a : single trunk, which durects itself towards the gall-bladder, and^ j joins the others. Lastly, others stiU come from the whole extent ( of the left lobe and lobulus Spigehi, and unite with the preceding, ( or with the deep lymphatics. 2829- Deep Lymphatics of the Liver. They originate in all [ parts of the parenchyma of the liver, accompanying the ramifica- : tions of the blood vessels and biliary ducts, emerge along with : them by the fissure, collect in great numbers around the lobule, s slip between the laminae of the hepato-gastric omentum, gain the - g*"gha of the small curvature of the stomach or those which sur- : round the cccliac artery, and thus terminate towards the com- r mencement of the thoracic duct. 3 DOllGAN^ bf AbSdRPtlON. 770 OF THE THORACIC DUCT. {Ductus thoracicus sinister). 2830. This canal, in which terminate all the lymphatic vessels which we have hitherto examined, as well as many others, com- mences upon the body of the third lumbar vertebra, by the suc- cessive union of five or six very large trunks, themselves resulting from the assemblage of all the absorbent plexuses of the abdomen. At the union of all these trunks, near the aortic aperture of the diaphragm, the thoracic duct almost always presents a remarkable dilatation, which is called Receptaculum Chyli {Reservoir of Pec- quet, or Cisterna Chyli), and which is placed behind the aorta, at the anterior and left part of the second lumbar vertebra. Above this enlargement the thoracic duct ascends into the chest, between the crura of the diaphragm, with the aorta on its left side and the vena azygos to the right. It contracts as far as the sixth dorsal vertebra, after which it inclines to the left, becomes sensibly dilated, and ascends behind the arch of the aorta to the left sub- clavian artery, on the inner side of which it is placed on the longus colli muscle. It then arrives at the seventh cervical vertebra, bends inwards and downwards, passes behind the left inferior thyroid artery and the internal jugular vein, and opens quite close to the latter, into the posterior part of the subclavian vein of the same side. Its aperture is furnished, internally of the vein, with two valves, which prevent the blood from passing from the vein into the duct. Sometimes the thoracic duct is straight in its whole extent, but it is more frequently flexuous. In many subjects it divides into several branches, which afterwards unite, forming a kind of islands between them. It frequently separates into two or three trunks at its termination.* OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS WHICH THE THORACIC DUCT RE- CEIVES IN THE THORAX. 2831. Several lymphatics of the liver and ganglia surrounding the coeliac artery ascend into the thorax by the aortic aperture of the diapliragm, and empty themselves into the thoracic duct at a greater or less heights 2832. Iritercostal Lymphatics. They arise in the external muscles of the thorax and intercostales, and at first pass through ( I once saw it divide into two brandies, one of wliicli followed the ordinary course, wliile tlie other went to discharge itself into the right subclavian vein, cl0S6' to the great Ijinphatic vein of the same side.OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. some ganglia lodged between the two planes of the lattfer. On the sides of the vertebral column, they unite with other vessels which come from the spinal canal and muscles of the back, spread out in the neighbouring ganglia, and then form some plexuses before the vertebral column. From thence they descend, to open very ob- liquely into the thoracic duct. Those of the right side are a little longer than the left. 2833. The thoracic duct moreover receives a multitude of twigs which unite with the preceding, and come from the pleurae, dia- phragm, posterior mediastinum, &c. OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS WHICH TERMINATE PARTLY IN THE THOHACIC DUCT, PARTLY IN PARTICULAR TRUNKS OPENINa INTO THE VEINS OF THE RIGHT AND LEFT SIDES. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE LUNGS. 2834. Siiperjkial Lymphatics. Placed beneath the pleura^ they form on the surface of the lung a series of areolas of various forms, more commonly hexagonal, and unite into a certain number rof trunks which enter the ganglia with which the bronchus is sur- . rounded at its entrance into the organ. These vessels are remark- : able for the extreme thinness of their walls. 2835. Deep Lymphatics of the Lungs. Disseminated through the whole tissue of the lungs, they follow the divisions of the veins, communicating by a great number of twigs with the superficial lym- phatics, with which they at length entirely unite in the bronchial ganglia, whence both emerge to ascend upon the bronchi as far as the trachea. There they meet with new ganglia, divide in them, and more particularly in one of them which occupies the angle formed by the bifurcation of the trachea. From this large ganglion there issue several trunks, some of which, after ascending upon the trachea and traversing some small ganglia, unite and open into the right great lymphatic vein, while the others, which are much more numerous, traverse ganglia situ- ated in like manner upon the trachea, under the thyroid gland, and collect into two trunks which bend obliquely to the left, behind the internal jugular vein, to discharge themselves into the thoracic duct, or separately into the corresponding internal jugular or sub- clavian vein. SUBSTERNAL, DIAPHRAGMATIC, CARDIAC, THYMIC, AND (ESOPHAGEAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 2836. Substernal Lymphatics. They accompany the internal mammary vessels, embracing them on all sides. They arise from the upper half of the anterior wall of the abdomen, and their roots anas-772 ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. tomose with those of the epigastric lymphatics. They enter the thorax between the xiphoid appendage and the diaphragm, ascend be- hind the sides of the sternum, traverse several ganglia, form some plexuses, and unite into trunks which become larger and larger. One of these trunks only directs itself to the left side, crosses an- teriorly the subclavian vein, throws itself into the inferior jugular ganglia, and terminates in the thoracic duct. The rest open se- parately on the right side into the subclavian and internal jugular veins. 2837- Lymphatics of the Diaphragm. Confounded in a great measure with the intercostal and hepatic lymphatics, they give rise to several principal trunks which proceed forwards, above the pleurae, upon the convex surface of the diaphragm, unite and di- vide several times in succession, pass through the inferior gangUa of the mediastinum, and at length join the preceding behind the sternum. 2838. Lymphatics of the Thymus and Pericardium. The former are much more numerous and larger in the child than in the adult. Both are confounded with the Substernal and pulmon- ary lymphatics. 2839. Lymphatics of the Heart. They have their roots distri- buted over the whole surface of the heart, and especially towards its summit. They follow pretty accurately the course of the co- ronary vessels, and ultimately unite into two principal trunks. One of these trunks accompanies the right coronary artery, ascends upon the anterior side of the aorta, inclines to the left, and ter- minates in the upper part of the thoracic duct. The other, which is larger, and frequently formed by the alternate anastomoses and divisions of three or four large branches, glides obliquely between the aorta and pulmonary artery, traverses some small gangha, and gains the thoracic duct or the internal jugular and subclavian veins. Near its termination, it frequently divides into three or, four distinct branches. Some lymphatic vessels of the heart unite separately with those- of the lungs. 2840. Lymphatics of the (Esophagus. They form a kind of plexus around that canal, anastomose with those of the heart and lungs, and enter the predorsal ganglia. SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATICS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 2841. Their first roots surround the fingers, at the posterior surface of which they are especially very numerous. Collected. - into bundles on the sides of each of them, they gain the meta- 1 carpus, on which they remain isolated, or anastomose to give rise to some trunks, which direct themselves particularly over the posterior surface of the fore-arm, along which they are enlarged by the addition of a great number of twigs coming from that part773 OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. of the extremity. They then turn a little inwards, and near the elbow-joint, place themselves upon the anterior surface of the fore-arm. There, they unite with several other trunks from the anterior surface of the fingers and palm of the hand, which ac- company the subcutaneous veins. In this manner they arrive at the bend of the arm, and there sometimes meet with one or two small ganglia. They then ascend along the fore and inner part of the arm, are joined by some trunks which arise from the sur- face of that region, collect, anastomose, become larger and less numerous, and dive into the axilla, where they terminate in the axillary and subclavian ganglia. 2842. Some vessels of this order separately follow the course of the cephalic vein, pass between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, divide in some ganglia, under the clavicle, form a sjnall plexus there, and unite with the inferior cervical lymphatics. DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 2843. They are collected into bundles around the arteries which are distributed to these parts, and have precisely the same disposition as these vessels. These lymphatics also terminate in the axillary ganglia. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE ANTERIOR WALL OF THE THORAX. 2844. They commence under the integuments of the abdomen and thorax, around the mammae, &c. direct themselves outwards aiid upwards, collect into trunks, gradually increasing in size, in consequence of their anastomoses and the addition of new roots, pass before the pectoralis major, plunge into the cellular tissue of the axilla, and terminate in the ganglia of that part. 2845. Some of these vessels come more deeply from the sub- stance of the pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, and serratus mag- nus muscles. They have the same termination. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE BACK AND POSTERIOR REGION OF THE NECK. 2846. Lymphatics of the Neck. They commence under the i skin, towards the occiput, and upon the spinous processes of the I neck, whence they descend outwards following the direction of the I fibres of the trapezius, to pass obliquely over the spine of the ! scapula, and over the deltoid muscle, and unite with the preceding : ^nd following in the axillary ganglia. 2847. Lymphatics of the Bach. The superior, which ariseORGANS OF AB5011PT10N. froiTi the integuments and trapezius muscle, despend outwards up- on tlic infra-spinatus muscle, where they meet with some ganglia, then enter between the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles, and terminate, like the preceding, in the axilla. The inferior have their roots distributed over the whole surface of the latissimus dor- si, and ascend obliquely towards the tendon of that muscle, and join the superior. LYMPHATIC VESSELS WHICH ARISE FEOM THE AXILLARY GANGLIA. 2848. The axilla contains a very remarkable lymphatic plexus, formed by a great number of ganglia (2786) and by the vessels which terminate in them, connect them with each other, or issue from them. The latter, as they leave the highest and deepest ganglia, are reduced to the number of three or four large trunks which proceed around the subclavian vein, as far as its entrance into the thorax. There, those of the left side collect into one or two trunks which pass between the subclavius muscle and the first rib, and open partly into the corresponding subclavian vein, and partly into the thoracic duct. Those of the right side generally furnish a single trunk, of a large size, which might be compared to the thoracic duct itself, but of inconsiderable length. This trunk, which opens at the angle formed by the union of the right internal jugular and subclavian veins, is named the Right Great Lympha- tic vein (ductus thoracicus dexter). OF THE SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE HEAD AMD OF THE ANTEIlIOIl SURFACE OF THE NECK. 2849- Epicranial Lymphatics. They are distributed on all sides beneath the skin of the cranium, and may be distinguished into three orders of bundles. The occipital hwidles unite in ganglia placed behind the mastoid processes, and go to join the su- perficial lymphatics of the posterior surface of the neck. The temporal bundles accompany the veins of that name, gain the paro- tid ganglia, and mingle with the anterior superficial lymphatics of the neck. The frontal bundles collect at the inner angle of the eyes, augmented by the vessels of the eyelids and orbit, and join the lymphatics of the face. 2850. Lymphatics of the Face. These arise from all parts of the face, by radicles distributed under the skin. They follow the course of the facial vein, and divide in the submaxillary gangha, where they are confounded with the following. 2851. Superficial Aiiterior Lymphatics of the Neck. These seem to be a continuation of those of the head, form a plexus which accompanies the subcutaneous veins of the neck, and open by twoOF INJECTING THE ABSORBENTS. 775 or three trunks, to the left, into the highest part of the thoracic duct, and to the, right, into the great lymphatic vein of that side. DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 2852. Lymphatics of the Brain. The lymphatic vessels of the brain and its membranes are not yet known in a satisfactory man- ner. Although the most minute researches have been made in those parts, there have only been distinctly traced a few trunks that are met with in the dura mater. 2853. Deep Lymphatics of the Tongue, Palate, Nose, Orbits, Pharynx, Muscles of the Face, S^c. They all follow the course of the blood-vessels, gain the sub-parotid ganglia and those which en- velope the internal jugular veins. They there divide a great num- ber of times, join some trunks from the larynx and thyroid body, and open partly into the right and left internal jugular and sub- clavian veins, partly into the thoracic duct to the left, and into the great lymphatic vein to the right, by a greater or less number of trunks. OF INJECTING THE ABSORBENTS. 2854. The absorbents are injected with quicksilver by means of an apparatus which consists of a glass tube, and very fine iron or platina pipes of different sizes which are adapted to the end of it. The quicksilver is poured into the tube, and, according to the height of its column, issues from the pipe with greater or less force. The apparatus may also consist of a glass tube merely having one of its extremities drawn out to a very fine point before the blow- pipe ; this latter instrument may be made much more delicate than the former, but it has the inconvenience of breaking easUy. " In order to discover the absorbent vessels, make an incision in the cutis, and remove a part of it as far as the cellular membrane, where they arise plentifully, yet from their transparency, may so elude the eye as to require a magnifying glass to discover them. " The subjects most favourable for injecting are those who have died anasarcous, as in such the lymphatics are somewhat enlarged, and more evident. This is one of the most delicate preparations, requiring the greatest dexterity of any part of experimental ana- tomy." As the absorbents, like the veins, have valves, it is therefore necessary to inject them from their branches; for this purpose, " with the point of a lancet, make an orifice in one of them, suffi- cient to introduce the pipe, which is to be kept in that situation by the finger, or rather, by means of a ligature; and wlien the cock is turned, the quicksilver will be seen to flow up the lympha- tic, though, after the first entrance of the quicksilver, the uniformity776 ORGANS OF SECRETION. of the Stream will prevent our being able to judge whether it con- tinues to flow or not, unless by looking into the glass tube, where we may readily perceive, that it is either gradually sinking, or per- fectly stationary ; and this is the only criterion of its real success: if the mercury sinks too fast, it indicates a rupture in the vessels; as long as the column continues to lessen gradually, we are to hold the pipe in its situation, and when it ceases to flow any longer, secure tlie mercury by a ligature, and withdraw the pipe. " Should there be any outlet to the mercury, through a colla- teral lymphatic, it is to be immediately secured by a needle and ligature. When the mercury has ceased to flow, the pipe remov- ed, and the vessel secured, then proceed to trace the course of the vessel, by a most cautious dissection, with a pair of dissecting for- ceps and finely pointed sharp scissors, taking great care not to wound, in the smallest degree, the vessel containing the mercury ; but should such an accident happen, immediately secure the ori- fice, by pressing it between the finger and thumb, until it can be more securely stopped by a fine ligature, made above and below the orifice, and as near to it as possible, that the rupture may ap- pear trivial. Sometimes when they have lost a considerable portion of the mercury, they may be distended by a second introduction of the pipe into the same, or a communicating collateral branch; but in this system of vessels, there is not so frequent anastomosis as in the arteries and veins. As the dissection for the lymphatics is necessarily very slow and tedious, from the great care required in performing it, it will be proper to prevent the part getting dry by exposure to the air after they have been opened : the best me- thod of preventing this, is to open as little as possible at once, and when left, to cover it over with a wet cloth, three or four times folded."* ARTICLE FIFTH. ORGANS OF THE SECRETIONS. ORGANS OF THE SECRETION AND EXCRETION OF THE TEARS. ' 2855. These organs, by their continuity, constitute a double apparatus, placed symmetrically on either side of the median hne of the body, and extending from the outer and upper region of • Pole's Anatomical Instructor, p. !)5#OF THE LACHRYMAL GLAND. 777 each orbit, to the inferior meatuses of the nasal fossos. These two apparatuses are pretty frequently designated by the collective name of Vice lachrymales. Each of them consists of the lachry- mal gland, the puncta lachryraalia, lachrymal ducts, lachrymal sac, and nasal canal. OF THE LACHRYMAL GLAND. 2856. The Lachrymal Gland (Glandula Lachrymalis), is lodged in a depression of the frontal bone, at the upper, outer, and fore part of the orbit. Its size is generally about that of a small almond, but its form is hable to vary. Most commonly it repre- sents an ovoid flattened from above downwards, and from without inwards, whose greatest diameter is directed from before backwards. Its colour is light yellow inchning to red. 2857- Convex externally and above, the lachrymal gland cor- responds in this direction to the periosteum of the orbit, and is connected with it by a multitude of small filaments which proceed from the one to the other. Slightly concave at its inner and un- der parts, it rests upon the ball of the eye and its external rectus muscle, from which it is separated by a thick layer of adipose tis- sue. Anteriorly, it is protected by the rim of the orbit, and a little by the upper eyelid. Posteriorly, it is immersed in the adi- pose cellular tissue of the orbit. 2858. The lachrymal gland is composed of a considerable num- ber of lobules connected by cellular tissue, and separated from each other by vessels and nerves which creep in their uitervals. These lobules themselves are formed of rounded granulations, of a reddish white colour, in which the last ramifications of arteries terminate, and in which the radicles of the veins commence, but whose more intimate structure is still entirely unknown. It is presumed that from each of them issues a small excretory canal, ■which by uniting with others in its vicinity, gives rise to trunks ■which are somewhat more distinct, although still extremely slender and very little apparent in man. However, according to the testi- mony of several eminent anatomists, who have seen and injected them, it appears that they are six or seven in number, and that they open, internally of the upper eyelid, at some distance from the outer part of the corresponding tarsal cartilage. Their orifices, which are separated by pretty narrow intervals, are seen, it is said, upon the conjunctiva, where their series forms a curved line, the convexity of which is directed upwards and outwards. 2859. A fibro-cellular capsule of considerable thickness enve- lopes the lachrymal gland, and sends partitions into its substance, ■Tvhich separate the lobules from each other. Moreover, the lachry- mal artery (2360), the vein (2696), and the nerve of the same name, must be considered as contributing to the composition of • this gland, the use of whicli is to secrete the tears and pour them778 ORGAN^i Of SECRpyiON. upon the fore part of the ball of the eye by the small ducts which we have just mentioned. OF THE CAKUNCULA LACHRYMALIS. 2860. The Caruncula Lachrymalis is a small reddish tubercle, of a pyramidal form, varying as to size in different subjects, situat- ed in the inner angle of the eyelids, at the fore part of the ball of the eye, behind and within the puncta lachrymalia. Its base is di- rected backwards and inwards, its summit forwards and outwards (1941). The caruncula lachrymahs is nothing else than a mass of small mucous crypts, whose number is very uncertain, which are invest- ed by the conjunctiva, which forms anteriorly and externally of them a similunar fold, known by the name of Membrana nictitans, much more apparent in certain classes of animals that in man. Each iOf the orifices of these small crypts is furnished with hairs of ex- cessive delicacy, and visible only by the microscope. , The caruncula lachrymalis receives some filaments of the nasal nerve, and some vascular ramifications. Its use appears to be to jretain the tears in the inner angle of the eye, and furnish a pecu- liar sebaceous fluid. OF THE PUNCTA LACHRYMALIA AND LACHEYMAL DUCTS, 2861. The Puncta lachrymalia are two in number, one for each eyelid. They are very small apertures, more or less apparent in different individuals, commonly of a blackish colour, and occupy- ing the centre of a small tubercle, slightly inclined backwards, and situated at the distance of about a line and a half from the inter- nal commissure of the eyelids, at the place where their edge changes its direction. These orifices are always open. A small mucous rim, of a whitp tint, margins their circumference. They are placed opposite each other, but that .of the lower eyelid is directed upwards, outwards and backwards, and that of the upper, downwards, and also put- wards and backwards, so that when the eyelids are closed, they only touch each other on the side next the skin. 2862. The puncta lachrymalia are the external orifices of tlxe lachrymal ducts which carry the tears into the lachrymal sac, through the eyelids, and whose diameter is a little longer than the circumference of the puncta lachrymalia themselves, which makes these canals appear slightly contracted at their origin. The la- chrymal ducts are distinguished into superior and inferior, accord- ing to the eyelid to which they belong. 2863. The Superior lachrytjial duct, which is a little longer than the inferior, ascends at first vertically for the space of about a line, then bends nearly at a right angle, and proceeds inwardsOF THE LACHRYMAL SAC. 779 and downwards along the inner part of the free edge of the eyelid, immediately beneath the conjunctiva. The inferior lachrymal duct also at first descends nearly vertically, then directs itself inwards in the same manner, ascending a little to place itself beside the su- perior. Both in fact, opposite the commissure of the eyelids, pro- ceed alongside of each other, without uniting, and separated by a very thin partition, behind the tendon of the orbicularis palpebra- rum, as far as the lachrymal sac, into the middle part of the outer side of which they open separately. In some cases, although rare- ■ ly, they are seen to unite before entering the sac. 2864. The lachrymal ducts seem to be formed merely of a very deUcate prolongation of the conjunctiva, which is thus continuous ' with the mucous membrane of the lachrymal sac. OF THE LACHRYMAL SAC. 2865. The Lachrymal Sac (Saccus Lachrymalis^ is a small , membraneous bag, lodged at the inner angle of the orbit, in the \ channel formed by the lachrymal bone and the ascending process ' of the upper maxillary bone. It presents the form of an ovoid, si- tuated vertically and a little compressed from without inwards. Its outer side is covered anteriorly by the skin, the orbicularis palpe- brarum, and its tendon, which divides it transversely into two por- tions, the lower of which is narrower and more elongated than the upper. Posteriorly, it corresponds to the caruncula lachrymalis and the conjunctiva, and furnishes some insertions to the inferior oblique muscle of the eye. Its inner side fills the lachrymal groove (349), to the bones constituting which it is closely attach- ed. Its upper extremity, which is dilated and rounded, forms a more or less remarkable prominence above the tendon of the orbi- cularis palpebrarum. The inferior extremity is continuous with the nasal canal. 2866. In its interior, the lachrymal sac is lined by a mucous membrane, which is continuous with the mucous membranes of the eye and nasal fossae. Its colour is reddish. The existence of crypts or follicles cannot be discovered in it, although it is very soft and as it were pulpy. It is always covered with mucous. 2867. M the exterior, the lachrymal sac is formed by a fibrous aponeurotic membrane, which many anatomists have considered as the reflected tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum. This mem- * brane, which is white, dense and strong, is fixed on all sides to the I bony edge of the lachrymal groove. Anteriorly, it is intimately united to the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum and to some of its fleshy fibres, to which it even gives insertion. It may also, in a certain degree, be considered as a prolongation of it. 2868. The arterial ramifications of the lachrymal sac are espe- cially derived from the palpebral arteries. Its nervous filaments come from the external nasal nerve.,780 ORGANS OF SECRETION. OF THE NASAL DUCT. (Ductus nasalis.) 2869. We have already described the osseous part of this canal. (361). It is sufficient for us here to say that the bony canal is lined by a cylindrical prolongation of the mucous membrane of -the lachrymal sac, which is rather thin, and has no valve in its course. This prolongation adheres feebly to the periosteum, and opens, by a very contracted orifice, under the inferior turbinated bone. This orifice, although free, is furnished with a circular fold formed by the pituitary membrane. 2870. The nasal canal transmits into the nose the tears, which the puncta lachrymalia have absorbed at the inner angle of the eye. OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS AND THEIR DUCTS, Or of the Organs of the Secretion and Excretioij, of the Saliva. GENERAL ODSEUVATIONS- 2871. The Salivary Glands are symmetrically placed, to the number of three on each side of the face, behind and beneath the lower jaw. Their form is in general very irregular, and their ex- tent varies much in different subjects. Sometimes they are per- fectly distinct and isolated; at other times, they seem to be con- founded with each other. But they all present characters which are common to them, and which serve to distinguish them from the other glands of the body : Thus, their vessels penetrate them on all sides, and are already much ramified before arriving in their parenchyma; while the liver, the spleen, and the kidneys receive theirs by a determinate point, and under the form of more or less voluminous trunks. They are supplied with a considerable number of nervous fil^ inents from the encephalic system; while the liver has but a very small number, and the kidneys none at all. Their colour is grayish, their tissue firm and strong; the gra- nulations of which they consist, are successively united into lobules and irregular lobes, which gives them the greatest resemblance to the pancreas and lachrymal gland. They are enveloped by no particular membrane, as is the case with the Hver, the kidneys, &c. They merely seem surrounded by a thin layer of cellular tissue, destitute pf fat, and very different from the fibrous membranes. Lastly, their excretory ducts all open in the interior of the mouth, without any intermediate reservoir, while the tears, the bile, the urine, the seminal fluid, &c. are contained for some time in a reser- voir before arriving at their destination.781 OF TlIE PAROTID GLAND^ Of the SaUvary Glands in Particular. OF THE PAROTID GLAND.* 2872. Tlie Parotid Gland is the largest of the salivary glands. ' It is situated partly before and partly beneath the external ear, filling' 1 up the deep excavation on the sides of the face, between the posterior tedge of the ramus of the lower jaw, the meatus auditorius ex- 1 ternus, and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It extends 1 vertically from the zygomatic arch to the angle of the jaw. Its t form is that of a very irregular pyramid, with an oval base directed i outwards. 2873. Its outer surface, which is broad, flat, oval^ slightly con- ivex, and having no precise limits, extends more or less upon the i face. It is covered by some fibres of the platysma myoides and Iby the skin, under which creep some nervous filaments. Its cir- i cumference is prolonged anteriorly over the masseter muscle, and ! superiorly over the articulation of the jaw. At the under part of s this circumference, from which Steno's duct takes its rise, the \ branches of the facial nerve are seen emerging. 2874. The anterior surface corresponds above to the articula- \ tion of the lower jaw, externally to the posterior edge of the same 1 bone, and internally to the pterygoideus intemus muscle. It is 1 moulded upon these different parts, and penetrates into their in- I tervals. 2875. Its posterior surface is connected by pretty dense cellu- 1 lar tissue with the meatus auditorius externus, the mastoid pro- (cess, the anterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the styloid process, and the muscles 1 which arise from it. It is coasted internally by the internal caro- 1 tid artery, and by the internal jugular vein. The external carotid : artery, at its termination, and especially the superficial temporal 5 artery, are also in connexion with this surface of the parotid gland. They are even generally enveloped by its parenchyma, especially t the latter, which traverses it from below ujjwards ; while the facial I nerve, which is also placed in the gland during part of its course, {passes transversely through it. 2876. The parotid gland furnishes, by each of the granulations ( of which it is composed, a very slender excretory duct, which unites 1 with those in its vicinity, in the manner of veips, to form somc- 1 what larger twigs, then branches, and lastly a considerable trunk jt named the Parotid Duct or Steno''s Duct, {ductus Stenonianus.) j This duct emerges from the fore and outer part of the gland, a I little above the middle of the height of the masseter muscle, over ' which it proceeds horizontally, from behind forwards, to turn over, I its anterior edge, and sink into the adipose cellular tissue of the • n«j*, jiixta ; is, uTot, mil ls.ORGANS OF SECRETION. 782 cheek. Having arrived upon the buccinator muscle, it passes through an aperture formed in the midst of its fibres, and terminates in the mouth, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, at the distance of about three lines from the meeting of the cheek with the corresponding gums. The parotid duct does not pass through the buccinator obliquely, but perforates it perpendicularly, and forms an angle as it passes through the mucous membrane of the mouth, proceeding a little for- wards. Its orifice is besides very contracted, and furnished with a small fold of the mucous membrane, so that it is not easily per- ceived. It very frequently receives, about the middle of its length, ano- ther duct from a glandular body placed in its vicinity, which ap- pears to be an accessory gland to the parotid. This body is in fact placed before the masseter muscle, either above or beneath the duct, sometimes even in its course. Its surface is commonly smoother than that of the gland itself. Steno's duct is but loosely connected with the neighbouring parts.> It is accompanied by several branches of the facial nerve, and by. some arteries which furnish ramifications to its walls. Placed im-- mediately under the skin, it is only separated from it internally by some fibres of the platysma myoides, and by the zygomaticus ma- jor, which crosses its direction obliquely. The parotid duct is about a line in diameter, but its cavity is very narrow. Its walls are composed of two distinct membraneous layers. The outer is firm, strong and thick, of a whitish colour, and fibro-cartilaginous appearance ; it acquires still greater density towards the end of the duct, which, without increasing in capacity, becomes conical; and near the buccinator muscle it gives rise su- perficially to a thin aponeurosis which covers its fleshy fibres, while it also gives attachment to some of the fibres of that muscle as it passes into the aperture of which we have spoken above, and by which these fibres are actually interrupted and not merely separat- ed. The other membraneous layer of the duct is internal; it is essentially mucous, and very delicate, and appears to be continu- ous with the membrane which lines the cheeks, differing from it only in whiteness. 2877. There are always found, in the substance of the parotid gland, a great number of branches of the facial nerve, the trans- verse artery of the face, the posterior auricular artery, and the vein which forms a communication between the internal and exter- nal jugular vein. It thus receives the greater part of its vessels and nerves ; but a branch of the inferior maxillary nerve and one of the ascending branches of the cervical plexus furnish it witK a few additional nerves. Its lymphatic vessels are pretty numerous,- and pass into the ganglia situated at its surface or beliind the angle of the jaw. Its parenchyma differs in nothing from that of the other salivary glands. 3OF THE S^JB-MAxiLLAlit GI/AND. 783 OF THE SUM-MAXILLAKY GLAND. 2878. This gland is smaller than the parotid, and is situated at, the inner side of the ramus and body of the inferior maxillary bone, in the triangular space which the two bellies of the digastric muscle^ leave between them. Irregularly ovoidal and flattened on three" surfaces, frequently bifurcated at its fore part, it is prolonged ex-' ternally as far as the angle of the jaw, and is sometimes confound- ed in this direction with the parotid gland. Internally, the super- ficial portion of its anterior extremity advances towards the digas- tric muscle, and the deep portion, which is engaged behind the mylo-hyoideus muscle, touches the sublingual gland. In the same direction, it is separated from its fellow by the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles and the genio-hyoidei. Anteriorly, it is co- vered by the inferior maxillary bone, and posteriorly, is in con- nexion with the lingual nerve, the stylo-glossus and hyo-glossus muscles, and the facial artery, which it embraces. Inferiorly, it rfests upon the platysma myoides and the integuments. Superiorly, it is prolonged more or less between the pterygoideus internus and mylo-hyoideus. It is moreover surrovmded by a pretty consi- derable, although variable nvimber of lymphatic ganglia. 2879. The excretory duct of the sub-maxillary gland is com- ilionly designated by the name of Wharton's Duct, {Ductus Whar- tonianus). It is much smaller than Steno's duct, and has much thinner walls, which are transparent and more elastic. Arising in the same manner by very slender radicles in the lobules of the gland, it issues from its deepest portion, passes between the mylo- hyoideus and hyo-glossus muscles, and proceeds nearly horizontally from without inwards, and a little forwards, between the genio- glossus and the sub-lingual gland, from which it often receives several excretory ducts. When it has arrived upon the side of the frfenum linguae, it places itself beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth, and terminates in this place by a very narrow orifice, situated in the middle of a slightly prominent tubercle. It is ac- companied, in its whole extent, by the lingual nerve, and lined in its interior by a prolongation of the mucous membrane of the itiouth : perhaps it is entirely formed by the latter. 2880. The arteries of the sub-maxillary gland are numerous, but of small size. They are furnished by the trunk of the facial and the branches of the lingual arteries. Its veins correspond exactly to the arteries. Its nerves come from the lingual nerve (166G), ; Ihe mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dentar nerve (1669), and the ! sub-maxillary ganglion (1873). The cellular envelope of the sub-maxillary gland is proportionally much thinner than that of the parotid gland. The structure of the ' two organs is precisely similar.784. ORGANS OF SECRETION. OF THE SUBLINGUAL GLAND. 2881. The Sublingual Gland is placed in the substance of the inferior wall of the mouth, under the fore part of the tongue, and seems in general to be merely a sort of appendage to the submaxil- lary gland. Its position is nearly horizontal, and its direction pa- rallel to that of the opposite side. It is smaller than the submaxil- lary gland, of an oblong form with its greatest diameter from be- hind forwards, transversely flattened, and nearly of the shape of an almond. It rests upon the mylo-hyoideus muscle, which sepa- rates it from the preceding gland, and is covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth, beneath which it forms a prominence. It is, moreover, in connexion internally^ with the genio-glossus muscle; anteriorly, with the body of the jaw; posteriorly, with the deepest extremity of the submaxillary gland, with which it often appears confounded between the hyo-glossus and mylo-hyoi- deus muscles. 2882. This gland has several excretory ducts, whose disposition is liable to much variation. They are always very slender. Six or eight proceed from its upper part to open upon the sides of the fra?num linguag, while five or six others issue from its lateral parts, and perforate singly the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. Two, three, or even a greater number, are also seen to end in the sub-maxillary duct; these latter are very short, and frequently unite into a single trunk before terminating. All these ducts appear to have the same structure as that of the sub-maxil- lary gland, and like it are thin and transparent. 2883. The arteries of the sublingual glands come from the fa- cial and sublingual; their nerves are furnished by the lingual and hypoglossal. OF THE PANCREAS, Or Secreting Organ of the Pancreatic Fluid. 2884. The Pancreas^ is a gland which is deeply seated in tlie abdomen, lying across the vertebral column, between the three curvatures of the duodenum, behind the stomach, and to the right of the spleen. Its form is irregular and very variable, as are also its extent and weight, the latter being from two to six ounces. This organ, which is much longer than broad, and flattened from before backwards, is slightly concave posteriorly, to be ac- commodated to the curvature of the vertebral column. Its right extremity is larger than the left. 2885. Its anterior surface, which is inclined upwards, is cover- • nSv, oimic; x^'tas, caro; all fleshy. 2OF THE PANCREAS. 785 cd by tlie upper lamina of the transverse mesocolon, the stomach, and the first portion of the duodenum. 2886. Its posterior sxtrface presents at its upper part a groove in which are lodged the splenic vessels. It corresponds, moreover, to the superior mesenteric vessels, the aorta, the vena cava, and several nervous and lymphatic plexuses. 2887- Its upper edge is intersected by the course of the cocliac artery, and is directed backwards. The lower edge lies upon the third portion of the duodenum, and is separated from it by the su- perior mesenteric vessels. 2888. Its left e.vtremity, which is very thin, is prolonged be- neath the spleen, to near the corresponding supra-renal capsule, and is often named the Tail of the Pancreas. The right extre- mity, which is also frequently named the Head, is thicker, broad- er, irregularly rounded, immersed in a mass of adipose tissue, and applied against the second portion of the duodenum, over which it commonly advances a little. There almost always occurs be- neath it a small glandular mass, which is named the Small Pan- creas. 2889. The pancreas bears the greatest resemblance to the sali- vary glands in its structure. It is of a grayish white colour, in- clining a little to red ; and its parenchyma, which is firm and te- nacious, appears composed of lobes and granular lobules, which are distinct and connected by a dense cellular tissue. It is from each of these granulations and lobules that the radicles of its excretory ducts arise, which are very slender, and unite in the manner of veins. The duct itself is almost always single. Sometimes, however, there are two or even three. Placed in -the substance of the organ, a little nearer its lower than its uppfer edge, directed from left to right, and progressively increasing in size from the numerous branches which it receives in its course, this canal proceeds in a serpentine manner towards the duodenum, disengages itself from the gland, becomes free behind the second portion of the above- mentioned intestine, and is then of the size of a crow-quill. Near its extremity it receives an excretory duct which comes singly from the little pancreas, and, after a very short passage, it opens at an acute angle, into the ductus communis choledochus, or merely adheres to it to enter the duodenum by itself. The walls of this duct are whitish, and thicker than those of the sub- maxillary ducts, but they are far from being so dense as those of the parotid ducts. 2890. Besides resembling the salivary glands in its tissue, it 1 bears an affinity to these organs in several other points. Like I them, it is placed in the midst of parts of great mobility. It has 1 no distinct outer envelope, being in fact only covered in an indi- I rect manner, and in a portion of its extent only, by the peritone- \ um, which docs not adhere to it, as happens in the case of the 1 liver, the spleen, &c. Like them also, it is penetrated on all sidesORGANS OF SECRETION. 78G by a multitude of vascular ramifications ; but there is no artery which peculiarly belongs to itself There is this remarkable dif- ference between them, however, that while the salivary ducts have a pretty long course after leaving the glands, the pancreatic duct is free and isolated only for a very short space. 2891. The arteries of the pancreas are very numerous, but their size is very small. They come from the ca'liac, splenic, superior mesenteric, right gastro-epiploic, coronary, and left capsular arte- ries. Its veins pour their contents into the roots of the vena por- toe, and in particular into the small mesaraic and splenic veins. Its nerves are supplied by the solar plexus ; and its lymphatics go to be divided in ganglions to which it gives its name (2778). 2892. The pancreas secretes a fluid which appears to have much resemblance to the saliva, and which mingles with the bile to be poured into the duodenum. OF THE ORGANS OF THE SECRETION AND EXCRETION OF THE BILE. Of the Liver. GKNEHAL CONFOHMATION. 2893. The Liver* is the largest of all the glands. It is a single, unsymmetrical organ, very dense, of great weight, easily torn, and of a reddish brown colour. It occupies the whole right hypochondrium, and a part of the epigastric region. Its general form is irregular, but approaches to that of the section of an ovoid made in the direction of its length. Its absolute weight, in the adult, varies, according to Soemmering's experiments, from two to five povnids, and its specific gravity is 15,203. Limited above by the diaphragm, it is protected anteriorly by the base of the thorax, beyond which it does not pass in the sound state, al- though it may be liable to undergo some slight changes of position, according to the state of the neighbouring organs, and the posture of the body. 2894. U'pyer Surface of the Liver. It is convex in its whole extent, more so, however, to the right side and posterioi-ly than elsewhere. It is turned directly upwards at the left extremity; in the middle it looks backwards ; and to the right, is inclined straight outwards. It is everywhere contiguous with the diaphragm, which it even seems to push upwards, rendering it more concave on the right side than on the left. A fold of the peritoneum (S^ispcti- sory LAgament of the Liver) divides it from before backwards into two unequal portions, which are named the Great or liight Lobe '■Hrag of the Greeks, Jccur of the Latins. IOF THE LIVER. 787 (Lobus major seu dexter), and the Small or Left Lobe (Lo/ms minor seu sinister). 2895. Inferior Surface of the Liver. This surfoce is of less extent than the upper, very irregularly concave, and inclined a little backwards. It presents from left to right the following parts : 1°. A broad and superficial depression, which belongs to the left lobe, and rests upon the upper surface of the stomach. 2°. The LongitudinalJissure (Sulcus longitudinalis seu umbi- licalis seu horizontalis), passing from before backwards, and se- parating the two lobes below, as the suspensory ligament does above. This groove is more or less deep, and in its lower half is pretty frequently converted into a true canal by a portion of the substance of the liver, which passes from one lobe to the other (pons hepatis). In the fcetus, it lodges anteriorly the umbilical vein, and posteriorly the ductus venosus ; and in the adult it is oc- cupied by the fibrous cords which are formed by the remains of these obliterated vessels. 3°. The Tra7isverse Fissure (Sulcus transversus seu vence portce). This is a fissure less deep and shorter than the preced- ing, which it intersects at right angles, and which follows the di- rection of the great diameter of the liver. It occupies about the middle third of that organ, a Uttle nearer its posterior than its an- terior edge. It commences upon the right lobe by a sort of nar- row slit, then enlarges much as it proceeds towards the left side, but never presents the appearance of a canal. It lodges the sinus of the vena portae (2757)) the hepatic artery (2518), the roots of the hepatic duct, and a great number of nervous filaments and lymphatic vessels. AU these parts are connected together by a kind of dense, compact, and fibrous sheath (Capsule of Glisson), -, 4°. The Groove of the Vena Cava Inferior (Sulcus lo7igitu- ■ dinalis dexter). It is situated behind, near the convex edge of the liver. It is very short, but remarkably deep, and often con- verted into a true canal (2737)- 5°. The Lobulus Spigelii (Posterior Portal Eminence). This is a kind of mammillary eminence of very great size, which is placed behind the transverse groove of the liver, in the posterior cavity of the peritoneum, beneath the gastro-hepatic omentum. Its form, which is subject to considerable variation, is more commonly that of a more or less obtuse triangular pyramid. A prolongation (lo- bulus candatus) passes from its base to the right lobe of the liver. The lobulus Spigelii rests posteriorly upon the vertebral column, between the vena cava inferior and the oesophagus, and looks as if squeezed between the two orifices of the stomach, the pancreas, and the rest of the liver. 6". The Lobulus Quadratus (Anterior Portal Eminence). It is of less size than the preceding, broad, and little elevated. It separates the anterior half of the longitudinal fissure from a super- ficial fossa of an oval form, which lodges the gall-bladder. T- Two superficial depressions, of which the anterior corrcs-788 ORGANS OF SECRETION. ponds to the right extremity of the arch of the colon, while the posterior corresponds to the right kidney and the supra-renal cap- sule of the same side. 2896. Circumference of the Liver. It is irregularly quadrila- teral, varying in thickness at the different parts of its extent, and is everywhere, excepting at its posterior part, embraced by the pe- ritoneum. Anteriorly^ it is thin, convex, applied against the base of the thoraxj, and always interrupted by two notches. Of these, one is narrow and deep, and is formed by the anterior extremity of the longitudinal fissure; the other is broader, but more superficial, and placed to the right of the first: it corresponds to the fun- dus of the gall-bladder. This part of the circumference of the liver is horizontal in the middle, but, to the right and left, is in- clined downwards. Posteriorly, the circumference of the liver is shorter than be- fore ; but its thickness is considerable, especially to the right. It is rounded, and attached to the diaphragm, near its extremities, by two folds of the peritoneum, which are named the Lateral ox Trian- gular Ligaments of the liver. At the middle, it is united to the diaphragmatic aponeurosis, in an intimate manner, by a dense and close cellular tissue. It also presents the end of the longitudinal fissure, and that of the vena cava, together with the trunks of the hepatic veins. ' To the right, the circumference of the liver is thin at its fore part, thick behind, where it is in contact with the diaphragm. To the left, it presents a thin and convex edge, which is sometimes prolonged as far as the spleen under the form of a pretty broad tongue. OKGANIZATION OF THE LIVER. 2897- The structure of the liver is extremely complicated, and presents successively for examination envelopes, blood-vessels, lymphatics, nerves, a peculiar parenchyma, and an excretory ap- paratus. ENVELOPES OF THE LIVER. 2898. Serous or Peritoneal Envelope. This is a prolongation of the peritoneum, reflected from the lower surface of the diaphragm over the liver, which it does not surround in its whole extent. This envelope is transparent, smooth, polished, thin, and constantly bedewed with a serous fluid. Free on the side next the abdominal cavity, it adheres by its other surface to the second envelope, and does not cover the posterior part of the circumference of the organ, the two grooves of its inferior surface, that of the vena cava, andPARENCHYMA OF THE LlVEIl. 789 of the fossa destined to lodge the gall-bladder. It is equally want- ing in the interval of the two laminae of the suspensory ligament, as it is of itself that this alleged ligament is formed. 2899. Deep or Cellular Envelope. It is much more extended than the superficial, for it covers all the parts of the liver upon which the peritoneum is not applied, and is prolonged into the substance of that viscus, forming sheaths which accompany the branches and twigs of the vena portae and hepatic artery, as weU as the roots of the hepatic duct. They adhere to the parenchyma of the liver by numerous filaments, and do not present the least ap- pearance of the muscular structure which Glisson attributed to them. In general very thin, although pretty dense, this envelope is much more apparent in the places of the surface of the liver where it exists alone, than in those where it is in connexion with the peritoneum, to which it adheres in a pretty intimate manner. BLOOD-VESSELS AND LYMPHATICS OF THE LIVER. 2900. They are very numerous. Some of them carry the blood to the liver: such are the hepatic artery (2518), the vena portas (2757), and, in the foetus, the umbilical vein. Others carry it off, after it has resided for some time in the organ : these are the hepa- tic veins (2746). We have already described all these vessels. The lymphatics of the liver have also been described (2826, 2829). They 9,j:e extremely numerous. Its nerves are also very abundant, They come from the pneumo-gastric nerve (1712), the phrenic nerve (1737) and the hepatic plexus (1916). PAIIENCHYMA OF THE LIVER. 2901. Considered with respect to its interior, the substance of the liver presents a reddish or yellowish tint superadded to the brown colour of its surface. Its general aspect is porous, from the great number of small vessels which have been divided in cutting it. There are moreover observed in it small yeUow dots irregularly disseminated, which correspond to the radicles of the excretory ducts of the bile. Another remarkable fact is, that the nature of the vessels which traverse the parenchyma of the liver in different directions, is indicated by the direction which they follow : thus, the branches of tlie vena portae and hepatic artery, and the roots of the hepatic duct, proceed horizontally in the direction of the great diameter of the liver, while the trunks of the hepatic veins cfirect themselves in a converging manner towards its posterior edge. rFurther, the orifices of the divided branches of the vena portae arc collapsed, and those of tlic hepatic veins remain circular : thisORGANS OF SECRETION. 790 depends upon the circumstance, that the former of these vessels is accompanied by a cellular sheath which prevents it from adhering to the parenchyma of the liver, while the others being destitute of that particular envelope, are intimately iinited to it. 2902. If the tissue of the liver be torn in place of being cut, it then appears uneven and formed of an immense quantity of round- ish grains or solid polygons, in which end the extreme ramifications of the vena portas and hepatic artery, and whence proceed the ra- dicles of the biliary ducts, hepatic veins, and deep seated lympha- tics. These granulations are about the size of a millet seed, of a soft consistence and dark red colour, and appear to be united to each other by cellular tissue, which does not form them into lo- bules as in the salivary glands and the pancreas. The most mi- nute researches have disclosed nothing further with respect to their intimate structure. Some anatomists, Ruysch in particular, have supposed them to be formed by the interlacing of the different vessels of the liver, others, as Malpighi, have supposed them to be vesicles. Excretory A<pparidus of the Bile, 2903. This apparatus consists of the hepatic duct, which im- mediately issues from the liver, and after passing over a certain space, unites witli the cystic duct, which ends in the gall-bladder, and of the ductus communis choledochus, which results from this junction, and terminates in the duodenum. HEPATIC DUCT. 2904. It takes its origin by a great number of very slender radicles in the granulations of the liver. These radicles successive- ly unite into larger branches which accompany the divisions of the vena portas and hepatic artery. These branches are then united into two principal trunks, one for the left lobe, the other for the right, which issue by the transverse groove of the inferior surface of the liver, converge towards each other, closely connected with the corresponding branches of the vena portas, and end at a right angle. At the very point of union, some small branches of inde- terminate number and variable size join them. In this manner is formed the hepatic duct, which is about an inch and a half in length and about a line and a half in diameter, and descends obhquely inwards between the laminae of the gastro- hepatic omentum, and in the midst of a considerable quantity of adipose cellular tissue, before the vena porttB, behmd the right branch of the hepatic artery, to the left of the neck of the gall- bladder and cystic duct.OF THE GALL-BLADDER. 791 GALL-BLADUEll. 2905. The Gall-Bladder, {Cystis fellea), is a membraneous, pyriform or ovoidal reservoir, situated in a superficial depression of the under surface of the riglit lobe of the liver. It is placed ob- liquely, so that its large extremity is directed forwards, to the right and downwards, while its summit looks backwards, upwards, and to the left. When the body is upright, or when it lies upon the right side, this inclination is more marked than in any other position. It diminishes, on the contrary, when the stomach and intestines are full. In the gall-bladder there are distinguished a body, a fundus, and a summit or neck. The body adheres above, over a variable extent, to the substance of the liver, through the intervention of a layer of lamellar cellular tissue, and several ramifications of blood vessels, but no biliary ducts are observed to pass from the one to the other of these or- gans, as the older anatomists supposed, when they created the hepato-cystic ducts. Inferiorly, the body of the gall-bladder is free and covered by the peritoneum, which gives it a smooth and polished appearance; it lies, in this direction, upon the pylorus, the commencement of the duodenum, and the right extremity of the arch of the colon. The fundus is rounded, more or less broad in different subjects, and covered in whole or in part by the peritoneum. In general it passes beyond the circumference of the liver, and corresponds to the walls of the abdomen, and to the outer side of the correspond- ing rectus muscle. The neck or smnm'it is a little curved upwards, and very nar- row. It is continued into the cystic duct. 2906. The internal surface of the gall-bladder is almost always tinged with green, from the effect of the bile which it contains \n its cavity. It is rough, reticulated, and plicate, presenting in its whole extent, rounded or polygonal areolae of very variable breadth and depth, and more especially apparent towards its middle. In the vicinity of the neck of the gall-bladder, there are observ- ed several small valvular and prominent folds, to the number of three, four, six or seven, which appear destined to diminish the velocity of the bile in that place.* 2907. The gall-bladder has walls composed of three superim- posed membranes, a serous, a cellular, and a mucous. 2908. Serous Membrane. This membrane belongs only to the free surface of the gall-bladder, and is formed by the peritoneum which is reflected from the lower surface of the liver, and which is continuous with the superior lamina of the gastro-hepatic omentum. -1.7 • This is wliat M. Aiiniswil presented to tlie Koyal Academy of ]\Icdiciiie of Pans, uu the 25th iMaidi us a ^moX valve, a tort of Archimedes' screw.ORGANS OF SECllliTlON. 2909. Cellular Mainbrane. It is pretty compact. It is chiefly in its substance that the blood-vessels and lymphatics creep. On the side next the liver, it is it that produces the adhesion of the gall-bladder; on the other surface, it unites the serous with the mucous membrane. It sometimes contains a little fat in such of its cellules as are near the neck. 2910. Mucous Membrane. Its thickness is pretty considerable. During life it is whitish, and it is only after death that it is tinged green by the transudation of the bile. Neither crypts nor follicles are perceived in it, there being only found in it some small grains, analogous to these organs, between the valvular folds of the neck. It is, however, covered with a great number of fungoid papilla.' very close to each other. 2911. No traces of fleshy fibres are discovered in the walls of the gall-bladder. Its arteries are furnished by the cystic twig of the hepatic artery. Its veins go to the vena portae. Its nerves come from the hepatic plexus, and its lymphatics join those of the liver. CYSTIC DUCT-* 2912. Placed, like the hepatic duct, in the substance of the gastro-hepatic omentum, it is a little smaller than it, but has nearly the same length. Directed inwards, backwards, and a little up- wards, it meets it at an acute angle, runs along it for some time, and at length unites with it. Its left side is in connexion with the trunk of the cystic artery, and behind it, is the orifice of the poste- rior cavity of the omenta. DUCTUS COMMUNIS CHOLEDOCHUS.*}* 2913. The Ductus communis cJioledochus results from the union of the cystic and hepatic ducts ; but it appears to be the continua- tion of the latter. From three to three and a half inches long, and also lodged between the laminae of the gastro-hepatic omentum, be- fore the vena portse and below the hepatic artery, surrounded with cellular tissue, ganglions and lymphatic vessels, it descends behind the right extremity of the pancreas, and the second portion of the duodenum, inosculates with the pancreatic duct, or merely runs along side of it, enters obhquely between the fleshy and mucous coats of the intestine, and opens, an mch lower, in the duodenum, near its last curve. Its mouth is placed upon a small mammillary eminence, and is furnished with a membraneous fold. 2914. The different excretory ducts of the bile are formed by two distmct membraneous lamina?, an outer and an inner. The • Kvi]i;, vesica. •}■ Xo?.?!, bilis, hx'f-o" accipio, rccipio.GENERAL CONFORMATION OF THE SPLEEN. 793 otitcr appears composed of white longitudinal fibres ; the inner is mucous, very thin, and furnished with a small number of papillaj. It is continuous with the internal membranes of the gall bladder and duodenum. Of the Spleen.* GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2915. The Spleen (Lien) whose uses, although entirely un- known, seem to have some connexion with the secretion of the bile, •is a parenchymatous, vascular viscus, of a soft and spongy tex- ture, and of a dark red colour, inclining to black, rarely uniform, and almost always marbled. It is placed deeply in the left hypo- cliondrium, beneath the diaphragm, above the descending colon, between the tuberosity of the stomach and the cartilages of the ; false ribs, before the corresponding supra-renal capsule and the up- per part of the kidney of the same side. It is attached to the sur- 1 rounding organs in a more or less loose manner by folds of the ] peritoneum, and by a great number of vessels. Its form is that I of a segment of an ellipse, of which the greatest diameter is nearly ' vertical. Its volume presents the most numerous variations, and I cannot be given with precision, any more than its weight. Its spe- icific gravity, however, is to that of water as 1160 to 1000. 2916. Most commonly the spleen is single. Sometimes however i it is accompanied by some small bodies of the same nature, which ; are of variable form, and lodged in the omentum. 2917- The Outer Surface of the spleen is convex and in con- t tact with the diaphragm. It corresponds to the ninth, tenth, and ( eleventh ribs of the left side. The inner is divided into two parts I by a longitudinal groove called the Fissure of the Spleen. This t fissure never occupies the ^hole length of the organ, and is filled I by vessels and a certain quantity of fat. The posterior portion of t the inner surface of the spleen is applied upon the left side of the \ vertebral column ; the anterior, which is a little larger, corres- [ponds to the great cul-de-sac of the stomach. 2918. The circumference of the spleen has a very irregular fforra. Thicker above and behind than below and before, it is ssmooth and rounded, but intersected from space to space by notches V varying in depth and number. It corresponds above to the apo- n neurosis of the diaphragm, below to the left kidney and supra-renal ccapsule, behind to the pancreas, and before to the walls of the tlthorax, through the intervention of the diaphragm.ORGANS OF SECRETION. OUGANIZATION OF THE Sl'LEEN. 2919. Serous Envelope. It is formed by the peritoneum, and invests the whole exterior of the spleen, with the sole exception of the bottom of the fissure, on the edges of which it is reflected to be continued into the lamina; of the membraneous folds which fix the spleen to the stomach and diaphragm. Thin, transparent, smooth at its outer surface, and adhering by the other, it is applied upon another envelope of a fibrous nature. 2920. Fibrous Envelope. It adheres intimately to the preced- ing by its outer surface, and by its inner sends a great number of delicate prolongations into the parenchyma of the organ. At the bottom of the fissure, it is in contact with adipose cellular tis- sue, and furnishes other more distinct prolongations which ac- company the vessels in the interior of the spleen, and whose num- ber is consequently indeterminate. It is of a grayish white colour, pretty thick, strong, elastic, scantily supplied with vessels, and destitute of nerves. It is composed of the elastic tissue (16. F. c). 2921. Blood-vessels. No organ has more blood-vessels, in pro- portion to its size than the spleen. Its principal artery, which is furnished by the coeliac trunk, is remarkable for its size, the thick- ness of its walls, its numerous windings, and the manner in which it divides in the fissvu-e. But it receives, moreover, some branches from the capsular, phrenic, first lumbar and spermatic arteries of the left side. Its veins are not larger than the arteries, and are especially remarkable for the thinness and extensibility of their walls. They have no internal valves, and form one of the principal roots of the vena portae. 2922. Nerves. They come from the solar plexus under the name of splenic plexus (1917)5 and also from the left pneumo-gas- tric nerve. 2293. Lymphatic Vessels. The lymphatics of the spleen we have already described (2824). 2924. Cellular Tissue. There occurs a rather thin layer around the splenic arteries and veins, and it may be followed pretty deeply into the substance of the spleen, but not between the se- condary divisions of the vessels, the interstices of which arc filled with serum. 2925. Granulations. I give this name to a certain number of soft, grayish, semi-transparent, and as it were gelatinous corpus- cles, of the size of a pin's head and sometimes almost impercepti- ble, which are disseminated irregularly in the tissue of the spleen. Their nature is entirely unknown. Malpighi considers them as small glands. 2926. Parenchyma of the Spleen. It is of very variable con- sistence, although in general soft and as it were spongy. Its co- lour is deeper than that of the. spleen at its exterior. It always contains a very great quantity of blood, which seems to be idcnti-795 OF THIS SUPUA-UENAL CAPSULES. fictl with its tissue, and which is met with in three different states, iviz. in the arteries and in the veins, as takes place in other organs ; ;and in a sort of intimate combination with the other organic clc- iments, and with a certain quantity of albumen. The latter is thick, ;slightly viscous, opaque, of a livid red colour like wine lees. It ; appears to be contained in very numerous cellules or areolas des- itined for itself, of which the walls are formed by the prolongation I of the internal surface of the fibrous envelope of the spleen. Some ; anatomists think, however, that these cellules have no existence, ; and that the parenchyma of the spleen is essentially formed of ar- tterial and venous capillary vessels, with very thin and very exten- ; sible walls, which communicate immediately with each other ;* form- iing an erectile tissue (16. C. a.) OF THE ORGANS OF THE SECRETION AND EXCRETION OF THE URINE. OF THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 2927. The Supra-renal Capsules {Renes succenturiati, vel Cop- t sulae airabiliaricBJ are two small bodies placed in the abdomen, ' without the peritoneum, above the kidneys, of which they embrace I the upper extremity. They are never wantmg, but their uses are I totally unknown. Hollow and oval in the adult, they are prisma- :tic and gi-anulated in the foetus, in which their volume is much ; greater than in the adult, on which account it has been supposed i that they must have some connexion with the exercise of nutrition i in the first stages of life. These capsules, which are of a yellowish-brown colour, more or I less tinged with red, present a posterior surface which corresponds 1 to the diaphragm and the upper part of the psoas muscle; an an- t terior surface covered on the right side by the vena cava inferior, ; the duodenum and the liver, and on the left side by the spleen and ] pancreas; and an inferior surface, which is concave, and applied I upon the summit of the corresponding kidney. 2928. The left supra-renal capsule is commonly a little higher I than the right, a difference which depends upon the position of the 1 two kidneys. Both are kept in position by a great quantity of adi- 1 pose cellular tissue, by some denser filaments which are prolonged ; as far as the kidneys, and by the vessels which they receive or ' which emerge from their tissue. 2929. Each supra-renal capsule is only, properly speaking, a > small bag with thick parenchymatous walls, formed of very small i granulations, collected into lobules, and having but little consist- I ence, especially at the exterior. In its interior there exists a nar- t • fllurjoliu, JIanuel d'Anatomic, T. ii. p. 419, Paris, 18!c, 8vo.ORGANS OF SECRETION. 796 row, transverse, smooth, triangular cavity, without any known ori- fice, furnished in its inferior part with an eminence in the form of a ridge, and containing in the foetus a considerable quantity of a red- dish, viscous fluid, coagulable by alcohol. In children, this fluid is yellowish; in old people brown, and in very small quantity. 2930. The supra-renal capsules receive a great number of arte- ries from the aorta, the inferior phrenic and renal arteries, which are larger in the child than in the adult. The veins of those of the right side pour their blood into the vena cava ; those of the left side open into the renal vein. Their lymphatics enter into the forma- tion of the emulgent and inferior diaphragmatic plexuses. Their nerves come from the renal plexuses (1921). OF THE KIDNEYS.* GENERAL CONFOUMATION. 2931. The Kidneys (Renes), the secreting organs of the urine, are two glands deeply situated in the lumbar regions, on the sides of the vertebral column, opposite the last two dorsal and the two first lumbar vertebrae, behind the peritoneum, one to the right, the other to the left. Their number sometimes varies : thus indivi- duals have been seen to present three kidneys, and others a single kidney lying transversely upon the vertebral column. The kidneys are enveloped on all sides by a very solid and very thick mass of fat, in which they seem embedded. It is also com- monly observed that the left kidney is higher than the right, on ac- count of the difference in size between the liver and spleen. The colour of the kidneys is a dark red, inclining to brown. Their form is that of an ovoid compressed on two surfaces, and notched on its inner edge, like a kidney-bean. Their volume is proportionally larger in children than in adults, in women than in men. 2932. The anterior surface of the kidneys is very convex and sometimes completely covered by the peritoneum. At other times it is more or less in connexion, to the right side, with the vertical portion of the duodenum, the liver and the ascending colon, and to the left, with the spleen and the descending colon. 2933. Their posterior surface, which is almost flat, is applied j upon a thick layer of fat which separates it from the diaphragm and the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis muscle. 2934. Their circumference presents : 1st, superiorly, a thick and rovindcd extremity, embraced by the corresponding renal cap- sule : 2dly, inferiorly, a thin and somewhat elongated extremity, which approaches more or less the iliac spine ; 3dly, externally, a thick convex edge, inclined backwards; 4thly, internally, a deep * Nif g«i of the Greeks. 1ORGANIZATION OF THE KIDNEYS. 797 motch, more distinct anteriorly than posteriorly, and called the IFissure of the Kidney. ORGANIZATION OF THE KIDNEYS. ^*.2935. Each kidney receives from the aorta an artery of consider- lable diameter, although rather short (2547), sends to the vena .cava inferior corresponding veins (2744). A very distinct nervous iplexus accompanies these vessels (1920), and around them there lalso occur lymphatic vessels (2814). We have already described all these organs, so that there only remains for us to examine the ;:proper parenchyma of the kidney and its envelope. 2936. The parenchyma of the kidney is firmer than that of the oother glands. It appears composed of two distinct substances, an eexternal or cortical, and an internal, named tubular or mam- t miliary. 2937. The cortical substance of the kidneys forms around these oorgans an external layer, one or two lines thick, of a dark or red- ddish bay colour, and adhering to their capsular membrane. Inter- Enally, it furnishes several prolongations in the form of septa, be- i tween which are placed the conical bundles of the tubular substance, ..and which diminish in thickness towards the pelvis, from which tthey are separated by fat. This substance tears with great ease. (Under the microscope, it appears composed of solid granulations of ia very small size, formed by the capillary extremities of the renal ;arteries and veins. ..-2938. The tubular substance represents a number of conical, ttruncated bundles, of unequal size, enveloped on all sides, excepting ttowards their summits, by the cortical substance. The base of all I these cones is rounded and directed towards the circumference of tthe kidney ; their summit, on the contrary, is directed towards the jpelvis or fissure of the kidney. .-,,;The colour of this substance is pale red, especially at the centre oof each of the cones. Its tissue is dense, firm and tenacious. It ilis formed of a great number of delicate convergent canals, very c close upon each other towards the summit of the cones, and dhrect- i;ly continuous with the vessels of the cortical substance, from which tthey derive their origin. They are as it were expanded at the sur- t'face of each cone, while towards its summit they open at the into- rrior of the calyces by orifices extremely close upon each other. The ^summits of the cones represent so many mammilla2 at the surface of which the urine thus oozes out. Some anatomists have made of the mammillas a third substance, which they have designated by the name of the mammillary sub- ' stance; but their structure is absolutely the same as that of the [ccones which they terminate. They differ only in being a little paler in their colour. Their number, which is generally equal to ;lthat of the cones, varies from twelve to eighteen ; but, in some sub-ORGANS OF SECKETION. 798 jects, two cones are seen ending in a single mammilla, or twomam- milliL' terminating a single cone. They are separated from each other by a considerable quantity of adipose cellular tissue. They are often short and blunt, but they are also seen to prolong them- selves into a more or less distinct prominence of a cylindrical or pointed form. The orifices of the canals of the tubular substance which are perceived at their surface are much less numerous than the canals themselves, on which account it is to be presumed that several of the latter unite before terminating. 2939. Membraneous Envelope of the Kidneys. It covers the whole surface of these organs, and dips into their fissure, where it is traversed by the divisions of the renal vessels, and reflected upon the free surface of the pelvis. It may be easily detached from the cortical substance, with which it is connected by fila- ments, which although numerous are yet very delicate, and by some very small blood-vessels. It is rather thm, transparent, and possessed of little extensibility, and appears to be of a fibrous nature. 2940. The urine secreted in the cortical substance of the kid- neys passes through the ducts of the tubular substance, and thus arrives in the calyces, the pelvis, and ureter, which we now proceed to examine. OF THE CALYCKS, PELVIS, AND URETEK. 2941. The Calyces {Infundihula) are small membraneous ducts which embrace, on the one hand, the circumference of the mammillae, and on the other, open deeply in the pelvis, and only at its extremi- ties or towards the side of it which faces the convexity of the kidney. Their number varies from six to twelve, one of them frequently belonging to several mammilla? at once. Their diameter is always proportional to the number of mammillae which they embrace, and they are surrounded by much fat. 2942. The Pelvis is a small membraneous bag which occupies the posterior part of the fissure of the kidney. It is placed behind the renal artery and vein. It is elongated from above downwards, flattened from before backwards, presenting an irregularly oval form, much contracted below to be continued into the ureter. The orifices of the calyces are perceived in its deepest part. 2943. The Ureter is a long membraneous canal, of a cylindrical form and about the size of a writing quill, extended obliquely be- tween the pelvis, with which it is continuous, and the bottom of the bladder, into which it opens. It commences in the sinuosity of the kidney by a hollowed portion, which is named the Infundibulum. From thence it descends obliquely inwards as far as the sacro-ihac symphysis, being then only separated from its fellow by the breadth of the base of the sacrum. It then continues to descend in the same direction, directing itself a little forwards, in the midst 4.GENERAL CONFORMATION OF THE BLADDER. 799 -of much fat, to the inferior posterior wall of the bladder, between ;the muscular and mucous membranes of which it passes, contract- ing a little. It proceeds thus between them for the space of about •an inch, directing itself inwards and forwards, and, on arriving at the posterior angles of the trigonal space of the bladder, terminates [there by a narrow oblique oriHce. In this course, the ureter corresponds from above downwards, iiand posteriorly, to the psoas magnus muscle, the common iliac ves- sels, whose direction it crosses, and the hypogastric vessels. An- 'teriorly, it is at first covered by the peritoneum and the spermatic ;artery; then, in the excavation of the pelvis, it is crossed in the male 'by the vas deferens. It is moreover, to be observed, that the ureter of the right side is placed externally of the vena cava in- tferior, to which it is parallel. 2944. The calyces, pelvis, and ureter appear to have the same corganization. Their walls are composed of two membranes. The oiiter of these membranes is thick, of an opaque white co- I lour, covered externally of the pelvis and ureter by a prolongation cof the fibrous capsule of the kidney. The inner is mucous, very thin, white, and semi-transparent. It i is prolonged from the calyces over the mammillas, and, perhaps, k even introduces itself into the uriniferous rubes. OF THE BLADDER. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2945. The Bladder {Vesica tirinaria) is a musculo-membrane- ' ous reservoir, lodged, in the adult, in the excavation of the pelvis, i immediately behind the pubes, and destined to retain for some time I the urine, which is afterwards to be ejected from it.* •' The form and dimensions of the bladder vary in a remarkable I manner in the different sexes and ages. In the adult male, it is ' conical; in children it is cylindrical, much elongated from below upwards, and protruding above the upper strait of the pelvis. In the adult female, especially if .she has born several children, it is ■ rounded, and is broader than long. Tlie bladder also presents some variations in its dimensions, which appear to depend upon our mode of living in society, and ' the contracted habit of retaining the urine for a greater or less time. Its capacity, however, is generally greater in the female than in the male. The direction of the bladder is never absolutely vertical; but it is slightly inclined from above downwards and from before back- " Sometimes, but very nirely, tlic Madder is entirely wanting, and then tlie ureters open into tlie rectum or viiginii. Soinewliat more frequently, its anterior wall is wanting, and the posterior forms externally a .soft and sjiongy tumour at tlu» lower part of the abdomen.800 ORGANS OF SECRETION. wards, and its summit is a little inclined to tlie left. When, in consequence of the accumulation of the urine, it is distended to such a degree as to rise above the symphysis of the pubes, this obliquity becomes still more obvious. EXTEKNAL SURFACE OF THE KLADDEU. 2946. This surface, which is unequally convex, is divided into six different regions, distinguished from each other by their rela- tive position. 2947. Superior Region. It is also named the summit of the bladder. It is seldom entirely invested by the peritoneum, that membrane being only applied upon its posterior half. It is ha- bitually in contact with the inferior convolutions of the small in- testine. From its centre there is seen rising the Urachus, a kind of fibrous cord which ascends between the peritoneum and the linea alba to the umbilicus, where it terminates by becoming confounded with the abdominal aponeurosis. It appears destined solely to fix the bladder; in man it never forms a canal excepting in cases when the urethra is wanting; but in the foetuses of quadrupeds, it esta- blishes a communication between the bladder and the Alluntois. On the sides of this region of the bladder, are also seen the two umbilical arteries (2576). 2948. Inferior Region. It is limited anteriorly, but only in the male, by the base of the prostate gland, and posteriorly by a fold which the peritoneum forms in passing over the rectum or uterus. Laterally it has no determined limits. This region, which is of greater extent than the superior, has very important relations, which differ in the sexes. Its most retired part is called the Fu?i- dus or Bottom of the Bladder. In the male, it is connected, by a cellular tissue loose behind and dense before, to the vesiculae seminales and the end of the vasa deferentia. Between the two vesiculae, it rests upon the rectum, from which it is separated by a layer of adipose cellular tissue con- taining an immense quantity of vessels and especially veins. Ex- ternally of the vesiculae, it is in remote contact with the levator ani. In the female, it corresponds solely to the levator ani and the vagina. 2949. Anterior Regimi. It is not covered by the peritoneum. It is of great extent, and corresponds to the posterior surface of the body of the pubes through the intervention of a great thick- ness of adipose tissue. When the organ is distended by urine, it rests in its upper portion, against the anterior wall of the abdomen. From the lower part of this region, there is seen to arise a small fibrous membrane, which directs itself horizontally behind the symphysis of the pubes, into which it is inserted, and which is 3801 INTlillNAL SURFACE 01? THE'BLADDER. named the Anterior Ligament of the Bladder. It is immediately applied upon the prostate gland. 2950. Posterior Region. Smooth and entirely invested by the peritoneum, it is limited inferiorly by the folds which that mem- brane forms as it passes over the rectum in the male, and the ute- rus in the female, and which are improperly called the Posterior LigameJits of the Bladder. It is contiguous, in the male, to the rectum, and in the female, to the uterus. Pretty frequently, there^ glide between it and these two organs, one or more convolutions of the small intestine. 29-51. Lateral Regions. They are narrower above, where they are in relation with the peritoneum, than below, where they are coasted by the umbilical arteries and the vasa deferentia, and where they are immersed in the adipose cellular tissue of the pelvis. 2952. The Neck of the Bladder, viewed externally, represents, in the male, a kind of truncated cone, longer laterally and inferior- ly than above. It is nearly horizontal in the adult, and is directed obliquely forwards and downwards in the child. It is embraced anteriorly by the prostate gland, and rests posteriorly upon the rectum. In the female it is shorter and rests on the vagina. INTERNAL SURFACE OF THE BLADDER. 2953. The internal surface of the bladder is formed by a mucous merabi'ane furnished with a great number of villosities, much less apparent than those of the stomach or intestines. It presents, in the greater part of its extent, and in its empty state, numerous ir- regular rugae which chsappear when the bladder is full. In certain subjects only, there are observed elongated persistent prominences, crossing each other in different directions, and separated by cellu- les varying in breadth and depth. This disposition is owing to a greater development of the muscular fasciculi of the bladder ; and when it exists, the bladder which presents it, is commonly called a Columnar Bladder (Vessie a colonnes). 2954. The name of Trigonal Space of the Bladder (La trigone de la vessie, Lieutaud,) is given to a smooth triangular surface on the inside of the bladder, in the middle of its fundus, and where the mucous membrane is destitute of ruga3. The two posterior angles of this triangle correspond to the mouth of the ureters, and the anterior to the origin of the urethra. Its sides are each about an inch long. Its base is directed backwards, and its summit for- wards. The walls of the bladder are a little thicker here than else- where. 2955. The orifice of the urethra, which is also named the Neck of the Bladder, has the form of a crescent, the circumference of which is pretty thick. It embraces a small tubercle (f7?)M/a Vesi- cm), which is formed by the projection of the mucous membrane. 3 F802 ORGANS OF SECRETION. 2956. The Fundus of the Bladder is in general all that part of its internal surface that corresponds to tlie inferior region of its ex- ternal surface (2918). OGANIZATION OF THE BLADDER. 2957. Peritoneal or Serous Coat. Placed entirely at the sur- face, it belongs to the peritoneum, which from the upper edge of the pubes, is reflected over the superior, posterior, and lateral re- gions of the bladder, the only parts of that organ which are con- nected with it. A rather loose cellular tissue unites it to the mus- cular coat, and is then prolonged all round the bladder, of whose walls it seems to constitute a distinct layer. 2958. Muscular Coat. It is intermediate in colour and thick- ness to those of the stomach (2159) and oesophagus (2142). It is pretty thick towards the fundus, between the vcsiculaa semi- naies, and at the superior region, but is everywhere else extremely thin. It is composed of a great quantity of small whitish fasciculi, flattened, and affecting various directions. The greater number however are longitudinal, a few only being transverse. Those which are situated in the median line appear to ascend from the prostate gland and the neck of the bladder towards the urachus. The rest arise from the lateral parts of the neck, and cross each other at the superior region. Sometimes, as we have already said (2953), they unite into cylindrical columns, which cross each other, and are more or less prominent. The neck of the bladder is not surrounded by a particular mus- cle, as some anatomists aver, who have even designated this alleged muscle by the name of the Sphincter. The fleshy fibres are only brought closer together around it than elsewhere; and they are there applied upon a layer of whitish, firm, elastic, extensile tissue, having a fibrous appearance, which is prolonged, becoming thinner, as far as the base of the trigonal space, and which contributes to form the prominence of the uvula vesicae. 2959- Cellular Coat. This is a thin layer of pretty dense, ex- tensile, lamellar and filamentous tissue, which connects together in an intimate manner the mucous and muscular coats of the bladder, and in which numerous vessels and nerves are seen to creep. 2960. Mucous Coat. Continuous with that which hues the ureters and urethra, this membrane is thin and whitish, especially towards the neck of the bladder. In the rest of its extent, it is frequently marbled with a slight red tint. Its villosities are very delicate, and not readily seen. In the natural state, no crypts or mucous follicles have been yet perceived in it; in certain patholo- gical cases, however, their presence is very apparent. .2961. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries of the bladder arise from the hypogastric (2579), umbilical (2576), ischiatic (2588), middle hoemorrhoidal (2585), and internal pudic arteries (2591)-ORGANIZATION OF THE BLADDER. 803 They vary much in number and size. The largest are situated on the lateral parts of the fundus, and in the vicinity of the neck. They have all a very flexuous course. Its veins, which are much more numerous than its arteries, join the hypogastric venous plexus (2734). Its nerves emanate from the sciatic (1831) and hypogastric (1930) plexuses. Its lymphatic vessels ramify in the hypogastric ganglia (2774).804 ORGANS OF GENERATION, CLASS THIRD. ORGANS OF THE GENERATIVE FUNCTIONS. ARTICLE FIRST. ORGANS OF GENERATION IN THE MALE. 2962. The organs of generation in the male are very numerous, and exhibit great differences as to situation, texture, and uses. Some of them, the testicles, secrete the seminal fluid ; others, the vesicular seminales, hold it; another, the penis, carries it into the organs of the female. Of the Testicles and their Appendages. OF THE ENVELOPES OF THE TESTICLES. 2963. These envelopes consist of five layers or coats, the cu- taneous envelope, the dartos, the cremaster muscle, the fibrous coat, and the tunica vaginalis, which, by their superposition, form a kind of bag, called Scrotum, * which is divided into two portions by an internal septum. Attached above to the pelvis, and free in every other direction, this bag is continuous laterally to the inner and upper part of the thighs ; anteriorly to the penis ; and posteriorly is separated from the anus by an interval of the extent of two or three fingers'" breadth, to which the name of Perinceum is given. It is loose and elono-ated in weak and old persons, after coition, and during the action of debilitating causes; drawn up and contracted upon the testicles in strong and vigorous men, and during cold weather. Its richt side is generally higher than the left: a circumstance which has not escaped the notice of painters and sculptors. * Or^ioy of the Greeks.OF THIS ENVELOPES 01" THE TESTICLES. 80J 2964. Cutaneous Envelope of the Testicles. This is merely a prolongation of the skin of the inner part of the thiglis, the pc- rinteum, and penis. It is remarkable for its brown colour, always darker than tliat of the other parts of the skin, the numerous rugo- sities which it presents, especially when contracted, the great quan- tity of sebaceous follicles which it contains in its substance, and the scattered, long, and twisted hairs which arise from it in the adult. These hairs are inserted obliquely, and their bulbs produce distinct eminences at the surface. The scrotum is moreover divid- ed into two lateral portions by a prominent line, named the Raphe^* which runs from the anterior margin of the anus to the root of the penis. This first envelope of the testicles has the same organization as the skin in general, only its chorion is so thin, that the blood-vessels which creep in the dartos may easily be perceived through it. 2965. Of the Dartos. The Dartos are two cellulo-filamentous membranes, traversed by a vast quantity of vessels of all kinds, entirely destitute of fat, of a reddish tint, attached to the rami of the ossa pubis and ischii, whence they descend towards the raphe, to which they closely adhere. Above it they are reflected from beneath upwards, come into mutual contact, forming a septum, {Septum Scroti) and terminate at the lower part of the urethra, thus separating the two testicles from each other. Their outer surface adheres to the cutaneous envelope of the scrotum in the greater part of its extent. The inner corresponds to the fibrous coat, and adheres to it by some prolongations. It also covers the extremities of the cremaster muscle. The dartos appear entirely cellular, nor do they exhibit any ap- pearance of muscular fibres, although some authors would have them to be muscles. These membranes, are besides considerably strengthened by a thin and flat fibrous band, which proceeds from the upper and outer part of each inguinal ring. MM. Chaussier and F. Lobstein were of opinion that the dartos do not exist in the scrotum previous to the descent of the testicles, and Dr. Breschet has confirmed the assertion by recent re- searches.-|- 29G6. Of the Cremaster Muscle-l (Tunica Erythroides).§ The Cremaster, which is very thin and often not easily distinguishable, is in a great measure a continuation of the fibres of the obliquus abdominis internus, which are attached to the anterior and superior iliac spine (1257). However it also seems to receive some fibres from the transversus muscle, and to be in part attached to the inner surface of Poupart's ligament near the inguinal ring, and to the neighbouring region of the pubes. Arising from these different points, its fasciculi collect towards the ring, form a small mass at the outer side of the sheath of the spermatic cord an.l pass out- • V,i(pn, Siitura. f See Diet, des Sciences MaUcaks, T. viii. p. 10. t Kj.|Mli^ameidum su^pciisorium. § I'^ouO^a;, ruber ; ulo;, Jigura,806 ORGANS OF GENERATION. •wards. They then separate and expand upon the cord, and disap- pear entirely in the scrotum. This muscle supports the testicle, and impresses upon it slight motions from beneath upwards during the act of copulation. 2967- Of the Fibrous Coat. It forms a kind of small elongated bag, placed in each dartos, broad below, to contain the testicle and epididymis, and ascending under the appearance of a narrow sheath, around the spermatic vessels as far as the inguinal ring, between the pillars of which its fibres insinuate themselves. Inferiorly, some of its fibres are also intimately connected with those of the dartos. It is thin, transparent, and possessed of little solidity. The older anatomists confounded it with the serous coat, under the names of Tunica vaginalis^ or elijtroides.-f 2968. Of the Serous Coat {Perididymis). Like all the serous membranes, it forms a closed sac, reflected upon the organ which it envelopes, without however continuing it in its cavity. Suppos- ing it to arise from the lower part of the preceding fibrous bag, we find it covering the whole of its interior, embracing, especially anteriorly, the lower part of the spermatic cord, reflecting itself over the epididymis and testicle, and entirely covering the latter, excepting at its upper edge. Its outer surface is invested anteriorly by the flbrous coat; and, posteriorly, adheres strongly to the epi- didymis and tunica albuginea. Its imier surface is smooth, polished, and bedewed with a serous fluid. This membrane is almost as thin as the arachnoid. It is by it that the fluid, constituting the species of dropsy named hydrocele^ is secreted. In very young subjects, before the testicles have de- iscended into the scrotum, it is distinctly continuous with the peri- toneum. This circumstance accounts for the formation congeni- tal inguinal hernicB^ in which the intestine is in immediate con- tact with the testicle. OF THE TESTICLES. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2969. The Testicles {Testes, TesticuliX) are two glandular organs, lodged in the scrotum, and destined for the secretion of the semen. Their number appears in general invariable, there being no example recorded of the existence of three or four testicles. It is also probable that, when only one has been met with, the other has been contained .in the abdomen. Their size, in the adult is sufliciently known to every person ; one of them is frequently larger than the other ; the right testicle is also generally a little higher than the left; their form is that of an ovoid laterally com- pressed ; their great diameter is slightly obhque ; their conastence ■ Vagina, a sheath. f 'EXuTfav, vagina, tegumcnium. \ /^ilvfn,.OF THE TESTICLES. 807 and weigljt are considerable in the adult, and they are inucli less developed in children and old persons. 2970. The testicles are covered in the greater part of their ex- tent, by the serous membrane of which we have already spoken (2968). There may be distinguislied in each of them two slightly convex lateral surfaces, a lower edge inclined forwards, an upper edge turned backwards and coasted by the epididymis, an anterior extremity looldng upwards, and a posterior directed downwards. OUGANIZATION OF THE TESTICLES. 2971- A fibrous membrane, excreting vessels, blood-vessels, lymphatics, nerves, and cellular tissue, enter into the composition of the testicles. % 2972. Fibrous Membrane or Tunica AUmginea. This mem- brane is of an opaque white, not unhke the sclerotica (1953), al- though a little thinner. It is distinctly fibrous, close in its tissue, traversed by blood-vessels, strong and viery tenacious, and serves as a direct envelope to the testicle, whose form it determines. Its outer surface is covered by the serous coat (2968). The inner^ which is applied upon the proper substance of the testicle, sends into the interior of the latter a great number of filiform or flattened prolongations, which all direct themselves towards its posterior edge, where they terminate. These imperfect septa divide the cavity of the tunica albuginea into several triangular cells, filled by the seminiferous vessels. One of them generally traverses the testicle from one extremity to the other. 2973. Internally of the tunica albuginea, along the upper edge of the testicle, is an oblong prominence, a little broader above than below, which is commonly named the Corpus Highmorianum. This body appears to be nothing else than a bulging of the mem- brane itself, through the upper part of which there pass obliquely the principal trunks of the seminiferous vessels which go to the epididymis. Some anatomists, on the other hand, consider it as a kind of canal into which these vessels open. Others, among whom IS Swammerdam, make it an assemblage of arteries and veins. 2974. Parenchyma of the Testicles. This parenchyma, which is very soft, presents itself at first sight under the appearance of a kind of yellowish or gray pulp, marbled with red, and tra- versed by the very thin small septa which arise from the inner sur- face of the tunica albuginea, and which seem to divide that sub- stance into lobes and lobules. But when carefully examined, the parenchyma of the testicle appears to be formed of an immense quantity of very minute and fiexuous filaments, interlaced and bent in all directions, and loosely connected with each other. Their strength is considerable, although their tenuity is such that, ac- cording to Monro's experiments, they cannot be more than of an inch in diameter. Although they do not ramify, their numberORGANS OF GKNKRATION. SOS ' is great; the same author estimates it at about sixty-two thousand , five hundred, and he thinks that their total length may be va-. lucd at five thousand two hundred and eight feet. Capillary ar- teries and veins of still greater minuteness are observed amon"- them. These filaments are the seminiferoua vessels or ducts, whose cavity has not yet been demonstrated by injections. What is po- sitively known with respect to them is, that they present at inter-, vals small bulgings, which some have taken for glandular granula- tions, and others as mere replications, and that they all direct themselves towards the upper edge of the testicle. Before arriving there, several of them unite together to form larger trunks, into which mercury may be passed from the epididymis. These trunks, to the number of ten or twelve, sometimes twenty; or thirty, traverse the corpus Highmorianum opposite and a little, below the head of the epididymis, dilate a little, describe some si- nuosities, and unite to give rise to the canal which forms the epi- didymis. We have no certain knowledge with respect to the intimate- structure of these canals, their minuteness rendering their exami- nation impossible. 2975. The arteries of the testicles come from the spermatic (2551). The spermatic veins take their origin in their substance (274I). It is not ascertained that any nervous filament penetrates their interior; but a great number of lymphatic vessels are seen to issue from them (2810). OF THE EPIDIDYMIS. 2976. The Epididymis* (Parastata) is a small oblong, ver- miform body, enlarged at its extremities, thin in its middle part, and flattened from above downwards. It lies along the upper edge of the testicle, to which it appears superadded. Surrounded by a great number of vessels from which it receives several ramifications, the epididymis has a pretty distinct grayish tint. Its upper part, or head, is much larger than the rest. It embraces the corresponding extremity of the testicle, of which it receives the seminiferous trunks, and presents several .undulated prominences upon its surface. Its lower part, or tail, adheres pretty firmly to the testicle, and bending upwards and backwards, is continuous with the vas deferens. Its middle part, or bodj/, is only in general connected with the testicle by the intervention of the tunica vaginalis, which goes from the one to the other. The epididymis is situated exteriorly of the sac which that mem- brane forms, which only covers it in the places where it does not adhere to the testicle, and which itself adheres pretty strongly toOI- THE VAS, DEFEUENS.. 809 its surface. On leaving it to invest the testicle, it forms between the two organs two oblong, triangular sinuosities placed in contact by their summits. 2977. The epididymis is nothing but a canal formed by the union of all those which have traversed the corpus Highmorianum. This canal or duct, which is very slender and bent upon itself a multitude of times, describes numerous flexuosities which are con- nected by cellular bridles. Its walls are very thick in proportion to its calibre. Its length is great; Monro makes it amount to thirty-two feet. Its volume increases in proportion as it advances from the head towards the tail of the epididymis. 297^- There is pretty frequently seen to arise from the middle of this organ a small canal which ascends in the middle of the sper- matic cord, and whose termination is not well known. OF. THE SPERMATIC CORD. 2979- The Spermatic Cord (Funiculus Spermaticus), com- posed of the spermatic artery and vein, of some other inconsider- .able and irregular blood-vessels, of lymphatics, of nervous filaments from the spermatic plexus (1922), and from the genito-crural branch of the lumbo-abdominal plexus (1802), and of a duct for the semen called the vas deferens, is enveloped by several mem- braneous layers, and contains a great quantity of cellular tissue in the intervals of its constituent parts. From the upper edge of the testicle, which is suspended at its extremity, as far as the symphisis pubis, the spermatic cord, com- monly shorter on the right side than on the left, and of variable size, ascends almost vertically. There, it receives numerous veins from the scrotum, and then directs itself outwards and upwards to enter into the abdomen by the inguinal ring, crossing the epigas- tric artery (2603). Then the organs of which it is composed se- parate from each other, and follow a course with which we are al- ready acquainted. The membraneous layers which surround the spermatic cord are the fibrous coat of the testicle (2967), and the cremaster muscle, (2966). OF THE VAS DEFERENS. 2980. The Vas Deferens (Ductus Deferens) arising from the tail of the epididymis, ascends, describing several flexuosities, be- hind the testicle, and immechately enters the spermatic cord, be- hind and internally of the spermatic artery and vein, and the nerves which accompany them. After clcaringthe inguinal ring, it leaves the other vessels of the cord, descends backwards and inwards, parallel to that of ihe opposite side, upon the sides of the bladder, passes810 ORGANS OF GENERATION. behind the umbilical artery, and before the lower part of the ureter. Ihen arriving under the inferior and posterior region of the blad- der, It ai)proaches its fellow, is flattened in a remarkable manner, becomes more adherent, and changes its direction so as to proceed almost horizontally from behind forwards, and from without in- wards, along the inner side of the vesiculse seminales. At the base of the prostate gland, it receives a canal from the vcsiculye seminales, and is continued into the ejaculatory duct. t 2981. The vas deferens, from being rather slender near its ori- gin,i;and so long as it is contained in the spermatic cord, increases in size on passing through the inguinal ring, and becomes twice as large along the vesiculfE seminales. At its termination, it resumes Its original size. With respect to its dimensions, no duct has so small an internal diameter. Its cavity is-scarccly capable of admit- ting a hair from the epididymis to within the abdomen ; but near the vesiculac seminales it sensibly increases. Its walls, which are of a dull white colour, have an almost cartilaginous consistence, and are very thick. Although it is probable, from analogy, that they are lined by a mucous membrane, it has not been actually de- monstrated. OF THE VESICULJE SEMINALES. PROSTATE, AND DUCTUS EJACULATOIUI. OF THE VESICULiE SEMINALES. 2982. The VesiculcB Seminales are two small membraneous bags which form a reservoir for the semen. They are placed un- der the bladder, before the insertion of the ureters, above the rec- tum, behind the prostate gland, externally of the vasa deferentia, and internally of the levatores ani muscles; they are of an irregular conical form, flattened from above downwards, tubercular and bulged in their whole surface, immersed in a mass of adipose cellular tissue, traversed by a great number of arteries and veins, have no communication with each other, and are directed obliquely from without inwards, and a little from above downwards. Wide- ly separated behind, and only disjoined by the vasa deferentia be- fore, they circumscribe between them a triangular space, in which the bladder is in contact with the rectum (2948). Their posterior extremity or fundus is a rounded cul-de-sac of considerable breadth; their anterior extremity or neck is elongated, narrow, and some- times concealed by the base of the prostate. It terminates by a very short canal which opens into the vas deferens. 2983. The vesiculje seminales have generally in the adult a length of two inches and a half, a breadth of six or seven lines to- %vards their fundus, and a thickness of two or three lines. 2984. The interior of the vcsicula' seminales seems, at first sight, to form a cavity composed of numerous cellules, separated by811 OF THE rUOSTATE GLAND. partitions; but it in reality represents a flexuous canal, termina- ting above in a cul-de-sac, and into which there open laterally simple or compound appendages, to the number of six, eight, ten, fifteen, or even twenty. These appendages give rise to the promi- nences observed at the external surface. They are very close to each other, and connected together by a dense cellular tissue. They may be separated by careful dissection, especially if the parts have been previously macerated. 2985. The vesiculae seminales are commonly filled with a thick, yellowish, opaque fluid, of a peculiar smell, and of an aspect very different from that of the semen which is ejaculated during life. 2986. The walls of the vesiculas seminales are evidently formed of two membranes. The eooternal, which is rather dense and whitish, appears to have some resemblance to the substance form- ing the vas deferens, only it is thinner. The internal^ which belongs to the order of mucous membranes, is very fine and almost white. It is a little wrinkled, and similar to that which lines the gall-bladder. The vesicvdae seminales are entirely destitute of muscular fibres. OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 2987- The Prostate Gland (Prostata*) is a body of consider- able size, formed by an assemblage of mucous foUicles, and sur- rounding the commencement of the urethra in the male. It has the form of a truncated cone, flattened from above downwards, and superficially notched at its base, which is directed backwards. Its axis is nearly horizontal, but incUned a little forwards and down- wards. It is much thicker behind, and on the sides than before. Its upper surface is immediately covered by the inferior ligament of the bladder. The lower surface rests upon the rectum, to which it adheres by a pretty dense cellular tissue. It is smooth and plain. Each of its surfaces is traversed longitudinally by a superficial groove. Its sides are rounded and correspond to the levatores ani muscles. Its base embraces the neck of the bladder, and forms around it a rather remarkable prominence, especially on the sides. Its szwnwi^ terminates upon the membraneous portion of the ure- thra by gradually becoming thinner. 2988. The prostate gland is traversed longitudinally, and nearer its upper than its under surface, by a canal, wider in the middle than at its extremities, which lodges the commencement of the ure- thra, or surrounds at least the three upper fourths of the circum- ference of that canal. In its lower part, it is also traversed by the two ejaculatory ducts, which are lodged in a conical canal of which the summit is directed forwards. 2989. The prostate gland is of a grayish white colour. Its tis- * '^f'l I'iforc; itTYifu, tu slaw/.812 ORGANS OF GENERATION. sue, which is very dense and firm, is of a nature very difficult to be well described. It is filled internally with a great number of small follicles containing a viscid, ropy fluid of a whitish colour. From these follicles arise excretory ducts which collect to the number of ten or fifteen, and open in the urethra, on the sides and at the sur- face of the verumontanum. By compressing the prostate gland, •the fluid which it contains may be made to distil from the orifices of these ducts. OF COWl'Ell's GLANDS. 2990. Cowper's Glands (Accessory Glands,) are two small gra- nulated, oblong or rounded, glandular bodies, placed parallel to each other before the prostate, on the sides of the urethra, and above the acceleratores virinse muscles. They are about the size of a pea, of a reddish colour, and of a tissue which is pi*etty firm and resembhng that of the salivary glands. These glands, which are sometimes wanting, have each an excretory duct about six lines in length, which creeps obliquely inwards and forwards in the spongy tissue of the urethra, and opens before the verumontanum. A small gland of the same nature has sometimes been met with in the angle formed by the union of the two roots of the corpus ca- vern osum. OF THE EJACULATORY DUCTS. 2991. The Ejaculatory Ducts (Ductus ejacidatorii) are formed by the junction at an acute angle of the vasa deferentia with those which terminate the vesiculae seminales. They are of a conical form, and about an inch in length. They proceed forwards, pa- rallel to each other, in the substance of the prostate gland, unite with each other, contracting considerably, and open into the urethra by two small oblong orifices, situated upon the lateral and anterior parts of the verumontanum. Before their termination, they bend a little outwards. OF THE PENIS. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2992. The Penis (Memhrum virile) is destined to pour into the genital parts of the female the prolific fluid secreted by the testi- cles. It is a cylindrical, elongated, erectile organ, situated at the anterior, inferior, and middle part of the abdomen, beneath and be- fore the symphysis pubis. In the ordinary state, tlic penis is soft and pendent before theOP THE ORGANIZATION OK THE PENIS. S13 scrotum. Its volume then varies much, not only in difTcrcnt in- dividuals, but also in the same person, from a multitude of differ- ent causes. During erection, it elongates, assumes a triangular form, and rises more or less upward. Its upper surface or back looks forwards in the ordinary state, and is directed backwards during erection ; the course of the dor- sal vein is seen at its middle part. Its loiver surface is turned in the contrary direction to that of the upper; it rests upon the scrotum, and presents a middle longitudinal prominence formed by the urethra and the continuation of the raphe of the perinjeum (2964.) This prominence is bounded on each side by a shallow groove. The two sides of the penis are rounded. Its posterior extremity. or root is connected with the walls of the pelvis. Its anterior ex- tremity is free, and presents the glans, the prepuce, and the orifice of the urethra. OEGANIZATION OF THE PENIS. 2993. The penis is formed by the corpus cavernosum, the prin- cipal seat of erection ; the urethra, destined for the transmission of the semen; the corpus spongiosum urethrcB, terminated by the I glans; by vessels, nerves, and a cutaneous envelope which gives I rise to the jifepuce. OF THE INTEGUMENTS OF THE PENIS, AND OF THE PREPUCE. 2994. The skin of the penis is continuous with that of the scro^ (■tum and pubes. It is thin, less white than that of the other re- ! gions of the body, furnished with a great number of sebaceous foU i licles, especially at the lower part of the organ, and surmounted I posteriorly with a few hairs whose extremity is turned forwards, i it has below it a layer of cellular tissue, very loose at first, but v-which becomes dense, whitish, and as if membraneous in propor- ftion as it is examined nearer the corpus cavernosum. This tis- t-sue never contains fat. It is manifestly continuous with the sus- jpensory ligament of the penis and with the septum of the dartos. lit is traversed by a very great number of veins and n6rvous fila- iments. ^995. At the free extremity of the penis, the skin forms a more for less considerable prolongation, terminated by an aperture vary- iing in width in different subjects ; this is the prepuce, the use of »which is to envelope and protect the glans. ' 2996. The prepuce appears composed of two membraneous layers, between which is a plane of cellular tissue. The external layer is formed by the skin which we have just described; the ji: internal which is of a mucous nature, lines the inner surface ofORGANS OF GENERATION. the cutaneous prolongation, ascends a little beyond the glans, and is reflected over the latter, forming behind its base a small cul-de- sac apphed against the corpus cavernosum. This cul-de-sac is in- terrupted, beneath the orifice of the urethra, by a fold, named the Frcenum p?'eputii, which, placed in the inferior groove of the glans, frequently ascends to the aperture of the urethra. The cutaneous layer of the prepuce is very fine and entirely des- titute of hairs. Its mucous layer, from being at first very palcj becomes of a rather intense red as it approaches the base of the glans. There it covers two or three rows of whitish, rounded se- baceous follicles, of the size of a mustard seed, more or less pro- minent, which furnish a thick, unctuous humour of the consist- ence of butter and of a very fetid smell, which collects between the glans and prepuce. The cellular tissue intervening between these two membraneous layers has the greatest resemblance to that of the scrotum. It is extremely loose, and allows the skin to slide upon the mucous mem- brane. It very readily permits the infiltration of serous fluid. OF THE CORPUS CAVERNOSUM. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2997- The Corpus Cavernosum almost of itself determines the dimensions of the penis, and forms about two-thirds of its volume. It embraces the urethra, and extends from the anterior and internal part of the sciatic tuberosities as far as the substance of the glans. Many authors describe two corpora cavernosa in the penis, but there only exists one, as MM. Sabatier, Chaussier and Roux have demonstrated. There are distinguished in it two roots or crura, an anterior extremity, and two surfaces. 2998. The Crura of the Corpus cavernosum are attached to the inner edge of the rami of the ossa ischii and pubis, and covered internally by the erectores penis muscles. About two inches in length they commence at the fore part of the sciatic tu- berosities by a very slender extremity, and unite before the lower part of the symphysis of the pubes. The triangular space which separates them from each other is filled by fat and by the urethra. 2999- The anterior eoctremity of the corpus cavernosum repre- sents a truncated cone, united to the base of the glans, and per- forated by several apertures for the passage of vessels. 3000. Its upper surface is marked with a longitudinal and shallow groove, in which creep the dorsal arteries and veins of the penis. At its backmost part, it gives attachment to the Suspen- sory Ligament of the Penis, a fibrous, triangular, transversely flat- tened bundle, which sometimes presents vestiges of musculair fibres, and is attached on the other hand to the lower part of the .symphysis of the pubes.815 OF THE CORPUS CAVEUNOSUM. 3001. Its inferior surface presents a broad groove, deeper than that of the upper surface, which receives the upper part of the cor- pus spongiosum urethra?, to which it is attached by a fihimentous celluhu- tissue. ORGANIZATION OF THE CORPUS CAVERNOSUM. 3002. The corpus cavernosum is essentially composed of an elas- tic, fibrous, and very strong external membrane, and of an inter- nal spongy tissue. 3003. Fibrous Membrane. It is in general very elastic, very thick and very strong, excepting however upon its roots, in the groove which receives the urethra, and at the extremity which sus- tains the glans, in all which places it is traversed by a multitude of vascular ramifications. Its general colour is opaque white, ex- cepting in the parts just mentioned, where it appears more or less livid. Its fibres are for the most part longitudinal. They are in- terlaced posteriorly with the periosteum of the ischium and pubes, and the aponeuroses of the muscles which are attached to their lower edge. 3004. The cavity of this fibrous membrane is divided into two lateral portions by an incomplete middle partition, {Septum pecti- niforme), which commences before the symphysis pubis, but is not prolonged as far as the glans, presenting in its anterior third only a few flattened fibrous fasciculi, separated by intervals of greater or less breadth. 3005. Spongy Tissue. This tissue, which fills the whole cavity of the fibrous membrane, seems to be a very complicated lace-work of arterial and venous vessels, probably of nervous filaments, and of small fibrous laminae, which, by crossing each other, form a multitude of cellules, which all communicate together, and in which there is always found a greater or less qviantity of blood. An in- jjection made by the cavernous artery penetrates into these cellules; and if they are distended with air, it passes into the cavernous vein, so that we may, to a certain degree, consider them as intermediate Ifcetween the arteries and the veins. The filaments which enter into tthe composition of this tissue are very distinctly continuous with tthe fibrous membrane. 3006. The. arteries of the corpus cavernosum (2598) come from tthe deep branch of the internal pudic, and occupy the centre of iits lateral portions. They have frequent anastomoses with each oothcr, and communicate with the arteries of the glans and vircthra. Its veins follow the same course as the arteries ; but their volume lis much larger. The nerves have not yet been fully traced in the s^pongy tissue of this organ.ORGANS OF GENERATION. 81G OF THE URETHllA. GENERAL DISPOSITION. 3007. The Urethra* is the excretory duct of both the urine and semen. It is from nine to twelve inches long, extends from the neck of the bladder to the extremity of the penis, where its ex- ternal orifice occurs, is bent several times in the direction of its length, and has a large capacity, which much exceeds that of. all the other excretory ducts. Its walls are partly spongy, partly membraneous, and it receives in its course, the ejaculatory ducts and those of the prostate gland, of Cowper s glands, and of a mul- titude of mucous follicles. The external diameter is not the same in its whole length. At first directed a little obliquely forwards and downwards, the urethra traverses the prostate gland. On emerging from that body, it passes before the inferior extremity of the rectum, under the symphysis pubis, ascends before the latter part, between the two crura of the corpus cavernosum, places itself in the groove of the lower surface of the latter organ, and terminates at the summit of the glans by a vertically elongated aperture. This second part of the urethra changes its direction according to the state of the cor- pus cavernosum. 3008. From the difference of disposition and structure which this canal presents in the different parts of its extent, it is divided into three portions, as follows : 1°. A prostatic portion, near the bladder, situated above the in- ferior extremity of the rectum, at about an inch from the anus and perinseum, and from fifteen to eighteen lines in length. It passes obUquely through the prostate gland, the tissue of which sustains its walls, which are extremely thin. It has the figure of a cone having its summit directed forwards, and is intimately at- tached to the intestine by cellular tissue and by the recto-vesical aponeurosis. 2°. A membraneous portioji, only from eight to ten lines in length, connected with the rectum by dense cellular tissue below and behind ; it approaches anteriorly the inferior region of the symphysis pubis, and the anterior fibres of the levatores ani mus- cles. It rests upon the vesiculae seminales, and is connected with them by an aponeurotic lamina. In this portion of its extent, the urethra is contracted, and its walls are also thin. In this place there occur between it, the bladder and the symphysis pubis, large veins and loose cellular tissue. 3°. A spongy portion {corpus spongiostim urethrce) which ex- pands anteriorly to form the glans. It commences posteriorly be- fore the inferior extremity of the rectum, to which it is attached817 OF THE URETHllA. partly by means of the sphincter ani, by a bulging called the Bulb of the Urethra, which is placed immediately under the angle of union of the crura of the corpus cavernosum, above the two acce- leratores urinie muscles and the skin, between Cowper s glands, and insensibly loses itself anteriorly in the rest of the spongy tissue. This portion of tlie canal is afterwards in relation inferiorly with the septum of the dartos and skin. Its upper part is lodged in a groove of the corpus cavernosum (3001). 3009. Considered as to its interior, the urethra has not the same breadth in its whole course. From being pretty wide at its com- mencement, it presently contracts, and again dilates in the centre of the prostate gland. The membraneous portion which comes next is much narrower than any other part of the canal, which is wider from the bulb to the base of the glans. There, immediately before opening, it becomes the seat of a very decided dilatation, which is named the Fossa navicularis, and is finally contracted at its orifice. 3010. There are observed in the interior of the urethra and in the whole length of that canal, two median whitish lines, the one superior, the other inferior. There are also observed, but in the membraneous and spongy portions only, some longitudinal wrinkles which are effaced when the mucous membrane forming them is distended, and which do not extend into the fossa navicularis. 3011. The inferior median line ends posteriorly at an oblong, rounded prominence, about an inch long, called the Verumontmium {Caput Gallinaginis.) This prominence is formed by the mucous membrane, and contains in its most retired part a vast lacuna. Anteriorly, it becomes thin and ends in a point. The oblique ori- fices of the ejaculatory ducts (2991) are placed upon its sides, those of the prostate gland are seen at its surface (2989), arranged in the form of a semi-circle, and anteriorly, those of Cowper's glands. All these orifices are entirely destitute of valves. Some- times only the summit of the ridge is drawn back upon itself, so as to cover with a kind of prepuce the aperture of the ejaculatory ducts. OKGANIZATION OF THE URETHRA. 3012. In its whole extent, the urethra is lined by a mucous, membrane, which is backed, in its first two portions, by a cellular membrane, and in the last, by a layer of a soft and spongy tissue. 3013. Mucous Membrane. It is continuous, on the one hand, with that which covers the glans, and on the other, with the inner I coat of the bladder (2960), and with the membranes which line 1 the ejaculatory and prostatic ducts, &c. It does not adhere firm- 1 ly to the subjacent parts, excepting towards the glans and in the 1 prostate. Its colour varies according to the different parts 'where 1 it is examined, being of a bright red near the external orifice, very 1 pale and whitish in the rest of its extent. It is folded upon itselfORGANS OF GENERATION. 818 in the direction of its lengtli, and furnished with a multitude of small holes which are the orifices of the oblique ducts placed in its substance, and which arc named Sinuses of Moryagni. These ducts appear to be lacuna*, for they are not seen to proceed from follicles, as is the case in many other mucous membranes. ITiey begin to exist opposite the bulb, and become more and more abun- dant as far as the fossa navicularis. The mucous membrane of the urethra is very delicate, so as not to be distinguishable from epidermis. It is traversed by a great number of very minute blood-vessels. 3014. Cellular Membrane. It seems to arise from the white tissue peculiar to the neck and triangular space of the bladder (2958), and at first separates the mucous membrane from the tis- sue of the prostate gland. Opposite its membraneous portion, it acquires considerable density, and is strengthened by the fibres of the levatoi'cs ani, acceleratores urina', transversi perinai and sphinc- ter ani muscles. 3015. Spongy Tissue. It surrounds the three anterior fourths of the length of the urethra. It commences by forming the bulb, then diminishes in thickness and constitutes a uniform and cylin- drical layer as far as the glans. Beneath the fossa navicularis, it becomes thin in a remarkable degree, and collects above and behind to form the glans by expanding. It is attached to the corpus ca- vernosum by a great number of blood-vessels which it receives from that part, and by a lamina of its fibrous membrane. The cellules of this tissue are pretty large in the glans, but very small in the rest of its extent. From microscopical observations recently made, it would appear that this tissue contains fasciculi of longitudinal muscular fibres, which are very short, interlaced together and united by their ex- tremity and origin. The thickness of this fleshy layer is greater at the upper part of the penis than at the lower, and towards the external orifice of the canal than elsewhere. • 3016. The arteries of the urethra are numerous and come par- ticularly from the internal pudic The largest branches penetrate into the bulb (2596). Its veins follow the course of the arteries, and its lymphatic vessels go to the inguinal and hypogastric plexuses. Its nerves come from the pudic (1835) and inferior glutaal (1834). OF THE GI.ANS. 3017. The Glans {Balanus) of the penis, which is continuous with the urethra and forms the extremity of the penis, has the appearance of a cone slightly flattened in the same direction as the corpus cavcrnosum. "its summit, Avhich in some individuals is covered by the prepuce and in others free, is perforated by the orifice of the urethra. Its base^ which has a very oblique direction819 OF THE VULVA. from above downwards iind from behind forwards, embraces the ex- tremity of the corpus cavernosum, and is connected with it by ves- sels and a very dense cellular tissue. It is circumscribed by a prominent edge called the Corona Glandis, behind which the inner membrane of the prepuce forms a cul-de-sac by being reflected. Beneath the urethra, the corona glandis is interrupted by a small groove which extends to the orifice of that canal, and which is filled by the frfenum praeputii (2996). 3018. The glans is invested by the mucous membrane of the prepuce, which, over it, is thin, rather dry, destitute of mucous crypts, and covered by a very delicate epidermis. Its internal tis- sue is spongy, erectile, and of the same nature as that of the ure- thra, only it appears firmer and denser. ARTICLE SECOND. j. ORGANS OF GENERATION IN THE FEMALE. 3019. The genital organs of the female form an apparatus at least as complicated as those of the male. Some of them are sub- servient to the act of copulation, such as the vulva, vagina, &c. ; others, the uterus and its appendages, are the seat of conception, and retain the product during a determinate time; while others, the mammae, are subservient to the nourishment of the child after birth. OF THE VULVA AND ITS APPENDAGES. 3020. The name of vulva (Pudendum) is now given to the external parts of generation in the female in general, although this denomination was formerly bestowed solely upon the fissure be- tween the labia, which leads to the vagina. The vulva is bounded anteriorly at the fore part of the pubes by a prominent surface covered with hair. This is the Mons Veneris. Posteriorly, it is only separated from the anus by an interval of an inch, to which the name of Perinceum is given. This interval isOIIGANS OF GENERATION. 820 consequently of much less extent than in the male, and it scarcely presents any trace of raphe (2964). On its sides are observed two elongated eminences, commencing at the Mons Veneris, and unit- ing posteriorly to form the Fourchette. These eminences are the Labia Pudendi. Between the labia, are observed, superiorly the Clitoris, a small hard and more or less prominent and elongated body; the A^ym- phce, a kind of folds which arise from the clitoris and lose them- selves upon the inner surface of the labia; the Vestibule, a triangu- lar space comprised between the upper parts of the two nympha?; the Meatus urinariusox orifice of the urethra, the Entrance of the Vagina, with the Hymen or the Carunculce myrtiformes; and lastly between the entrance of the vagina and the fourchette, a small transverse depression termed the Fossa navicularis. OF THE VARIOUS PARTS OF THE VULVA IN PARTICULAR. 3021. Mons Veneris. This rounded eminence, which is more or less prominent in different individuals, and situated before the pubes, is formed by a mass of fat upon which the skin is immedi- ately applied. At the period of puberty it is covered -with hairs, ■which are not quite so long as those observed on the correspond- ing part in the male, and also occupy a more limited space, al- though in some cases they extend to near the umbilicus. Their colour is very variable; they are almost all curled, especially in women who have abused coition. 3022. Labia Pudendi (Labia majord). These are two mem- braneous folds, thicker above than below, whose length is much about the same in all women, but whose volume and projection are in the direct ratio of the degree of fatness of the individual. Their outer surface is contiguous to the upper and inner part of the thighs, and is furnished with a few hairs ; it is formed by a prolon- gation of the skin, beneath which there is found a considerable number of sebaceous follicles. The inner surface is red and lined by the mucous membrane of the other parts of the vulva; it is smooth and polished. Their edge is a little convex, thin or round- ed, and is invested by the skin. The interval between the skin and mucous membrane of the labia pudendi is filled by an adipose tissue similar to that of the Mons Veneris, and traversed by some whitish and fibrous slips. There also occur in it some isolated fibres of the constrictor vagina? muscle, together with vessels and nerves. 3023. Clitoris* This is a small elongated tubercle, more or less prominent, generally concealed by the labia, and occupying the upper and middle part of the vulva. In some women this or- gan assumes an extraordinary development, and acquires a length • Kxaro^U or tlio Greeks.OF THE VULVA IN PAUTICULAll. of several inches. Such a conformation is generally in connexion with a robust and masculine constitution. The clitoris has a great resemblance to the penis. Its free ex- tremity forms a kind of rounded and imperforated glans, which is surrounded by a fold of the mucous membrane analogous to the prepuce, and laterally continuous with the nymphse. Above this glans, is a true corpus cavernosum, attached by its roots, like that of the male, to the rami of the ischia, and sustained, under the symphysis pubis, by a kind of transversely flattened suspen- sory ligament. This corpus cavernosum has the same structure as that of the penis ; only its internal spongy tissue is denser. In proportion to its volume, it receives a great quantity of vessels (2600) and nerves (1838). The latter have anastomoses with all those of the genital parts. 3024i. The Nymphce* (Labia minora). these are two erectile, elongated membraneous ridges, transversely flattened, thicker at their middle part than at the extremities, which arise to the right and left, from the lateral parts of the prepuce of the clitoris; they separate from each other, are situated upon the inner surface of the labia, and terminate towards the middle of the contour of the oriflce of the vagina by becoming gradually thinner. Their length varies much; they are sometimes very small, and in some cases are en- tirely wanting, of which Riolan and Morgagni adduce examples. In some tribes their size is such that they protrude beyond the la- bia, and require to be cut off. The nymphae are formed each by two laminae of the mucous membrane of the vulva folded upon itself, and contain in their sub- stance a thin layer of an erectile spongy tissue. Numerous ves- sels also ramify in their substance. 3025. Meatus Urinarius and Urethra. In the female the orifice of the urethra is named the meatus urinarius. The urethra in her is very difl'erent from what it is in the male, being only an inch in length, much wider, and capable of being dilated to a great ex- tent. It is very wide at its commencement, and descends oblique- ly forwards to terminate at the lower part of the vestibule, above the orifice of the vagina. In this course, it describes a shght curve, the concavity of which is directed upwards. Its lateral parts and its lower part are in a manner embraced by the upper wall of the vagina. Superiorly, it is in connexion with the inferior ligament of the bladder, the symphysis of the pubes, and the cor- pus cavernosum of the chtoris. The mucous membrane which lines it is reddish, and forms several very prominent longitudinal i folds. It presents, especially below, a great quantity of mucous 1 lacunae. This membrane is enveloped by a thin layer of spongy 1 tissue, and no body similar to the prostate is met with at its ex- I terior. " 1ivfA(pui of tlie GrcekF, because tlicy were supposed to direct the stream of the . urine, and to preside over its emission, as the Nymplis over fountains.8-22 ORGANS OF GENERATION. The outer orifice of the urethra is surrounded by a kind of rim, formed by the mucous membrane of the vulva, which is always more prominent below than above. 3026. Entrance of the Vagina. It is occupied by the hymen or carunculffi myrtiformes. 1°. The Hymen,^ the existence of which was long disputed, and which is considered as one of the surest signs of virginity, is a more or less distinct replication of the mucous membrane of the vulva at its entrance into the vagina. Its form is extremely variable, be- ing semikmar, parabolic, or circular, nor does it in general close the canal in an accurate manner. Sometimes, however, it has been seen to form a complete septum, preventing coition and the flow of the menstrual fluids. Its thickness varies as much as its form and breadth. A few vascular ramifications are seen in it. 2°. The CarunculcB myrliformes are small reddish tubercles, rounded or flattened, and more or less prominent, which are only observed in women who have lost their virginity, and which are usually considered as the remains of the hymen, lacerated by the introduction of the penis into the vagina, or by child-birth. Their number is indeterminate, and varies from two to five or six. Their colour and consistence are different in different subjects; so that they may be seen of a vermilion red, livid or pale, firm or flabby. 3027- The Vestibule^ Fossa navicularis and Fourchette do not require any particular description. OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE VULVA IN' (;t;NKUAL. 3028. This membrane, which extends over all the parts of the vulva, and which of itself forms several of them, arises upon the free edge of the labia, invests their inner smrface, become^ folded to produce the nymphae, surrounds the clitoris with a particular prepuce, lines the vestibule, introduces itself into the urethra by the meatus urinarius, and ascends in the vagina, forming at the commencement of that canal the hymen or the caruncuhe myrli- formes. It is attached to all these parts in a rather loose manner, espe- cially towards the sides of the chtoris. It is of a vermilion red in virgins and young women, and becomes livid in those who are ad- vanced in age, who have had children, or who have abused coition. It is covered by a very distinct epidermis, but which becomes thinner as it becomes deeper. It has under it a very great quan- tity of mucous crypts, the orifices of which are disseminated at the surface of the vulva. These crypts are larger towards the chtoris than on the side next the perinaeum. • Y/iht mcmhrana.823 OF THE VAGINA. OF THE VAGINA. GENEllAL CONFOKMATION. 3029- The Vagina is a membraneous, cylindrical canal, com- pressed from before backwards, placed in the interior of the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum, opening inferiorly at the middle of the vulva, and embracing superiorly the neck of the uterus. From six to eight inches long, slightly curved upon itself, and con- cave on the side next the bladder, shorter before than behind, somewhat narrower at its two extremities than at its middle part, the vagina is directed a little obliquely from above downwards, and from behind forwards, or is almost vertical. 3030. Outer Surface. Anteriorly and posteriorly, it is invested above by the peritoneum over a very small extent. Anteriorly and inferiorly, it is in contact with the bladder and m*ethra. Posterior- ly and inferiorly, it rests upon the rectum. It is connected with these different organs by a rather dense cellular tissue. On the sides, it corresponds above to the broad ligaments of the uterus, and below to a mass of cellular tissue which separates it from the levatores ani muscles, and in which creep the uterine and vesical vessels, and the umbilical artery. 3031. Inner Surface. The walls of the cavity of the vagina are in contact with each other in their ordinary state, and invested with a more or less thick layer of mucus. Its cavity is dilated in the ratio of the births and the frequency of coition. The anterior wall is intersected longitudinally and in the middle ; by a narrow and elongated ridge, more distinct on the side next the vulva than near the uterus: in the former direction it even fi-e- quently foi'ms a pretty prominent tubercle beneath the orifice of the urethra. On the posterior wall a similar but less apparent ridge is observed. These two walls present, moreover, a great number of transverse wrinkles, which are effaced on the sides, and which arc much more prominent and more numerous in the vici- nity of the vulva than near the uterus, where they follow all sorts of directions. All these ruga? are intersected at right angles by "the two longitudinal ridges of which we have spoken, and are en- iitirely formed by the mucous membrane which lines the canal. 3032. The upper eaitremity of the Vay ina is fixed around the upper part of the neck of the uterus, a little higher behind than [ before. The lower ewtremity ioxms in the vulva a fissure elon- gated from above downwards, and from before backwards. OllGANlZATION OF THE VAGINA. 303.3. The vagina is lined by a mucous membrane, around which there arc observed a layer of erectile spongy tissue, and an-ORGANS OF GENERATION. Other ccllulo-vascular membrane. A constrictor muscle (1311), to- gether with numerous vessels and nerves, also enters into the com- position of this organ. 3034. Mucous Membrane. It is evidently the continuation of that of the vulva, and is equally continuous with the mucous membrane of the utei-us. Inferiorly it is of a bright red colour, becomes whitish or grayish above, and posteriorly often presents irregular bluish or livid spots. Between the rugosities, of which we have spoken above, it is perforated with a great number of pores, which are the orifices of its mucous follicles, or rather of its lacunae. Its thickness diminishes in proportion as it retires from the vulva towards the neck of the uterus ; in some places it has a nearly cartilaginous consistence ; in its whole extent, it is invested by a very distinct epidermis. 3035. Erectile Spongy Tissue. It forms around the inferior part of the vagina a layer about an inch broad and two or three lines thick. It has a grayish colour and a dense and compact tex- ture. No regularly disposed fibres are distinguished in it. Supe- riorly, it becomes very thin, but nevertheless ascends as far as the uterus, and seems to be continuous with the proper tissue of that organ. It is commonly designated by the name of Plexus retiformis. 3036. The vagina receives an artery from the hypogastric (2587-) Its nerves arc furnished by the sciatic plexus (1832). OF THE UTERUS OR WOMB AND ITS APPENDAGES. OF THE UTERUS, GENERAL DISPOSITIOK. 3037. The uterus {matrix), which is destined to lodge the foe- tus from the period of conception to that of birth, is a hollow, sym- metrical organ, pyriform or rather of the shape of a truncated cone, placed in the middle of the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum, above the vagina and beneath the inferior convolutions of the small intestine. It is flattened from before backwards, and is nearly an inch in thickness. From being about two inches broad in its highest region, it contracts towards the vagina, and terminates by a narrow elongated portion which is called the neck, to distinguish it from the rest of the organ, which is named its body. 3038. Body of the Uterus. It is somewhat less than two inches in length. Its two surfaces are convex, the anterior however a lit- tle more so than the posterior, and invested by the peritoneum : the former is in contact with the bladder, and the latter with the rectum. Its lateral edges are convex, directed downwards, for- wards and inwards ; they correspond to the interval of the two laminee which compose the broad ligaments. Its upper edge, (fun-ORGANIZATION OF THE UTERUS. 8il5 (!hs) is rounded, transverse, a little convex in the direction of its lengtli, and covered by the peritoneum. By its union with the lateral edges, it produces two slightly projecting angles, in the mid- dle part of which terminate the Fallopian tubes, above the inser- tion of the ligament of the ovarium which is behind, and of that of the round ligament which is before. 3039. Neck of the Uterus. It is almost insensibly continuous at the exterior with the body. Its length is from ten to twelve 4ines, its antero-posterior diameter from six to eight, and the trans- verse from eight to ten. Slightly inflated at its middle part, it is compressed from before backwards and of a somewhat cylindrical form. Its upper part is embraced by the vagina; the rest pro- jects into that canal. This latter portion, which is more or less prominent, presents at its summit a transverse slit {os tinccB) bounded by two rounded lips, (labia) placed close to each other, and distinguished into anterior and posterior. The latter is al- ways thinner than the other. Both are smooth and rounded in • women who have not had children, and on the contrary wrinkled : and as if lacerated in those who have been repeatedly brought to •^=bed. 3040. Cavity of the Uterus. This cavity is very small in pro- portion to the volume of the organ, which necessarily supposes a ^ great thickness of wall. It occupies the body and neck, and ter- minates inferiorly at the slit of the os tineas. The portion of this cavity, which corresponds to the body, is triangular and flattened; its edges are curvilinear, and its upper angles present the extreme- ly minute orifices of the Fallopian tubes. Each of its surfaces is longitudinally traversed by a line which does not project much. The cavity of the neck is continuous with that of the body. It is nearly cylindrical, a little compressed however from before back- wards, and slightly dilated before opening into the vagina. It pre- sents, upon its anterior and posterior walls, the continuation of the prominent vertical lines of which we have just made mention, toge- ther with some scarcely perceptible transverse rugae. ORGANIZATION OF THE UTERUS. 3041. The uterus is composed of an external or serous mem- brane, an internal raucous membrane, an intermediate proper tissue, ' nerves and vessels. 3042. Scrolls Membrane. It is formed by the peritoneum, which, from the anterior surface of the rectum and the posterior surface of the bladder, is reflected over the uterus, to which it forms an envelope adhering pretty firmly along the upper edge, but se- parated from the tissue of the organ upon the two surfaces by a great quantity of vessels and by a layer of dense cellular tissue, destitute of fat. .3043. Mueous Membrane. It is a prolongation of that of theORGANS OF GENERATION. vagina; but such is its tenuity, tlint many anatomists doubt its existence, and its intimate adherence to the tissue of the organ still adds to this doubt. It sends into the Fallopian tubes two prolongations which we shall subsequently examine. Its colour is white, very slightly tinged with red; this latter tint is especially manifest some days before and during menstruation. It is covered with a great number of very fine villosities, and presents the ori- fices of some mucous crypts, which are more abundant towards the neck than elsewhere. Frequently also these crypts dilate in that place, and assume the form of small semitransparent vesicles pro- jecting into the interior of the uterus. An old author, Naboth, took them for ova and for this reason these small bodies are some- times designated by the name of Ouula of Naboth* No excretory ducts have as yet been discovered for these vesicles. 3044. Proper Tiss7ie. It occupies the interval which separates the peritoneum from the mucous membrane. Its thickness is great and amounts to five or six lines. It is of a dense and close texture, and yields great resistance to the knife. It is elastic and of a gray- ish white colour. Its adhesion to the mucous membrane is very great. Its intimate nature is yet little known. It is traversed by a very great number of blood vessels. It is impossible to distin- guish in any part of its extent, the disposition of the fibres of which it is composed. Towards the neck, it is denser and less gray than in the walls of the body. It would appear, that during gestation, this tissue becomes truly muscular. 3045. The arteries of the uterus come from the spermatic and hypogastric ; their principal branches are placed beneath the pe- ritoneum ; they are very flexuous, and anastomose frequently to- gether. Its veins follow the same course, but are still more flexu- ous, and form cavities in its walls which become very large during gestation, and are called Uterine Sinuses. Its nerves come from the sciatic and hypogastric plexuses. Its lymphatics arc very nu- merous, and during gestation acquire enormous dimensions. OF THE FOLDS OF THE PERITONEUM NAMED THE BROAD LIGAMENTS. 3046. These folds, improperly called ligaments, are placed in the excavation of the pelvis, and form with the uterus and upper part of the vagina a kind of transverse septum which divides that cavity into two parts, an anterior for the bladder, and a poste- rior for the rectum. They are continuous by the inner edge with the peritoneum which invests the two surfaces of the uterus, and externally are expanded upon the sides of the excavation of the pelvis. They are formed of two laminie placed back to back, in the interval of which is contained cellular tissue rarely containing " is-dhoth, Dt 'tlci 'dUukmitlkiutii, I/cips^ick, 1707.OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. S27 fat. It is also between these two laminae that there are placed, on each side and superiorly, the Fallopian tubes, then beneath, ante- riorly the round ligament, and posteriorly the ovary. The tube occupies the free edge of the ligaments ; the other two organs raise each of their surfaces angularly, and thus form two smaller folds which are named little wings. OF THE ROUND LIGAMENTS. 3047. The Bound Ligaments (Ligamenta uteri rotunda) arise from the lateral, superior and anterior part of the uterus, beneath and before the insertion of the tubes. They direct themselves from thence towards the inguinal ring, pass through it, and terminate by expanding in the cellular tissue of the groins, Mons Veneris, and labia pudendi. The structure of these organs is little known. They are whitish, rather dense, flattened, narrower at the middle part than at their extremities. There are distinguished in their substance longitudi- nal fibres, which for a long time were beUeved to be muscular, but ■which appear to be nothing but condensed cellular tissue. Many tortuous vessels creep among these fibres. Fallopius asserts that these cords are enveloped by a kind of cremaster muscle, but I have never been able to see this disposition. OF THE FALLOPIAM OK UTERINE TUBES. 3048. The Fallopian Tubes {Tuhce uterincB sive Fallopiance) are two canals floating in the abdomen and placed along the upper edge, and in the duplicature of the broad ligaments. They extend from the upper angles of the cavity of the uterus to near the sides of the upper strait of jhe pelvis, and are thus each four or five inches in length. In the inner half of their length, they are straight and of very small diameter, for they scarcely equal the vas deferens at its commencement. They afterwards acquire the size of a writ- ing quill, and become flexuous. A little before terminating, they contract again and seem strangled. Their free extremity is wide, floating, and fringed, hence called the fimbriated extremity of the tube {Morsus Diaholi.) Among the fimbrite of this part, one is observed, a little longer than the rest, which is attached to the corresponding extremity of the ovary. The surface of the fim- briated extremity of the tube is generally directed backwards. 3049- In their interior, the Fallopian tubes contain a canal which commences at the upper angle of the cavity of the uterus. Al- most capillary in its first half, it afterwards dilates and opens at the surface of the fibriated extremity by a very small orifice, {os- tium abdominale), the only place in the whole body ichere a se-8!28 ORGANS OF GENERATION. rons membrane communicates with the eMerior. In this cavity, there is generally found a. considerable quantity of mucous fluid ; but no valves are ever seen in it. 3050. The Fallopian tubes are intei'nally lined by a mucous membrane still thinner than that of the uterus. It is soft, reddish, and slightly villous, and presents several longitudinal plica?. No mucous follicles have hitherto been discovered in it. 3051. Externally, these organs are formed by a very thin lay- er of a spongy and erectile tissue, similar to that of the urethra, and invested by the peritoneum. t" \i OF THE OVAUIES. 3052. The Ovaries (Ovaria), which for a long time were called the Testicles of the female (testes miiliebres) are two egg-shaped bodies, a little smaller than the testicles, placed in the substance of the broad ligament. They are compressed from before back- wards, of a pale red colour, wrinkled and rough at their sur- face, which often presents a kind of cicatrices. Their outer ex- tremity gives attachment to one of the fimbriae of the morsus dia- boli. The inner is attached to the uterus by a small filamentous cord about an inch and a half long, entirely solid and called the Ligament of the Ovary {ligamentum ovarii). 3053. The ovary is enveloped by a dense, cellulo-filamentous membrane, the inner surface of which sends a very great number of prolongations into the parenchyma of the organ. This paren- chyma itself is soft and spongy ; when torn, it appears composed of cellular and vascular lobules, of a grayish colour, goi-ged with a great quantity of fluid. In the midst of these lobules, are lodg- ed small vesicles, (vesiculcB s. ovula Graqfiana) to the number of from fifteen to twenty, transparent, of the size of a millet seed, and formed by a very delicate pellicle, in which is contained a viscid fluid, of a reddish or yellowish colour. Around these ve- sicles the vascular ramifications are more numerous and more mi- nute. OF THE MAMMJE. GENERAL DISPOSITION. 3054 Before the age of puberty, the Mamma;, which are of very small size, scarcely contribute to determine the difference be- tween the sexes; but in the adult and well formed woman, they present themselves on the lateral and anterior part of the chest, be- tween the axilla and sternum, under the form of two hemispheri- cal, somewhat conical, hard and firm eminences, slightly, scparat-829 OF THE MAMMJE. ed from each otlier, covered by a fine, smooth, semi-transparent skin, softer to the touch and less coloured than that of the rest of the body. Noj wrinkle or fold is observed upon them in the healthy state. 3055. Towards the central part of each mamma, however, the skin is seen abruptly changing its colour and assuming a rosy tint in young girls, or a reddish brown one in women who have suckled several children. This circle of the skin, where the latter is re- markable for its extreme tenuity, presents however a wrinkled ap- pearance, owing to the presence of sebaceous glands, and is called the Areola of the nipjjle. These glands, whose number varies from four to ten, are irregularly disseminated over the whole areo- la, or form a regular circle near its circumference. They present near their summit, two, three, or four small apertures, the orifices of their excretory ducts. They seem destined to furnish an unc- tuous fluid calculated to protect the nipple against the action of the saliva of the child. 3056. In the middle of the areola rises the Nipple (Papilla), a conical eminence, of a rosy tint, susceptible of a kind of erection during life, and at the surface of which there open the lactiferous vessels. The skin which covers this nipple is wrinkled, reticulat- ed, and furnished with a great number of very fine papillae. The orifices of the lactiferous ducts, which are observed at its surface, are surrounded by excessively minute hairs. ORGANIZATION OF THE MAMMiE. 3057- Besides the skin which covers them, the mammas are composed of a layer of more or less thick adipose tissue, a large gland, vessels of different kinds and nerves. 3058. Adipose Layei: It is chiefly to this that the organ owes its size and form, and the cellular tissue here appears so much the more impregnated with fat, the larger and softer the mammjE are, for in young girls, where it is firm, little fat is generally found. 3059. Mammary Gland. It is placed beneath the adipose layer, before the pectoralis major muscle, and represents a kind of convex cake, with an uneven surface, and an irregularly circum- scribed base, especially in women who have suckled several times, and which is prolonged to a greater distance upwards and outwards than downwards and inwards. The anterior surface of this gland is very uneven. There are observed upon it prominences in the form of ridges and more or less voluminous, and depressions in which are lodged pellets of adipose cellular tissue. The tissue of the mammary gland results from the assemblage of several lobes of different sizes, and closely connected with each other by dense cellular tissue not containing fat. These lobes are near each other, and more numerous towards the centre Uian af itsORGANS OF GENERATION. 830 circumference. Eacli of them is composed of several lobules, them- selves formed of rounded granulations of a rosy white colour, and of the size of a poppy seed. It is asserted that by means of the microscope, it has been discovered that these grains, themselves so small, are formed by the union of a number of small vesicles. 3060. Lactiferous Ducts, (Ductus galactoferi s. lactiferi.) The glandular grains just mentioned give rise to the radicles of these canals, which unite into ramuscules, twigs and trunks becoming gradually larger. The latter collect towards the centre of the gland; they are flexuous, very extensile and semitransparent. Those of the different lobes do not communicate with each other, so that there are as many series of vessels as lobes in the gland. They all terminate in sinuses, placed near the base of the nipple, which are commonly from fifteen to eighteen in number. These sinuses have not all the same capacity; the largest are two or three lines in breadth, while others are not much larger than the trunks which form them. They are very short, of a conical form, and connected with each other by cellular tissue. From their summits proceeds a bundle of other canals which occupy the centre of the nipple, do not communicate together, and open separately at its surface. All these vessels are destitute of valves. Bichat thinks they are lined by a particular mucous membrane. 3061. The arteries of the mammae come from the thoracic, axil- lary, intercostal, and internal mammary. Their deep veins accom- pany the arteries ; others are subcutaneous, and follow a different course. Their nerves are furnished by the intercostal nerves and brachial plexus. Their lymphatics are numerous, and form two layers ; they communicate with those of the abdomen and thorax, and go to the axillary ganglia. ARTICLE THIRD. OF THE FCETUS AND ITS ENVELOPES. OF THE MEMBEANA DECIDUA OR SPONGY CHORION. 3062. This is a spongy membrane produced, at the period of conception, from the inner surface of the uterus by an exudation of lymph. Before the descent of the ovum or germ from the ovary 4OF THE MEMURANA DECIDUA, OH SPONGY CHORION. Si) I through the Fallopian tube, it lines all the interior of the uterus, but when the former descends it pushes the membrana decidua be- fore it which is thus made to affect the disposition of serous mem- branes, there being one part which surrounds the ovum, called the decidua reflewa, and another part which lines the interior of the uterus, called the decidua vera. The point at which the decidua reflexa is reflected upon the ovum is where the placenta is fixed to the uterus. OF THE CHORION. 3063. The chorion which is the outermost of the proper mem- branes of the foetus, is at first stronger than the amnios, but at the latter period of pregnancy it becomes weaker. Its outer sur- face corresponds to the decidua reflexa, and its inner to the amnios from which it is separated at the early period of gestation by a gelatinous fluid called the false ivafers {liquor chorii.) It surrounds the ovum, covers the foetal surface of the placenta from which it is reflected upon the umbilical cord, which it sur- rounds as far as the umbilicus of the foetus where it is continued into the dermis of the latter. OF THE AMNIOS. 3064. The Amnios is the innermost membrane of the ovum. Except at the early period of gestation (when, as has been said, it is separated from the chorion by the false waters,) its outer surface is in contact with the inner surface of the chorion, to which it feebly adheres, except opposite the placenta, where the adiiesion is more intimate. The amnios surrounds the foetus, is continued upon the foetal surface of the placenta, from whence it is reflected upon the umbi- lical cord, where it surrounds that part of the chorion which was also reflected from the placenta, and as the chorion is continuovis with the dermis of the foetus, so the amnios is continuous with the epidermis. In the interior of the amnios there is a fluid {liquor omnii), in which the foetus floats: its source or uses are not fully known. OF THE PLACENTA. 3065. The placenta is a spongy vascular mass like a cake, from six to eight inches in diameter, about an inch thick in the middle, and some lines at the circumference. It adheres by one surface to the uterus and by the other is connected to the foetus by means of the umbilical cord. The uterine surface is lobulat-ORGANS OF GENEllATION. ed and is connected to the uterus by bloodvessels. The foetal surface is covered by the cliorion and amnios and presents the ra- mifications of the umbilical vessels, which are the umbilical vein, and the two umbilical arteries; the radicles of these vessels com- municate with each other, but no communication has ever been shown to exist between them and the utero-placcntine vessels. OF THE UMBILICAL CORD. 3066. The Umbilical Cord (funis unibilicalis) is composed of the umbilical vein and the two umbiUcal arteries twisted together like a rope, and surrounded by a gelatinous substance, and the re- flections of the chorion and amnios already mentioned: there are also found the urachus, and, at the early period of the foetus, the omj)halo-mesenteric vessels, along with a slender duct, which are connected with the vesicula umhilicalis, a vesicle containing a yellowish fluid, which is situated between the chorion and amnios. OF THE CIRCULATION OF THE FOETUS. 3067- The umbilical vein carries the blood from the placenta to the fcEtus; it enters the liver by the umbilical fissure, and, in the transverse fissure, communicates with the vena portas, sending the greater part of the blood to be circulated in the liver; the rest is transmitted directly to the vena cava inferior by the ductus veno- sus, which seems to be the continuation of the umbilical vein.* The blood circulated in the liver is carried to the vena cava infe- rior by the hepatic veins; by the vena cava the blood is carried in- to the right auricle. Now, the right auricle, in the foetus, com- municates directly with the left by the foramen ovale (2252). The greater part of this blood, therefore, passes into the left auri- cle, being conducted into it by the disposition of the Eustachian valve (2252) and foramen ovale; from the left auricle, the blood is sent into the left ventricle, from which it is propelled into the aorta. The blood from the vena cava superior and coronary vein and what remains of that from the vena cava inferior is supposed to pass into the right ventricle, from which it is sent into the pul- monary artery. But the disposition of the pulmonary artery is not the same as in the adult, for at its division a third branch arises, which is larger than the pulmonary branches; it is the ductus arteriosus (2258), . and opens directly into the aorta, at the lower part of its arch ; it, therefore, carries most of the blood from the right ventricle directly into the aorta, very Httle of it passing into the lungs, which are at this time small and collapsed. " In most animals the ductus venosus is merely a branch arising from the sinus of the vena portae.OF THE VESICULA UMBILICALIS. 833 From the aorta the blood is sent to the different parts of tlic body from which it is returned by the veins, but a great part of it passes out of the body of the foetus by the umbiUcal arteries, which arc continued from the internal iliacs (2576), run towards the umbilicus on each side of the urinary bladder, and pass out by the umbilicus to go Xp the placenta, where they subdivide and communicate with the radicles of the vimbilical vein, but not with any of the viterine vessels. In the placenta the blood is supposed to undergo some changes analogous to those effected on it by respiration, for " notwithstand- ing the separation of the two circulations in the placenta, there is between the two portions composing it, and between their vessels, a relation of mutual action, which may be compared to that be- tween the air and the blood in the lungs, or to that between the aliments and the chyliferous vessels in the intestinal canal."* OF THE URACHUS. 3068. This is a continuation of the fiindus of the bladder (2947)» which, passing out of the umbilicus between the umbiHcal arteries, is continued into the cord where it disappears in the human foetus, but in the foetus of some quadrupeds it is a distinct duct, and I opens into a membraneous sac, which is apparently situated be- I tween the amnios and chorion, but is in reaUty situated outside the I chorion, this being reflected on it in the same way as a serous 1 membrane; the sac in question is called the allantois; it has never I been found in the human foetus, but, from analogy, is supposed to 1 be present at a very early period. The functions of the urachus land of the allantois are not obvious in animals termed mammiferous, Ibut in the chick, previous to its birth from the shell, it performs Ithe important function of respiration. or THE VESICULA UMBILICALIS AND THE OMPHALO-rvIESENTERIC VESSELS. 3069. The Vesicula Umhilicalis (vesicula alba) is a small sac, {filled with a yellowish fluid, situated between the chorion and am- mios, and connected to the foetus by a duct, an artery, and vein. TThe duct, which is a mere filament, has been traced along the um- Ubilical cord as far as the umbilicus, and is supposed to communi- ccate with the interior of the small intestine of the foetus, the vesi- ccula umbilicalis being supposed analogous to the membrane of tithe yolk in the ovum of birds. The artery and the vein are con- nnected, the former with the superior mesenteric, the latter with the vvena portae, they have received the name of omphalo-mesenteric. * Meckel, .Manuel d'Anatomie, traduit par Jouidan ct Brescliet, torn. iii. p. 764-. 3 H834 APPtWlilX. APPENDIX. OF THE PEniTONEUM.* 3070. The Peritoneum is a serovis membrane. It is thin and translucid, has a very compUcated course, invests the inner surface of the walls of the abdomen, forms several more or less marked folds in that cavity, and is prolonged, under the form of an enve- lope, over most of the viscera wliich are contained in it, and which belong to the organs of digestion, of the secretions, and of ge- neration. The peritoneum, therefore, can only be studied with advantage after these organs are known, which is the reason that has induced us to postpone the examination of this membrane un- til now. 3071. Considered in the male, the peritoneum represents, like all the other serous membranes, a sac, without aperture, whose internal surface, to appearance smooth, but in reality covered with very fine vHlosities, and moistened with serous fluid, is every- where in contact with itself. In the female it presents at first sight the same disposition ; but is found to be perforated with . an aperture opposite the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube (3049), with the mucous membrane of which it seems to be con- tinuous. 3072. To facilitate the simultaneous study of the peritoneum, and of the connexions which the abdominal viscera have with it, it is usual to divide the abdomen-f- into three large zones, distin- guished into superior, middle, and inferior, and separated from each other by transverse lines, one of which passes under the lower edge of the twelfth rib of each side, while the other extends between the two iUac crests. If we now suppose two other lines, raised vertically from the anterior and superior iUac spines to the level of the lower wall of the thorax, each of these zones will be found di- vided into three regions, one middle and two lateral. Now, the middle region of the upper zone is called the Epigastrium, \ and • Ili^!, circa; r'uvu, tcndo, _ . j f From ahderc, to conceal, because this cavity contains the principal viscera of thej body. < $ 'Eir'i, supra; yuflr:^, venirkulvs. J835 OF THE pehitonkum. its lateral regions are named Hypochondria; * the middle region of the middle zone is the Umbilicus, and its lateral region are the Flayiks or Sides, properly so called; the Hypogastriumf is the middle region of the lower zone, of which the Iliac Fossce consti- tute the lateral regions. The part of the hypogastrium comprised in the small pelvis bears the name of Fiibic Region, while the name of Groins or Inguinal Regions is given to the two oblique and angular folds, which exist at the point of union of the anterior wall of the abdomen with the upper part of the thighs, and which extend on each side from the anterior and superior spine of the ileum to the pubes. The groins are essentially formed by the dis- position of the broad muscles of the abdomen. 3073. The peritoneum is itself divided, like the cavity of the abdomen, into three portions, of which the middle forms a kind of cincture placed horizontally between the base of the thorax and the iliac crests, and of which the others, the superior and inferior, re- present segments of an ovoid. 3074. Umbilical Portion of the Peritoneum. It lines the pos- terior part of the Unea alba, closes the posterior orifice of the um- bilicus, and adheres pretty closely, in the circumference of that aperture, to the abdominal aponeurosis. From thence, the peri- toneum directs itself horizontally, to the right and left, behind the broad muscles of the abdomen : in the first direction, it meets the ascending colon ; in the other, the descending colon; and forms around these intestines two folds, named the Lumbar Mesocola (2193, 2195), which serve to attach them to the posterior waU of the abdomen. At the same time, it passes before the kidneys, from which it is separated by a pretty thick layer of cellular tissue ; then, covering the ureters, the spermatic and renal vessels, the vena cava and the aorta, it advances on each side towards the vertebral co- lumn, before which it is reflected from behind forwards, lying upon itself, in order to form the immense fold known by the name of Mesentery (2180). 3075. Hypogastric Portion of the Peritoneum. In this part of its course, the peritoneum descends from the umbilicus towards the pubes, and covers the urachus and the two umbilical arteries which raise it a little, so as to make it form three folds projecting back- wards, confounded at the umbilical ring, and separated inferiorly. It is then applied against the posterior surface of the recti muscles, and arrives at the upper edge of the ossa pvibis, whence it is directed over the summit and posterior region of the bladder. There, it presents differences, according as it is examined, in the male or in the female. In the former, it invests the base of the vesiculoe se- minales, and is reflected over the rectum, forming two semilunar folds, separated by a pretty deep cul-de-sac, and called the Poste- rior Ligaments of the Bladder. Opposite these folds and their " 'Tre, infra ; ^cy^^tf, cartilago, t '^^"to; infra ; yxajn^, ventriculut.APPENDIX. separation, the peritoneum is applied superiorly upon the ante- rior surface of the rectum; but above, it also'covers its lateral surfaces, and constitutes behind it the Mesorcctum (2208), of which the upper extremity is continuous with the Iliac Mesocolon (2199). In the female, the peritoneum passes from the bladder over the vagina, before which it forms two semilunar folds and an interme- diate cul-de-sac, similar to those which in the male, occur be- tween the rectum and bladder, but less distinct. It then invests the anterior surface, the upper edge and posterior surface of the uterus, and a portion of the corresponding wall of the vagina, prolonging itself to the right and left to form i\\e Broad Ligaments (3046). From thence, it gains the rectum, and presents the same disposition as in the male. The peritoneum then ascends before the sacro-vertebral articu- lation, and unites with the lamina which forms the mesentery. We have examined the course of the peritoneum in the middle part of the hypogastric region; let us now follow it upon the sides of that region. It is at first seen reflecting itself from the walls of the abdomen over each iliac fossa, covering a part of the iliacus and psoa3 muscles, embracing to the left the sigmoid flexure of the colon by means of the Iliac Mesocolon^ and to the right the coecum and its appendages by means of the Mesoccecum (2187). From thence it ascends forwards behind Poupart's ligament, and forms two depressions on each side, called the Inguinal Fossce, which are distinguished into internal and external. These fossae are separated from each other by the fold of the membrane which the umbilical artery supports. The external, which is wider, is generally triangular. At the bottom of its summit, which is di- rected downwards and inwards, the peritoneum is seen to dive a little into the internal orifice of the inguinal canal (1262). Pos- teriorly the peritoneum, which has invested the iUac fossje, ascends to be continued into the lumbar mesocola. 3076. Epigastric Portion of the Peritoneum. Of much greater extent, and more complicated than the other two, it ex- hibits a different disposition to the right, to the left, and in the middle. 1°. To the left, the peritoneum invests a considerable part of the inferior surface of the diaphragm, and sinks into the most re- tired region of the hypochondrium as far as the vertebral column, whence it is successively reflected over the posterior surface of the splenic vessels, the posterior half of the inner surface of the spleen, its outer surface, its whole circumference, and the anterior half of its inner surface. There, it meets the splenic vessels a second time near the fissure of the spleen, passes over their anterior part, gains the cardiac extremity of the stomach, and is continued into the anterior lamina of the great omentum. These lamina? of the peritoneum of which we have just been speaking, and which arcOF THli rEUlTONEUM. 837 comprised between the spleen and the stomach, arc called Gas fro- splenic Omenta by many authors. 2° In the middle, the peritoneum leaves the diaphragm before its oesophageal aperture, arrives upon the anterior surface of tlie stomach, passes before the gastro-epiploic vessels, descends to near the most decUvous part of the abdomen, and is reflected from be- low upwards as far as the convex edge of the arch of the colon, thus contributing to the formation of the great omentum. It then invests the inferior surface of the arch of the colon, glides beneath the pancreas and duodenum, forming the inferior lamina of the transverse mesocolon (2194), and is finally continued into one of the lamina; of the mesentery. 3°. To the right, the peritoneum covers a less extent of the in- ferior surface of the diaphragm. Arrived upon the posterior edge of the liver, it is reflected upon that organ, forming a fold which has been inappropriately named its Coronary Ligament {ligamentum hepatis coronarium). It covers its whole upper surface, at the middle of which it gives rise to another triangular fold which is its Suspensory Ligament (ligamentum hepatis suspensoriiim). This fold divides the upper surface of the liver into two unequal parts (2894), corresponds on the other hand to the diaphragm, and is continued inferiorly into another fold, which is named the Faloo of the Umbilical Vein. This fold in fact contains that vein in its substance, and descends anteriorly and to the left as far as the umbilicus. The right lamina of the so-called suspensory ligament of the liver is then reflected under the concave surface of the great lobe, unites with the rest of the peritoneum along its sharp edge, covers the gall-bladder, and at length forms altogether on the right, a small fold which gains the diaphragm, and which is called the Right Lateral or triangular Ligament of the Liver {ligamentum hepatis triangulare deoctrum.) This same lamina leaves the gall- bladder posteriorly, and slips before the duodenum to proceed over the colon. The left lamina is in like manner reflected under the inferior surface of the left lobe, unites upon its sharp edge with that which covers the upper surface of the Uver, and bends, near its posterior edge, to form the Left lateral or Triangular Ligament of the Liver {ligamentum hepatis triangulare sinistrum) and the anterior lami- na of the ILepato-Gastric omentum, and to expand over the ante- rior surface of the stomach. 3077- Posterior Cavity of the Omenta. Immediately under : the neck of the gall-bladder there is observed a triangular aperture, 1 the Foramen or Hiatus of Winslow, into which the finger may I easily be made to penetrate. Through this aperture there is seen I to dive superiorly the lamina of the peritoneum which has formed the anterior lamina of the hepato-gastric omentum, which is thus applied upon itself,containing in its duplicaturc the hepatic andpylo-838 APPENDIX. ric vessels, the coronary vessels of the stomach, and the cystic and hepatic ducts, and ductus communis choledochus. This lamina then directs itself over the whole posterior surface of the stomach, de- scends behind the gastro-epiploic vessels, applies itself upon the portion of the peritoneum which has embraced the spleen and the anterior surface of the stomach, arrives along with it as far as the in- ferior edge of the great omentum, and afterwards ascends towards the convex edge of the arch of the colon. It then leaves this first lamina, covers the upper surface of the colon, forming the upper lamina of the transverse mesocolon (2194), and passes above the pancreas and duodenum, the base of the crura of the diaphragm, the vena cava and lobulus Spigelii. At length it passes through the foramen of Winslow, and is continued over the concave sur- face of the right lobe of the Uver. In following this course, the lamina of the peritoneum of which we have been speaking forms the walls of a large ovoidal cavity, the Posterior Cavity of the Omenta. It is thus to the peritoneum what the arachnoid membrane is to the portion of that membrane which penetrates into the ventricles of the brain (1590). This ca- vity, which has no other issue than the foramen of Winslow, is formed anteriorly and from above downwards by the hepato-gastric omentum, the posterior surface of the stomach, the two lamell{E of the anterior lamina of the great omentum. Posteriorly, and from beneath upwards, it is formed by the two lamellae of the posterior lamina of the great omentum, the upper surface of the arch of the colon, the upper lamma of the transverse mesocolon, and its pro- longation towards the lobulus Spigelii. 3078. Organization and General Relations of the Peritoneum. The peritoneum has precisely the same structure as the other serous membranes which we have already examined. It is in general very thin, although not equally so in all its parts. Its thickness is great- er in the loins and behind the anterior wall of the abdomen than any where else. Upon the liver, spleen, stomach, and intestines, and especially in the omenta, the thinness of this membrane is ex- treme. Nor is its adhesion to the organs which it invests uniform in all parts. It is very decided upon the liver, spleen, and intestines, ■with the exception of the duodenum ; but is much less so upon the pancreas, bladder, uterus and vagina, as well as upon the dia- phragm and the walls of the abdomen, which is especially remark- able in the lumbar regions and before the kidneys. In general, at the level of these different parts, in the excavation of the pelvis, the peritoneum has beneath it a great quantity of adipose cellular tis- sue. It also contains much of that substance in the difierent folds which it forms, as the mesentery, mesocolon, &c.OF THE OMENTA. 839 OF THE OMENTA OK EPIl'LOA.* 3079. Hepato-gastric Omentum (omentum minus). This is a fold of the peritoneum, with which we are already acquainted, and which extends transversely from the right side of the cardia to the corresponding extremity of the transverse fissure of the liver, and from above downwards, from the inferior surface of the diaphragm to the pylorus and duodenum. It is under it that the foramen of Winslow occurs, and between its two laminie that the biliary and hepatic vessels are lodged. It contains in general little fat. 3080. The Great Omentum {omentum majus) is a very large fold, free and floating upon the convolutions of the intestine. It "is regularly quadrilateral, and commonly longer on the left side than on the right. Its base is attached anteriorly to the great cur- vature of the stomach, and posteriorly to the arch of the colon. Its edges are continuous above, the one with the colic omentum, the other with the gastro-splenic omentum, and farther down with the neighbouring portions of the lumbar cola. It is formed of two laminae, each composed of two lamellae, the one superficial, the other deep. The two lamellae of the anterior J lamina leave between them and the great curvature of the stomach ' a triangular space (2152) ; but they are afterwards confounded, proceed downwards, and then turning upwards, ascend together to form the posterior lamina. At the upper part of this latter, they separate again to embrace the arch of the colon, and form the transverse mesocolon. The one joins the mesentery, the other as- cends towards the foramen of Winslow. There is found in the substance of the great? omentum a very large quantity of vessels and fat, the latter being generally dispers- ed in flakes. 3081. Colic Omentum. This is a fold of the peritoneum which exists only on the right side, and is placed behind the great omen- tum. It nearly fills the angle formed by the union of the right and transverse portions of the colon. Sometimes it extends as far as the ccecum or towards the spleen. Its two laminae are separat- ed by the colic arteries and veins. 3082. The Gastro-splenic Omentum is formed by the peritone- um, which, fi:om the edges of the fissure of the spleen, proceeds over the cardiac extremity of the stomach. It contains in its sub- stance the splenic vessels and vasa breviora. 3083. Besides the omenta, the peritoneum forms other folds, such as the mesentery, the mcsocola, the mesorectum, the meso- coecum, the broad ligaments of the uterus, the suspensory liga- ments of the liver, the adipose appendages of the large intestine, &c. These, however, have already been described. * , upon ; rkiu, t" Jloai.\CONTENTS. Advertisement, Preliminary Observations, Organic Elements or proximate animal principles Different Kinds of Tissues, Divisions of Anatomy, CLASS FIRST. ORGANS OF THE FUNCTIONS OF RELATION. ARTICLE FIRST. ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. CHAPTER FIRST. Of the Bones, . ... 9 Preliminary Remarks, . . . ib. Of the Skeleton in General, . . . 15 Of the Trunk, . . . .18 Vertebral Column, . . . ib. Vertebrae in General, ... . ib. Characters of the different orders of Vertebrae, 19 Particular characters of certain Vertebrae, . 21 Vertebral Column in General, . . .24 Chest or Thorax, ... 27 Sternum, . . . . ib. Ribs, ... 29 Of Kome particular Ribs, . . .31 Costal Cartilages, . . .32 Thorax in General, , . .33 Page V 1 2 4 8842 CONTENTS. Of the Head, • ... 36 Of the Cranium, . , , . ib Sphenoid Bone, , . . 37 Ethmoid Bone, ... .42 Sphenoidal Turbinated Bones, . . 45 Frontal Bone, . . . .46 Occipital Bone, . . . .49 Temporal Bone, . . . . 52 Parietal Bone, , . . .57 Ossa Wormiana . . . . 58 Of the Face, • • • . 59 Bones composing the Upper Jaw, . . 60 Superior Maxillary Bone, . • . ib. Palate Bone, . . . .64 Vomer, . . . . 66 Inferior Turbinated Bone, . . 67 Nasal Bone, . . . .68 Lachrymal Bone, ... 69 Malar Bone, . . . . 70 Inferior Maxillary Bone, . . 71 Teeth, . . . .75 Incisors, . . . .76 Canine Teeth, . . . -77 Molar Teeth, . . . ib. Structure of the Teeth, . • • 79 Hyoid Bone, . . . . 82 Cranium in General, ... 83 Conformation of the Cranium, . ib. External Surface of the Cranium, . ib. Internal Surface of the Cranium, . . 89 Dimensions of the Cranium, . . 93 Uses of the Cranium, . . .94 Face in General, . . . 95 Conformation of the Face, . . ib. Dimensions of the Face, . . .99 Head in General, . . . ib. Orbits, . . , . 100 Nasal Fossas, . . . . 102 Sutures formed by the union of the Cranium and Face, 105 Temporal, Zygomatic, and Spheno-maxiUary Fossae, 106 Respective Dimensions of the Cranium and Face, IO7 Of the Pelvis, , . . . . 108 Sacrum, . . . . 109 Coccyx, . . . . 112 Os Innominatum, . . . . 113 Pelvis in General, . . . II7 Conformation of the Pelvis, . . ib. Upper Circumference of the Pelvis, , .118CONTKNTS. Page Of the Lower Circumference of the Pelvis, . 119 Direction of the Pelvis, . . . ib. Dimensions and Proportions of the Pelvis in the Female, 120 Of the Trunk in Genehal, . . 122 Of the Extremities or Limbs, . . . ib. Superior Extremities, . . ib. Bones of the Shoulder, . . . ib. Scapula, .... ib. Clavicle, . . . .125 Arm, .... 127 Humerus, . . . , ib. Bones of the Fore-arm, . . 129 Radius, . . . . ib. Ulna, . • . . 131 Bones of the Carpus, . . . 133 Scaphoid Bone, ... ib. Semilunar Bone, . . . ib. Cuneiform Bone, . . . 134 Pisiform Bone, . . . ib. Trapezium, . . . . ib. Trapezoides, .... 135 Os Magnum, ... ib. Os Unciforme, . . . ,136 Metacarpal Bones, ... ib. First Metacarpal Bone, . . . ib- Second Metacarpal Bone, , . 137 Third Metacarpal Bone, . . . ib. Fourth Metacarpal Bone, . . 138 Fifth Metacarpal Bone, . . . ib. Bones of the Fingers, . . 139 First Phalanges, . . . ib. Second Phalanges, . . » 140 Third Phalanges, . . , ib. Superior Extremities in General, . . 141 Of the Inferior Exremities, . . 143 Thigh, .... ib. Femur, . . . . ib. Leg, .... 147 Patella, . . . . ib. Tibia, . . . . 148 Fibula, . . . .151 Bones of the Tarsus, . . .152 Calcaneum, ... . . ib. Astragalus, , . . .154 Os Naviculare, . . .155 Os Cuboidcs, . . . . ib. Cuneiform Bones, . . . 156 Internal Cuneiform Bone, . . ib.CONTENTS. 844 Of the Middle Cuneiform Bone, . . 156 External Cuneiform Bone, , . 15^ Metatarsal Bones, . . .158 First Metatarsal Bone, . . ib. Second Metatarsal Bone, . . ib; Third Metatarsal Bone, . . 159 Fourth Metatarsal Bone, . ib. Fifth Metatarsal Bone, . . 160 Bones of the Toes, . . . 161 First Phalanges of the Toes, . ib. Second Phalanges, . . . 162 Third Phalanges, . . ib. Sesamoid Bones, . . .163 Inferior Extremities in General, . . ib. Comparison of the Superior and Inferior Extremities, 165 Preparation of Bones, , , 166 CHAPTER SECOND. Of the Articulations, . . . 168 Preliminary Remarks, ... . ib. Divisions of the Articulations, . . ib. Parts which enter into the Structure of the Articulations, I70 Articulations in Particular, . . . 1^5 OF THE Trunk, . . ib. of the Head, . . . ib. of the Bones of the Cranium with each other, ib. of the Face, . . . I76 of the Bones of the Upper Jaw, ib. of the Lower Jaw, . . ib. of the Hyoid Bones, . . I78 of the Head with the Vertebral Column, ib. of the Occiput with the Atlas, . ib. of the Occiput with the Axis, , 179 of the Vertebral Column, . . 180 of the Two first Vertebras with each other, ib. Common Articulations of the Vertebrae, . 182 Articulations of the Bodies of the Vertebrae, . ib. of the Articular Processes, . 185 of the Laminae, . . .186 of the Spinous Processes, . ib. of the Thorax, . . . • 188 of the Cartilages of the True Ribs with the Sternum, ib. of the Cartilages of the False Ribs with each other, 189 of the Ribs with the bodies of the Vertebrae, 190 of the Ribs with the Transverse Processes,- 191 of the Pelvis, . • 192CONTENTS.. 845 Page .'Articulations of the Pelvis with the Vertebral Column, 192 of the Sacrum with the Vertebrae, . ib. Illeo-lumbar Articulation, . • 193 .'Articulations of the Bones of the Pelvis with each other, ib. jSacro-coccygeal Articulation, . . ib. >Sacro-iliac Articulation, . . .194 ^Symphysis of the Pubes, . • 196 JAuticulations of the Bones of the Extremities, 198 of the Superior Extremities, . ib. !?Stemo-clavicular Articulation, . . ' ib. Scapulo-clavicular Articulation, . . 200 FProper Ligaments of the Scapula, . . 201 Shoulder-joint, . . .202 EElbow Joint, . . . .204 .V^rticulations of the Ulna with the Radius, . . 206 lUpper Radio-cubital Articulation, . . ib. Middle Radio-cubital Articulation, . . 207 JLower Radio-cubital Articulation, . . 208 \Wrist Joint, .... 209 AAjTticulation of the Carpal Bones, . . 210 i'l of the First Row of Carpal Bones, . ib. of the Second Row of Carpal Bones, . 211 of the Two Rows of Carpal Bones with each other, . . . ib; of the Carpal with the Metacarpal Bones, 212 of the Trapezium with the First Metacarpal Bone, ib. of the Four last Metacarpal Bones with the Car- pus, . . . . 213 of the Metacarpal Bones with each other, ib. of the Metacarpal Bones with the Phalanges, 214 of the Phalanges, . . 215 of the Inferior Extremities, . . ib. Hip Joint, . . . . ib. Knee Joint, .... 218 V\.rticulations of the Tibia with tlie Fibula, . " . 222 Upper Articulation of the Tibia with the Fibula, . ib. Middle Articulation of the Tibia and Fibula, . 223 inferior Articulation of the Tibia and Fibula, . ib. ^kle Joint, .... 224 ^ticulation of the Astragalus with the Calcaneum, . 225 of the Calcaneum with the Scaphoid Bone, 226 of the Scaphoid Bone with the Astragalus, 227 of the Calcaneum with the Cuboid Bone, ib. of the Scaphoid Bone with the Cuboid Bone, 228 of the External Cuneiform Bone with the Cuboid, 229 of the Cuneiform Bones with the Scaphoid, ib. of the Cuneiform Bones with each other, . 230 between the Tarsus and Metatarsus, . ib.846 CONTENTS. Articulation of the Metatarsal Bones with each other, 231 of the Metatarsal Bones with the Phalanges, ib. of the Phalanges of the Toes, . 232 Preparation of Ligaments, , . . ib. ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION OR MYOLOCr. CHAPTER FIRST. Of the muscles and their Appendages, . 233 Of the Muscles, . . . . ib. Tendons, . ... , 237 Aponeuroses, . . . 23B Fibrous Sheaths, . , 239 Number and Nomenclature of the Muscles, . 240 Classification of the Muscles, . . 241 CHAPTER SECOND. Of the Muscles in Particulak,* . 241 Muscles of the Trunk, . . . ib. Muscles of the Back, . . . ib. Trapezius, . . . . ib. Latissimus Dorsi, . . . 243 Rhomboideus, . . . 245 Levator Anguli Scapulte, . . . ib. Serratus Posticus Superior, . . 246 Serratus Posticus Inferior, . . 247 Vertebral Aponeurosis, . . . 248 Splenius, . . . . ib. Longissimus Dorsi and Sacro-lumbalis, . 249 Spinalis Dorsi, . . 251 Transversalis Colli, . . . 252 Trachelo-mastoideus, . . . 253 Complexus, . . . . ib. Semispinahs Colli et Dorsi, and Multifidus SpinjB, 255 Interspinales Cervicis, . . . 256 Intertransversales Colli, . • . 257 Intertransversales Lumborum, . . ib. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major, . . ib. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor, . . 258 Obliquus Capitis Inferior, . . ib. Obliquus Capitis Superior, . . ib. Muscles of the Head, . . • 259 of the Cranium, . » . ib. « At the end of the description of each muscle or set of muscles, directions for dissecting tiiem are given, 3CONTENTS. 847 ,-8M.. Page ^^©f the Epicranial Aponeurosis, . • 269 Frontalis, . • . ib. Occipitalis, . • • .260 Superior Auris, .... 261 Anterior Auris, • • . ib. Posterior Auris, . . • • Muscles of the Face, . • • 262 Orbicularis Palpebrarum, • ■ Corrugator Supercilii, • 263 Pyramidalis Nasi, . • 264 Orbicularis Oris, . • . ib. idi Triangularis Nasi, . . • 265 Levator Labii Superioris Alaeque Nasi, . ib. Levator Labii Superioris, . • 266 Levator Anguli Oris, . . . ib. Zygomaticus Major, . . . 267 Zygomaticus Minor, . . . ib. Depressor Labii Superioris AJoeque Nasi, . ib. Depressor Anguli Oris, . . • 268 Depressor Labii Inferioris, . . , ib. Levator Labii Inferioris, • • • 269 Buccinator, . . . . ib. Masseter, . . . 270 Temporal, ... . 271 Pterygoideus Internus, . • . 272 Pterygoideus Externus, . . . ib. Muscles of the Orbit, . . . 273 Levator Palpebrae Superioris, . . ib. Rectus Oculi Superior, . • 274 Rectus Inferior, . • . ib. Rectus Internus, . . . 275 Rectus Externus, . . . ib. Obliquus Superior Oculi, . • .276 Obliquus Inferior Oculi, . • . ib. Muscles of the Neck, . . . 277 Platysma Myoides, ■ • . . ib. Sterno-mastoideus, . . . 278 Omo-hyoideu8, . . . 279 Sterno-hyoideus, . . . 280 Sterno-thyroideus, ' . . . 281 Thyro-hyoideus, . ■ . . ib. Digastricus, . . . . ib. Stylo-hyoideus, . . . 282 Mylo-hyoideus, . . . 283 Genio-hyoideus, •. . . ib. Hyo-glossus, . . . .284 Genio-glossus, . , . . ib. Stylo-glossus, . . . ' 285 Lingualis, , . , 286848 CONTENTS. Page Muscles of the Pharynx and Palate, . 286 Constrictor Pharyngis Inferior, , , ib. Constrictor Pharyngis Medius, . . 287 Constrictor Pharyngis Superior, . ib. Stylo-pharyngeus, . ... 288 Circumflexus Palati, . . . 289 Levator Palati Mollis, . . . ib. Levator Uvulae, ... . 290 Palato-pharyngeus, • . . ib. Constrictor Isthmi Faucium, . 291 Deep Muscles of the Neck, . . ib. Longus Colli, . . . ib. Rectus Capitis Anticus Major, . 292 Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor, . 293 Rectus Capitis Lateralis, , . ib. Scalenus Anticus, . . 294 Scalenus Posticus, . . , ib. Muscles of the Thorax, . . 295 Pectoralis Major, . . . ib. Pectoralis Minor, . . . 297 Subclavius, .... 298 Serratus Magnus, . . . ib. Intercostales Externi, . . " 300 Intercostales Intemi, ... ib. Levatores Costarum, . . . 301 Triangularis Sterni, . . . ib. Muscles of the Superior Extremities, . 302 Enveloping Aponeurosis of the Superior Extremity, ib. Annular Ligaments of the Wrist, . . 303 Palmar Aponeurosis, . . . 304 Muscles of the Shoulder, . . 305 Deltoid, . ... . ib. Supra-spinatus, . . 306 Infra-spinatus, . . 307 Teres Minor, . . . ib. Teres Major, ... 308 Subscapularis, . . 309 Muscles of the Arm, . • • 310 Coraco-brachialis, . . • ib. Biceps Flexor Cubiti . . • 311 Brachialis Internus, . • • 312 Triceps Extensor, . . . . 313 Muscles of the Fore-Arm, • • 315 Pronator Teres, . . . ib. Flexor Carpi Radialis, . . . ib. Palmaris Longus, . • .316 Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, . . • 317 Flexor Digitorum Sublimis, • • ib. Flexor Digitorum Profundus, . . 320CONTENTS. 849 Page Of the Flexor Longus PoUicis Manus, . . 321 Pronator Quadratus, . . . ib. Supinator Longus, • . ... 322 Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior, . . 323 Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior, . • ib. Extensor Digitorum Communis, . . 324) Extensor Proprius Minimi Digiti, . . 325 Extensor Carpi Ulnaris, . . 326 Anconeus, . . . ib.. Supinator Brevis, . . . 327 Extensor Ossis Metacarpi PoUicis, . . 328 Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis, . . ib. Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis, . . 329 Extensor Proprius Indicis, . . 330 Muscles of the Hand, .. . 331 Abductor PoUicis, . . . ib. xA"^' Opponens PolUcis, . . . ib. Plexor Brevis Pollicis Manus, . . 332 Adductor PoUicis Manus, . . . ib. Palmaris Brevis, . . . 333 Abductor Minimi Digiti, . . ib- ' Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, . . ib. Adductor Ossis Metacarpi Minimi Digiti, . 334 Lumbricales, . . . . ib. Interossei, . . . , 335 Internal or Palmar Interossei, . . . ib. External or Dorsal Interossei, . . 336 Muscles of the Abdomen, - . . . 337 Abdominal Aponeurosis, . . . ib. Obliquus Abdominis Externus, . . 340 Obliquus.Abdominis Internus, . . 341 Transversalis Abdominis, . . . 342 Rectus Abdominis, . - . 343 Pyramidalis, . . . . 345 Diaphragm, • . . . ib. Quadratus Lumborum, . . . 349 Psoas Parvus, . . . . 350 Psoas Magnus, . . • ib. Iliacus Internus, . . . 351 ! Muscles OF THE Perineum, . . . 353 Sphincter Ani, . . • . ib. Genital Region, ... . . ib. 1 In Man. Erector Penis, .... ib. Accelerator Urinae, . . , , 354, Transversus Perinaei, . . . ib. I In Woman. Erector Clitorrdis, . . . . 355 3 I850 CONTENTS. Pago Constrictor Vaginae, , . . 355 Muscles of the Pelvis, . . , 356 Levator Ani, • . . . ib, Coccygeus, . . . .357 Muscles of the Inferiou Extremities, . ib. Enveloping Aponeurosis of the Inferior Extremity, ib. Annular Ligaments of the Tarsus, . . 359 Plantar Aponeurosis, . . . 360 Muscles of the Foue and Lateral parts of the Thigh, 361 Tensor Vaginjje Femoris, . . ib. Sartorius, . . . ib. Rectus Femoris, . . . 362 Vastus Externus, . . , 363 Vastus Internus, . . . ib. Cruralis, . . . . ib. Gracilis, . . . 364 Pectineus, . . . . 365 Adductor Longus, ... ib. Adductor Brevis, . , . 366 Adductor Magnus, . . . ib. Muscles of the Haunch, . . 368 Glutaeus Maximus, ... ib. Glutaeus Medius, . . . . 369 Glutaeus Minimus, . . . 370 Pyriformis, . . . ib. Gemellus Superior, . . 37I Gemellus Inferior, . . . ib. Quadratus Femoris, , . ib. Obturator Internus, . . 372 Obturator Externus, . . . 373 Muscles of the Posterior part of the Thigh, 374 Biceps Flexor Cruris, . . . ib. Semitendinosus, . . . 375 Semimembranosus, . . . ib. Muscles of the Leg and Foot, . . 376 Tibialis Anticus, . . . ib. Extensor Proprius Pollicis Pedis, . . 377 Extensor Longus Communis Digitorum Pedis, . 378 Peroneus Tertius, . . . 379 Extensor Brevis Digitorum Pedis, . . ib. Peroneus Longus, . . • 380 Peroneus Brevis, . • . 381 Gastrocnemius, . . . 382 Soleus, .... ib. Plantaris, . . . . 383 Popliteus, . . . 384 Flexor Communis Longus Digitorum Pedis, . 385 Tibialis Posticus, . . . 386CONTENTS. 851 Pago Flexor Longus Pollicis, « . 386 Muscles of the Sole of the Foot, • • 388 Abductor Pollicis Pedis, . • • Flexor Brevis Digitorum Pedis, . • ib. Abductor Minimi Digiti Pedis, . • 389 Musculus Accessorius, . • ib« Lumbricales, . . ' • 390 Transversus Pedis, . • . ib. Flexor Brevis Pollicis Pedis, . • 391 Adductor Pollicis, . • . ib. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, . • 392 Interossei Pedis, . . • ib. ,•: Internal or Plantar Interossei, ib. External or Dorsal Interossei, . . • 393 ARTICLE SECOND. Oegans of the Voice, . . . 395 Of the Larynx and its Appendages, . . ib.. Different Parts which compose the Larynx, . ib. Cartilages of the Larynx, . . ib. Thyroid Cartilage, . . ib. Cricoid Cartilage, . . . 396 Arytenoid Cartilages, . . . 397 Epiglottis, . . . . 398 Ligaments of the Larynx, . . . 399 Thyro-hyoid Articulation, . . ib. Crico-thyroid Articulations, . . . ib. Crico-Arytenoid Articulation, . , 400 Thyro-arytenoid Articulation, . • . ib. Muscles of the Larynx, . . ib. Crico-thyroidci, . . . . ib. Crico-Arytenoidei Postici, . . . 401 Crico-Arytenoidei Laterales, . . . ib. Thyro-Arytenoidei, . . . ib. Arytenoideus, . . . . ib. Mucous Membrane and Glands of the Larynx, , 402 Coiurse of the Mucous Membrane of the Larynx, ib. Organization of the Mucous Membrane of the Larynx, ib. Periglottis, . . ... 403 Arytenoid Glands, . . . ib. Larynx considered in General, . . ib. Thyroid Body, .... 405CONTENTS. ARTICLE THIRD. Page Obgans of Sensation, . . . 407 Of THK Central part of the Nervous System, oh BiiAiN AND Spinal Marrow, . . . ib. Brain Proper or Cerebrum, considered as to its Exterior, 408 Cerebellum considered as to its Exterior, . 411 Cerebral Protuberance, considered as to its Exterior, 413 Medulla Spinalis considered as to its Exterior, 415 Internal Organization of the Brain in General, 417 Structure of the Spinal Marrow in Particular, 419 Structure of the Brain in Particular, . 420 of the Cerebellum in Particular, . 429 Membraneous Envelopes of the Brain, . 431 Dura Mater, . . . . ib. Pia Mater, .... 439 Arachnoid Membrane, . . . 441 Granulations of the Encephalic Membranes, . 443 Proper Membrane of the Spinal Marrow, . 444 Ligamentum Dentatum, . . . ib. Cerebral and Spinal Nerves, . . . 445 Cerebral Nerves in Particular, . . 448 First Pair of Nerves, . . . ib. Second Pair or Optic Nerves, . . 452 Third Pair of Nerves, . . . 454 Fourth Pair of Nerves, . . . 455 Fifth Pair or Trifacial Nerves, . . 456 Ophthalmic Nerve, . . . 457 Superior Maxillary Nerve, . . . 461 Inferior Maxillary Nerve, . . . 463 Sixth Pair of Nerves, . . . 466 Seventh Pair of Nerves, . . . 467 Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair, . ib. Portio Mollis of the Seventh Pair, . . 471 Eighth Pair of Nerves, . . 473 Glosso-pharyngeal Nerves, . . ib. Pneumo-gastric Nerves, . . - 474 Spinal Accessory Nerves, . • 480 Ninth Pair or Hypoglossal Nerves, • 481 , Spinal Nerves in Particular, . • 483 Cervical Nerves, . • . ib. First Pair of Cervical Nerves, . • 484 Second Pair of Cervical Nerves, . • 485 Third Pair of Cervical Nerves, . • 486 Fourth Pair of Cervical Nerves, . • 487 Cervical Plexus, . • . ib.CONTENTS. 8.53 Page Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Pairs of Cervical „' Nerves, . . . 490 Of the Bracliial Plexus, . . . 491 Thoracic Branches, . . . 492 Supra-scapuJar Branch, , . . ib. -, Infra-scapular Branches, . . • 493 *. Internal Cutaneous Nerve, . . . ib. External Cutaneous Nerve, . . . 494 *, Median Nerve, .... 495 Ulnar Nerve, . 497 \ Radial or Musculo-spiral Nerve, • 498 ' . Circumflex Nerve, . , . . 500 Dorsal Nerves, . , . . ib. Posterior Branches, . . . . 501 Anterior Branches, . . . ib. Lumbar Nerves, . . . 503 First Lumbar Nerve, . . . 504) Second Lumbar Nerve, . . ib. Third Lumbar Nerve, . . . ib. Fourth and Fifth Lumbar Nerves, . 505 Lumbar Plexus, . . . . ib. Musculo-cutaneous Branches, . . ib. Genito-crural Branch, . . . 506 Anterior Crural Nerve, . . . 507 ^^ Obturator Nerve, . . . 508 Lumbo-sacral Nerve, . . . ib. Sacral Nerves, . ... 509 First Sacral Nerve, . . . ib. Second Sacral Nerve, . . . 510 Third Sacral Nerve, . . . . ib. '; Fourth Sacral Nerve, . . . ib. Fifth and Sixth Sacral Nerves, . . ib. Sciatic Plexus, . . . .511 Anterior Branches of the Sciatic Plexus, . ib. Posterior Branches of the Sciatic Plexus, . 512 Great Sciatic Nerve, . . . 513 External Popliteal or Peroneal Nerve, . . 514< Internal Popliteal or Tibial Nerve, . . 516 Of the Nervous System of Ganglia or Great Sym- pathetic Nerves, . . . 518 ■ Ganglia in Particular, . . 519 Ganglia of.the Head, . . ib. Ophthalmic Ganglion, . . ib. Spheno-palatine GangUon or Ganglion of Meckel, 521 Other Ganglia of the Head, . . 524< ' Cervical Ganglia, . . . 525 Superior Cervical Ganglion, . . ib, Superior or Ascending Filaments, . . ib. Inferior Filament, . . . 526854 CONTENTS. ; ^ Page Of the External Filaments, . . . 527 '' Internal Filaments, . . . ib. Anterior Filaments, . . . 528 Middle Cervical or Thyroid Ganglion, 529 Inferior Filaments, . . . ib. External Filaments, . . . ib. Internal Filaments, . . . ib. Anterior Filaments, . . . 530 Inferior Cervical Ganglion, . . ib. Superior Filaments, . . ib. Inferior Filament, . . 531 Internal Filaments, . . . ib. Kxternal Filaments, . . ib. Anterior Filaments, . . ib. Cardiac Nerves, . . . . ib. Superior Cardiac Nerves, . . 532 Middle Cardiac Nerves, . . . 533 Inferior Cardiac Nerve, . . . ib. Ganglia of the Thorax, . . . 534 Cardiac Ganglion or Plexus, . . . ib. Thoracic Ganglia, . . 535 Connecting Filaments, . • ib. External Filaments, . . . ib. Internal Filaments, . • • 536 Splanchnic Nerves, . • /• ib. Great Splanchnic Nerve, • ib. Small Splanchnic Nerve, . • 537 Ganglia of the Abdomen, • • . ib. Semilunar Ganglia and Solar Plexus, . . ib. Subdiaphragmatic Plexuses, . • 538 Coeliac Plexus, .... ib. Superior Mesenteric Plexus, . • 540 Inferior Mesenteric Plexus, . • ib. Renal Plexuses, . • • 541 Spermatic Plexuses, • • . ib. Lvimbar Ganglia, . • • 542 Communicating Twigs, ... ib. External Filaments, . . . ib. Internal Filaments, . • • 543 Sacral Ganglia, . • 'h. External Filaments, • • • it)- Internal Filaments, ... ib. Hypogastric Plexus, • • • 544 Organs of Special Sensation, . • ih. ARTICLE FIRST. Of the Eye and its Appendages, • • ih.CONTENTS. 855 Page Of the Eyelids, . . . . 545 General Conformation, . . . ib. Organization of the Eyelids, . . 546 Tunica Conjunctiva, . . • 548 Ball of the Eye in General, . . 549 Component Parts of the Eye-ball, . • ib. Sclerotica, . . . . 550 Cornea, . . . . 551 Choroid Membrane, . ; . ib. Ciliary Circle or Ligament, . . 552 Iris, ... • 553 Ciliary Processes, . , ; 555 Retina, . . , . 556 Aqueous Humour and its Membrane, . 557 Crystalline Lens and its Capsule, . * 558 Vitreous Body and Hyaloid Membrane, . 559 ARTICLE SECOND. Of the Ear and its Appekdages, . . 561 External Ear, , . . ib. Auricle, . ... ib. General Conformation, ... ib. Organization of the Auricle, . , 562 Meatus Auditorius Externus, . . 564 General Conformation, ... ib. Organization, .... ib. Middle Ear or Tympanum, . . 566 Cavity of the Tympanum, . . . ib. Bones of the Tympanum, . . 570 Muscles of the Bones of the Ear, . . 572 Fibro-Mucous Membrane of the Tympanum, 573 Internal Earl or Labyrinth, . . ib. Vestibule, . . . . 574 Cochlea, . ... ib. Semicircular Canals, . • . 576 Soft parts of the Internal Ear, . . 577 ARTICLE THIRD. Of the Nose and Nasal Foss/E, . . 578 Nose in General, . . . ib. Organization of the Nose, . . 579 Nasal Fossa2 invested by their Membranes, 581 Course of the Pituitary Membrane, . • 582 Organization of the Pituitary Membrane, . 583856 CONTENTS. ARTICLE FOURTH. Of the Tongue, General Conformation, Page 586 ib. Organization of the Tongue, . . 587 ARTICLE FIFTH. Of the Skin, . . . 590 Dermis, . . . . 591 Rete Mucosum, . . . ib. Epidermis, ... . 592 Appendages of the Skin, . . . ib. CLASS SECOND. ORGANS OF THE NUTRITIVE FUNCTIONS. ARTICLE FIRST. Organs of Digestion, . . 594 Mouth, Pharynx, and CEsophagus, . . ib. Mouth, ... . ib. Mucous Membrane of the Mouth, . • ib. Lips and Anterior Aperture of the Mouth, . 595 Velum Palati, and Posterior Aperture of the Mouth, 597 Tonsils, . . . .598 Cheeks, ... • 599 Palate, . . . . 600 Pharynx, ... . 601 General Conformation, . . . ib. Organization of the Pharynx, . . 602 CEsophagus, . ... 603 General Conformation, ... ib. Organization of the CEsophagus, . • 604 Stomach and Intestines, . • 605 Stomach, . ... ib. General Disposition, ... ib. Stomach considered as to its Exterior, . 606 Internal Surface of the Stomach, . • 607 Extremities and Orifices of the Stomach, • ib. Organization of the Stomach, . • 608 Duodenum, . . . 610 Conformation and Disposition, . • ih.CONTENTS. 857 Page Organization of tlie Duodenum, . . 611 Small Intestine, . . • 612 Conformation and Disposition, . . ib. Organization, . . . 613 Large Intestine, . . . 615 Ccecum, . . . ib. Conformation and Disposition, . . ib. Organization of the Coecum, . . 616 Colon, . . . . 617 Conformation and Disposition, . . ib. Organization, . . . 618 Rectum, . ' . . . 619 Conformation and Disposition, . . ib. Organization, .... 621 ARTICLE SECOND. Organs of Respiration, . . 622 Lungs, . . . . ib. Conformation and Disposition, . . ib. Organization, . . . 624 Pleurae, . ... 625 Trachea and Bronchi, , . 626 General Conformation, . . . ib. Organization, . . . 628 Proper Tissue of the Lungs, . . 630 Thymus Gland, . . . ib. ARTICLE THIRD. Organs of Circulation, . . 631 Heart and Envelopes, . . . ib. Pericardium, . . . . ib. .. , Heart, . . , . 634 General Conformation, . . ' . ib. Right Part of the Heart, . . 635 Right Auricle, . . . ib. Right Ventricle, . . . 637 Pulmonary Artery, . . . 638 Pulmonary Veins, . . . 639 Left part of the Heart, . . . 640 Left Auricle, .... ib. Left Ventricle, . . . 641 Organization of the Heart, . . ib. Of the Arteries, . . . 644 General Observations, . ib. 4CONTENTS. 858 Page Of the Arteries in Particular, . . 646 Aorta, . . . . Arteries given off by the Aorta at its Origin, 647 Right Coronary Artery, . . ib. Left Coronary Artery, . . 648 Arteries given off by the Arch of the Aorta, 649 Common Carotid Arteries, . . ib. External Carotid Artery, . . ^50 Superior Thyroid Artery, . . 651 Lingual Artery, . . . 652 Facial Artery, . . . 653 Branches given off by the Facial Artery under the Jaw, 654 Branches given off by the Facial Artery to the Face, ib. Occipital Artery, . . 655 Posterior Auricular Artery, . . 656 Inferior Pharyngeal Artery, . . 657 Temporal Artery, . . . 658 Internal Maxillary Artery, . . 659 Branches of the Internal Maxillary behind the Con- dyle of the Jaw, . . . ib. Branches of the Internal Maxillary between the Pterygoid Muscles, . . . 661 Branches of the Internal Maxillary, in the Zygoma- tic Fossa, . . . 662 Branches of the Internal Maxillary, in the Spheno- Maxillary Fossa, . . . 663 Internal Carotid Artery, . . . 664 Ophthalmic Artery, . . • 665 Branches given off by the Ophthalmic before ascend- ing upon the Optic Nerve, . • 666 Branches of the Ophthalmic Artery during its passage above the Optic Nerve, . • 667 Branches of the Ophthalmic Artery in its course along the Inner Side of the Optic Nerve, . • 669 Terminating Branches of the Ophthalmic Artery, 670 Communicating Artery of Willis, • . 67I Artery of the Choroid Plexus, • • ib. Anterior Cerebral Artery, . • ib. Middle Cerebral Artery, . • 67^ Subclavian Arteries, . • • Vertebral Artery, . . • • ^74 Basilar Artery, . • • ^7^ Posterior Cerebral Artery, • • ^77 Inferior Thyroid Artery, . . . ib. Internal Mammary Artery, • ^7^ Superior Intercostal Artery . • • Transverse Cervical Artery, • ■ Supra-scapular Artery, . • •CONTENTS. 859 Page Of the Deep Cervical Artery, . * • 682 Axillary Artery, . • • C83 Branches of the Axillary Artery opposite the Thorax, G84 Branches of the Axillary Artery in the Axilla, 685 Sub-scapular Artery, . • . ib. Circumflex Arteries, . . . ib. Brachial or Humeral Artery, . . 686 Anterior Branches of the Brachial Artery, - 687 Posterior Branches, ; . . ib. External Branches, . . . ib. Internal Branches, . . . ib. Terminating Branches of the Brachial Artery, . 689 Radial Artery, . . . ib. in the Fore Arm, . . ib. behind the Wrist, . . 691 in the Palm, . • 692 Ulnar Artery, . . . 693 Interosseal Artery, . . . 694 Ulnar Artery in the Palm, . . 696 Arteries which arise from the Thoracic Aorta, . ib. Anterior Branches, . . . ib. Lateral Branches, . . 697 Aortic Intercostal Arteries, . . . ib. Arteries arising from the Abdominal Aorta, . 699 Anterior Branches, . . . ib. Inferior phrenic Arteries, . . . ib. Coeliac Artery, . . . 700 Coronary Artery of the Stomach, . . 701 Hepatic Artery, . . . ib. Splenic Artery, . . . 703 Superior Mesenteric, . . . ^04s Branches from the concavity of the Superior Mesenteric, ib Right Colic Arteries, . . . . ib Branches from the convexity of the Superior Me- senteric, . . . 705 Inferior Mesenteric, . . . 7O6 Branches given off laterally by the Abdominal Aorta, 707 Middle Capsular Arteries, . . . ib Renal Arteries, . . . 7O8 Spermatic Arteries, . . . 709 Lumbar Arteries, . . . ib Anterior Branches of the Lumbar Arteries, . 7IO Terminating Arteries of the Aorta, . . ib Middle Sacral, . • . ib Common Iliac Arteries, . . - 711 Hypogastric Artery, . . . 712 Posterior Branches of the Hypogastric Artery, . ib Ilco-lumbar Artery, . . • . ib Sacro-latcral Artery, . . . 713860 •t'ONTiL-NtS. Of the Glutfpal Artery, . . 713 Anterior Branches of the Hypogastric, . 7^4 UmbiHcal Arteries, . . . ib. Vesical Arteries, . . . . 7^^ Obturator Artery, . . . ib. Internal Branches of the Hypogastric Artery, . ^16 Middle Haemorrhoidal Artery, . . ib. Uterine Artery, . , . . ib. Vagina] Artery, . . . . 7^7 Inferior Branches of the Hypogastric Artery, . iU Ischiatic Artery, . . . . ib. Internal Pudic Artery, . . . ^IH External Iliac Artery, . . . ^20 Epigastric Artery, . . . ib. Circumflex Iliac Artery, . oiu dC -r' 721 Femoral Artery, . . ^'' ib. Internal Branches of the Femoral Artery, . 'J22 External Branches of the Femoral Artery, . ^23 Anterior Branches of the Femoral, . . ib. Posterior Branches of the Femoral, . ib. Arteria Profunda or deep Muscular Artery of thq Thigh, ib. Popliteal Artery, . . ,. Branches of the Popliteal Artery in the Ham, . ^26 Branches of the Popliteal Artery in the upper part of the Leg, . . . . 7^7 Anterior Tibial Artery, . . 7^8 Fibular Artery, . . . 7^0 Posterior Tibial Artery, . . . 7^1 Internal Plantar Artery, . . . ^32 External Plantar Artery, . . 7^3 Of the Veins, .... 734 Veins in particular, . . . ^36 Veins which form the Vena Cava Superior, . ib Veins forming the External Jugular, . . ib Internal Jugular, . . 7^7 Subclavian, . . 742 Trunk of the Vena Cava Superior, . . 7^5 Veins forming the Vena Cava Inferior, . • 7^7 External Iliac Vein, . ib Hypogastric or Internal Iliac, 7^8 Common Iliac Veins, . . • 7^9 Vena Cava Inferior, . . • ib Vertebral Venous Sinuses, . . • 7^2 Coronary Veins of the Heart, . • 7^ Right Coronary Veins, . • .ib Left , . . . ib System of the Vena Portae, . . . ib Origin » •CO^'TKNTS. 8G1 Page Trunk of the Vena Portaa, . . '7^4 Injecting the Blood-vessels, . . ^55 ARTICLE FOURTH. OttGANs OF Absorption. General Observations, . . 7^7 Of the Lymphatic Ganglia in Particular, . 7^9 of the Inferior Extremities, . ib. ;j: Pelvis, . . 760 Abdomen, . . . ib. Thorax, . . 761 'Jt^ ' . Superior Extremities, . ib. ■ Head and Neck, . 762 Lymphatic Vessels in Particular, . . ib. which terminate in the Thoracic Duct, ib. Superficial Lymphatics of the Inferior Extremities, ib. Deep Lymphatics of the Inferior Extremities, . ^63 Superficial Lymphatics of the Hips, &c. . ^64> Deep Lymphatics of the Genital Organs, &c. . ^65 Lymphatics of the Urinary Organs, . . ib. WaUs of the Pelvis and Abdomen, 'JSS Stomach and Intestines, . 767 Spleen, Pancreas and Liver, 7^8 Thoracic Duct, . ... 77^ Lymphatics received by the Thoracic Duct in th e Thorax, ib. Lymphatics terminating partly in the Thoracic Duct, 77^^ of the Lungs, . . ib. of the Diaphragm, Heart, &c. . ib. Superficial Lymphatics of the Superior Extremities, 772 > Deep Lymphatics, . . . 773 Lymphatics of the Anterior Wall of the Thorax, ib. Back and Posterior region of the Neck, . . . ib. Lymphatics which arise from the Axillary Ganglia, . 77'^ Superficial Lymphatics of the Head and Neck, . ib. Deep—^ , . 775 Of injecting the Absorbents, . , ib. ARTICLE FIFTH. Organs of the Secretions. Of the Organs of the Secretion and Excretion OF THK Tears, - . . . Lachrymal Gland, . . . ^yy Caruncula Lachrymalis, . . . 773CONTENTS. 802 Page Of the Puncta Lachrymalia, &c. . . . 773 Lachrymal Sac, . . . 779 Nasal Duct, . . . ^gO Salivary Glands and Ducts, . . ib. General Observations, . . ib. Salivary Glands in particular, . . 78I Parotid Gland, ... . ib. Submaxillary Gland, . . , ^83 Sublingual Gland, . . . ^84 Pancreas, . . . . ib. Ougans of Secretion and Excretion of the Bile, 7^6 Liver, . . . . . ib. General Conformation, . . . ib. Organization, ... . 788 Envelopes, .... ib. Blood-vessels and Lymphatics, . . 789 Parenchyma, . . . ib. Excretory Apparatus of the Bile, . . 790 Hepatic Duct, . . . ib. Gall-Bladder, . . -791 Cystic Duct, . . . 792 Ductus Communis Choledochus, . . ib. Spleen, . . . . ib. General Conformation, . . ib. Organization of the Spleen, • . 794i Organs of Secretion and Excretion of the Urine, 795 Supra-Renal Capsules, . . . ib. Kidneys, . . . . 796 General Conformation, . . ib. Organization, . . . 797 Calyces, Pelvis, and Ureter, . . 798 Bladder, . . - 799 General Conformation, . . ib. External Surface, . . . 800 Internal Surface, .... 801 Organization, . . ► 802 CLASS THIRD, ORGANS OF THE GENERATIVE FUNCTIONS. ARTICLE FIRST. Organs of Generation in the Male, . 804; Testicles and their Appendages, Envelopes of the Testicles,CONTENTS. 863 I'agc lOf the Testicles, . . . 806 General Conformation, . • . ib. Organization, . . . 807 Epididymis, . . . 808 Spermatic Cord, . . • 809 i Vas Deferens, . . . ib. «' Vesiculae Seminales, Prostate, and Ejaculatory Ducts, 810 Vesiculae Seminales, . . . ib. Prostate Gland, . . .811 Cowper's Glands, . . .812 Ejaculatory Ducts, . . . ib. Penis, . . . . ib. General Conformation, . . ib. Organization, . . . 813 Integuments and Prepuce, . . ib. Corpus Cavernosum, . . . 814 General Conformation, . . . ib. Organization, . . . 815 Urethra, . . . 816 General Disposition of the Urethra, . ib. Organization of the Urethra, . . 817 Glans Penis, . . . 818 ARTICLE SECOND. ORGANS OF GENERATION IN THE FEMALE. Vulva and its Appendages, . . 819 Parts of the Vulva in Particular, . 820 Mucous Membrane of the Vulva, . . 822 Vagina, . . ... 823 General Conformation, . . . ib. Organization of the Vagina, . . ib. Uterus and its "Appendages, . . 824) Uterus, . . . . ib. General Disposition, . . . ib. Organization of the Uterus, . , . 825 Broad Ligaments of the Uterus, . . 826 Round Ligaments, . . . 827 FaUopian Tubes, . . , . ib. Ovaries, . . . 828 MammjB, ... ib. General Disposition, . . . ib. Organisation of the Mamma;, .. . , 829CONTENTS. ARTICLE THIRD. Page Of the Fffixus and its Envelopes, . - 339 Membrana Decidua, . . jb. Chorion, . . \ 331* Amnios • • . ib Placenta, . . . . j^. Umbilical Cord, . . , 332 Circulation of the Foetus, . , jb. Urachus, . . . .833 Vesicula Umbilicalis and Omphalo-mesenteric vessels, ib. APPENDIX, 834 Peritoneum, ... ib. Omenta or Epiploa, . . , 839 FINIS. CORRIGENDA. Page 1, thirteenth line from top, for distined, read destined. ■ 48, twenty-third line from top, for maviillafy, read niamniiUary. .,1 ... I.. 81, Second line from bottom, f6r Rhysch, read Ruysch. —• 465, twenty-fourth line from bottom, for madibulo-lahialis, read mandibulo- labialk. EDlNBURftll : rnrnTED JIY a. BALFOUR AND CO. NIDDRY STBEET.I i