LECTURES AND OBSERVATIONS ON fii-V ri\ 9^ fk> «*> 'Jfvor w* fV* hwmws "1 T-je&M ^ :***' M fVl E D I C I N E. BY THE LATE MATTHEW BAILLIE, M.D. LONDON: FRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR. 1825.RSH-S26The following Papers are printed for pri- vate distribution among the friends of the late Dr. Baillie, by his Executors, in obe- dience to directions left in the following Codicil to his Will: dated Cavendish Square, Dec. 27, 1821. “ I wish my two Introductory Lectures 44 to the course of Anatomy which I gave in “ Great Windmill street, my Lectures upon 44 the Nervous System read before the Col- 44 lege of Physicians, and a short account of 44 my experience in the Practice of Medicine, 44 to be printed, but not published. One hun- 4 4 dred and fifty copies may be printed, of 44 which one copy may be given to each of 44 my more intimate medical friends, and the “ remainder to the Royal College of Phy- a 3VI “ sicians in London. They are hardly of “ sufficient importance to be published, and “ yet I am unwilling that they should be “ completely lost, as something useful may “ be extracted from them. They will form “ together a small octavo volume.”CONTENTS. Page. Introductory Lecture to the Course of Ana- tomy given in Great Windmill street. In two Parts : Part 1 1 Part II 43 The Gulstonian Lectures, read before the * Royal College of Physicians, May 1794 . 93 Lecture I. Anatomy of the Nervous System 96 Lecture II. Physiology of the Nervous System 122 Lecture III. The same continued . . 140 Some Brief Observations drawn from the Au- thor’s own Experience upon a considerable Number of Diseases 161 Complaints of the Head 165 Of some Diseases of the Neck . . . 172 Of some Diseases of the Chest . . . 176V 111 Page. Of Palpitation of the Heart . . . . 182 Of Diseases in the Cavity of the Ab- domen 186 Of Inflammation of the Bowels . . . 195 Of some Affections of the Liver . . . 197 Of some Diseases of the Pancreas . . 207 Of some Diseases of the Spleen . . 209 Of some Affections of the Kidneys . . 212 Of some Diseased Affections of the Uri- nary Bladder 222 Of some Diseased Affections of lJUe Womb 228 Of some Diseased Affections of the Ova- rium 234 Of Fevers 237 9INTRODUCTORY LECTURE TO THE COURSE OF ANATOMY GIVEN IN GREAT WINDMILL STREET. IN TWO PARTS. [First Delivered in the Year 1785.]% * ' ' Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21922755INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. PART I. It is not necessary for the understanding of any science that we should be acquainted with its history. A science consists of an accumulation of facts depending on certain principles, and is more or less perfect accord- ing as the facts are more or less numerous, and the principles have been investigated with greater or less accuracy. It arises from small beginnings, and advances more rapidly or slowly, according to the circumstances which may have affected the curiosity and the in- dustry of men. These circumstances have been commonly accidental, and are at all times to be considered as foreign to the sci- ence itself; for there can only be a necessary B2 connexion between the facts and principles of which it consists, and none at all with any particular age, or country, or persons. There must always have been the same effects and the same causes existing, whether they had been known or not,—whether they had been discovered at a later or more early period, in one country or in another, or by this or that particular set of men. There is, however, a strong curiosity prompting us to inquire into the history of dis- coveries in anv branch of science : nor is this void of utility. It points out the activity, the strength, and weakness of the human mind; holds out the most powerful motives to exer- tion ; shows much to admire and to emulate, and exhibits enough to check pride and teach humility. When we observe that by the industry and ingenuity of one man discoveries have been made which are of universal and permanent benefit to mankind, can we desire a stronger motive to call forth the exertion of our own talents ? But when, on the other hand, we observe that discoveries shall be obvious for ages, and yet escape a whole world of indi-3 victuals, there will be no reason for us to be elevated with pride. If such be the advantages arising from this inquiry, it would be improper not to gratify a very natural and laudable curiosity, or to withhold from you the strongest motives to industry which can affect an honourable mind. It is proposed, however, to trace at present only the grand outlines of the pro- gress of anatomy; as the detail of the smaller individual discoveries will be better under- stood when those subjects are explained to which the discoveries relate. By anatomy is to be understood the inves- tigation of the structure of any animal body. This is very intimately connected with reason- ing upon its functions, which has been called physiology. Indeed they are so closely allied together as to be inseparable ; the one being the materials, and the other the principles of the same branch of knowledge; and they ought therefore to accompany each other in their history. It is impossible for men to examine the structure of an animal body, without reasoning about the use of the several parts ; and it would be a very unprofitable pursuit b 24 to attend to the one, except as being subser- vient to the other. An animal body is obviously so curious in its construction, that it could not escape the attention of men possessed of any powers of observation. The human body, as being most familiar, and the more common animals, would necessarily claim some attention even in the rudest age, long before the annals of any history. It is in vain, therefore, to at- tempt fixing any precise beginning to ana- tomy : it arose, like other arts, insensibly; men being always possessed of considerable know- ledge without being conscious of it, and with- out any foresight of its being separated into a particular branch of science. Much of anatomy was known before any attempt to arrange and separate this knowledge, and every thing was left to the impressions of me- mory, without order or distinction. The external form of the human body must always have been well known, and a variety of circumstances would occasionally discover something of its internal structure. A consi- derable wound would point out the difference between the skin, the muscles, and the bones,by exposing all of them together; and a wound that penetrated into the brain, or into the chest or belly, would give some general knowledge of internal parts. A more extensive source, however, of ana- tomical knowledge, would be derived from the more common and domestic animals. When animals were killed for food, they would aft'ord a considerable opportunity of anato- mical observation ; and men would naturally transfer the anatomy of such animals to the human subject, being led by a strong ana- logy from circumstances of general resem- blance. The custom of sacrificing to the gods, and particularly that of examining the viscera of animals in order to form a presage of future events, would add considerably to the stock of anatomical knowledge. By this time men had emerged from the rudest state of barba- rism, had acquired some degree of civiliza- tion, and had become more curious, as well as better fitted, to observe what might come before them. The custom itself obliged them to attend more closely to appearances, and to observe varieties, which would give a consi-O' clerable opportunity of increasing the know- ledge of the vital parts in an animal body. The custom of managing the dead among some nations might also contribute a little to this sort of knowledge. Among the Egyp- tians the practice of embalming is well known to have existed; and among this nation, so remarkable for its many superstitions and its extraordinary veneration of the dead, we are told that a particular class of men was employed for this purpose. In this operation they took out a portion of the viscera, washed them with antiseptic fluids, and filled the ca- vities with aromatic substances. Such a prac- tice was exposing many parts of the body to observation, which would assist in increasing the knowledge of anatomy : but it was con- fined to a few, and those not the most respect- able of the community. By such accidental channels of information only could the knowledge of anatomy be ad- vanced in the very early ages; the means being very imperfect, and the men employed being little fitted for observation. To later and more enlightened periods we are to look for more considerable improvements, when men7 had been more excited to inquiry, and were better able to investigate. Among the ancient philosophers we find that the knowledge of anatomy and physio- logy was not neglected. Before any researches into the human mind, when mankind were beginning to emerge from ignorance into knowledge, the properties of matter first so- licited attention. These were objects of sense, and had made the strongest impression ; and under such circumstances of advancement, nothing could more strongly excite the cu- riosity than the wonderful machine of an ani- mal body. They were, however, not aware of the difficulty, of the length of time, of the patience, of the frequency of examination, which are necessary in the prosecution of such a study ; for they have been much more ready to form opinions than to inquire by dissections into animal structure. Of this class were Pythagoras, Alcmaeon, and Empe- docles ; some of whose opinions have been handed down to us. They are generally ill- founded, because their knowledge of anatomy was very imperfect; yet they are sufficient to show that their curiosity had been properly8 roused, although the true road to inquiry was still unknown. Men had not then learned that it required a full investigation of facts before opinions could be justly formed, and princi- ples established; a circumstance too often overlooked even in modern times. Under such circumstances, it was impos- sible that the knowledge of anatomy should rapidly advance. It made a part only of na- tural history, claiming the attention of philo- sophers generally amidst other objects, but had not yet been detached, becoming a sepa- rate branch of inquiry. This is an improve- ment which cannot be made till knowledge has considerably advanced. The little that is known at first of the different branches of science does not require division and ar- rangement ; and it is only the accumulation of facts that can point out their utility. This improvement in physic happened in the time of Hippocrates; and anatomy there- fore began naturally about this period to be cultivated by a particular class of men. We are then to consider this era as remarkable in the history of anatomy and physic; for it laid the foundation of their more rapid progress9 in succeeding times. Hippocrates was born in the first year of the 80th Olympiad, and 460 years before Christ, in Cos, an island of the iEgean sea. He is said to have been de- scended on his father’s side from Esculapius, and on his mother’s to have been allied to Hercules. He had been educated in all the learning of those times, but he was particu- larly attached to medicine. His desire of knowledge was so ardent, that he could not be satisfied with what might be acquired at his native place; but he travelled for a number of years through different parts of Greece and Asia Minor. During his travels he visited the temple of Diana at Ephesus, and took the trouble of arranging and transcribing the tables of cure which had been deposited there. It was a custom among the ancients, that all who recovered from any dangerous illness should, for the benefit of others, leave an ac- count at the public temples, of the disease under which they laboured, and the remedies which cured them. A practice of this sort was likely very much to promote the know- ledge of medicine; and attention to cures which were accumulated in such places was10 probably the best education for a physician which the times afforded. Hippocrates, after having collected all the knowledge which the most ardent curiosity and excellent talents could acquire by travelling through the most enlightened countries, retired to his native island, there to exercise the profession of a physician, and to distribute the benefits of his former industry. Such merit as his could not remain long hid; and accordingly we are told that princes, excited by his reputation, were solicitous to allure him to their courts: but his attachment to his native country was so strong, as to make him resist the temptation of splendour and the favour of monarchs;—an instance of want of ambition perhaps more rare than his perseverance or his talents. His works are very numerous, and are to be considered as medical rather than anato- mical. The anatomy is interspersed through his works irregularly, except one or two par- ticular treatises, which however lie under suspicion of being spurious. His works dis- cover a most ardent curiosity, uncommon industry, and a singular sagacity of observa- tion. It is not to be expected that at so early11 a period his anatomy should be very perfect; for dissection of human bodies was not in use, and much could not be learnt from the occa- sional dissection of brutes. He still, however, deserves the most honourable mention in the history of anatomy, because by his means medicine rose at once to the dignity of a sci- ence, and anatomy became united to it, as necessary to its cultivation. After the time of Hippocrates anatomy still continued to advance, though slowly, being an object of curiosity both to the physician and to the philosopher. Aristotle, the celebrated tutor of Alexander the Great, pursued with un- common ardour his researches into the animal structure, in which he was assisted by the li- berality of Alexander himself. He has written a large work upon animals, in which he has introduced the human anatomy. This is very inaccurate; and indeed in one place he frankly confesses that the interior parts of a human body are very uncertain, and little known ; and he recommends the examination of those animals which have the nearest re- semblance to the human species. Although little advancement had hitherto12 been made in the knowledge of anatomy, yet it was increasing as an object of curiosity, and it afterwards laid the foundation of re- searches which were more judiciously under- taken, and more successful in their result. Not long after the time of Aristotle lived Erasistratus, the first person we hear of who employed himself in the dissection of human bodies. He enjoyed the patronage of Nica- nor king of Sicily, who encouraged him in the ardour of his researches by allowing all the criminals to be dissected who were put to death. This was a large field of observation; and yet, if report be true, it was not suffi- cient to satisfy the curiosity of Erasistratus ; for he is said to have procured leave to dis- sect criminals alive, that he might have an opportunity of examining operations which take place only in a living body. This, how- ever, must be considered as a popular tale, invented and propagated through idle credu- lity, and the natural gratification arising from impressions of wonder. It is to be regretted that his works are lost; not from any real knowledge that they would communicate to the present times, but that they might showhow far the mind is able to advance of itself, at a very early period, in a new field of know- ledge, which had been involved by many con- jectures, and many false comparisons of ana- logy. His great thirst after knowledge, and his extraordinary opportunities, could not fail of procuring him a most distinguished repu- tation ; so that he became a guide and autho- rity to future anatomists, as may be gathered from what remains of his observations in the works of Galen. It would appear that he had seen on the mesentery of kids some lacteal vessels filled with chyle, which he has described with great exactness, although shortly, and without form- ing any conjecture about their real use. He had examined the valves of the heart, and knew its alternate contraction and dilatation. He thought that respiration was intended only for the purpose of supplying the arteries with air, and that digestion was carried on by the muscular powers of the stomach bruising the food. Such are a few of the observations of this celebrated anatomist, which show a general attention to the structure and the operations of the body, though some of them14 are ill-founded, from want of collateral know- ledge, and from ignorance of the method of experiments to ascertain facts. About the same period flourished Hero- philus, an anatomist of much celebrity in an- cient times, who has been also said to have employed a great deal of time in the dissec- tion of human bodies. His school was at Alexandria, where he enjoyed the patronage of the Ptolemies, princes well known for their liberal encouragement of science. Under such circumstances he had much opportunity of observation, which he was not disposed to neglect; for he has raised to himself a name admired by some succeeding anatomists even to a degree of servility. Fallopius has not he- sitated to consider him as incapable of error. Herophilus appears to have employed a good deal of time on the nervous system. One of the sinuses of the brain he has called torcular, and it is known at present by the name of the Torcular of Herophilus. The nerves he has clearly distinguished from ten- dons and ligaments, with which they had been formerly confounded. He had examined the structure of the heart, and he gave to the15 large vessels names expressive of their struc- ture and his conjectures of their use, which they retained till the celebrated discovery of the circulation, and even some time after- wards. His works, however, have been lost, like those of Erasistratus; so that we can have only a very partial view from what has been quoted of him by succeeding authors. The last of the ancient anatomists is Galen, than whom few have deserved more praise, or been transmitted to posterity with more respect. He was born at Pergamus, a city of Asia Minor, about 131 years after the Christian era. His father had himself a turn for letters, and resolved to spare no pains nor expense in the education of his son, in whom even at a very early period he could observe extraordinary talents. He therefore put him under the tuition of the best philosophers; but died very soon, and long before he could form any certain prospect of his son’s future reputation. About two years after his father’s death, wThen he was about nineteen years of age, Galen betook himself to the study of physic; and to give himself every advan- tage, he employed several years in travelling16 through different parts of Asia Minor, and some islands in the Mediterranean. At the age of twenty-eight he returned to Pergamus, his native city, where he was charged with the care of the gladiators; but he remained there only a few years, and then went to Rome. His works show him to have been a man of uncommon industry, as well as extraordi- nary talents. He cultivated anatomy with ardour, and employed much of his time in dissection. Upon this subject he has written largely; but it is to be regretted that he was obliged to gather the human anatomy from analogy with those brutes which bear the greatest resemblance to man. Some modern anatomists have asserted that he never dis- sected a human body: and indeed this is probable from what he has said himself; for he mentions the having seen the skeleton of a robber as a very remarkable occurrence. But it will appear from his descriptions and comparisons that he had occasionally ex- amined parts of the human body. He was perfectly aware of the importance of anatomy to physic and surgery, and has spoken upon this subject with most uncom-17 mon force and energy. “ What,” says he, in his second book of Anatomical Adminis- trations, 46 can be more useful in wounds which are received in battle, in the extraction of darts, in the excision of bones, the reduc- tion of luxations, the opening of fistulae, than to be well acquainted with the anatomy of the extremities ? It is of more use to be acquainted with the exterior than the interior parts of the body, as the shoulders, back, breast, the ribs, the belly, and the outward covering of the neck and head; for we are often required to cut into abscesses and sinuses. In the ex- cision of bones it is necessary to cut and dis- sect; and if we do not know where the ar- tery, vein, or nerve may lie, we are much more likely to be the cause of death than of health to the patient.” He was not only highly sensible of the im- portance of anatomy, but has been most judicious in his advice about the mode of studying it. He strongly advises the frequent dissection and examination of bodies, and that we should not trust to the accounts of others. Apes were dissected in his time; and he recommends such animals as approach c18 nearest to man in their resemblance. Still he is sensible of the deficiency, and advises the going to Alexandria to have an oppor- tunity of examining the human skeleton itself. His descriptions are clear and well arranged, there being no mixture of one part with an- other, which is often to be found in ancient writers ; and those who are conversant in the dissection of apes bear testimony to their extreme accuracy. Little of physiology was known at this time, so that the principles laid down are often false ; but his reasoning upon these principles is remarkably clear and con- clusive, and where the intentions of nature are not very obscure is often most accurate. Nothing can be more excellent, and indeed more elegant, than his account of the uses of the hand. He has written upon every part of anatomy; so that his works may be consi- dered as a system, exhibiting every thing known or discovered in this branch of know- ledge in his time. After the death of Galen we do not find that the spirit of improvement continued among his successors, but anatomy began to decline with other learning. The later pe-19 riods of the Roman empire, which compre- hended the greater part of the then civilised world, were not very favourable to the pro- gress of science. The emperors were not dis- posed to patronize it; corruption of manners had already advanced to an incredible height; and the empire was distracted by continual alarms from the inroads of external enemies. It is besides probable that the great repu- tation of Galen might have had some ten- dency to obstruct the progress of anatomy. Men are not disposed to exertion when they despair of rivalling what has been already done; and they are still less apt to labour when they are satisfied that the object of their pursuit is incapable of improvement. To these reasons we are probably to attribute the decline of anatomy after the time of Ga- len till the downfall of the Roman empire, when Europe became overwhelmed in a darkness which was not dispelled for many centuries. During this interval we are not, however, to suppose that anatomy was entirely neg- lected. Physicians and surgeons continued to study Galen: but when they were con- c 220 tented with studying him, it is evident that anatomy would always be losing ground. After the downfall of the Roman empire in the West, learning was still cultivated at Alexandria, which had continued for ages to be a flourishing school, and was enriched with a most inestimable library. It seemed, however, destined that every persecution should interrupt its progress. About the year 640 the city of Alexandria was besieged by the Saracens, and this magnificent library was burnt. These barbarians, not content with the ravages they had already committed, after having conquered all the countries adjoining to Arabia, crossed the Mediterranean, and in 717 besieged Constantinople, where the small remains of learning were still preserved. It was fortunate that they did not succeed in this attempt, but were obliged to raise the siege. Being satiated with conquest, and having at length begun to experience the advantages of peace, these destroyers gradually acquired a taste for learning;. Some of the Greek books which had escaped destruction were21 translated into the Syriac and Arabic lan- guages. Schools were opened in many of the chief cities of the Saracen empire, and learning began to be generally diffused. Anatomy, however, made no progress under the Saracen government. Physicians and surgeons were disposed to be content with what Galen had told them; and as most of them were Mahometans, they were prevented by their religion from touching any dead body. Avicenna, who lived during the period we have been mentioning, has written a volume upon anatomy; but his work is to be consi- dered merely as a compilation from Greek authors, particularly Galen; and whenever Avicenna ventures to differ from them he is generally wrong. The time at length arrived when the Ara- bians were to suffer the same calamities from the barbarous ambition of the Turks which they had themselves inflicted on the eastern part of the Roman empire. The Tartars took Bagdad in 1258; and sometime afterwards they carried their hostilities against Constan- tinople and the neighbouring cities. Men22 of learning tied from the danger that threat- ened them, and took refuge in Italy. Thus was literature transferred from the East to the West; and the light of knowledge began to dawn upon Europe, after a long night of the most impenetrable ignorance. Anatomy revived at this period, along with other learning; but under such circumstances that it was impossible for it to make great progress. Men were so infatuated with their admiration of the ancients as to believe them incapable of error; and thought that no other task was reserved, for them, than to endea- vour to understand and to admire what they had done. The ancients were to them the only source of knowledge; they were the means by which they had been civilised from ignorance, and they looked up to them as having arrived at the perfection of human nature. This could only, however, retard the progress of knowledge for a short time. We are most disposed to admire what we have only lately known ; but this impression becomes lessened by familiarity. It only re- quired a vigorous mind to be able to see er- rors, and to venture to announce them ; the23 spell would then be broken, and science would begin to advance rapidly. Such a mind was that of Vesalius. Before his time anatomy was cultivated with ardour by Mundinus, Achillinus, Berenger, Fernel, and especially by Sylvius ; but they had been still too much fettered by their admiration of the ancients to trust much to their own ob- servation, and were astonished, as well as offended, at the audacity of Vesalius. Vesalius was born at Brussels in 1514, of a family that had for a long time cultivated medicine. His grandfather and his father had both of them followed that profession; and the former especially had risen to some degree of eminence. Vesalius himself was a man of uncommon talents, and possessed a degree of ardour in the pursuit of knowledge, and a firmness of mind, which were not to be damped by any difficulties. With such en- dowments his progress was rapid and extra- ordinary. In a few years he excelled his teachers Fernel and Sylvius, who were rec- koned the first anatomists of their time. So great was his industry, and his passion for this study, that at the age of twenty-five he24 had collected materials sufficient to publish a better system of anatomy than any that had then appeared. What, however, is perhaps more to be admired in Vesalius than any other quality, is his being able to shake off all blind respect for the authority of great names, and to trust to his own observation. This strength of mind was wonderful at a time when oppo- sition to the authority of the ancients was considered as a species of sacrilege. Trust- ing thus to himself, and being unwearied in his dissections, he was soon able to detect er- rors in Galen and in his own masters. These errors he was not afraid publicly to mention and correct; but such conduct was not likely to meet with the approbation of contemporary anatomists: all of them united against him with one common voice ; and Sylvius carried his bitterness to so great a pitch, that in some of his controversial writings he has not scrupled to call him Vesanus instead of Vesalius. This great man, however, possessed a mind which was not to be crushed by the opposition of envy. He answered their objections, and came off victorious, because truth was on his side. The reputation of Vesalius at length25 became so great as to attract the attention of the court; and he was made physician to Charles the Fifth, but he did not long enjoy this distinguished situation. An occurrence hap- pened which drove him from Spain to avoid the vengeance of the Inquisition. Having attended, during his illness, a Spanish gentle- man who died, he obtained permission to examine the body; and when he laid open the chest, he was astonished to perceive the heart palpitating. This circumstance having reached the ears of the relations, he was pur- sued by them as a murderer, and accused of impiety before the Inquisition. By the influence, however, of Philip the Second, who had succeeded his father Charles the Fifth, he was allowed to escape on condition of making a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. Such superstitious times were not unwilling to cancel any action, however base, by one so meritorious. Vesalius had the appearance of guilt, although what he had done was not only innocent but laudable, and he was obliged to exhibit this public proof of his contrition. On his return from his pilgrimage he was in- vited by the senate of Venice to teach ana-26 tomy in that city; but he perished by ship- wreck before he reached it, when he was about fifty years of age. Vesalius had been a very diligent dissector, preferring the evi- dence of his senses to any other sort of tes- timony. The description he has given of the bones is excellent; and in his description of the muscles he has been very careful to sepa- rate what is found in monkeys and quadru- peds from what he observed in the human subject. His delineation of the bones and muscles shows the most minute attention. In every other part of anatomy he has also la- boured ; and he has been liberal in mention- ing what means he employed. He has no little secrets, but he gives plain practical di- rections how he has proceeded. His general description of the blood-vessels is accurate; but he had not the smallest conception of the circulation, adhering in this respect very closely to the ancient opinion. He had marked very well the olfactory nerves, al- though he considered them rather as processes of the brain than like the other nerves ; and the fourth pair has entirely escaped his ob- servation : but his description of the nervous27 system at large shows a most unwearied in- dustry. There is no part of the body which he has overlooked. He has not only exa- mined the relative situation, but the structure of the different viscera; and he has been very careful all along to mark the errors of Galen. He perfectly got the better of the preju- dices of authority. In one part of his works he has said, 66 Haudquaquam adeo Galeni verbis est acquiescendum, ut omnia, quce illic in Aristotelem congerit vera et indubitata esse put emus” For his account of the or- gans of generation he deserves less praise than for that of the other parts of the body, his description being very inaccurate, and the physiology ill-founded. Fie has, how- ever, done much by being able to throw off the prejudices of established opinion by think- ing for himself, and by having pointed out the true method of studying the human ana- tomy. So much curiosity had now been excited in anatomy, and it had become so much an object of cultivation, that it began to be rapidly improved : the barriers to investiga- tion were broken down, and men had only to28 observe and think. Under such circum- stances it was likely that many anatomists should arise of distinguished reputation ; but many we shall be obliged to omit, as it is our present object to give only the history of great improvements. The proper method of studying anatomy was now introduced and practised, so that every day was adding some discovery : but in a short history it can only be allowed to trace the most considerable, a longer account being left to the gratification of a more prepared and opportune curiosity. The greater discoveries and improvements in anatomy must comprehend either the ex- planation of a general system, or the inven- tion of the means to investigate more accu- rately the structure of an animal body. The one really adds to physiology, and the other produces a more intimate acquaintance with the minuter structure of parts, which furnishes the materials for physiology. The greater discoveries in anatomy may be confined to the doctrines of the circula- tion and absorption; and the application of microscopes, together with the invention of injections, may be considered as the chief29 means to develope the minuter structure of an animal body. Before entering upon the history of the circulation, it will be necessary, in order to render it intelligible, to explain what the dis- covery is : but this shall be done very briefly. By the circulation is meant the distribution of the blood through the body, and its return again to a certain point, in order to undergo a succeeding distribution. This is a very important function in the animal economy, for by it every part of the body is nourished and preserved; is increased in growth, or is sup- plied when deficient. It furnishes the mate- rials for the preservation, the growth and the repairs, of that very complex and delicate machine, an animal body. To carry on this important office, a reser- voir is employed, with tubes passing out and entering into it; so that the fluid which has been carried out from the reservoir is re- turned again, after having served its purposes, undergoing a complete circulation. This whole apparatus in an animal body consists of the heart, the arteries, and the veins ; the heart being the reservoir of the blood, and30 the chief active power of its propulsion; the arteries being the tubes conveying the blood from the heart to every part of the body, and the veins being the tubes conducting the blood back to the heart to renew its circula- tion. The whole forms one great system complete in itself, the separate parts being dependent on each other. In order, how- ever, to understand the progress of this dis- covery, it will be necessary to describe a little more particularly the apparatus, and the course of circulation in the human body. The human heart consists of four cavities, two of which have been named auricles, and two ventricles. The right auricle communi- cates, by a large opening, with the right ven- tricle ; and the left auricle communicates, by a similar opening, with the left ventricle; but the auricle and ventricle on the one side are generally entirely separate from those on the other. The veins open into the auricles, by which blood is poured into the heart; and the arteries pass out of the ventricles, con- veying the blood to the lungs, where it un- dergoes some change, and distributing it over the whole body. This forms what has been31 called the complete circulation, being a pro- cess that is repeated in very quick succession while an animal is alive. The importance of the supply of materials to an animal body was always understood; but it remained for a long time unknown what circuit was really taken, and what means nature so wonderfully employed, to produce a continual repetition of supply. This was a most important dis- covery ; for it explained one of the principal operations which are carried on in an animal machine. It appears clearly from the works of Galen and of others who have copied from him, that the ancients had not the most distant idea of the true circulation. They believed that the blood was generated in the liver, and that there was a kind of flux and reflux of it in the veins; that the finer part of it transuded through the septum of the heart, from the right to the left side, where it was mixed with the air inspired into the lungs, forming a vital spirit, and moving by a sort of flux and reflux in the arteries. This opinion continued from the time of the ancients, even for many years after the32 revival of learning, till by a more attentive observation of the structure of the heart and its vessels greater light was thrown upon this part of the animal economy, and at length the true circulation was completely discovered. The first step towards this discovery was made about the middle of the sixteenth cen- tury by Michael Servetus, who was born in Villa Nueva, in Arragon, in the year 1509. He engaged himself warmly in theological disputes, and had the misfortune to reject the doctrine of the Trinity. This dreadful heresy brought upon him the persecution of Calvin and his adherents, which only terminated with his death, for he was burnt alive at Ge- neva in 1553. Servetus has published a book entitled De Trinit ate Divina, in which he exhibits many proofs of his knowledge of anatomy; and it contains a very important step towards the discovery of the circulation. The passage expressing this new opinion is here quoted in a very faithful translation: 66 The vital spirit/' says he, “ has its origin in the left ventricle of the heart, the lungs being subservient to its generation. It is a subtile spirit elaborated33 by the power of heat, is of a yellow colour, and has the quality of fire; so that it may be considered as an exhaling vapour from the purer blood, containing water, air, and fire. It is produced by a mixture taking place in the lungs, of the inspired air with the elabo- rated subtile blood, which the right ventricle of the heart communicates to the left. This communication, however, does not happen through the septum of the heart, as is the common opinion; but by a wonderful con- trivance the subtile blood is agitated in a long passage through the lungs, from the right ventricle of the heart, and is poured from the arterious vein into the veinous artery. In the veinous artery it is mixed with the inspired air, and becomes purified by expiration. Thus at length the mixture is attracted from the left ventricle of the heart by diastole, being a fit material for the for- mation of vital spirit. That there is such a communication through the lungs is proved by the various union and anastomosis of the arterious vein and veinous artery in the lungs. There is an additional proof from the bulk of the arterious vein, which would neither be of D34 such a nature, nor so large, nor send so much pure blood from the heart into the lungs, simply to nourish them; nor would the heart be subservient after this fashion to the lungs. “ The mixture, therefore, takes place in the lungs, and the yellow colour is given to the spirituous blood by the lungs, and not by the heart. If any person will compare this with what Galen has said in his 6th and 7th books De Usu Partium, he will plainly see that it has not been discovered by Galen We may observe from this passage, that at this period a considerable step had been gained towards the discovery of the circu- lation. The whole of the circulation from the right side of the heart through the lungs into the left was made out, and confirmed by very powerful arguments; but Servetus had no idea of the veins and arteries in the body as belonging generally to the same sy- stem, and being subservient to the convey- ance of the same fluid. He retained the an- cient distinction between blood and vital spirit, but detected the absurdity of the blood # Vide pages 143, 144, 145.transuding through the septum of the ven- tricles, and clearly discovered its real course through the pulmonary artery, or what was then called the arterious vein. This passage in Servetus seems, however, to have been overlooked by anatomists in general; and from most of their writings it would appear that no hint had yet been caught about the true circulation. Not long afterwards, Columbus also made out the lesser circulation through the lungs. He was professor of anatomy at Padua, and had been a scholar of Vesalius. It is impos- sible to determine whether he might not have been acquainted with the opinion of Servetus; but we have the testimony of himself for its being a discovery of his own, which we ought not to refuse. In a part of his works he has said, 66 There is a septum between the ventricles of the heart, through which every person thinks there is a passage to the blood from the right to the left ventricle. They mistake, however, very much, for the blood is carried through the arterious vein into the lungs, and is there attenuated; from whence it is carried, along d 236 with the air, to the left ventricle of the heart through the veinal artery, which no one has either observed or left written, although it ought to be very obvious to all.” The lesser circulation through the lungs has here been distinctly described, but no- thing has been added to what had already been said by Servetus. It had this advantage, however, that it was now brought more be- fore the observation of anatomists. The title of Servetus's book must have prevented it from being much known to persons of this class, by whom alone such a hint could at all be apprehended. The lesser circulation has also been men- tioned by Caesalpinus, an Italian physician, who lived a little after the same period ; and he has even given some obscure hints about the general circulation through the body. He has remarked the swelling of the veins beyond the ligature, and is at a loss how to explain it upon the common idea of the use of these vessels ; for, says he, 46 debuisset au- tem opposito modo contingere” He has re- marked, too, the course of the fluid in the aorta, and has derived a very strong argu-37 ment from the valves formed at its origin. “ Membranis quibusdam ad ostia vasorum ap- positis, ut impediant retrocession ” Still, how- ever, he was entirely ignorant of the con- nexion between the arteries and the veins, and that the blood passes from the one to the other on its return to the heart. We have here a difficulty striking only an observing mind ; and many ages might have elapsed without the discovery of the circu- lation, if there had not arisen some pene- trating genius, such as that of Harvey. Before we come to speak of the complete discovery of the circulation, it will be neces- sary to mention the discovery of the valves of the veins, which so much tended to facili- tate it. In the cavities of veins are placed little processes, which are so contrived as to allow the blood to pass readily from every part of the body towards the heart, but most effectually prevent an opposite course. These processes consist of very fine membranes, which, when the veins are empty, fall col- lapsed upon their coats, so as easily to es- cape observation. This will account for their not being known to the very early anatomists,38 especially as it is more than probable that they were not much accustomed to cut open or invert veins. The valves of the veins, if they were not discovered, were at least first delineated and made publicly known by Fabricius Ab Aqua- pendente, professor of anatomy at Padua*, under whom Harvey studied. It was this discovery which probably first led Harvey to reflect on the course of the fluid in the arteries and veins,—an inference which now appears sufficiently obvious; but it might long have remained concealed, if it had not met with an observing mind, which readily caught it, and thus unfolded the most im- portant general action in an animal body. William Harvey, than whom there is scarcely any character of more celebrity in the annals of science, was born in the year 1578. His parents were in easy circum- stances, and could therefore afford him a very complete education. He first attended a * Charles Stephens, Jacobus Sylvius, Cannanus, and Ve- salius, had seen the valves of the veins, but they were im- perfectly known to them. Fallopius and Eustachius denied their existence.39 public school in Kent, his native county, where he was initiated in the languages; and at the age of fifteen he went to Cam- bridge, where he became a member of Caius College. There he remained for six years, attentive to all the philosophy of the times; but he found that he could pursue with little advantage his favourite studies of anatomy and medicine, where neither of them was taught with any degree of reputation. He therefore left Cambridge, and went to Padua, at that time the most celebrated university for medicine, where he attended the lectures of the celebrated Fabricius on anatomy. It was there he acquired the greater share of his anatomical knowledge ; and the particu- lar attention of Fabricius to dissections, to- gether with the discovery of the valves of the veins, seems to have directed the channel of Harvey's future inquiries, and to have laid the foundation of his future fame. He continued three years in the university of Padua, where he took the degree of Doc- tor of Physic, and returned to England when he was about twenty-four years of age. After his return to his native country, he continued40 the same industry and ardour for knowledge. Every day was adding to his reputation, which at length pointed him out as the most proper person to be chosen President of the College of Physicians. He afterwards be- came physician to St. Bartholomew's Hos- pital, and was appointed to give lectures there on anatomy and surgery. It was in these lectures, probably, that he first threw out his doctrine of the circulation; but he did not publish it till the year 1628*. We shall not enter at larg;e into all the ar- guments and experiments by which Harvey confirmed this doctrine, for they could not be made intelligible without more knowledge of anatomy than you are at present supposed to possess. It is sufficient to mention that Harvey has employed every argument at pre- sent known upon this subject, except those derived from microscopical observation, and that his language is clear and decided. It is pleasant to observe how naturally he speaks of his first apprehension of the circu- # He taught this new doctrine in his lectures about the year 1616.41 lation. “ I began/' says he, “ to think whe- ther there could be any motion of the blood as in a circle; which I afterwards found to be true, and that the blood is propelled from the left ventricle of the heart through the ar- teries to every part of the body, as it is to the lungs from the right ventricle through the arterious vein, (now the pulmonary ar- tery,) and that it again returns through the vena cava into the right auricle, as it returns from the lungs into the left ventricle through the veinous artery (now the pulmonary veins) as has been already mentioned." This passage of Harvey, which is very faithfully translated, contains a most accu- rate and pointed description of the circula- tion, without any ambiguity, and would of itself be enough to establish his claim to this discoverv ; but he has extended it into a con- siderable work, by a great variety of experi- ments and arguments, so as to leave nothing to be done by his successors. In this manner was completed the discovery of the circulation, perhaps the greatest in the animal economy; and if it may appear to any person viewing it at present, that after42 what had been done by Servetus, Columbus, C8esalpinus,andFabricius,it required no very extraordinary effort of genius, it ought to be recollected how disposed the mind is to be governed by former opinions, and how little apt it is to be observant of what is unknown. When the discovery of the circulation be- came generally diffused, it met with an un- favourable reception from many anatomists. Some of them denied the truth of what had been asserted; and others ascribed the dis- covery to some of the ancients. Arguments and experiments soon overcame the first kind of opposition; and the other was easily seen through, having arisen from those feelings of envy which will not bear even a merited su- periority. But all is now hushed. Harvey is in full possession of the discovery, and the envious clamour of contemporary anatomists has ceased for ever.INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. PART II. We have now traced the progress of ana- tomy to the discovery of one of the most im- portant functions in an animal body,—the mode of conveying the materials for its pre- servation and support. These materials are, however, always exhausting, so as to require a system of supply. This is accomplished by a certain order of vessels called lacteals, which arise from the inner surface of the in- testines, and which, after having passed through a number of glands, terminate in a considerable duct, opening into a large vein near the heart. These vessels absorb the chyle from the intestinal canal, and convey it into the general mass of circulating blood,44 into whose nature it is assimilated, thus be- coming fitted for all the purposes of nourish- ment and growth. Such an apparatus was absolutely necessary, as there is a continual waste of blood from the various secretions of the body. More, however, was still required. An animal must not only grow; but there must be a certain regulation of its growth, giving a determined shape. It would be necessary also that an animal should be endowed with some internal power of removing what may be hurtful, or may irritate the body. This can only be given to a certain extent; be- cause, unless the power was in an infinite de- gree, there would always be some irritations sufficient to overcome it. For these purposes an animal is provided with a set of vessels arising from every surface, cavity, and inter- stice of the body, passing through similar glands with the lacteals, and having their ter- mination in the same duct. Such vessels have been called lymphatics, from their being commonly filled with a transparent fluid. They are the same sort of vessels with the lacteals, and carry on the general action45 of absorption throughout the body, pro- ducing thereby various effects according to circumstances. This order of vessels is only of late dis- covery, probably because they are small, co- lourless, and often empty, so as not to be distinguishable from the neighbouring parts ; and because anatomists were formerly little ac- customed to dissection. In the present times they have risen to the notice which they de- serve, since they are employed for as impor- tant purposes as any in the animal economy. The principles of their action are probably as well understood as that of the blood-ves- sels, but their particular anatomy is more imperfectly known. It appears clearly from the testimony of Galen that white vessels had been seen by Erasistratus on the mesentery of kids. This, however, was not a discovery, for he did not distinguish them from veins; he had only observed what was presented to his eyes, without making any conjecture; and it was very long indeed after his time before they were known as a separate order of vessels. Towards the beginning of the seventeenth46 century, Asellius *. a professor of medicine at Pavia, discovered on the mesentery of a dog some small vessels filled with a white fluid. This was a new appearance, and at- tracted his observation. He thought at first that they might possibly be nerves ; but when he pricked one of them, and perceived a white fluid to pass out, he was immediately struck with the impression of a discovery, and in the fullness of his heart called out Evgqxct. The natural feelings of a mind in such a situation are most forcibly described by him. 66 Quo viso, cum tenere Icetitiam non possem, conversus ad eos qui aderant, ad Alex- andrum Tadinum et senatorem Septalium im- primis utrumque de amplissimo medicorum or- dinis Collegio, et cum hcec scriberem tuendce publicce sanitati prcefectum, Evince inquarn cum Archimede ! -f” This new appearance had so excited the attention of Asellius, that he was eas;er to establish and confirm it by other trials. He therefore laid open the belly of another dog, with the expectation of seeing the same sort * Asellius was born at Cremona. + Vide page 24.47 of vessels; but he was disappointed. This mortified him exceedingly; but he recol- lected that the first dog had been opened a few hours after having eaten a hearty meal, and he thought that something might depend upon this circumstance. He therefore made the experiment upon a third dog, which had been plentifully fed a short time before; and was rejoiced to see the same vessels again. He was now convinced of its being an uni- form appearance, and he prosecuted his in- quiries by extending these experiments to other animals. His enthusiasm was so great, that a week scarcely elapsed without the sa- crifice of a living animal; and he expressed a regret that similar experiments could not be made upon the human subject. He was, however, fully persuaded that this order of vessels could not be wanting in the machinery of so perfect an animal. From the circum- stance of their being discoverable or not, ac- cording as the animal had been lately fed, or had been a long time fasting, he was naturally led to think that their office was connected with the food, and he believed it to be ab- sorption.48 Although he had clearly distinguished the lacteals to be a particular system of vessels, yet he was mistaken about their termination; for he believed that they ended in the liver, the trunk of the absorbents being still unknown. Attention to this subject was now, however, awakened among anatomists, and the error of Asellius was soon corrected. Picquet traced the lacteals into the receptaculum chyli; and he has mentioned this subject very clearly, and with singular modesty. 66 It is to be at- tributed," says he, 46 to ill fortune rather than want of attention that anatomists should not know the chyle is neither carried to the liver, nor the vena porta, nor the vena cava, near the emulgents, as is the general opinion : but any one by dissection may perceive, as clearly as sunshine, that the lacteal vessels pass from the intestines to a certain receptacle, which, in brutes at least, occupies the space between the \pocci.” From the receptaculum chyli he traced the trunks of the absorbents to their termination in veins, so as to discover the whole route of the chyle. This, however, was only in brutes; nor was it the first time that the thoracic duct, or trunk of the ab-49 sorbents, had been noticed by anatomists. Eustachius had many years before seen it in the chest of a horse, and had called it vena alba thoracis. It remained still, however, to make the same progress in the human subject. Veslingius is said to have observed in the year 1634 the lacteal vessels in man, and in the year 1649 the thoracic duct. This duct was afterwards brought to the general knowledge of anatomists by Peirish and Van Horne, and the lacteals were soon traced to their termination in it. The whole route of the chyle was in this manner completed in the human subject, which entirely overthrew the ancient idea, that the liver was employed in forming blood. The lacteals, however, form only a small part of the absorbent system ; it extends over the whole body, absorbent vessels taking their origin from all cavities, and surfaces, and interstices. Much, therefore, still re- mained to be discovered ; and Olaus Rud- beck, a Swede*, has the honour of being the # Olaus Rudbeck, born at Arosa in 16S0. E50 discoverer of the lymphatic vessels. They had first, indeed, according to Haller's ac- count, been seen by Veslingius, going from the spleen along the pancreas; but he had not established by experiments their parti- cular nature. This discovery is therefore to be considered as Rudbeck's, who so examined them, as clearly to distinguish that they were a peculiar set of vessels, which had hitherto escaped the observation of anatomists. The account he has given of his discovery is very clear and natural. He says that in the months of October and November of the year 1650, and in the months of January, February, March, April, September, October, and No- vember of the year 1651, he made many dis- sections in order to ascertain whether the lacteals accompany the vena port arum, and terminate in the porta of the liver, as was the common opinion among anatomists. For this purpose he made ligatures surrounding the vena port arum, and watched if he could perceive the course of the fluids in the lac- teals. He found, however, no lacteals, and was surprised to discover some vessels filled with a transparent fluid, turgid on the side of51 the liver, and concluded immediately that they were not lacteals, but a new set of ves- sels hitherto unknown; and he called them, from the sort of fluid which they carried, vasa serosa. In the year 1652, in the months of February and March, he discovered the same sort of vessels passing to the glands of the groin, and traced them on to the thoracic duct. These circumstances were sufficient to se- cure the discovery to Rudbeck, if he were not anticipated by any other anatomist. Thomas Bartholin, a Dane*, has laid claim to the discovery ; but by his own account he was not acquainted with the lymphatic ves- sels till the month of December 1651, and had not traced them on to the thoracic duct like Rudbeck. Indeed there is great reason to suspect that Bartholin has been uncandid upon this subject. It is more than likely that he had heard something of Rudbeck's discovery, from some inadvertent expressions in his own work; and it is probable that a hint had been given him from the manuscripts * Born at Copenhagen in l6l6. E 252 of Veslingius, which came into his hands, and were afterwards published by him. Bar- tholin speaks as if he were sore about the dis- covery, a circumstance always of suspicion. 44 We envy ” says he, 44 no one's reputation ; let the palm of fame lie open to all; only let i the honour of the invention be left to us, as we trust we deserve it." The same discovery has also been attri- buted to an English physician, named Jo- liffe. This rests upon the authority of Glis- son, who has stated that in June 1653, when Dr. Joliffe was taking his degree at Cambridge, he mentioned to him that he had observed in various parts of different animals, as in the limbs, testicles, womb, &c., vessels filled with a watery fluid, which was directed in its course towards the root of the mesen- tery. It is very possible that Joliffe* may have remarked these vessels without any hint from others, because it is very possible for different persons engaged in the same pur- suits to make the same discovery : yet as Rudbeck has fixed on a particular date, # Joliffe himself has not written any thing upon this subject.53 prior to that mentioned by Glisson, he must still remain in possession of the honour. Although the lymphatic vessels were now certainly discovered, yet anatomists were en- tirely ignorant of their use, and their relation to the absorbent system. They considered them as appendages to the arteries, and sup- posed that they served the purpose of carry- ing back the watery part of the blood. There was, therefore, still room for a most important discovery in the physiology of these vessels. This was reserved for Dr. Hunter, who taught, so early as the year 1747, that the lymphatic vessels were not continuations of arteries, but were the real absorbents, arising from every surface and interstice of the body, and that they were a part of the same system of vessels with the lacteals, forming together one general system of absorbent vessels. This he proved by the strongest arguments, drawn as well from the minute injection of blood vessels, while the absorbents were not filled, as from the resemblance of the lymphatic to lacteal vessels, and their termination in the same common trunk. This discovery has been claimed by a celebrated professor of anatomy in Edinburgh; but I shall avoid entering54 into the dispute. It is enough to say that Dr. Hunter taught this doctrine in the year 1747, six years before that professor declares himself to have made the discovery. Dr. %/ Hunter has therefore an undoubted claim to priority, whatever praise may belong to any other person for having made the same dis- covery without assistance. The arguments proposed in support of the opinion, that the lymphatics and lacteals should be considered as belonging to the same system, were so strong, that they im- mediately brought with them conviction; and this opinion was therefore readily embraced by anatomists. But still, as the vessels which had been seen were generally small, and had not been traced in every part of the body, it was believed that the lacteal and lymphatic vessels were not sufficient of themselves to carry on the absorption of the body, and that they were intended only to assist the veins in the performance of this function. It became necessary, therefore, in the prosecution of the subject, to discover whether the lacteals and lymphatics were the only absorbents. The idea of their being a distinct and com- plete system of vessels, fully equal to manage55 the absorption of the body, forcibly struck the mind of Mr. John Hunter, and he im- mediately instituted experiments to confirm or overthrow it. For this purpose he made many experiments on living animals, by throwing different fluids into the intestines for absorption; and found that the lacteals al- ways became filled with the fluid, but never the veins. The same opinion he confirmed also by injections, so as to establish it be- yond a doubt. All the observations and experiments re- lating to absorbent vessels had been hitherto confined to quadrupeds ; and although it was natural to conclude that they likewise be- longed to the other orders of animals, yet the subject was incomplete till this point was determined. Examinations were accordingly made for the purpose. Mr. John Hunter discovered absorbent vessels in birds and in amphibious animals; and these discoveries were extended by the late Mr. John Hewson, who was the first to ascertain the existence of absorbent vessels in fishes. In this manner were enlarged the views of the absorbent system, by showing that it belonged to all the56 different orders of animals, very much con- firming the idea that it was sufficient of itself to carry on the purposes of absorption in the body. These ideas of the absorbent system began very soon, at least in this country, to be generally adopted, though it was still be- lieved to be confined in its action to the absorption of fluids. Mr. John Hunter ex- tended the influence of its action to the solids, which he deduced from the various changes in the growth of the body, and the different effects that take place in many dis- eases of the solids. This opinion is beginning at present to be generally received; and the merit of having first formed it has been claimed by the same distinguished professor before alluded to, but no sufficient evidence has been offered in support of this claim. In viewing the present state of our know- ledge concerning the absorbent system, it appears that the phamomena of its action are tolerably well understood; but the course of particular vessels has not been traced in every part of the body. This is a work of much patience and of considerable difficulty;57 but it will be gradually rendered more and more perfect. U pon this part of the system Mr. Cruikshank has laboured perhaps more than any other person in this country, and with what success I need only appeal to the high reputation of his work. A most splen- did work on the same subject has also been lately published by Mascagni. The discoveries of the circulation and the absorbent system are certainly the two great- est in the animal economy. The one ex- plains how every part of the body is nou- rished and preserved, and the other explains the mode of supplying the necessary waste in the support of the body. There have be- sides been many smaller discoveries ; such as the structure of a particular viscus, a par- ticular vessel, an excretory duct, a gland, &c.; but the history of such discoveries would be leading you into minutiae which you could not at present understand, and therefore it is omitted. This enlarged detail is left to future inquiries, when your curiosity may be gratified with more advantage. The general means, however, by which the investigation of an animal body may be58 extended and facilitated, are so important with respect to the functions of the animal economy, that an inquiry into their invention is very closely connected with even a general view of the progress of this branch of know- ledge. It does not confine itself within nar- row limits, but reaches to the very foundation of anatomy and physiology. The utmost perfection of examination into animal structure appears to be, that the parts should be rendered exceedingly distinct to the senses. This can only be managed in two ways; viz. by making the senses more acute, and the parts themselves more distinct. On these two circumstances must rest all the improvements which can be made in exami- ning the structure of an animal body. We are therefore to look for improvements in the examination of animal structure to the in- vention of magnifying-glasses, and to the arts of preparation, particularly of injection. The first step in the progress of anatomy is to observe large and obvious parts. These would for some time sufficiently occupy the mind, and it would not occur that any thing further could be done. The whole of anatomy59 would appear to be confined to what is readily observable. When the mind had, however, advanced further, and been enlight- ened by the general principles of natural philosophy, showing the infinite divisibility of matter, it would immediately occur that there was a large field of discovery, beyond what had formerly even been imagined, and a terra incognita lying open for research. This would appear the more important, as it must have occurred, whenever men were dis- posed to reason on the subject, that the ac- tions of an animal body are not to be referred to the larger parts, but to the smaller, of which these are composed. Hence the ex- amination of minute structure is evidently more connected with physiology ; and if ever the latter is to be known at all, it must be through the medium of the former. Anatomy was so far advanced as readily to receive these improvements about the time of Malpighi, an Italian anatomist, born near Bologna in the year 1638. In the early part of his life, before he cultivated medicine, he was singularly fond of philosophy, and it was probably this which led him to the application of the microscope to anatomical purposes.60 He was the first who pointed out a new field in anatomy, by the application of an instru- ment, which must however, at that time, have been employed for many purposes of natural philosophy. It had been invented about the beginning of the seventeenth century by a Dutchman*, and was probably coming into considerable use. As soon as the microscope was employed, it must have furnished new lights to anatomy. Malpighi accordingly made many new ob- servations. He examined the minute struc- ture of the parts most essential to life, espe- cially the organs of secretion, and gave a new opinion about their structure. This ex- ample excited other anatomists to pursue the same plan, till at length microscopical obser- vation went hand in hand with the larger and more palpable anatomy. Leeuwenhoeck, a Dutch anatomist f, who lived soon after the period of Malpighi, con- # Dribbel, a Dutchman, is said to have invented the mi- croscope in 1621. This invention is also claimed by Fon- tana, a Neapolitan. Malpighi used it for anatomical pur- poses about the year l66l. T Leeuwenhoeck was bom at Delft. He began his mi- croscopical observations in anatomy about the year 1680.61 siderably improved microscopical instruments by being extremely careful in polishing the glass, and giving them an increased magni- fying power. He was thence enabled to ex- amine parts with the utmost minuteness; and the calculations he has formed often astonish, and almost stagger the belief. This kind of observation became at length very generally diffused among anatomists, so that they were rather too much attached to it, for the mind is naturally pleased with wonder. In their enthusiasm, however, they made many real and useful discoveries. The com- ponent parts of the blood, of milk, of oil, and of other fluids, were detected; the circulation of the blood was brought under the exami- nation of the eye, in the transparent mem- branes of animals; and the structure of many of the solid parts of the body was much better ascertained. The same kind of investigation has been continued among succeeding ana- tomists, so that every part of the body has been minutely examined ; but they have used more caution, as they have been more aware of the fallacies and errors which attend very minute microscopical observations.62 It is not, however, sufficient for the purpose of examining into animal structure, that the vision should be more acute, but further that the parts should be so developed as to be more fitted for observation. This comprehends the art of preparation, which was not at all known among the early anatomists. Such an art would arise gradually, beginning with what was least artificial, and what might be observed in natural processes. The skeleton would therefore be the first sort of prepara- tion, being suggested by the frequent expo- sure of the carcases of animals, where the flesh has been dissolved away by putrefaction and the bones have been left bare. This would soon be followed by the preservation of some of the soft parts. It must have been observed that the flesh of animals, when not very bulky and free from fat, became upon exposure to the air so thoroughly dry as not afterwards to imbibe moisture, and could then be preserved for any length of time. The power of certain anti- septic substances must have been known; and anatomists must have heard something of the mode of embalming among the Egyp-63 tians. Some art, upon the same principle, would naturally be transferred to the pre- servation of parts for anatomical purposes. Many of the soft parts too, when left acci- dentally in water for a considerable time, would be found to separate, and their minuter structure to be evolved; and this would na- turally suggest the employment of similar means for the more accurate examination of structure. Such modes of preparation re- quired little art, and were pressed upon the attention from many common occurrences; and we find, accordingly, that this was the state of progress in preparations among the early anatomists, even a long time after they had been accustomed to dissections. Swammerdam, in speaking of the advance of this branch of anatomy, has said, “ that in the art of preserving parts, Van Horne ex- celled all other anatomists ; and that next to him was De Bils, who showed his industry by drying the muscles of the whole body, and covering them with balsam. Hallpert Vander Wiel succeeded him, the scholar of Van Horne, and much superior both to him and De Bils. He knew the art of varnishing over the parts64 of the body, of clearing vessels from fat and parenchyma, of filling cavities with air, and, what was still more wonderful, of drying in the air moist bodies ; and he was very liberal in permitting his preparations to be seen/' By this quotation from Swammerdam we see the state of the art of making prepara- tions before that of injection had been dis- covered, and it is obvious how imperfect it was. Parts are in some measure confounded together and shrunk by being dried, so as to show nothing of structure; and this method can be used only in preserving whole parts, which are better examined and understood by fresh dissection. The art of separating by maceration in water would teach more; but it requires great care that the parts be properly unravelled, and that nothing be lost. This is therefore liable to considerable diffi- culties, and can at best only reach to a cer- tain degree of accuracy. It cannot show the distinction between small empty vessels and fibres, so as to reach to the very minute structure of parts; and we must therefore look to the discovery of other means more adequate to this end. Such means are af-65 forded by the art of injection. In its be- ginning this was very rude and imperfect; but it has gradually advanced to very great perfection, and has become the chief means of developing the smaller component parts of an animal body. Indeed, the advantages arising from the invention of the art of in- jection are almost incredible. It has shown the course of the smaller branches of vessels, and the comparative vascularity of parts; has displayed the structure of many glands; has confirmed the doctrine of the circulation; has discovered the mode of union between the vessels of the mother and the child during pregnancy; and has assisted in disproving the connexion between absorbents and blood- vessels. This invention becomes therefore an object of considerable magnitude, even in a very general history of the progress of anatomy. Very simple and imperfect means of in- jecting vessels were at first employed. Air was inflated to distend them, or some co- loured fluid was thrown in ; as milk, quick- silver, ink, and solutions of metals. Such means were liable to many inconveniences. F66 If a vessel be distended with air, and is after- wards to be dissected, when the least punc- ture is made through its coats, all the air escapes, the vessel collapses, and returns to its former obscurity. It affords, however, a ready means,of showing the course, number, and size of vessels, which in that state may not be intended to be traced more accurately by dissection. When fluids, such as milk, ink, and solu- tions of metals are employed for injection, although they render the vessels much more distinct to the eye, yet they will not allow any accurate tracing by dissection; for punc- tures must occasionally be made, and the fluid will escape. It is probable too, that even when no puncture has been made, the fluid would gradually evaporate, or transude through the vessels, so as to leave them empty. For these reasons it became necessary that other materials of injection should be dis- covered, such as would not escape by punc- tures, nor leave the vessels dry by evapora- tion. When this difficulty was overcome, a contrivance was still wanting to apply a force capable of propelling the materials of injec-67 tion uniformly through the minuter branches of a vessel. These two requisites were soon supplied by the ingenuity of two different persons. De Graaf*, a Dutch anatomist, about the middle of the seventeenth century invented the syringe, by which the force em- ployed to throw the injection into vessels can be applied in a sufficient degree, and pro- perly regulated. This very much resembles the syringe at present used; but the pipe he employed was curved and was much longer. The proper materials of injection were dis- covered by Swammerdam-)' a little after this period; for De Graaf recommends the use of metallic solutions. In his Miraculum Naturee, Swammerdam has mentioned the composition of his injec- tion, which is as follows : “ Take of white wax what is sufficient; melt it, and mix with it when melted a red, yellow, green, or any other colour which may be reckoned most suitable; draw up the in- jection with a syringe, and inject it into an * De Graaf was born at Schoonhaven in Holland in 1641. i* Swammerdam was born at Amsterdam in 1637. F 268 artery and vein.” This was a very great im- provement in the art of injection, but it af- terwards admitted of some amendment. Not long after this period injections were much employed by some anatomists; and Ruysch*, especially, carried this art to a very high degree of perfection. He exhibited to the world the specimens of his skill, but he could not prevail on himself to be so liberal as to discover the secret. A writer of his life, speaking of the perfection of his art, has said, “ Tali arte conclita cadavera per plurimos servabat annos, at dormire potius quarn mortua viderentur.” While the injection remains surrounded by a quantity of fleshy substance, although it may give an idea of general vascularity, yet it is obvious that the course and number of single vessels must be obscured. This disadvantage would be most striking in fleshy and very vascular parts, such as the glands of the body; and it suggested another im- provement,—that of destroying the flesh which surrounded the injection, so as to leave it # Ruysch was born at Haye in 1638.69 bare. This was accomplished by the appli- cation of a fluid which dissolved the flesh, but did not act on the materials of the in- jection. Dr. Nichols, who taught anatomy in London about forty years ago, was the author of this invention; and it has since been carried to much greater perfection, es- pecially by Mr. John Hunter. Such is the general history of the invention of injections, an art which has been the source of many dis- coveries in anatomy, and has particularly rendered minuter anatomy more distinct and certain. In this account we have endeavoured to be as general as possible, in order to avoid perplexing you with circumstances which might be unintelligible. We regret that this plan has prevented us from here paying a tribute of respect to many anatomists of the most distinguished eminence,—such as Wins- low, Albinus, Haller, &c.; but as we proceed you will be made acquainted with them and with their various merits. By the united efforts of men of distin- guished talents during many centuries, human anatomy has at length arrived at great per-70 fection. Every part of the body large enough to be examined by the naked eye has been often noted and described, and magnifying- glasses have been for a long time employed to develope the minuter structure. Much, however, still remains to be done in physi- ology. There is scarcely a great function going on in the human body which is clearly understood. The uses of respiration, the change of the food into chyle, and of the chyle into blood, the impregnation of the female, the mode of action in the nervous system, the mode of action in muscles, are all as yet very imperfectly known. These functions go on apart from observation, and depend upon the action of the minutest parts of the body. What still remains to be known can only be accomplished by a long chain of ju- dicious experiments; and probably some of them will baffle the utmost efforts of human ingenuity. It is our duty, however, to go on. Experiments are every day affording new light, and enlarging the bounds of knowledge. Anatomy has of late years been much more cultivated in this island than formerly. This has been very much owing to Dr. Hunter,71 who, to a most acute understanding, added a very singular enthusiasm and love for the art. If anatomy be more generally or more perfectly known ; if surgery has received any improvements from it,—it is to be attributed in a great measure to the spirit of this single man. He began the world with very moderate prospects; yet by his industry and talents, without any meanness in his manner of ad- vancement, he rose to be one of the first cha- racters in this country *. He had been in- # He was the second son of John and Agnes Hunter. His father was descended from the Hunters of Hunterstown in Ayrshire, a family of great respectability. His mother was a daughter of Mr. Paul, who was engaged in the malt trade, and was treasurer to the city of Glasgow. Dr. Hunter’s father lived upon a small estate called Long Calderwood, in the parish of Kilbride, near Glasgow. He was a man of ex- cellent understanding and of great integrity, but of an anxious temper. His mother was a woman of great worth, of a handsome person, and considerable talents. There were ten children, most of whom had more than the usual share of abi- lities. The females were handsome, and most of them died young. James, the eldest brother, who was of great promise, died young also, being not more than twenty-eight years of age. He had been bred to the law ; but disliking that pro- fession, he intended to become a physician. He was con-72 tended originally for the Scotch church; but disliking many circumstances in that profession, he was easily persuaded by his friend Dr. Cullen to turn his attention to the study of physic. He began his medical education under the direction of Dr. Cullen, at that time settled in Hamilton, with whom he lived some years; and he afterwards stu- died both in Edinburgh and London. It was intended that he should return to Dr. Cullen and take a share of his business; the one to practise surgery, and the other medicine : but Dr. Cullen very generously gave up the sidered by Dr. Hunter as the cleverest of the family; and I have heard him say that if James had lived, he thought nothing could have prevented him from being the first phy- sician in London. It would have been very remarkable to have seen at the same time three brothers at the head of the three departments of physic. James at the head of medicine, William of midwifery, and John of surgery. Dr. Hunter’s father was occasionally obliged to sell portions of his estate, to meet the necessary expenses of so large a family, though managed with great frugality. This increased the constitu- tional anxiety of his mind; and he was often kept awake in the night by thinking on the difficulties of his situation. Those portions of the estate which had been sold were many years afterwards repurchased by Dr. Hunter, when he had acquired some fortune from the exercise of his profession.73 scheme when he learnt that better prospects were open to Dr. Hunter. During his residence in London, Dr. Hun- ter, from his industry and fondness for ana- tomy, procured the good opinion of Dr. James Douglas, who engaged him to give his assistance in anatomical pursuits. He was now beginning to see some prospect of advancement, when Dr. Douglas died, leav- ing behind him a widow with a son and daughter. Dr. Hunter had lived but a short time with Dr. Douglas when this melancholy event happened; but from his good sense and good behaviour, he remained in the fa- mily as formerly, and was afterwards intrusted with the care of young Douglas in an excur- sion to Holland and to Paris. The ambition of Dr. Hunter, and his enthusiasm for ana- tomy, were so great, that his exertions were not crushed by the death of Dr. Douglas, but he continued his anatomical pursuits with unabating ardour. He very early communi- cated his ideas on the structure of cartilage to the Royal Society, which gave a very favour- able impression of his industry and talents. His taste for anatomy probably suggested74 to him the idea of teaching it; and it was not long before he had an opportunity of showing himself in this character to the public. In the winter of 1746 he was en- gaged by a society of navy surgeons to give a few lectures on the operations of surgery, and the structure of the parts more imme- diately concerned in them. Upon this trial he met with such general approbation, that he was encouraged to take up anatomy the ensuing winter on an extended scale. What has been his success, and what his reputation, you need not be told. No one ever pos- sessed more enthusiasm for the art, more persevering industry, more acuteness of in- vestigation, more perspicuity of expression, or indeed a greater share of natural elo- quence. He was uncommonly ready in his apprehensions, and singularly happy in mak- ing others understand what he knew himself. His arrangement of any subject was clear and judicious ; he knew how far the attention would reach, and when it was beginning to decline; and he had a most happy talent of introducing anecdotes which might excite, amuse, and instruct.75 He had first been intended for surgery, but he very much disliked all operations which might give pain. He was therefore easily induced to quit it, and to follow mid- wifery, for which he was singularly calculated by the delicacy of his manners, and a very quick perception of the caprices of the world. Not long after this change in the line of his profession, when his reputation was rising high, the University of Glasgow was proud to recollect him among her offspring, and to show a testimony of their respect by con- ferring on him the degree of Doctor in Physic. At a very early period, having foreseen that he would soon be so much distracted by the multiplicity of business, as to prevent him from carrying on anatomy on the extended scale he wished to do, he sent for his brother, John Hunter, to assist him in these pursuits. What judgement he has shown in this choice the distinguished reputation of the latter has long ago determined. He was afterwards assisted also by Mr. Hewson and Mr. Cruik- shank, whose merits as anatomists have been deservedly honoured by an ample testimony of the public good opinion.76 Although the hurry of business a good deal interrupted the attention of Dr. Hunter from his favourite pursuit, yet this was in a great measure counterbalanced by the enthusiasm and vigour with which he devoted to it every moment of his leisure time. He very fortu- nately was not much influenced by the pre- judices of common opinion, so that his mind was left clear in its exertions. This, joined to quickness of apprehension and a very chaste talent for reasoning, led him often to discover what had been overlooked by others. Considering the advanced state of anatomy in his time, he has acquired much more of this sort of honour than could have been ex- pected. Had he only classed the lymphatics and lacteals together, so as to form them into one general system of absorbent vessels, it would have been enough to have secured the immortality of his name, for this compre- hended nothing less than the discovery of one great universal principle in the animal eco- nomy. He has, however, enriched anatomy and physiology with many other discoveries. That of the decidua rejlexa has added to his reputation; and he has delineated the77 whole anatomy of the gravid uterus in its progress towards maturity, from its earliest state, in a work which will ever be highly valued while there is any taste for anatomy remaining in this country. He explained the anatomy of aneurysm more perfectly than had been done before his time, and has established a more clear and certain reasoning upon it. A new species of aneurysm, called the Varicose Aneurysm, was discovered by him ; which, although ari- sing from an accident not very uncommon, had entirely escaped the observation both of anatomists and surgeons ; and, what does not often happen to discoverers, he explained all the circumstances of it as fully and certainly at first as they have since been known. While reflecting upon what Baron Haller had discovered relative to the descent of the testicles, and the hernia congenita, he ex- plained the true cause of that species of hernia sometimes found in adults, in which the contents of the hernia are in contact with the testicle. This explanation has been sa- tisfactory to all future anatomists, and has been universally adopted. He also first de-78 tected the true nature of the retroverted uterus, and made it generally known in this country. Such are his greater discoveries ; but his mind was ever active, so as to be full of new observation. What a share of discovery for one man! Has he not earned his reputation well ? I am not fettered by delicacy on this occasion : I look upon relationship as nothing—as an ac- cident. I consider Dr. Hunter only as an ardent cultivator and friend of science, and I speak of him as I feel and believe. His reputation soon procured him the highest rank in his profession, and in time the honours he deserved. He was not only a member of the Royal and Antiquarian So- cieties in this country, but a few years before his death he was elected one of the foreign associates of the Royal Academy of Sciences, and of the Royal Medical Society, at Paris, honours that are only conferred on a very limited number of the most celebrated literary characters throughout Europe. It is well known that the success of Dr. Hunter in his profession afforded him the opportunity of amassing a large fortune.79 This he in a great measure expended in the promotion of science, by forming a collection, which not only reflects honour on him as an individual, but has become in no small degree an object of public interest to this country. Whatever may be at any time the reputation of the teachers in this school, let it be re- membered that it is to him they owe the most ample materials for diffusing and advancing the knowledge of anatomy. Anatomy and surgery have recently suffered a most severe loss by the death of Mr. John Hunter*. His mind was bold and inventive, treading constantly in a path of its own, without regard to the common track which had been followed by others. This was aided by an industry and enthusiasm, of which it would be difficult to find any superior ex- ample. With such singular endowments for the cultivation of science, his progress was proportionably great. There is no subject which he has considered, to which he has not added new light; and many branches of * This was added after the death of Mr. Hunter in 1793.80 science he has very materially improved. That two brothers should have become so eminent in the same pursuits is almost with- out example; and it is equally rare that two brothers should have formed collections of such magnitude for the public interests of science. These will remain to future ages as monuments of their industry and talents, and will call forth the grateful acknowledgements of posterity. By such examples may we like- wise be excited to exertions that may not be unworthy the approbation of our country. Every branch of knowledge ought to be more or less interesting according to its uti- lity. None can be considered as useless, be- cause there is an universal chain of connexion throughout nature ; but some are much more important than others. Some afford little else than objects of speculation for the em- ployment of the mind, while others are most closely connected with the happiness and welfare of man. If there be a superior claim upon such grounds to any branch of know- ledge, it is due to anatomy. It teaches the structure of an animal body, and explains81 its actions, as far as they are discoverable by the efforts of human ingenuity. If this only • related to an animal in health, it would be more an object of curiosity than of real use. It would then only afford the means of in- dulging the mind in agreeable researches: but how infinitely it rises in importance when we consider it as the chief guide in restoring health to a body deranged by disease ! Disease may be said to be a wrong action either of the body generally, or of particular parts. Sometimes disease terminates by a gradual diminution of the diseased action, without any visible effects being left behind; while at other times it produces some al- teration of structure, or the formation of a new substance ; but these ultimately depend on diseased action. A disease must always have relation to a healthy action, or healthy structure of parts, for it is only a deviation from them; so that a knowledge of disease would appear to rest on a knowledge of the body in its healthy state. It is unfortunate that the peculiar mode of deviation is not always discoverable; but it Gm is evident that we cannot on anv occasion * become well acquainted with the deviation, without having previously known the ori- ginal state. It is in this point of view that anatomy and physiology become so very im- portant, as affording the most likely means of relieving the body when suffering under disease. When the structure and natural action of any part is understood, it will best assist us in discovering what causes may influ- ence the action which produces a morbid change, and how the application of other influences may probably counteract these causes, so as to protect the body from them. It will still go further ; for when the causes have been applied so as to produce their ef- fects, it will be most likely to point out what may be serviceable in bringing back the parts to a natural mode of action. The symptoms of a disease are appearances which take place while the body is under a diseased action, and depend on something more secluded from observation. If they arise simply from diseased action, no other change having been produced, they leave no83 traces after death; and there is only room for conjecture, which will be more or less rea- sonable, according to the understandings of different persons, or their degree of know- ledge of the animal oeconomy. But diseased action often produces a change of structure, or the formation of a new substance, or a new situation, such changes becoming them- selves the cause of many symptoms, and being as it were intermediate between the symptoms and the diseased action. This gives the opportunity of anatomical exami- nation, so as to trace more distinctly the na- ture of the disease, to establish a better rea- soning upon it, to point out how we should act, what we may hope, and what we may fear. It is by no means uncommon that diseases very different in themselves should have symptoms a good deal resembling each other. These may very often be confounded, es- pecially by superficial observers; but even men of the soundest judgement are liable to be mistaken. When, however, bodies are examined after death, and the disease is as- certained, the mind will be naturally led to g 284 attend minutely to symptoms on a future oc- casion, endeavouring to detect some marked difference, by which the disease may be dis- tinguished in the living body. Thus opi- nions and conjectures will be corrected by facts, and physic be daily advancing upon surer grounds. Medicine, as far as has been hitherto known, has little power over some diseases; and it is of importance to separate these diseases from others, where it can really be of service. In such cases we should avoid teasing the pa- tient with violent remedies, but endeavour to soothe and palliate. We shall be much better able to judge of these diseases when we have examined them in the dead body. Our ideas then become clear and defined, and we be- come more decided how it is proper to act. There is nothing which renders a person so capable of discovering new diseases, as a knowledge of anatomy. Who can be so well fitted for this purpose as he who is familiar with the natural structure, and the diseased appearances in an animal body ? What per- son but an anatomist could have discovered the varicose aneurysm, or, taking advantage85 of Baron Haller's observations upon the her- nia congenita, could have explained the cause of that species of hernia in which its contents are in contact with the testicle ? There are diseased appearances which are very common in an animal body, and which are of no great consequence ; and it requires a familiarity with the human body to be able to distinguish them from appearances strictly natural, or from diseases that are really se- rious. This last circumstance is of great im- portance, when we consider how often we are desired to examine bodies after death for the satisfaction of friends, or are called upon to do so by the laws of our country. Upon our judgement may depend the life of a fellow-creature. What reflection can be more serious to a man of humanity? But independently of these circumstances, there will be many cases of doubt presenting them- selves to our minds, which we would wish to settle, but shall not be able, unless we are acquainted both with natural structure and diseased appearances. Indeed how otherwise is physic to be improved ? Anatomy is still more closely connected86 with surgery than medicine. The first, being concerned in local diseases, is capable of re- ceiving more light from it than the other, which is more employed about general dis- eased action. A. surgeon who has taken care thoroughly to study anatomy, besides having a chance to be better acquainted with disease, and better able to distinguish between two diseases which are similar, is better fitted to act in any operation. His hand is acquainted with the knife, and he can cut more certainly and surely. The knowledge of anatomy fits a surgeon for performing operations in un- common and difficult situations, teaching him where he should cut with freedom, where with extreme caution, and where not at all. It fills his mind with resources. It points out to him where an operation may be improved, and suggests to him what steps he should take when circumstances prevent an operation from being done in the usual manner. In a new situation it will tell him whether he may operate or not, and what plan of operation he is to follow. In fact, anatomy is the basis of surgery, and without it a surgeon can neither act with safety, nor accommodate87 himself to the infinite variety of circumstances which may occur. If then anatomy be of so much use in physic and in surgery, it ought to be earn- estly cultivated by those who really wish to understand their profession, and to become respectable in it. This is not a trifling matter. Justice and humanity require every exertion where the lives of our fellow-crea- tures are concerned. There are many pro- fessions where negligence or inattention may be reckoned a folly, but in ours it is a crime. We ought, therefore, to pursue with eager- ness every branch of knowledge which may render us more useful in the profession we have chosen. I trust that from what you have heard, you are convinced how much anatomy is connected with it; but it can only be learnt by much labour, by patient and re- peated observation of parts, by clearness of arrangement, and a disposition to reason upon what you see. The parts of an animal body are so nu- merous and complicated, that in order to be retained in the memory they require a strong impression. This cannot be made by the88 eye alone. The eye is quick, and so impa- tient as to run over a number of objects in a short time. It is therefore necessary i that the hands should be employed, to con- fine the wandering of the eye, and attach it for a sufficient length of time to one object. It is for this reason that lectures by them- selves never did make, nor ever can make a good anatomist. Too many objects pass be- fore the eye in a short time to produce a proper impression. The practice of anatomy or dissection must be added, without which a man can only attain a wavering knowledge. But it ought to be our aim to have our know- ledge certain and ready, resembling as much as possible original impressions, upon which we may be able immediately to judge and act. Without this, relief will sometimes be withheld till the opportunity of affording it is past; and it is always a pitiful business to hunt for knowledge as circumstances offer. There should be at all times a considerable fund ready to satisfy demands. Anatomy cannot be learnt without the em- ployment of the knife upon the dead body, that great basis on which we are to build the89 knowledge that is to guide us in distributing health and life to our fellow-creatures. Need I say more to influence men of conscience, of humanity, of ambition, to be zealous and industrious? I am not willing to believe that you are difficult of persuasion. Every man of sense will soon discover what is the most profitable method of study; but still it is right to direct you, and to save you as much as possible the expense of ex- perience. At lecture very short notes should be taken, notes rather of arrangement than of matter. The attention will in this way be more closely fixed, and there will be sufficient time to em- ploy the eyes on the dead body, or the pre- parations, so as to receive proper impres- sions. These short notes should afterwards be extended in the evening, while impressions are distinct; an exercise which will teach you to think, to arrange, and to write. Be careful at lecture never to commit to paper what you do not understand, for you are not to attend to the words of the lecturer, but to his ideas. Be determined in not suffering the business of one day to encroach upon90 the next; for if you once relax, you must either hurry too much, neglect some things, throw up your plan in despair, or have re- course to the notes of another, which are but a poor substitute for your own impressions. In dissecting, it will be right to attend to every thing that is exposed to view: render every thing as distinct as possible ; notice the relative situation of parts; continue to observe, them till they can be drawn in your fancy. This is knowledge. I beg you will believe that the time of edu- cation is the most important in any man's life. He is then to decide his character and his success in the world. If education be pursued with industry, there will be a thou- sand occasions afterwards of gratification and comfort from it. If neglected, there will soon be much room for repentance; but it will come too late. The opportunity will be past, and it will be necessary to submit to circumstances of humiliation. What feelings are these for a man of spirit, who knows that he once commanded the means of acting through life with honour, confidence, and satisfaction!91 And success as well as character depends on attention to education. It is an ill-founded notion, arising from deserved disappointment, to say that merit is neglected. It is some- times joined with circumstances that may have some influence in counteracting it, as for instance an unfortunate temper, or a dis- agreeable manner; but generally it meets with its due reward. The world does not often judge erroneously; persons of merit have at least the best chance of success ; and who would be ambitious of the public appro- bation, if it had not the power of discrimi- nating ? Thus you see, Gentlemen, that you are at present in a very critical situation, and that almost every thing depends upon your own exertions. A teacher can do little more than point out the proper road to improve- ment. I trust you will not be backward in doing justice to yourselves, and I hope you will not find here any want of attention, or even of enthusiasm in your service.■ •« . •• * \ • • • • ’ • . . « ' ■ •• ' * ■THE GULSTONIANLECTURES Read at the College of Physicians, May 1794.THE GULSTONI AN LECTURES, Read at the College of Physicians, May 1794. INSTITUTIS hujus Collegii Magnified et Praesidis mandatis, viri summa veneratione admodum digni, obtemperandi perstudiosus, quaedam de cerebro et nervis proponere co- natus sum. In hac corporis humani parte multa sunt penitus ignota, plurima per sese tam obscura, quam sententiis eruditorum di- versis perplexa. Argumentum nimis est co- piosum, ut de omnibus quae isti pertinent tractare, et nimis difficultatibus implicitum ut ab illis expediri possim. De istis igitur argumenti partibus, quae magis sint observa- tione dignae, et quid verisimile videatur se-96 quens, potius quam quid caeteri putaverint, pauca proponere aggredior. Oro ut huic incepto benigne arrideatis, auditores dignis- simi, sentio enim quantopere benevolentia indigeam vestra. LECTURE I. THERE is no part of an animal body more curious in its structure, or more interesting in its examination,^ than the nervous system. This is the source of action and sensation, and in man is also the medium of connexion between the body and the mind. This system is composed of a considerable mass, called the brain, which is situated at one extremity of the body; from whence various processes, in the form of cords, pass to the other parts. In the different orders of animals the nervous ✓97 system bears a very different proportion to the general mass of the body. In quadrupeds the brain is larger in proportion to the size of the body than in any other class, man only excepted. In amphibious animals, fishes, and insects, it is proportionably much smaller; and some tribes of animals are so simple in their organization, as apparently to be with- out nerves and a brain altogether. Of this kind is the hydatid in sheep, which is an ex- ample of the most simple kind of animal. In these we may either suppose that the ner- vous fibrils diffused through the body are so small, as not to be capable of detection; or we may suppose that nervous matter is so blended with the general structure of the body, as not really to form a distinct orga- nization. In animals of so simple a structure, which of these two conjectures is true it is perhaps impossible to ascertain, but Mr. Hun- ter was inclined to believe the latter. In man the relative proportion of the size of the brain to the whole body is greater than in any other animal; and in comparing the human brain with that of the common quadrupeds of a much larger size than man, H98 as the horse, the ox, &c., the difference is very striking. The brain does not bear the same relative proportion to the size of the body in the very early periods of growth, and in the adult state. In a child at birth the brain is much larger in proportion to the size of the body, than when the growth is completed ; and in the early months of preg- nancv this difference is still more remarkable. V In proportion as the body more completely evolves itself, the relative size becomes less, the other parts of the body having then a quicker growth than the brain; and it is a very considerable length of time after birth before the brain and the other parts of the body acquire their proper balance. The brain at an early period of existence is also a good deal different in its structure from what it is afterwards. It is much softer; and in proportion as the child advances in growth it is found to be more and more firm. The difference between the appearance of the cor- tical and medullary substance, is at a very early period of life less strongly marked than it afterwards becomes. The power, too, of the brain to sustain pressure, is at this very99 early period different from what it is when the child has made a further progress, and especially when it has arrived at the adult state. In a child before birth, and even for some time afterwards, the brain is capable of sustaining a great degree of pressure without injury; and indeed this was necessary on ac- count of the compression to which it was to be exposed in passing through the pelvis; but the adult brain can hardly bear the smallest pressure without mischief. The brain in the human subject, as well as in many other orders of animals, is inclosed in a bony case, called the cranium, which is intended for its protection. The degree of protection depends upon the thickness of the bones, and this thickness becomes greater as the protection becomes more necessary. It is very obvious that an animal can hardly be constructed so as to be protected against all degrees of violence. The thickness of the bones of the cranium is therefore suited to the degrees of violence which generally occur. Where the bones of the cranium are most exposed to injury from external violence, with fewer means of natural defence, there n 2100 they are thicker. Where they are protected by a thick application of muscles, or by the instinctive defence of the arms, they are thinner. Accordingly, at the posterior pro- jecting part of the cranium the bones are thicker than any where else. Nature is will- ing to do enough; but wherever the for- mation of bony matter may be safely spared, it does not take place. There is a long process derived from the brain, consisting of the same matter with the brain itself, and requiring the same protec- tion, viz. the medulla oblongata and spinalis. The first is inclosed in the bones of the era- nium, along with the brain ; and the other is lodged in a canal surrounded with bone, so as to be equally protected. This canal is situated in the spine, and the bones compo- sing it are so firmly connected together, as hardly to be liable to any risk either of dislo- cation or of compression from angles being formed by the motion of the bones upon each other. Although the general amount of the motion of the spine is very consi- derable, yet the motion allowed between any two contiguous bones is very small.101 W hen the bones of the cranium are at any part removed, the brain does not come im- mediately into view, but there is a series of membranes which surround it. The most external has been named the dura mater. This is a membrane of great firmness, of a white colour, and with a few branches of ves- sels on each side ramifying upon it. It ad- heres very firmly to the cranium at every part, so as to require considerable force to separate it. This adhesion is chiefly by the medium of small branches of arteries, which pass from the membrane into the sub- stance of the bones of the cranium. The ad- hesion is likewise very much strengthened by the close application of the membrane itself to the inside of the bones, and especially by the membrane running into the foramina of the bones at the lower part of the cranium. The adhesion is always so firm, as to keep the dura mater closely applied to the inside of every part of the cranium; but sometimes it is praeternaturally strong. In this case it is impossible perfectly to separate the dura mater from the bone, and portions of the membrane will be left adhering to it.102 The dura mater consists of fasciculi of white fibres compacted into a firm membrane. These are more readily observable upon the outside of the dura mater than on its inside, because there they are coarser. The internal surface of the dura mater is finer and of a more shining colour than the external; and here the fibrous structure is less observable, except in particular situations, where coarse fasciculi are interwoven with the membrane, in order to give it greater strength. The dura mater may in some degree be consi- dered as consisting of two laminae,—a coarser upon the outside, and a finer upon the in- side ; but these cannot be separated from each other, so as to leave natural surfaces. A number of fibres are always seen passing between the one and the other, by which they are united. The dura mater in its use is partly to be referred to the cranium itself, and partly to the brain which it envelopes. It is the prin- cipal source of nourishment to the cranium ; and in separating the dura mater from the bone, a prodigious number of fine vessels are ruptured, which pass from the one to103 the other. With regard to the brain, the dura mater seems to have two uses. The one is that of forming septa between different parts of the brain, so that one part shall not press too much upon another; and this is particularly observable in the septum, which divides the posterior part of the cerebrum from the cerebellum. The other use is that of forming considerable canals for carrying back the blood towards the heart. The dura mater consists of materials very well adapted for the formation of large channels in the neighbourhood of a substance so little able O to sustain pressure as the brain. These channels or sinuses are not capable of being- distended by blood in the same manner as %* common veins, and therefore there is no risk of any considerable pressure upon this im- portant organ. The brain can bear the pres- sure produced by the accumulation of blood in the small veins of the pia mater, when it is not carried to an extreme degree; but it could not bear the pressure arising from the dis- tension of veins of the same size as the larger sinuses of the dura mater. The dura mater was at one time supposed104 to be capable of contraction like a muscle, and to act upon the brain for the expulsion of a nervous fluid ; but it is now well known to be perfectly inactive. It consists of a structure, having the same essential properties as ligament and tendon, and is totally in- capable of any contraction ; it is also insen- . sible when in its healthy state. Indeed it is wonderful how this opinion could ever have been formed, when it is considered that the dura mater adheres closely to every part of the cranium, and therefore could not exert any power of contraction were it possessed of such a power, and when it is considered that the brain could not sustain the pressure which must necessarily arise from this con- traction.. The dura mater accompanies the spinal marrow through the whole of its course; but this will be afterwards more particularly noticed. The next membrane which surrounds the brain is called the tunica arachnoides. This is a very fine transparent membrane, inter- posed between the dura mater and the pia mater. It is in most places applied very closely to the pia mater, so as to be separated105 from it with some difficulty, and is so very fine and transparent as to escape observation. In some places, as under the junction of the optic nerves, or between the lobes of the ce- rebellum behind, it may be seen separate, and then it appears to be a membrane with- out any vessels large enough to admit the globules of the blood. When a fluid resem- bling thin jelly is thrown out under this mem- brane, as frequently happens during fevers, it may be seen in many parts separated from the pia mater, and is then somewhat thick- ened. It also attends the medulla spinalis through the canal of the spine; but of its use no satisfactory opinion has hitherto been formed. The pia mater lies in immediate contact with the substance of the brain. It is a very fine transparent membrane, upon which are spread a great number of arteries and veins. These contain partly a florid and partly a dark-coloured blood, so as to produce a va- ried appearance ; and there are few objects more beautiful than the pia mater crowded with blood-vessels. In most parts there is no adhesion between the pia mater and the106 1 dura mater; but in some they are connected, as in the neighbourhood of the larger sinuses of the dura mater, into which the veins of the pia mater pour their contents. To the in- ternal surface of the pia mater there are at- tached a great number of processes, which consist of a shaggy membrane crowded with very fine vessels. The vessels do not indis- criminately enter every part of the sub- stance of the brain ; but in the cerebrum they enter between its foldings, which have been named convolutions; and in the cere- bellum they enter between its concentric la- minae. Neither do they pass in an equal number to every part of the brain; but they chiefly carry their blood to the cortical sub- stance, and rather seem to pass through the medullary substance, in order to reach any cortical which may lie within it, than to ter- minate in the medullary substance itself. In cutting through a portion of the medullary substance, a great number of very fine ves- sels are divided; but these seem to be pass- ing through that substance, and not ramifying in it. When a portion of the cortical sub- stance is cut, there is no appearance of ves-107 sels in it whatever; but this arises from the vessels being very small, and from the colour of the cortical substance which obscures them. The vessels appear very numerous upon a successful injection, or when a part of the cortical substance is inflamed. The brain consists of the cerebrum and the cerebellum, and is formed of two kinds of substance, the cortical and the medullary substance. The first is of a cineritious, and the second of a pure white colour. There is a layer of the cortical substance placed on the outside of the brain: this does not form a smooth uniform plane, but in the cerebrum is moulded into convolutions, a good deal re- sembling the convolutions of the intestines; and in the cerebellum it is formed into con- centric laminae. The convolutions are of a considerable depth; and if any of them be cut through, it is seen to consist both of cor- tical and medullary substance. The cortical forms a layer of considerable thickness ; and if you look attentively upon its divided edge, there will be seen passing through it, and following it through all its windings, a very narrow lamina of medullary substance. This108 is sometimes distinctly marked and some- times obscurely, and has, I believe, been very little, if at all, observed by authors. The concentric laminae upon the surface of the cerebellum are composed also of cortical and medullary matter. By this contrivance the quantity of cortical substance, as well as the extent of its surface upon the outer part of the brain, is very much increased, but with what view has not been hitherto dis- covered. When the cerebrum is divided at the lower surface of the hemispheres, and upon a level with what is commonly called the corpus cal- losum, there is seen a large oval plane of me- dullary substance, which is skirted on the outside by the convoluted cortical substance. A little deeper than this plane, where you come to cavities of a considerable size, and bodies of regular but various shapes, there are many different mixtures of the cortical and medullary matter. Where bodies seem from their outside to be formed of cortical sub- stance only, upon cutting into them there appears to be a considerable mixture of me- dullary matter, as in the corpora striata; and109 where they seem from their outside to be formed of medullary matter only, upon cut- ting into them they are found to have a mix- ture of the cortical. The cortical is some- times in a large proportion, as in the thalami nervorum opticorum, and pedes hippocampi; and sometimes it is in a smaller proportion, as in the tuberculum annulare, and the crura of the cerebrum. I hardly think that there is any particular structure of the brain com- posed purely of the one kind of substance or of the other, although the proportions of each in the various parts may be venf different. Of the intimate structure of the cortical substance I believe very little is satisfactorily known. Some have thought it to consist of nothing else than a congeries of very fine blood-vessels. It is evident, however, that no mere collection of vessels could be made to resemble the cortical substance. The pul- piness so remarkable in that substance could not be produced by a simple collection of vessels, however minute; nor can one ima- gine a collection of vessels to have the same properties with any part of the brain. When a part of the cortical substance is injected/ 110 with fine injection, it appears to be very plentifully supplied with small blood-vessels; but still it is very far from being entirely composed of them. Others have supposed that it was a glan- dular substance. There is no satisfactory evidence, however, in support of this opi- nion ; and if we consider the analogy between it and the structures in the body which we know to be glandular, we shall be led to the belief that this opinion also is ill-founded. Some modern anatomists and naturalists have examined the cortical substance with microscopes of very great magnifying powers, but the result of their observations has been different,—a strong proof that much depen- dence is not to be placed on their accuracy. Some have thought it to consist of very small rounded bodies placed in a transparent jelly; others have thought it to consist of rounded bodies placed in a fine cellular structure; and others have supposed that it consists of very fine tortuous tubes, with some small rounded bodies intermixed. With regard to myself, I cannot trust my own accuracy in making very minute microscopical observations; andIll I frankly own that 1 am totally unacquainted with the minute structure of this substance. The structure of the medullary substance is rather better known. In some parts of the brain, as the pons varolii, crura cerebri, &c., it appears evidently fibrous; and therefore in other parts, where the fibrous texture can hardly be detected, it is very probable that there is the same kind of structure. The fibres may be so small, and so uniformly ap- plied to each other, as to escape observation. With regard to the minuter structure of the medullary substance, I believe that nothing satisfactory is known. By some modern ob- servers its minute structure has been thought to be the same with that of the cortical. In the brain there are four cavities of a considerable size, which are called ventricles. These are surrounded by distinct and peculiar structures of the brain, and contain a little water. This water is more limpid than what is found in the other cavities of the body, and very little or no coagulable matter is dissolved in it. The two largest of these cavities have been called the lateral ventricles, and they are se-112 parated from each other by a thin medullary septum. It has been thought by a distin- guished modern anatomist, that there is a re- gular aperture of communication between them, under the anterior extremity of the fornix; but other anatomists have been un- successful in detecting this direct mode of communication. The other cavities, called the third and fourth ventricles, are much smaller than the former, and communicate together by a small short canal. Connected with the brain, or its mem- branes, there are some small bodies of a pecu- liar structure. These are the pineal gland, the pituitary gland with its infundibulum, and some small white bodies adhering to the pia mater and the dura mater, which have been named the glands of Pacchionus. Of their minute structure, or their use, nothing is di- stinctly known. The brain is very plentifully supplied with blood, but this is not carried in an equal pro- portion to every part of its structure. The cortical substance has a much greater pro- portion carried to it than the medullary; and indeed blood-vessels seem to pass only113 through the latter to get at the former. There is no reason to suppose that the blood carried to the brain is different from the blood of the rest of the body, although this has been the opinion of some physiologists; but it is here conducted with more contrivance than any where else, in order to diminish its momentum. . * / The blood of the brain is conveyed to it by four arteries of a large size ; these are the two internal carotid, and the two vertebral arteries. The blood in all of these is much checked in its impetus as it is about to pass into the cranium. The horizontal and varied channel of the canalis caroticus must exceed- ingly diminish the momentum of the blood in the branches of the internal carotid ar- teries ; and the winding course of the ver- tebral arteries between the atlas and the cra- nium, before they enter at the foramen mag- num occipitale, must have the same effect upon the current of blood passing through the branches of these vessels. The junction, too, of the internal carotid arteries, and the basilary round the sella turcica, must be sub- servient to the same purpose. It may be i114 observed that the branches of these vessels have thinner coats than the branches of ar- teries of the same size in other parts of the body, a circumstance which I believe has been little noticed. This may perhaps be intended with the same general view, viz. that they may have little power to act upon the blood which they contain, so that it shall be propelled almost entirely by the force of the heart, which has already been very much moderated by the contrivances formerly men- tioned. The veins of the brain terminate in the different sinuses of the dura mater, the use of which particular structure we have already endeavoured to explain. The absorbent vessels of the brain have not as yet been discovered, or at least are not generally known. Some anatomists, above a century ago, supposed that they had ob- served absorbent vessels in different parts of the brain; but their observations are not sa- tisfactory, and have been of no assistance to the inquiries of those who have succeeded them. An Italian anatomist has lately thought that he has detected some of these vessels115 within the cranium, at its basis. He has not, however, traced them, by injection, into ab- sorbent glands ; and other anatomists have not been able hitherto to detect the same ap- pearances. There is every reason, however, to suppose that the brain has absorbent ves- sels as well as arteries and veins; but they cannot be very obvious, or they must have been long ago ascertained. The nature of the substance of the brain must add very much to the difficulty of their detection; but time, perseverance, and favourable opportu- nities will at length overcome every difficulty, and the absorbent vessels of the brain will be as certainly known to anatomists as those of other parts. Many circumstances show that absorption takes place in the brain, and it cannot be believed that it is carried on by a different apparatus, or on different principles, than in other parts of the body. The medulla oblongata and medulla spinalis may be considered as an elongation of the brain, being formed by the junction be- tween the cerebrum and cerebellum. The medulla spinalis is merely the continuation of the medulla oblongata passing into a canal of i 2116 the spine, and forming a convenient source for the nerves of the trunk and the extremi- ties. It consists of a conical flattened mass, terminating in a point at the upper end of the loins, and gives off a great number of nerves upon each side, at regular distances from each other. The nerves which arise from its lower extremity are very large, and consist of fibres but loosely connected to- gether, so as to bear some resemblance to a horse’s tail; and from thence they have been called the cauda equina. The medulla spinalis, as well as the me- didla oblongata, consists of the same kind of substance with the brain itself, but differently arranged. The medullary substance is placed upon the outside, and the cortical within; and the proportion of the former to the latter is evidently greater than either in the cere- brum or the cerebellum. The medulla oblongata, lying within the cavity of the cranium, has of course the same coverings with the brain itself; and they are continued into the canal of the spine, accom- panying the spinal marrow. The dura mater in the canal of the spine has exactly the same117 appearance as within the cavity of the cra- nium, but does not adhere firmly to the bones of the spine. Upon each side, in the dura mater, there is a chain of small irregular ca- vities between its outer and inner laminae, into which the veins of the spinal marrow pour their blood. These are of the same kind, and formed with the same view, as the sinuses of the dura mater within the cranium. The dura mater attending the spinal marrow is perforated on each side by foramina, for the passage of lateral nerves. The tunica arachnoides is continued along the spinal marrow from that membrane within the cranium. Within the canal of the spine it is but loosely applied to the pia mater, so that it can easily be separated by inflation; and it then appears to be a very distinct membrane. The spinal marrow is, last of all, covered by the pia mater; but this appears to be a less vascular membrane than where it covers the brain. This no doubt arises from the less quantity of blood, in proportion, which is wanted for the medulla spinalis, which con- sists chiefly of medullary substance. Had it118 consisted principally of the cortical, the ves- sels to be seen on the pia mater would have been both larger and more numerous. Small processes of membrane pass into the sub- stance of the medulla spinalis from the pia mater; but these do not put on any regular form, as in the cerebrum or cerebellum. Upon each side, the external surface of the pia mater is joined to the inner lamina of the dura mater, at regular distances, by short processes from a small firm tendinous sub- stance. This has been named the ligamen- turn denticulatum, and is peculiar to the co- verings of the spinal marrow, there being no such junction between the dura mater and pia mater of any part of the brain. The arteries of the spinal marrow are small, and are derived chiefly from the upper ex- tremities of the two vertebral. From the mode of their origin, the blood must circu- late in them with very little impetus, which corresponds with the general plan of the ar- terial system in the brain. In some places small branches pass in by the lateral foramina of the spine, from the intercostal and lumbar arteries. The veins of the pia mater open119 into the chain of small sinuses in the dura mater, and from thence the blood is conveyed by short communicating branches to the in- tercostal and lumbar veins. The absorbent i '0 vessels of the spinal marrow have not as yet been discovered, but still there can be no reasonable doubt of their existence. There are a number of cords passing from the brain, or its appendages, to different parts of the body, which have been named nerves. Those within the cranium arise partly from particular structures in the brain itself, as the corpora striata, thalami nervorum opti- corum, and partly from a substance formed by the junction of the cerebrum and cerebel- lum. A great number arise from each side of the medulla spinalis. None can be said to arise out of the common mass of the brain. Nerves at their origin are either formed of one cord, as the optic nerve, or are composed of a single plane of fibrils, which afterwards unite together, as the eighth and ninth pairs of nerves ; or they are made up by the union of a double plane of fibrils, as the nerves de- rived from the spinal marrow. Some of the nerves are composed of pure120 medullary matter, as the optic nerve ; but in the greater number this matter is so enve- loped in a tough cellular membrane, as to render its appearance less distinct. In the olfactory nerves there is an evident junction of the cortical with the medullary matter, but in some of the others there is clearly no- thing but medullary matter; and it is ex- tremely doubtful whether in the nerves ge- nerally, of the body, there be any mixture at all of the cortical. The nerves appear to consist of little cylin- drical masses of medullary substance inclosed in a tough cellular membrane. In this cel- lular membrane there are distributed a num- ber of small blood-vessels ; but I have never been able to observe any distinct coverings of the dura mater and the pia mater, as many anatomists have supposed. With regard to the minute structure of the ultimate fibrils, I believe that nothing satisfactory is known; and it would exceed the limits of this lecture to enter into an examination of the opinions upon this subject. The nerves are distributed to different parts of the body in very different proportions.121 The organs of sense and of motion are the most plentifully supplied with nerves; the glands of the body, in many instances, spa- ringly; and tendons, ligaments, bones, &c., either not at all, or the nerves which reach them are so small as to prevent their being distinctly traced. In some parts of the body little swellings are occasionally formed in the nerves, which have been called ganglions. These have a very different appearance from a common portion of a nerve, being somewhat of a red- dish-brown colour, and having a minute fibrous texture. Some nerves in the body form an intimate junction with each other, which has been called a plexus. This is re- markably the case with the nerves of the upper and lower extremities, and also with the nerves which supply the abdominal vis- cera. To enter into a minute account either of the ganglions or plexuses of nerves, would carry us much beyond the limits of such a lecture ; and this inquiry would be the less satisfactory, as much upon both of these sub- jects is to be considered only as conjecture.LECTURE II. HAVING given in the former lecture a very general view of the anatomy of the nervous system, we now come to the explanation of the purposes to which it is subservient. There is hardly any part of physiology at- tended with more difficulties in its investi- gation, or more imperfectly known, than that of the nervous system. We may be said to be entirely ignorant of the uses of particular modes of structure, both in the brain and nerves. The distinct use of the cortical and medullary substances in the brain has not been hitherto discovered. We are, if possible, less acquainted with the uses of their particular modifications and mixtures in the different parts of the brain. Why they are formed, for instance, into con- volutions upon the surface of the cerebrum, and into concentric laminae upon the surface123 of the cerebellum ; why the corpora striata have such a proportion, and such an ar- rangement of the cortical and medullary sub- stance ; and why in the thalami nervorum op- ticorum, or tuberculum annulare, both should be so very different. We are in the same state of ignorance with regard to the use of particular modifications in the structure of nerves, and more especially of the uses of gan- glions and plexuses. The authors who have attempted to scrutinize nature in the detail of her wonderful formation of the nervous # system, have not been aware of the weakness of their own powers, and how much they have exposed their presumption and ignorance. Although we may be considered as totally unacquainted with the uses of the particular modifications of structure in the nervous sy- stem, yet the chief purposes to which this system in general is subservient are not un- known to us. It is the system through which impressions are communicated from the dif- ferent parts of the body to the brain, thereby producing sensations; and it is the system through which the influence of the mind, as connected with the brain in volition and va-124 rious excitements, is communicated to many different parts of the body. The different parts of the body are not equally capable of receiving impressions which might afterwards be communicated to the brain, and therefore are not equally sen- sible. Some may be said to be highly sen- sible ; as the organs of sense, the muscles, and many of the viscera; while others seem in general to have no sensibility whatever. Of this kind are the bones, ligaments, car- tilages, and tendons of an animal body. In such parts the distribution of nerves has not hitherto been traced, and therefore we are not surprised at their want of this property; but how all of them should be capable of sensation, when diseased, is a fact which it appears extremely difficult to explain. In order that sensation be produced in any part of the body, it is necessary that several circumstances should take place. First, it is necessary that an impression be made on the nerves. This may take place either from the immediate application of the object itself to the nerve, as in the sensation of touch ; or from the application of extremely minute ✓125 particles which fly off from different bodies, as in seeing or in smelling. Whatever be the variety in the modes of impression, the same general rule is still applicable, and the impression must be made in some form or other. Secondly, a communication by nerves must exist between the brain and that part of the body where the impression is made. There is no other medium through which an impression can be communicated; and it may be interrupted by a variety of causes, which will be very soon explained. It is very na- tural to inquire whether there be any change produced in a nerve when conveying im- pressions? In answer to this we may say, that there is no change whatever produced in the external appearance of a nerve during this part of its function; but what change may take place in its very minute structure, is probably much too subtile to be detected. The particular state of nerve which takes place while it is conveying impressions to the brain, may be interrupted or destroyed by various causes. It appears to be necessary, in order that the impression may be con- veyed, that there be no discontinuation of126 the matter of the nerve between the seat of the impression and the brain. Hence, if a portion of a nerve be cut out, it becomes unfit for conveying impressions ; and even if it be merely divided, the same incapacity takes place. The application of the divided parts to each other, so as to be closely in contact, will produce no change in the effect, for the impression will not pass from the one to the other. Some persons have supposed that when a portion of any nerve was divided, it not only lost its power of conveying im- pressions, but never recovered it. This opi- nion is, however, ill-founded; there can be no doubt of the real matter of nerve being re- generated; and there have been well-marked instances of nerves, after being divided, reco- vering their capability of conveying impres- sions, although they recover it very slowly. When a ligature is made upon any nerve, it is also rendered incapable of conveying impressions to the brain. That particular state of nerve which takes place while it is performing this function is prevented by the ligature from being propagated to the brain, so that this organ receives no impression.127 Tumours, according to their degree of pressure upon nerves, will produce more or less of the same effect. Every person has frequently experienced a temporary external pressure upon a particular nerve, when im- pressions have been conveyed imperfectly to the brain, in consequence of which there has been indistinct sensation. Tumours growing in the neighbourhood of nerves, especially hard tumours, occasionally produce the same effect. If such a nerve, or nerves, be near a bone, they may be so squeezed between the tumour and the bone as to convey im- pressions either very indistinctly, or entirely to lose this power. The causes just now enumerated as inter- rupting or destroying the power of nerves to convey impressions may be said to be ex- ternal, and exist where there is supposed to be no fault in the nerves themselves. There are changes also taking place in nerves, which produce the same incapacity. One of these changes is when the nerves of any part become paralytic. When this is the case, there is usually no alteration produced in their appearance, but they look in every128 respect like healthy nerves. They would seem only to have lost the power of taking on that state which is necessary for convey- ing impressions to the brain; but as we cannot tell what that state really is, we must be unable to discover what is the particular de- fect in the nerves which are so incapacitated. We know from experience that nerves re- cover themselves very slowly from this state, and in most instances very imperfectly. Changes are occasionally observed in the structure of nerves which are incapable of conveying impressions. I recollect a re- markable instance of this in one of the optic nerves, which was of a much smaller size than usual, and had entirely lost the common medullary appearance, being converted into a blueish, half-transparent matter. Under such circumstances of change it is probable that nerves will never recover their power of conveying impressions. When an impression is carried along nerves to the brain, we are totally unacquainted with the change produced there, in order that sensation may take place. We cannot tell whether it is a change produced only at129 the origin of the nerves along which the im- pression had been conveyed, or whether it is a change diffused over the whole mass of the brain. We may be said, if possible, to know less of the various changes produced by va- rious modes of impression, from whence the great variety of sensations, of which the body is capable, is derived. Notwithstanding the state of our ignorance upon this subject, we know by experience that several circum- stances may take place in the brain, by which it may either be unfitted to receive impres- sions at all, or will receive them very imper- fectly. These circumstances are commonly various causes of pressure applied to the brain, of which the principal are the accu- mulation of water, and the extravasation of blood. The first produces its effect more slowly, and most frequently happens at an early age. The other produces its effect suddenly, and hardly ever happens but at the middle, or more advanced periods of life. Tu- mours of different kinds growing in the brain itself, or in its neighbourhood, occasionally produce the same effect; but these happen rarely in comparison with the two former K130 causes, and generally make a slow progress. It is also not improbable that changes may take place throughout the general structure of the brain, by which it may be unfitted to receive impressions from the nerves, or will receive them very imperfectly. We know that the brain is frequently changed from its healthy structure, so as to receive false im- pressions, as in many instances of mania; and therefore we may suppose that there are certain changes by which it may be incapa- citated from receiving impressions distinctly, or perhaps from receiving them at all. If, however, there be such changes, they are, I believe, at present not well ascertained. Most parts of the body are only capable of conveying different impressions which produce sensations of pain. These are very different in the same parts, according to the degree or the mode of the impression,—so that sensations of pain vary a good deal. There are some parts of the body where the sensations of pain may be said to be pecu- liar, as for example that of the testicle upon pressure. Were patients in general capable of comparing accurately these sensations,131 and giving a precise description of them, it would afford more ready and certain means of discriminating many diseases than has been hitherto attained. Some parts of the body are not only ca- pable of receiving various impressions that produce sensations of pain, but also a great variety of other impressions, from whence other sensations are derived. These are the organs of sense; and they form, from this circumstance, the principal channels of our knowledge of the external world. They are five in number, and each has a very distinct and peculiar organization, suited to the kind of impressions which it is intended to receive. They have larger nerves of communication between them and the brain than belong to the other parts of the body, and in some the nerves are of a peculiar structure. Most of the organs of sense are placed near the brain, so that their impressions are communicated by a short route to this principal part of the nervous system; but the organ of touch is placed at a considerable distance. The or- gans of sense, except that of the touch, are each of them employed in receiving and k 2132 transmitting to the brain a great variety of impressions belonging to the same genus ; as the nose different impressions of smell, and the ear different impressions of sound; but the touch is capable of receiving and trans- mitting impressions which produce sensations of a kind quite distinct from each other. The sensations of figure, and of hardness or softness in bodies, may be said to be different in kind. The same observation may be thought applicable to the eye ; for we derive from it not only sensations of colour, but of form, extension, &c. It is, however, pro- bable, that in producing the last kinds of sensation, the eye is educated by the touch. We know that it is always corrected by the touch when it is wrong, or in doubt about the accuracy of these sensations; and they can be produced totally independent of the eye. But the eye may be said to stand in a relation to the touch which it does not to any other organ of sense. It communicates many of the impressions which properly belong to touch, and even more readily than this sense; but it cannot be educated to convey any im- pressions of sound, or smell, or taste. Im-133 pressions are conveyed from all the organs of sense, except the eye, directly to the brain, without any intermediate state being pro- duced ; but in the eye an image is formed, which is necessary for exciting the sensations peculiar to this organ. These organs, conveying to the brain a very great variety of impressions, become the prin- cipal source of our knowledge; but as they are only capable of receiving and transmitting impressions of qualities of matter, its real es- sence must always remain unknown. Al- though all impressions are conveyed through the medium of nerves to the brain, in order to produce sensation, yet all sensations are not felt in this organ. On the contrary, this organ has no sensations referable to itself but when impressions are made immediately upon it, or in some sympathetic sensations connected with impressions made on other parts of the body, as for example the stomach. Sensations are generally referred to the parts of the body where the impressions have been made, and they vary according to the degree and the mode of the impressions. In some cases the sensations are referred to a part of the body at a distance from the seat of the134 impression. Thus when water is accumu- lated in the bladder to a considerable quan- tity, the principal seat of the sensation is at the end of the penis. Although there is an unpleasant sense of fullness in the region of the bladder, yet the most acute and marked sensation is at the other part. Indeed the latter always takes place, while the former is only produced when the accumulation of water is unusually large. There is no deceit in this reference of sensation, for by experience we know that it is connected with such a state of the bladder; and indeed, independently of experience, it is attended with a strong desire to empty the water, and a full conviction that with proper efforts this effect will take place. There are many other instances where im- pressions and sensations produced in one part of the body are accompanied with sen- sations in another. Thus in certain affec- tions of the head and kidneys, the sensation of sickness is produced in the stomach ; and the same thing frequently happens when the uterus is pregnant. It may be observed, that sensations take place in the stomach, in consequence of impressions or sensations being previously excited in other parts, much135 more frequently than they are produced in any other part of the body. These may be called sympathetic sensations, some of which would appear capable of being explained by a connexion among the nerves of particular parts; but others cannot be explained upon this principle. It may be observed that these sympathetic sensations are not the same in all individuals, but often differ very much, such sensations taking place between certain parts in one individual, and between very different parts in another. Sensations are sometimes referred not to the seat of the impression, but to the small extremities of nerves which have been ac- customed to receive such impressions. Thus in an amputated limb, impressions made upon the extremity of the stump produce sensations which are referred to the toes or fingers of that limb. The impressions now conveyed from the cut extremities of the nerves of the amputated limb, used formerly to be com- municated from the smaller extremities of these nerves in the toes or the fingers; and the mind for some time refers the sensations to these smaller extremities, till this error is136 corrected by habit. On some occasions it would appear that these false references of sensation are continued for years after the amputation of a limb, and perhaps in such cases they are never entirely corrected. It is not intended to enter here into the detail of all the various circumstances which can produce change in our sensations. This would lead to a very extended inquiry, and therefore some of the principal will only be at present noticed. When one kind of sensation is destroyed, some others become increased in consequence of it. Thus when all sensations communi- cated by the eye are lost, the sensations com- municated by the touch and by the ear are improved. This improvement does not arise directly out of the loss of the other class of sensations, but it becomes in some degree necessary for the protection of the body that these other sensations should be improved; and by great attention to them when excited, and by frequently repeating them, an as- tonishing improvement at length is made. After what has just been said, it is hardly necessary to observe that great improvement137 may be made by a certain education in dis- criminating the sensations derived from every organ of sense. This education merely con- sists in a very close attention to sensations when produced, and in their being frequently subjected to this attention. Thus we can ar- rive at a great degree of accuracy in discri- minating between different sensations of taste, or of smell, or of hearing, which are separated from each other by such nice shades of dis- tinction, that they would be confounded by persons who had not paid attention to this particular species of education. Habit has considerable influence in regu- lating our sensations, as well as many other functions of the body. In general it dimi- nishes the force of sensations according to the degree of habit, or the frequency of their being excited. It connects sensations with objects with which they are not naturally associated. It can even change the nature of sensations, rendering those which were ori- ginally agreeable indifferent, or perhaps even disagreeable; and, on the contrary, rendering those at length pleasant which were originally disagreeable to us.f 138 In many instances the sensation remains tor some time after the impression producing it has ceased. Thus, if the hand is put into water either hot or cold, the sensation re-, mains for some time after it has been taken out. This depends on the nerves continuing for some time in that particular state into which they had been thrown; and this state of nerve is conveyed to the brain, which pro- duces the continuance of sensation. Sensations are much varied in their de- gree of intensity by the sensations which im- mediately precede them, and in many in- stances are altogether changed. This is particularly evident in the comparative sen- sations of heat and cold. The force of sensations is a good deal va- ried by the expectation of the mind. When they fall below this expectation, they seem less; and when they rise above it, they seem greater, than they would otherwise be. There are many other circumstances to be remarked which have much influence upon our sen- sations ; but to enter into their consideration would lead us far beyond the ordinary limits of these lectures, and therefore they are en-139 tirely omitted. What has been noticed here has reference only to those sensations pro- duced by impressions from without. There is also a great variety of sensations produced, not by external objects, but by the general affections of our nature, and our power of distinguishing between right and wrong. We receive a sensation of pleasure from the ob- servation of virtuous conduct, and a sensation of pain from the observation of the contrary. We are conscious of the various operations of our own minds, which may be said to pro- duce another class of sensations. Both of these form very interesting and extended subjects of investigation, which it is impos- sible at present to consider.LECTURE III. THE nerves are not only employed in con- veying impressions to the mind, so as to pro- duce sensations, but also in conveying the influence of the brain to the different parts of the body which are capable of being ex- cited into motion. These parts of the body are called muscular, and have a peculiar or- ganization, which it would be foreign to our present purpose to explain. The nerves are capable of being variously impressed, so as to excite muscles into motion. The most common influence which is con- veyed along nerves to excite the action of muscles is volition. We do not understand what is the particular state, either of the brain while volition is exerted, or of the nerve while an influence is conveyed along it to muscles ; and both of these subjects are perhaps be- yond the boundary of human investigation.141 We know that to the eye there is no ap- parent change in a nerve when conducting volition, and it is probable that there is also none in the brain while this power of the mind is exercised. The change, therefore, must take place in the very minute structure of the parts, which cannot be an object of examination. It is remarkable, that although the effect of volition upon muscles, when con- veyed along nerves to them, is that of their being put into motion; yet the volition is never exerted towards the muscles them- selves, but towards that change which is in- tended to be produced by their action. One might naturally be inclined to think that the volition would be directed to the muscles themselves which are called into action. Upon a little consideration, however, it is easy to see why this should not be the case. Were volition to be directed towards the muscles themselves, it would be necessary to understand what muscles ought to be called into action, in order to produce every variety of change in the motions of the body of which it may be capable. This, however, would be totally impossible in an infant, and indeed142 is a knowledge which the most perfect phy- siologist has never yet been able to attain. Were it possible for such a knowledge to be attained, still a good deal of consideration would be requisite every time any complex action was to be performed, to know upon what muscles the volition was to be exerted; and if our judgement should be wrong, the volition would be improperly directed, and we should be disappointed in the effect which we intended to produce. It is managed by nature much more simply, and without any risk of mistake. It is enough to know what effect we desire to take place, and to exert our volition towards that effect, and the mus- cles which are calculated to produce it are immediately called into action. There is no difference in this process, whether the effect can be produced by the action of one or two muscles, or whether the nice cooperation of many be required; it is enough to will the effect, and this nice cooperation takes place as readily and as easily as the most simple action. When the volition is exerted towards an effect which is to be produced by a long143 succession of the same actions, these actions take place without our being conscious of any volition continuing to be exerted. Thus in walking, one step is taken after another without our being conscious of a succession of volitions, and the mind may be deeply engaged in the mean time in the most ab- struse inquiry. Still, however, the muscles employed in walking will not act unless they receive the influence of volition; but we lose the consciousness of it in other exertions of the mind which are more interesting. The volition cannot be exerted for any great length of time upon the same muscles without producing the feeling of fatigue; but this, like many other states of an animal body, is very much regulated by habit. The greater number of the muscles of the body are under the influence of volition, and these have been called for this reason voluntary muscles. Of this kind are all the muscles whose actions are not necessary to any vital function, and are only occasionally to be called into exertion. There are other muscles upon which vo-144 lition has a partial influence. Of this kind are such muscles as are employed in carry- ing on a vital function, but which are also employed for purposes that only occasionally take place, and are to be regulated by vo- lition. Thus the muscles of respiration may be said, with regard to their common func- tion, to be involuntary muscles. They are as invariable in carrying on respiration as the heart is in carrying on the circulation, and are as little dependent upon the atten- tion of the mind. They are not, however, purely involuntary muscles; for respiration can be varied by volition, both in the quan- tity of air taken into, and thrown out from the lungs, and in the frequency of inspiration and expiration in a given time. It was con- venient, and often necessary, that this ope- ration should in some measure be under the regulation of our will. The muscles subser- vient to respiration are also capable of pro- ducing certain effects upon some of the ab- dominal viscera, assisting them to expel what they may contain; and this was to be in some degree regulated by our volition. For these145 » reasons, the muscles of respiration have been made partly voluntary, and partly involun- tary muscles. There are again other muscles upon which volition has no influence whatever. These are employed in carrying on functions which are intimately connected with life, and where there would have been a great disadvantage if they had been at all dependent on volition. Of this kind is the muscular structure of the heart and blood-vessels; and of the same kind, likewise, is the muscular structure of the stomach and bowels. The first of these structures is employed in the distribution of blood over the body; and the other in pre- paring a fluid capable of being converted into blood, which is intended to supply its waste, besides expelling the excrementitious matter. Had either of these operations been dependent on volition, they would have re- quired constant attention in order to be car- ried on, and therefore the mind could not have emplo}red itself in other pursuits ; they would frequently have been managed very imperfectly, and would have run much risk of being altogether stopt. Indeed, upon the L146 supposition of these actions being voluntary, the body could never enjoy the refreshment of sleep, and must have been constructed in this respect upon a plan totally different from what it is at present. Although volition be a principal cause of the action of muscles, yet it is regulated according to circumstances, exerting on some muscles its full force, on others a partial influence, and on others none at all. The different emotions of the mind are also conveyed along nerves to different muscles of the body, exciting them to contraction. Each emotion, when raised in a considerable degree, sets in action its appropriate muscles, producing a change in the countenance and attitude, which is expressive of the emotion. This becomes a natural language, and is perfectly understood in all countries; for it depends upon an universal principle inhuman nature, and is not connected with any arbi- trary customs of society. The expressions of the countenance and attitude in anger, re- venge, fear,*&c., when strongly excited, are the same in every country, and are uni- versally understood. Volition has no share14? in these actions : they may indeed be some- times repressed by volition, when in a mode- rate degree; but when raised to a high pitch, they readily overcome its opposition, which is then very feeble, and produce their full effects. Muscles are capable of being thrown into a much greater degree of contraction by emotions of the mind than perhaps by any other cause ; and it is this circumstance which gives the astonishing strength sometimes ex- erted by maniacs. The principle of imitation is also another cause of the action of muscles. This may be said on most occasions to be influenced by volition, for we generally imitate what we have previously willed to imitate; but the principle of imitation is sometimes quite inde- pendent of the will. This is best exemplified in the imitation of any gesture or motion which may have been singular, and may very much have called up the attention of the mind. This state of mind acts through the inter- vention of nerves upon certain muscles, ex- citing them to action, and producing an imi- tation of the particular motion or gesture. This is so far from being dependent on vo- l 2148 lition, that the mind is often not conscious of its taking place; and whenever it becomes so, the imitation is repressed by an exertion of volition. Internal impressions in some parts of the body are a cause of muscular action. Thus the application of the blood to the internal surface of the cavities of the heart, appears to be the cause which excites it to contract. Although the small nervous fibrils of the heart have perhaps never been distinctly traced to its cavities, yet there can be little doubt of their reaching them; and the im- pression made upon their extremities is com- municated to the other branches, so that those exert their influence also in exciting muscular action. It has been a doctrine very lately advanced, that there are no nerves whatever passing to the muscular substance of the heart, but that they all terminate in the coats of the coronary arteries. This, I believe, from what I have observed myself, not to be well founded ; and it should seem wonderful that the muscle of the heart should not be stimulated to action, through the im- mediate connexion with nerves, like the other149 muscles of the body, but through the inter- vention of blood-vessels. This is to bestow upon blood-vessels an office which one would not be willing to admit but upon the most unequivocal evidence. In the intestinal canal, the peristaltic mo- tion is excited by the impression of the con- tents of the intestines upon the very fine nerves which reach the villi of the inner membrane. These are branches of the same nerves which supply the muscular coat of the intestines, and the impression is communi- cated from the former to the latter. The peristaltic motion is therefore produced with- out any impression being immediately ap- plied to the proper nerves of that motion, but by a principle which has been established in the animal oeconomy,—that impressions ap- plied to the nerves of the villous are capable of exciting the nerves of the muscular coat. Over these actions volition has no power, and we are not conscious of their taking place: they go on entirely without our knowledge. Nerves may be excited by external stimuli so as to produce the action of muscles. If a150 nerve be pricked by any sharp instrument, as a needle, or be half divided,—or if any stimulating matter be applied, as a drop of concentrated acid,—the muscles which its branches supply will be thrown into a violent state of contraction. The nerve itself, how- ever, remains perfectly still; nor does it ap- pear to undergo any change whatever. In the same manner, whether the influence of volition, or of excitements of the mind, or influence of any other kind be conveyed along nerves to muscles, the nerves them- selves seem to undergo no change, however great may be the effect produced on the mus- cles in which they terminate. Mechanical or chemical stimuli, applied immediately to muscles themselves, will ex- cite them to contraction. This probably depends upon the very minute fibrils of the nerves being impressed, which are distri- buted through muscles in great numbers, al- though they are too small for observation ; and therefore in this case the impression is pro- bably still conveyed from nerves to muscles. In animals of so simple an organization that nerves have not yet been discovered in151 them, the application of stimuli is known to be capable of exciting them to motion. Thus, if an hydatid from the liver of a sheep be put into water heated to the decree of heat of the human body, motion will be excited in it. This may be supposed either to depend upon fibrils so very minute as to elude ob- servation, which are impressed by the con- tact of the heated water; or it may be sup- posed that a nervous matter is mixed through its whole substance, without any nerves being formed, which nervous matter receives the same impression, and communicates it to the muscular structure. It is perhaps im- possible to ascertain this point anatomically, and therefore every thing which can be said concerning it must be considered as merely conjectural. These are the principal impressions which are known to be conveyed along nerves, and to excite muscles to contraction. They may be interrupted by a variety of accidents, which are of the same kind as those which sometimes interrupt the progress of impres- sions to the brain, and thereby prevent the different sensations from taking place.152 If a nerve be divided, or a portion be cut out, it is rendered for a time incapable of conveying volition, or any other mode of im- pression, to muscles. At length, however, the divided ends of the nerve will be united, or a new portion of nerve will be formed to supply what had been removed, and the power of exciting muscles to action will be recovered. If strong pressure be made upon any nerve, whether by a ligature, or by a tumour, or some other external cause, its power of ex- citing muscles to action is very much im- paired, and on some occasions may be lost. It will, however, be recovered after the pres- sure has been removed, but more or less slowly, according to the degree of injury which the nerve had sustained. The most common cause which impairs in nerves the power of exciting muscles to action, is that change which is called para- lysis. This sometimes originates in some pressure upon the brain, but very often it belongs merely to the nerves themselves. Sometimes there are only a very few nerves affected with this morbid change, but it very153 commonly extends to all the nerves of one side of the body. The nerves themselves, upon inspection, generally appear to have undergone no change; but still there must be some, although it be of such a nature as not to be observable. Upon almost every occasion the recovery of nerves from this condition is very slow, and generally very imperfect. It would be an inquiry of great public benefit, to examinein to the causes why this complaint is more common in men than in women, and especially why in this very large town it is so often found in men, even at an early period of life. Changes may take place in the brain by which it is rendered incapable of affecting the nerves with those different modes of im- pression, which are to be conducted along them for the purpose of exciting the contrac- tion of muscles. These changes depend chiefly upon pressure, which may arise from a great variety of causes. The power of nerves to excite the action of muscles may not only be morbidly di- minished, but also morbidly increased. In this case, the muscles of some part of the154 body are thrown into strong and repeated contractions, or may be continued in a state of permanent contraction. In neither of these cases are the muscles at all influenced by volition ; and however strongly it may be exerted to moderate the contractions, the ef- fort is attended with no effect. On many occasions the cause of these complaints can- not be ascertained, although it is generally supposed to be some strong excitement ap- plied to the brain. In some cases it has been found by examination after death to be a mechanical stimulus applied,—as for in- stance, a little bony process growing from the dura mater, and irritating the brain; and in cases of permanent contraction, it is al- most constantly found to be an irritation of some nerve, occasioned by a wound. Where the disease consists in a repetition of con- tractions, it is frequently in time removed, and therefore in such cases can hardly be supposed to depend upon any mechanical irritation applied to the brain. Where it consists in a permanent contraction, and where the cause is ascertained, the disease is most frequently fatal.155 Habit has much influence in regulating the force, the velocity, and the succession of muscular contractions ; but it would lead me far beyond the limits of the present plan to enter into this subject particularly. Neither is it proposed to notice the changes produced in muscles during their contraction ; for this does not properly belong to our subject, which is intended merely to treat of the in- fluence of the nervous system in exciting muscular action. The nervous system and the body generally are after some time exhausted by the number of impressions which are conveyed along the nerves, for the purpose of producing sensation, or of exciting to action ; and some means are necessary for recovering from this exhaustion. This is done by sleep, which is a state wherein all the vital functions are carried on in the same manner as when a person is awake; but where the functions not necessary to life, and which have been called the animal functions, are suspended. Authors have amused them- selves by forming opinions about the precise state of the nervous system during sleep. Some have supposed that the nervous fluid156 being previously exhausted, sleep was there- by produced; and during that state that a new stock of nervous fluid was formed. Others have supposed that the mobility of the nervous influence was much diminished, and that during sleep this property was gra- dually recovered to its full extent. It is ob- vious, however, that all opinions upon this subject must rest merely upon conjecture. We do not know the state of the nervous i system during the full activity of its func- tions, and therefore we must be little able to discover what is its state when many of these functions are suspended. Although we are unacquainted with the exact state of the ner- vous system during sleep, yet we know many of the remote causes which lead to it. These are chiefly fatigue, either of body or mind; the gratification of appetites; a certain at- tention to the regular recurrence of the same impressions; an almost total want of im- pressions ; and a powerful and long-continued application of cold. Most of these tend to exhaust the body, and therefore seem to lead very naturally to sleep, by which the powers of the body are recruited. It would appear157 likewise to be necessary, in order that a per- son should be kept awake, for a certain de- gree of excitement to be applied to the ner- vous system; and when this degree of ex- citement is not supported, a state of sleep is gradually produced. This seems to be the most probable cause of sleep, where there is a regular recurrence of the same impres- sions, or where hardly any impressions at all are made upon the nervous system. There is probably no state, during the time that a person is awake, when there is a total want of impressions ; but every person must have experienced a situation approaching to this, when impressions have been made very faintly, and sleep has very soon taken place. It has been the opinion of many that the mind is always active, even during the soundest sleep. Of this, however, there ap- pears to me to be no good evidence. It can only rest upon our recollection of what has passed during that state; and where nothing is recollected, I cannot see upon what ground of proof we are to infer that any exertions of the mind have taken place. Exertions of the158 mind very usually attend what is generally supposed to be an imperfect sleep, but all its faculties are not equally exerted. The imagi- nation is very active, while the exercise of the judgement is very imperfect. The imagi- nation during sleep cannot, any more than when a person is awake, create new objects, but is only capable of forming new combi- nations. These combinations are often in- congruous ; but however great the incon- gruity may be, it is not, during a state of sleep, perceived by the judgement. When sleep has been continued for a cer- tain length of time, the powers of the body, and likewise of the mind, are recruited; but this time is much regulated by habit and by the different periods of life. We ought next to take notice of the dif- ferent opinions which have been formed about the manner in which impressions are conveyed along nerves, to excite the contrac- tion of muscles. This, however, would lead to an extensive field of inquiry, carrying me far beyond the limits of this lecture; and little satisfaction could be derived from it,159 for every opinion which has hitherto been formed upon the subject may be said to be conjectural. From experiments which have been lately made by Louis Galvani of Bologna, and re- peated and improved by others, it might be supposed that nerves excite muscles to con- traction by conveying to them an electric fluid. It does not, however, follow from these experiments, that electricity is the or- dinary means employed to excite muscles to action when volition is exerted, or the va- rious emotions of the mind are called forth which produce the contraction of their ap- propriate muscles. But it is not intended to enter upon this very intricate subject, where it is not likely that at present we should ar- rive at any satisfactory knowledge. Sic, Praeses venerande, et Auditores dig- nissimi, quod hoc tempore proposui de ce- rebro et nervis disserere, ad finem perduxi. Multa fuerunt praetermissa ut in argumento160 nimis copioso ; plurima in obscuro relicta. In quaestione tam difficili, quid verisimilius videatur, sequi. conatus fui, si non veritatem ipsam attingere potuissem. Benevolentiae assuetae confido vestrae, de hoc parvulo in- cep to vos humaniter existimaturos.SOME BRIEF OBSERVATIONS DRAWN FROM MY OWN EXPERIENCE UPON A CONSIDERABLE NUMBER OF DISEASES.I HAVE now practised as a physician for more than thirty years, and have for the greater part of that time been so much oc- cupied with visiting patients, that I have seldom been able to write notes of individual cases. It has occurred to me, however, that some advantage might be derived from my leaving a short record of the results of my experience in a considerable number of dis- eases*. I am convinced that the most successful treatment of patients will depend upon the * The plan of recording the results of his experience ap- pears to have been first adopted by Dr. Baillie in 1819, when in consequence of some arrangements which he made, he hoped to have had more time at his disposal. There is reason to believe that he meant to have given a more ex- tended account of his own experience: but almost every moment of the short remainder of his life continued to be oc- cupied with the active duties of his profession; and he was besides constantly harassed with the feeling, that notwith- standing his utmost exertions, he was unable to answer all the demands made upon him, or to perform the various duties that were continually presenting themselves to his conscien- tious mind. M 2164 exertion of sagacity or good common sense, guided by a competent professional know- ledge ; and not by following strictly the rules of practice laid down in books, even by men of the greatest talents and experience. It is very seldom that diseases are found pure and unmixed, as they are commonly described by authors; and there is almost an endless variety of constitutions. The treatment must be adapted to this mixture and variety, in order to be as successful as circumstances will per- mit; and this allows of a very wide field for the exercise of good common sense on the part of the physician. A physician who should be guided strictly by the rules laid down in books would be a very bad practitioner. In the following short observations on the treat- ment of various diseases, I shall state im- partially the result of my experience, with- out entering into any speculative reasoning, which is often very fallacious. Hanger Hill*, July 22, 1819. * During the period of Dr. Baillie’s attendance at Wind- sor, he resided for one summer at Hanger Hill, near Acton.165 COMPLAINTS OF THE HEAD. M any persons of both sexes are affected daily with Headaches of more or less se- verity, for many months, and often for some years. They chiefly prevail towards the middle time of life, but occur often at an earlier period. They may take place in any part of the head, but are more com- monly felt in the forehead, or over one eye, or in the back part of the head. Such head- aches I have found in general to be very little benefited by bleeding, either general or to- pical. In the accounts which patients have given me of the effect of this remedy, they have said that they have either received from it no benefit at all, or that it has lasted but a few hours ; or that the headaches have even been worse after cupping or the application of leeches. I have generally found such headaches to be most benefited by temperate living, great attention to avoid improper diet, purgative medicines, and bitters. The best common medicine is rhubarb and soap, in166 such doses as to give two motions daily. A few grains of calomel with an aperient draught, such as an infusion of senna with a drachm or two of Epsom salts given occa- sionally, as for instance once in a fortnight or three weeks, are sometimes of much use. A due degree of exercise taken daily, both on foot and on horseback, is likewise in some cases very serviceable. Some headaches I have known relieved by nervous medicines, but not frequently. In some cases this complaint is relieved by no plan of medi- cine or management whatever, but will gra- dually, after some months or years, subside. The seat of such headaches is, I believe, in the scalp, and not in the inside of the cra- nium. They depend chiefly for their cause upon the state of the stomach and bowels, or upon an irritable state of some of the nerves of the scalp. In most headaches of severity it is right to make one or two trials of the effect of topical bleeding, but not to perse- vere in the repetition of this measure for many months, as is often done, even though it produce no benefit. The cutting the hair of the scalp very short,167 and the application of cold, by a large sponge wrung out of cold water and applied to the upper part of the head, will often give great temporary relief when the skin has been pre- viously hot. APOPLEXY. This disease, in its most severe form, de- pends commonly upon blood being poured out into the substance of the brain from some ruptured blood-vessel. This generally takes place in the medullary substance, near one of the lateral ventricles, but it may occur in any part of the brain. The milder forms of Apoplexy depend upon a distention of some of the vessels of the brain, from an undue accumulation of blood in them. I have known, however, one instance of fatal apoplexy where many of the blood-vessels were found, upon examination after death, to be much distended with blood, but no blood had been extrava- sated in any part of the brain. The chief remedy in Apoplexy is large bleeding, to be repeated according to cir- cumstances. Topical bleeding by cupping and leeches is likewise often of use. The168 next remedies in importance are purgative medicines of considerable power, and acrid glysters. The head should be kept high or elevated, and cold may be applied with ad- vantage to the top of the head. If the pa- tient should recover by these means, the best plan of management, in order to escape from another attack, is to live almost entirely throughout future life upon vegetable food, and to abstain from wine, spirits, and malt- liquor. It will be of considerable advantage to avoid any strong or long-continued ex- ertion of the mind. In a few instances, when the full state of the vessels of the brain had for some time subsided, I have derived con- siderable advantage from the moderate use of tonic medicines, and more especially of steel. HYDROCEPHALUS. I have known in my own experience but one instance of this disease being cured when fully formed. In this case all the symptoms were well marked, and the disease had made such progress that squinting and an irre- gular pulse had taken place. There had169 been no peculiar treatment, except that mer- curial ointment was applied daily to a con- siderable sore on the upper part of the head, which had been produced there by a blister. The individual is now alive, and is a young lady of good talents, which she has highly cultivated. I have seen a few cases, in which there ap- peared to be a strong threatening of Hydro- cephalus, that got well by the application of leeches and blisters to the head, and brisk mercurial purges; but I cannot determine whether these cases, if less actively treated, would have terminated in true Hydrocephalus or not. EPILEPSY. This disease appears to me to have be- come much more frequent within the last twenty years than formerly. If this remark be generally true, it may perhaps be ac- counted for by the progress of luxury, which must render the nervous system more irri- table. I have known very few instances of Epilepsy radically cured, but a considerable number of cases in which the intervals be-170 tween the attacks have been rendered much longer. The medicines which have appeared to me to have most influence in removing or retarding the attacks of Epilepsy have been the argentum nitratum, viscus quercinus, and the oleum succini. Of these, the first is the most powerful; but when it has been used for a good many months, it tinges the skin of some individuals of a dark colour. I have known two instances of this effect from it in my own experience. The bowels, too, should always be kept open, and the effect of brisk purga- tives should be tried in the beginning of the disease. It is of great use in the treatment of Epi- lepsy that the patient should live very tem- perately, and should avoid every thing which may tend suddenly to excite or to harass the mind. Patients should eat animal food spa- ringly, and should abstain from wine, ale, and porter altogether. The hair should be cut short, and cold applications should be applied to the head whenever the skin of it feels hot. This management is often of much use in rendering the attacks both less fre- quent and less violent. The causes pro-ducing Epilepsy are various; but I believe that in this disease there is commonly a ten- dency to a greater accumulation of blood than is natural in the vessels of the brain. THE TIC DOULOUREUX. The Tic Douloureux seems to me likewise to have become more common of late years, and I think it is more frequent among men than women. I do not recollect to have seen any instance in which it has been perma- nently cured, either by internal medicines or by an operation. I have known some instances of its being cured for a time (that is, for several months or even a year) by me- dicines ; and those which have appeared to me of most use are Peruvian bark and ar- senic. The operation of dividing the nerve has in some instances prevented a return of the disease for one or two years, but has not, as far as I know, prevented it permanently. The courage and patience under suffering in this complaint, displayed by some individuals, have been truly astonishing.OF SOME DISEASES OF THE NECK. The most common disease in the neck is the swelling of one or more lymphatic glands. This is most apt to take place in young per- sons who have fair complexions and delicate constitutions. It is always a very tedious disease, and is seldom much benefited by medicine. The remedies which I have found of most use have been sarsaparilla com- bined with soda, Peruvian bark combined with soda, and some form of steel. These medicines will, however, often have but a very imperfect influence upon the complaint. Sea air and tepid sea-water bathing are often be- neficial ; but I think that the air and waters of Malvern are more useful than any other remedy. I have known a good many cases which had been but little improved by the com- mon remedies, and by a residence upon the sea coast with all its advantages, which have afterwards got quite well by the patients re- siding three or four months at Malvern. o173 BRONCHOCELE. This disease is not very uncommon in this country: it is more frequent among women than men, and much more so among young than old persons. It is not often much be- nefited by medicine, but will frequently dis- appear of itself. Sometimes the swelling grows even in this country to an enormous size; and I have known one or two cases in which the patient was destroyed by the swelling compressing the trachea and the oesophagus. The medicines which I have found of most use have been burnt sponge, soda, and mercury used externally, either as an ointment or in the form of plaster. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. This disease occurs frequently in this country, and upon the whole I think is more common among men than women. It is often confined to the inner membrane of the larynx and the upper part of the trachea, but frequently it spreads downwards, even to the inner membrane of the bronchia. This174 disease always continues several months, and often, with short intervals of amendment, for years. Not unfrequently it lays the foun- dation of future phthisis. Remedies generally produce only a very gradual influence upon the disease, and sometimes none at all. Benefit is not unfrequently derived in some degree from the repeated application, at short inter- vals, of leeches to the fore part of the neck, or the skin covering the upper bone of the sternum. The frequent application of small blisters to the same parts will occasionally be of use ; but perhaps the most useful remedy is a small seton inserted under the skin of the side of the neck, very near the larynx. Internal medicines often produce very little good effect; but the medicine which I have found upon the whole to be the most bene- ficial has been the extractum conii. I have sometimes directed five grains of it to be taken, three times a day for many weeks to- gether, with manifest advantage. OF THE QUINSY. 1 have but one observation to make with regard to this disease, which is of some little175 importance. It is usual to endeavour through- out the course of it to prevent suppuration from taking place, by the repeated application of leeches under the angles of the lower jaw. It is certainly very desirable that suppu- ration should be prevented, and that in- flammation of the tonsils should gradually subside by resolution. I have found, how- ever, by experience, that suppuration is by such means very often not prevented, but only that inflammation proceeds more slowly to this issue. Hence the patient suffers for a considerably longer time; and the suffering in this disease is often very great. If, there- fore, one or two applications of leeches do not lessen materially the inflammation of the tonsils and velum pendulum palati, I should recommend the progress of the inflammation to be encouraged by the inhaling of warm vapour into the mouth, and the application of poultices to the external fauces. In this way the disease will go through its progress more quickly, and the patient will suffer much less.176 OF SOME DISEASES OF THE CHEST. I have very little to say either with respect to pleurisy or peripneumony. The earlier, after inflammation has taken place in the pleura or in the lungs, that blood is taken away from the arm, the sooner will the dis- ease be subdued. Blood should in these dis- eases be taken away largely, and if necessary should be repeated again and again after short intervals. All other remedies are in- significant in comparison of the abstraction of blood from the system. When this remedy has not been applied early enough, nor in sufficient quantity, and an abscess has been formed in the lungs, which has burst, patients have, in the greater number of instances that I have seen, reco- vered but very slowly. Under these cir- cumstances the medical attendant has little to do but avoid mischief. The constitution should be moderately supported, without being too much stimulated. Moderate doses177 of myrrh, decoction of bark, or infusion of some bitter, are sometimes of use. Light animal diet, and even a little wine, are some- times useful in such cases, but great care should be taken that no new inflammation be excited. In the course of my experience throughout many years I have known a few instances of abscess being formed in the lungs without any previous pain in the chest, or difficulty of breathing, or observable fever. Such pa- tients, upon some exertion of the body, or even without any exertion, have suddenly coughed up a considerable quantity, perhaps half a pint or more, of pus; and this has been to the patient the first intimation of disease. In such cases the inflammation of the lungs must have proceeded so slowly as to have produced little or no pain in the chest, and not to have alarmed the constitution so as to excite fever. OF PHTHISIS PULMONALIS. In the course of my medical experience I have known one or two cases of patients who recovered from phthisis which was apparently N178 fully formed. It is probable, however, that with regard to these cases I may have been mistaken; and that if I had inquired with suffi- cient accuracy into their history, I should have found that they were small abscesses of the lungs, of a common, and not of a strumous nature. I have known a good many instances in which persons threatened with consumption have recovered by going into mild climates, or even into Devonshire or Cornwall; but I do not recollect a single instance in which they recovered when the disease had de- cidedly been formed. Change of air should be adopted very early, in order to give it the best chance of success. Such a variety of accounts has been given by patients, and even by medical gentlemen, of the compara- tive advantage of one place over another abroad, that I have found it impossible to decide which is to be preferred. I am dis- posed, however, to think that Madeira, the Hyeres, some parts of Portugal, Malaga, Nice, and Naples, are the best. It is very possible that different places may suit better with the constitutions of different individuals; and179 this conjecture, if well founded, may ex- plain the cause of there being such a variety of opinions upon the subject. A patient should, if possible, spend two or three suc- cessive winters abroad, in order to give the best chance of the disposition to the disease being subdued. When no active inflammation is going on in the chest in phthisis, I have sometimes found advantage from patients being allowed to take a little white fish or light animal food at dinner. In a very few instances I have found benefit derived from their taking one, or even two glasses of wine diluted with water, after dinner; but wine is generally improper. I have known of no medicine which has been of permanent and substantial use in phthisis ; but I have sometimes found a good deal of temporary advantage derived from myrrh, from ammonia, and from light bitters united to the acetic acid. The frequent re- petition of blisters, or a seton inserted under the skin in some part of the chest, are oc- casionally of considerable use. n 2180 OF HYDROTHORAX. When dropsy of the chest does not depend upon any diseased structure of the heart or lungs, I have found it much more readily af- fected by medicine than ascites or dropsy of the ovarium. Not unfrequently, under these circumstances, I have known water of the chest relieved, or for a time cured, by medicine. The medicine which I have found most beneficial has been mercury combined with squills and digitalis. Five grains of the pi- lula hydrargyri, combined with one grain of the dried powder of squills and half a grain of the dried powder of digitalis, given twice or thrice a day, have in many cases under my care either very much mitigated or for a time removed the disease. There has been some advantage from the mercury affecting slightly the salivary glands. Squills and digi- talis are by themselves much less efficacious than when combined with mercury. I do not recollect one instance of Hydro- thorax being permanently cured, although 1 remember a good many cases in which the181 symptoms were repeatedly removed by the same means in the same patient. Where the difficulty of breathing has been very great, and the legs and thighs have been much swelled from anasarca, I have known much relief afforded by a scarificator and small cupping-glass being applied above the inner and outer ankle of each leg; and I do not remember any mortification at- tacking these small sores. The difficulty of breathing in such cases probably depended in part upon the water accumulated in the cellular membrane of some parts within the chest, and this was gradually emptied through the small openings made in the skin of the legs.182 OF PALPITATION OF THE HEART. Palpitation of the heart may take place at any period of life ; but it is more common at an early period than any other, as for instance from fifteen to twenty-five years of age. Perhaps, too, it may be more com- mon in females than in males ; but of this I am not very certain. At an early period of life it does not in general depend upon any diseased structure of the heart, but either on a morbid irritability of the nerves of this organ, or upon some imperfect state of diges- tion. When it takes place from either of these causes, it always continues for a long time, (often, more or less, for two or three years), but at length generally subsides. Rest of body and quietness of mind are two of the chief means which contribute to remove this dis- ease. All quick motion of the body, and more especially walking up ascents, increases the complaint, and should as much as possible be avoided. Every thing which tends to ex- cite or harass the mind has the same effect,183 and should be shunned whenever it is pos- sible. To rest of body and mind should be joined very temperate diet; and when this general plan of management has been con- tinued for many months, or perhaps for a year or two, the disease usually subsides. Digitalis has sometimes been useful in miti- gating this complaint, but frequently it pro- duces no good effect. Where the palpitation depends either alto- gether or chiefly upon the state of the sto- mach, it is gradually removed by temperance, by improving the condition of the stomach, and by keeping the bowels free from costive- ness. I remember one case in which palpi- tation of the heart had taken place, and had continued for six months, in consequence of gout having attacked this organ. In this case the palpitation ceased suddenly and en- tirely when the gout attacked one of the feet in a full and decided form. This person is now alive, and has continued generally in good health, although it be nearly twenty years since the attack of palpitation. In some young persons palpitation de- pends upon an enlargement of the several184 cavities of the heart, produced not unfre- quently by rheumatism attacking this organ. This cause of enlargement of the heart was overlooked by the physicians of this country, till it was discovered by the sagacity of my esteemed friend the late Dr. David Pitcairn. The enlargement in general goes on increas- ing till life is destroyed; but I have known two cases where the enlargement stopped at a certain point, the increased action of the heart in a great measure subsided, and the patients acquired a tolerable share of health. They are both now alive, and they have the pro- spect of living, with care, to the ordinary term of life. Such a fortunate issue is very rare ; but the disease may be generally retarded in its progress by much rest of body, quietness of mind, and a very temperate mode of liv- ing. Wine and every other fermented liquor should be avoided, and patients under such circumstances should livealmostentirelyupon vegetable food. At the middle and more advanced periods of life, palpitation of the heart often depends upon a diseased structure of some of its valves. This condition of the heart does not admit185 of any remedy, but must gradually become worse,until life be extinguished. But the sym- ptoms may be mitigated, and the progress of the disease retarded by little exertion of the body, by great temperance, and by a few ounces of blood being occasionally taken from the arm. ANGINA PECTORIS. This distressing disease almost constantly depends upon an ossification of the coronary arteries of the heart, and admits of no effec- tual relief from medicine. I have met with two cases, however, in the course of my me- dical experience, in which symptoms exactly resembling those of angina pectoris depended upon an imperfect digestion; and the patients ultimately recovered entirely, by correcting the disordered condition of the stomach.OF DISEASES IN THE CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. ASCITES. With respect to this disease I have very little to say. When it depends upon a mor- bid state of any of the abdominal viscera,— as for instance, the liver or the spleen,—it is never permanently removed, and very seldom even relieved till the morbid condition of these viscera is cured, if this event should fortunately take place. Even where the vis- cera in the abdomen are sound, or at least cannot be discovered by an accurate exami- nation to be otherwise, ascites is rarely, ac- cording to my experience, cured by medicine. The ordinary diuretic medicines, as squills and digitalis, have commonly very little effect upon it. The medicines which I think upon the whole to have most influence upon this species of dropsy are supertartrate of potash and small doses of elaterium. In two, or perhaps three cases, during my medical ex-187 perience, ascites has gradually got well with- out medicine, after the common remedies had been sufficiently tried and had failed. I can entertain no doubt, from some late publi- cations, that taking away blood from the arm will often be a valuable remedy in ascites, where there has been too much arterial ac- tion, or even some degree of inflammation in the early part of the disease; but of this remedy I have not had sufficient personal experience to enable me to appreciate its value. INFLAMMATION OF THE PERITONAEUM. Where this disease has not been connected with any peculiarity of season, or any epi- demical complaint, I have found it to be cured by bleeding and purging, like other inflammations. Upon the whole, however, I think that it has been more relieved by re- peated applications of leeches than by ge- neral bleeding. I do not wTish it to be un- derstood that general bleeding is of no ad- vantage in peritonitis, for sometimes it pro- duces the greatest benefit. I think, however, that in most cases more benefit will be de-188 rived from the repeated application of leeches, according to circumstances, than from a re- petition of the general bleeding. The pur- gative medicines which have appeared to me to be of most value are calomel and the neutral salts. OF SOME AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH. There is no complaint more common in this country than an imperfect condition of the functions of the stomach. This generally shows itself by more or less of flatulence, by acidity, by a bitter taste occasionally felt in the mouth, and often by some degree of cos- tiveness. This condition of the stomach ge- nerally arises from something wrong in the quantity or quality of the food, from anxiety of mind, and from a due degree of exercise not being regularly taken. It makes its pro- gress very gradually, continues always for some months, and often even, more or less, for years. The first object of attention should be to remove as far as possible the causes which produce it. Every kind of food should be avoided which the patients may have189 found, from their own experience, to have disagreed with their stomach. Most com- monly animal food that is very fat, or much salted or fried, is difficult of digestion, and should either be eaten very sparingly, or should be altogether avoided. Young and white animal food is in general more diffi- cult of digestion than what is brown and of middle age. The vegetables which are eaten should be very well boiled, and should be taken sparingly by such persons as are subject to flatulence or acidity. The waxy potatoe is almost constantly very difficult of digestion, and in general should be avoid- ed altogether. There should never be so much food taken at a time as to give the feeling of fullness or distention in the sto- mach ; and except under very particular cir- cumstances, there is no advantage in eating oftener than three or four times in twenty- four hours. The best common beverage in disordered conditions of the stomach is water, or toast and water ; and three or four glasses of wine may be taken at or after dinner, ac- cording to the habits of the patient, or other circumstances. That wine is to be preferred190 which agrees best with the stomach, of which he is himself the most competent judge. Daily exercise is almost constantly necessary in order to preserve good diges- tion. Riding on horseback is upon the whole the best, for it gives a motion to the abdominal viscera, which no other exer- cise is capable of; but walking is also very useful. A combination of the two is pre- ferable to either; for riding on horseback chiefly exercises the abdominal viscera, and walking chiefly exercises the limbs and the thoracic viscera. Anxiety of mind should be avoided, whenever it can fairly be done; but it is often impossible to take advantage of this remedy. With respect to medicines, there are none for this complaint which can be called spe- cific. The most beneficial, however, which I have known are rhubarb, and some form of bitter medicine combined with alkalies. Eight grains of rhubarb formed into pills with soap, taken every night at bed-time, and some bitter,—as infusion of cascarilla, calumba, quassia, or gentian, with some grains of soda or potassa dissolved in it,191 taken in the morning and before dinner,—will often be very useful in this kind of disordered stomach. These remedies should be con- tinued for five or six weeks at a time, should be omitted for two or three weeks, and oc- casionally resumed. If the alvine evacua- tions should be considerably lighter in their colour, or much darker than natural, mer- cury, given in moderate doses, and not for so long a time as to injure the constitution, will often be of great use. The large and indiscriminate employment of mercury in complaints of the stomach has, I think, been often very hurtful. Where acidity has been particularly prevalent in the sto- mach, I have sometimes found it more ef- fectually corrected by the diluted mineral acids than by alkalies. Ten or twelve drops of the diluted sulphuric or diluted nitric acid, mixed with an infusion of some bitter, and taken twice a day, will sometimes be very beneficial in this condition of the stomach. There is an affection of the stomach in which the digestion is very imperfect, and in which considerable quantities of a transparent192 viscid mucus is formed. This often produces nausea, and is occasionally brought up by vomiting. According to my experience, this condition of the stomach has been fre- quently little benefited by medicine; but sometimes I have found the tinctura benzbes composita of considerable use. A drachm of it may be taken mixed with water and some mucilage of gum acacia, three times a day. There is another affection of the sto- mach less common than the former, but far more serious, viz. where the stomach throws up in large quantity a fluid like cocoa. A quart of this fluid will often be thrown up at a time, and this will frequently be repeated for many days together. This condition of the stomach is sometimes connected with a diseased state of the liver, but sometimes it is independent of it, there being, at least apparently, no disease in this latter organ. In several instances it has proved fatal; but in others, and especially in two cases which I recollect, the complaint subsided for several months at a time, and the persons enjoyed in the interval tolerable health. This state continued many years,193 and the patients are still alive. In one case I had an opportunity of examining the con- dition of the stomach after death. It was very capacious, and was half filled with this brown fluid, but did not appear to be at all diseased in its structure. The neighbouring viscera, as the liver and spleen, were, as far as I re- collect, perfectly sound. The fluid would appear to be formed by a diseased secretion of the inner membrane of the stomach, with- out any apparent morbid structure. This disease, according to my experience, is but very little influenced by medicine or . by diet. In two or three cases some benefit seemed to be derived from astringent medi- cines combined with moderate doses of opium, —as for instance, from tincture of kino, or tincture of catechu, with a few drops of lau- danum, taken three or four times a day. The bowels should be at the same time kept free from costiveness. In some cases the stomach will lose almost entirely the power of digestion; the patients will become pale and emaciated, and ap- pear as if they were affected by some fatal visceral disease ; at the same time no morbid o194 structure in the region of the stomach or liver can be detected by the most attentive exami- nation. In some of these cases the patiehts have been completely restored to health by a course of the Bath waters.195 OF INFLAMMATION of the BOWELS. Of this very formidable disease I have very little to observe. Where the symptoms had been fully formed, the greater number of cases which I have seen have terminated fa- tally. One case, however, in which the vo- miting was of stercoraceous matter, reco- vered. The chief remedy in this very dan- gerous disease, is bleeding largely both from the system, and topically by leeches. It is very desirable that the inflammation should be subdued, or at least be much lessened, before any active purgative be admini- stered. A purgative during the violence of the inflammation will rarely produce any evacuation, and may even do some injury, by stimulating a part still highly inflamed.. Fomentations have been very commonly ap- plied to the belly, and they give some tem- porary relief. I am inclined to think that cold applications may be useful in assisting to subdue the inflammation, but this I have o 2196 not hitherto tried. The tobacco glyster, and cold water thrown upon the lower limbs, have in some cases excited the bowels to action when very powerful purgatives had failed. OF DYSENTERY. /. In this disease opiate and astringent me- dicines have sometimes appeared to me to be administered too early. Mild purgative medicines, of which I think castor-oil upon the whole the best, should be administered till the alvine evacuations have become free from mucus and blood, and have recovered in a considerable degree the appearance of a na- tural fluid motion. Astringent medicines with opium may then be directed with much ad- vantage. As there is always an inflammatory condition of the bowels in this disease, leeches may be applied to the seat of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and the upper extremity of the rectum, with a considerable chance of benefit.197 OF SOME AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. There may be, and often is, a deficiency in the quantity of bile mixed with the al- vine evacuations, without any disease in the structure of the liver. The faeces are more or less pale; but there is no hardness nor fullness in the region of the liver. Every thing there, upon the most attentive exami- nation, is discovered to be soft and per- fectly natural to the feeling. Mild purga- tive medicines, with small doses of the pilida hydrargyria are commonly very useful in such cases. Four or five grains of the pilula hy- drargyri should be given every night for some time, and the purgative every morning or every other morning. The mercurial medi- cine should not be carried so far as to make any impression upon the constitution, if this can be avoided; it is only intended to sti- mulate the ducts of the liver. The best pur- gative medicine, upon the whole, is the sul- phate of magnesia in moderate doses, so as198 to produce two or three evacuations daily. When the alvine discharges have for some little time resumed their natural colour, the pilula hydrargyri should be given up. Sometimes the bile discharged from the liver is of a dark colour, and the motions be- come darker than usual. The intensity of the colour differs very much in different in- dividuals, and occasionally it is nearly as black as ink. The liver at the same time may be, and commonly is, quite sound in its structure. The treatment should in this case be in a great measure similar to that in the former, but a little more active. Small doses of calomel may be used instead of the pilula hydrargyri, and the purgative medicines may be a little more powerful. When the colour of the motions has for a short time (eight or ten days) become natural, the calomel may be given up; but the purgative medicines may be continued longer, at somewhat greater intervals, as for instance every third day. Where the motions are very green in their colour, magnesia or some alkali may be mixed with the purgatives. In the above cases the Cheltenham and Leamington waters /199 have been often very useful; but I think that many practitioners of the present day have erred in administering mercury too long, and in too liberal doses. When mercury is car- ried beyond the point that is necessary, it often injures the constitution by weakening it, and by rendering the nervous system very irritable. There is sometimes a greater fullness and greater sense of resistance over the whole region of the liver than natural, with more or less of tenderness upon pressure. This arises from some chronic inflammation of the substance of the liver. In such a case, the repeated application of leeches to the seat of the liver, and the occasional application of a blister, are often of the greatest use. A mild course of mercury should be recommended, so as in some degree to affect the constitution; and this should be administered both exter- nally and internally. It should not, however, be carried beyond the necessity. Long and repeated salivations will seldom be required, and often have done much and permanent injury to the constitution. When the liver has become soft, has lost its tenderness and200 resumed its natural size, the mercury may be given up. If the liver shall not have returned altogether to its natural state, and the consti- tution appears to be suffering from the course of mercury, a seton may be inserted under the skin in the region of the liver, and the mercury may be given up or suspended. In some cases I have found a fullness of the liver which had eluded the effect of mercury, to be removed by a seton. The administration of purgatives is of great advantage in all such cases, and the Cheltenham waters are often highly beneficial. OF ABSCESS IN THE LIVER. Inflammation of the liver will occasionally terminate by forming an abscess. The ab- scess will in time break externally, or it will communicate with the lungs, with the sto- mach, or with both of these viscera. When the abscess breaks externally, the part gra- dually heals unless there be something very unfavourable in the constitution; and the pa- tient recovers entirely. When the abscess communicates with the lungs, the matter is brought up by coughing, and the patient, if201 prudent in the management of himself, and possessed of a tolerably good constitution, will sometimes at last entirely recover. When the abscess communicates with the stomach, the matter is sometimes discharged by vo- miting, and sometimes by the bowels. In this case, too, the patient will not unfre- quently recover; and the same observation may be extended to an abscess of the liver which communicates both with the stomach and the lungs, although the circumstances are more unfavourable in this than in the other two cases. In these various cases little benefit is produced by medicine, but great injury may be done by imprudent or un- skilful management. The bowels should be kept always free from costiveness: if there be any considerable feverishness, it may be lessened by saline draughts; or if the con- stitution be weak, it may be strengthened by the prudent use of tonic medicines. The diet should be light and nourishing, and in ge- neral wine should be avoided. The exer- cise, if the weather be favourable, should be gentle, but it should not be taken at all if the weather be ungenial, or if it be attended with202 pain or much fatigue. A stimulating diet, too much or too violent exercise, and expo- sure to a cold atmosphere, may do much mischief, or even lead on to a fatal event. OF TUBERCLES IN THE LIVER. Tubercles of different kinds are formed not unfrequently in the liver at a middle or more advanced age. They are often con- nected with an intemperate mode of living, but they will sometimes occur in persons who have passed an uniformly temperate life. They are frequently the cause of Ascites, but sometimes they do not produce this effect. No medicines, as far as I have seen, are at- tended with any permanent benefit in this state of disease. By temperate living, by gentle exercise, and by the bowels being kept rather open, patients will not unfrequently live for some years with such complaints; but I do not recollect any instance of a patient ac- tually recovering from them.203 OF HYDATIDS IN THE LIVER. I have known only two instances of this disease in the living body. The one was in an old lady who had been subject from time to time, for many years, to symptoms very much resembling those of gallstones. At length, after a more severe attack than usual, the constitution gradually sunk and she died. Cysts containing hydatids were discovered upon examination of the body after death. The other case was that of a young lady who had suffered occasionally a good deal of pain in the region of the liver, and at length passed some hydatids by stool. She for the time recovered, but what became of her af- terwards I have never learned. It is ob- vious that the formation of hydatids in the liver, even when the existence of this disease can be perfectly ascertained in the living body, can receive no essential benefit from medicine. If inflammation should take place in the progress of this disease, it may be re- moved or lessened by taking away blood from the arm or topically; and if at any time violent pain should occur, it may be204 mitigated by opium and the warm bath. The bowels should be kept rather open; and there will always be some advantage in patients affected with this disease living temperately. Patients may live many years with this com- plaint; but if it be gradually making pro- gress, even though slowly, it must in almost every instance have ultimately a fatal termi- nation. OF GALLSTONES. The formation of gallstones in the ducts of the liver or in the gall-bladder is not a rare disease, and I have known many instances of it. The paroxysms of this complaint are generally attended with exquisite pain; but I have known a few cases where the pain has been moderate. Some cases I have likewise known where patients have been subject to symptoms of indigestion for many months, without paleness of the stools, yellowness of the skin, or any other symptoms which denote the existence of gallstones; yet this condition of the stomach has ultimately led on to the symptoms of gallstones being formed in the most distinct manner. It is obvious205 that no solvent can be successfully applied to a gallstone within the living body. While the symptoms of gallstone exist, it must either be in some duct of the liver, or in the cystic duct, or in the ductus communis choledoclius. But a solvent introduced into the stomach cannot come in contact with a gallstone in any of these situations. As soon as a gall- stone drops into the duodenum, where a sol- vent might reach it, all symptoms belonging to gallstones immediately cease ; and for the time the patient becomes quite well. In the treatment of gallstones, therefore, the sym- ptoms can only be mitigated by medicine. If any inflammatory symptoms have been pro- duced, which is sometimes the case, they can be removed or lessened by general and to- pical bleeding. The exquisite pain which is commonly felt during a paroxysm of gall- stones, can be generally mitigated by large doses of opium, by fomentations, and by the warm bath. Purgative medicines should be given, of sufficient power to counteract the effects of the opium. Mercury appears to me to have no power over a pure case of gallstones unmixed with any fullness or hard-206 ness of the liver; and the Cheltenham or Leamington waters are of much less advan- tage than in the more ordinary cases, where the functions of the liver are merely deranged. No particular mode of life will protect a pa- tient against the recurrence of gallstones; but there is always some advantage in such per- sons living temperately, and keeping their bowels free from costiveness.OF SOME DISEASES OF THE PANCREAS. The pancreas is upon the whole less liable to disease than any other important gland in the body. I do not recollect that in private practice I have met with one case in which there was satisfactory evidence of the pan- creas being diseased ; and I have only known of a solitary example of it during the thirteen years in which I was a physician of St. George’s Hospital. This case was under the care of another physician*, and the pancreas was not known to be diseased till the patient’s body was examined after death. The pain in the epigastric region, sickness, uneasiness or pain in the loins, which belong to inflam- mation and enlargement of the pancreas, be- long also to other diseases, and therefore do not particularly indicate a disease in this im- portant viscus. Were the enlargement so great that it could be ascertained by an at- # Dr. Heberden, junior.208 tentive examination of the living body, no difficulty would remain in ascertaining the disease. This, however, will very seldom happen; for I have not found a single in- stance in all the dead bodies which I have examined, of the pancreas being so large that it could have been ascertained by the most careful examination in the living body. If the pancreas were to be much increased in size, and the patient much emaciated, so as to ascertain this disease while the patient was alive, it would probably be in general too late to receive any substantial benefit from medicine. Calculi formed in the ducts of the pancreas constitute a still rarer disease than the inflam- mation or enlargement of this gland. I have not myself met with any instance of it in the living body, nor do I remember to have heard any physician say that he has seen this disease. While the calculi remain within the ducts of the pancreas, it is evident that no solvent could reach them ; and if they should be discharged into the duodenum, there would be a cessation of the disease for a time.209 # OF SOME DISEASES OF THE SPLEEN. The spleen is much less subject to inflam- mation than many other of the abdominal viscera. I do not recollect a strongly marked instance of it in my practice, and I have never met with an abscess in the spleen in all the dead bodies which I have examined. The peritonaeum is not uncommonly inflamed in that quarter, and the coat of the spleen is more or less involved in the inflammation. I am not aware that inflammation of the spleen would require a different treatment from that of other viscera. I have met with several examples of en- largement of the spleen. The enlargement has been very different in different patients. In some the spleen has not been more than twice its natural size, and in others it has been so large as to occupy nearly all the left side of the abdomen, extending from the diaphragm to the pelvis. When the enlarge- ment is so considerable that the lower end of p210 the spleen can be felt under the margin of the ribs upon the left side, there can be no doubt with respect to the disease. The spleen when enlarged is always felt to be harder than in a natural state, but pressure upon it with the hand seldom produces pain. An enlargement of the spleen is sometimes fol- lowed by Ascites ; but there will frequently be no dropsy of the abdomen, even where the spleen has been for a long time much enlarged. Where enlargement of the spleen has been connected with ague, it more fre- quently subsides than in any other case: where the enlargement has taken place in- dependently of this cause, it hardly ever sub- sides of itself, or is materially diminished by medicine. According to my experience, mercury, administered both externally and internally, produces very seldom any good effect: I have seen, I think, more advantage from a seton inserted under the skin which covers the spleen. In some cases it has ap- peared to be diminished in size by this re- medy, and to be rendered softer; but I do not recollect a single instance, except after ague, in which it has been reduced to nearly211 its natural size. Temperate living, abstain- ing from violent exercise, and keeping the bowels open, must be to a certain degree useful in retarding the progress of the disease. I have not met with any case of hydatids being formed in the spleen; but such a disease now and then occurs. A patient may live very long with this complaint; but it can re- ceive no cure, nor even amendment, from medicine. p 2212 OF SOME AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEYS. The kidneys are more liable to disease than most other glands of the body, and are more frequently diseased in men than in women. This may arise from greater intemperance in the former than in the latter sex, and like- wise from the more violent bodily exertions which men are often called upon to make. I have known a few instances in which the two kidneys entirely lost the action of sepa- rating urine; and this has been chiefly in persons advanced in life. The patients soon became very comatose, and died in the course of two or three days: no medicine was of the least advantage; and every case, as far as I recollect, terminated fatally. There is a great difference, in the hazard of a patient’s situation, whether the kidneys separate a little urine or none at all. In the first case they generally recover, and in the second very rarely. It is curious that life should213 terminate so soon when the functions of the kidneys have become totally suspended. A person who receives no nourishment what- ever into the stomach, or by any other means, will live much longer. OF ABSCESSES IN THE KIDNEYS. When inflammation of the kidney has not been removed by the usual means, an abscess takes place in it. The pus which is formed is sometimes of a common kind, but is often of a strumous nature. It comes away along with the urine, in greater or less quantity; and this circumstance, together with the hi- story of the case, ascertains in the most satis- factory manner the nature of the disease. The kidney in such cases is sometimes nearly of its natural size, but is often much en- larged ; and this circumstance can be ascer- tained by an examination in the living body. Patients will continue to live with this com- plaint for many months, and even for several years. The formation of matter will some- times be suspended for several months, and patients will recover in a considerable degree214 their general health. The disease will return either from imprudence in diet or exercise, or without any known cause, and the patient will become as ill as ever. It very rarely happens that a patient permanently recovers from this disease, and I do not at present re- collect an instance of it. Medicines, as far as my experience has reached, do not pro- duce any great or permanent good effect. A seton inserted in the loins, or in the flank of that side where the diseased kidney is si- tuated, is sometimes of considerable use. The uva ursi, and the tinctura benzoes com- posita, have sometimes been serviceable as internal medicines. The same observations may extend to cooling and mucilaginous re- medies. Great quiet of body and uniform temperate living are useful in mitigating symptoms, and retarding the progress of the disease. A patient labouring under this complaint should live almost entirely upon vegetable food, and should abstain from wine and other fermented liquors.215 OF HYDATIDS IN THE KIDNEYS. This is a very rare disease, but I have known two or three instances of it. Its ex- istence cannot be ascertained in the living body, unless an hydatid should occasionally be discharged along with the urine through the urethra. A patient may live very long, perhaps a good many years, with this disease, but it cannot receive any advantage from medicine. OF CALCULI IN THE KIDNEYS. One of the most common diseases of the kidneys is the formation of calculous matter in them. This may either be in the form of sand, producing in the kidneys temporary ir- ritation ; or in the form of a calculus, which may either produce temporary irritation, or a permanent and fatal disease. When the calculus is small and of a favourable shape, it may pass by one of the ureters into the bladder, and be altogether discharged from the body by the urethra. When the bulk of the calculus is considerable, and more espe- cially if it be of an arborescent form, it can-216 not pass into the bladder, but must remain in the kidney, or in the pelvis of the ureter very near the kidney, producing there more or less of irritation, frequently some degree of inflammation, and not unfrequently an abscess. The existence of a calculus in the kidneys may be guessed at with high proba- bility from the symptoms ; but it can only be perfectly ascertained when sand or small fragments of calculous matter are occasionally discharged through the urethra. In the treat- ment of this formidable complaint, symptoms of inflammation, when present, should always be promptly removed by general and topical bleeding, by cooling and mucilaginous me- dicines, and by mild purgatives. When the inflammation is removed, the proper medi- cines should be determined by the nature of the calculus, where this can be ascertained. If the calculus be of the common kind, (con- sisting chiefly of lithic acid,) magnesia and alkaline medicines should be given, and be continued for a great length of time. If the calculus should consist of the triple phos- phate, moderate doses of some of the mineral acids, properly diluted, should be given; and217 of these the muriatic acid is perhaps the best. I do not recollect any instance in which pa- tients have by these medicines been perma- nently cured; but I have not unfrequently known the symptoms very much mitigated by them, and even for a time suspended. Patients labouring under this complaint should live with great temperance, but should adopt chiefly a light animal diet, because, if acid be formed in the primae viae in consi- derable quantity from vegetable food, the symptoms of the complaint will probably be aggravated. OF HAEMORRHAGE FROM THE KIDNEYS. I have known a few cases in which blood has been discharged from the kidney, and has passed out of the body along with the urine. In most of these cases the quantity of blood has been large, amounting often to nearly a pint at a time, so that the mixture of urine with the blood hardly appeared to dilute it. The recurrence of the bleeding is commonly very frequent, and the disease will often continue with intermissions for several218 weeks. The loss of blood must arise from one or more considerable vessels being rup- tured in one or both kidneys; but I believe that generally * one kidney only is affected. The blood-vessels of the kidney may be so distended with blood, that one or more of them may burst; or the sharp edge of a cal- culus may cut through one or more of them, and in this way occasion the haemorrhage. Whether the haemorrhage has been produced in the one way or the other, can generally be determined by an accurate attention to the history of the case. General and topical bleeding, but more especially the latter, are sometimes of great use in mitigating the disease. Cold appli- cations to the loins and belly are also very serviceable. As internal medicines—nitre, the diluted sulphuric acid, and the tincture of muriated iron, have often produced great benefit. The last medicine has, I think, upon the whole been the most useful. The patient should be kept perfectly quiet, the chamber cool, and the diet for a time should consist entirely of vegetable sub-219 stances. I do not recollect any instance in which the patient has not recovered from this complaint, when it has not been con- nected with an abscess, or some other for- midable disease of the kidney. OF DIABETES. I have in the course of my medical life seen a good many instances of this formidable disease. Of late years a considerable pro- portion of such cases have got well under my care, or have had the symptoms very much mitigated. The most successful plan of treat- ment has been, to give considerable doses of opium combined with rhubarb or some other bitter : fifty drops of laudanum, for instance, may be given three or four times a day, mixed with some infusion of rhubarb or infusion of calumba. The rhubarb may also be given separately in the form of pills. Under this treatment the disease will often gradually subside, and at length cease altogether. It is, however, very apt to recur, and therefore this plan of treatment, in more moderate doses, should be continued for some months after the patient is apparently well. Bleeding220 from the system generally, and topical bleed- ing from the loins, are often useful; for the blood-vessels of the kidneys in this disease are generally more or less distended with blood. The diet should be temperate, and should consist chiefly of animal food; and the best kind of drink is, upon the whole, Bristol water. OF A LOOSE TUMOUR IN THE REGION OF THE KIDNEY. In four or five instances I have felt a loose tumour in the situation of one of the kidneys, which could be easily moved up and down with a slight pressure from the hand. The tumour is of considerable firmness, and has a good deal the shape and size of the kidney. It is attended with very little uneasiness to the patient, and the general health is very little, if at all, affected by it. When felt in women, it has been mistaken for an en- larged ovarium; but it has neither the shape of an enlarged ovarium, nor is it in the si- tuation in which an enlarged ovarium is commonly found. I have not had an op- portunity of examining this disease in the221 dead body; I am therefore not certain about its nature, but I am rather disposed to think that it is a kidney more loosely attached than usual to the subjacent and surrounding parts.222 OF SOME DISEASED AFFECTIONS OF THE URINARY BLADDER. It is not unusual for the urinary bladder to become for a certain time paralytic, and to lose its power of expelling the urine. This is more apt to occur in young women than in any other persons, and for the following reason. The complaint is generally produced by the calls to evacuate the urine being re- sisted, so that the muscular coat of the bladder becomes very much stretched in consequence of the accumulation of the urine. By the stretching of the muscular coat, its power of acting as a muscle is for a considerable time lost, and is only gradually recovered. Young women, from being long in a carriage, or long in company, and from their natural modesty, often resist the desire to evacuate the urine for such a length of time as to induce a paralytic state of the muscular coat of the bladder. Older women manage this function more wisely; and men are not much exposed to the causes which induce them to resist the223 desire of evacuating the urine.—When this disease has taken place, and is not accom- panied with any morbid change of structure in the bladder, the bladder gradually recovers its power by the water being regularly drawn off twice or thrice in twenty-four hours for some weeks. Women may soon be taught to draw off the water themselves, so that they may avoid the very distressing assistance of a surgeon, as well as have an opportunity of relieving themselves whenever there is the least painful distention of the bladder. Internal medicine is of no use in this com- plaint, but the diet should be temperate, and drink should be taken sparingly. The bladder will sometimes have only its sphincter muscle paralytic, while the muscular coat of the bladder shall retain its natural power. This complaint prevents the water from being properly retained; and when there is a certain accumulation of urine in the bladder, it passes off involuntarily. This species of complaint is more common in persons advanced in life than in young persons, and more common in men than in women. The sphincter muscles generallym throughout the body become more weak at an advanced period of life; and the bladder of men is more exposed through life to the causes which impair its powers, than that of women. When this disease has taken place, it is seldom entirely cured. It is oc- casionally benefited by small blisters being applied to the perinaeum or near the neck of the bladder. Tonic medicines of different kinds, and proper doses of the tinctura lyttae, are sometimes attended with advantage. OF A DISEASED SECRETION FROM THE BLADDER. The inner membrane of the bladder, more especially near its neck, has the power of secreting mucus, and is always secreting it in a small quantify, in order to protect the internal surface of the bladder against the stimulus of the urine. This secretion is some- times very much increased in persons at a middle or advanced age, and is a good deal altered in its properties. Instead of being in a great degree transparent and void of colour, it becomes opaque and yellow, so as very much to resemble pus. It becomes225 what is now generally called purulent mucus, and will often be nearly equal in quantity to the urine itself. When the urine has been evacuated, and has been allowed to rest in a vessel for a little time, the purulent mucus subsides from the urine, and often adheres with considerable tenacity to the sides of the vessel. This mucus is often formed, without there being any morbid structure in the bladder, or any substance contained in the bladder which produces irritation; but it almost constantly attends more or less the presence of a calculus there. When this complaint is independent of a calculus, it commonly receives but little be- nefit from medicine. The balsam of copaiba, the uva ursi, and soda, sometimes appear to be useful, but they very seldom produce any considerable or permanent good. When the existence of a calculus in the bladder is the cause of the disease, the removal of the cal- culus will effectually cure it. Q226 OF A CALCULUS IN THE BLADDER. When a calculus is in the bladder, the dis- ease can in general be ascertained by an ac- curate attention to the symptoms ; but it can always, or almost always, be ascertained in a satisfactory manner by a sound or catheter being introduced into the bladder by an ex- perienced surgeon. I have known a good many instances in which this disease has been alleviated by medicines, but none in which it has been cured. Mucilaginous substances, fomentations, opiates, magnesia, and alkaline remedies are sometimes of considerable use in lessening the symptoms. Where the cal- culus has been ascertained, by portions of it or by gravel which may have been occa- sionally discharged with the urine, to consist of the triple phosphate, much advantage has sometimes been derived from taking moderate doses of the muriatic acid properly diluted. OF A COMMUNICATION BY ULCER BETWEEN THE BLADDER AND THE RECTUxM. I have known two cases of this kind; one of which was in a man, and the other in awoman. They both lived between two and three years, but they died from the conse- quences of the disease. Both sometimes suf- fered considerable pain in the very lower part of the abdomen, but they were both often quite free from pain for many hours together. The pulse was sometimes of a na- tural frequency, and sometimes was accele- rated. It hardly ever happened that urine escaped from the bladder into the rectum, but very often air escaped from the rectum through the urethra, and frequently more or less of faeces was discharged by the same channel. Whenever faeculent matter was dis- charged by the urethra, great pain was felt about the neck of the bladder. It is very obvious that medicine could be of no sub- stantial use in those cases. Opiates, fomenta- tions, and mild purgatives sometimes pro- duced an alleviation of the symptoms, but the constitution became at length very much exhausted, and the scene was then soon closed.228 OF SOME DISEASED AFFECTIONS OF THE WOMB. One of the most common diseases of the womb is prolapsus uteri. It is in very dif- ferent degrees in different individuals. In some the womb is only a little lower in its situation than it ought to be, but the mouth of the womb is still considerably within the vagina. In others the neck of the uterus shall be at the external opening of the va- gina; and in a few a considerable portion of the womb shall be without the body. According to my experience, this disease, when in a considerable degree, is often very imperfectly relieved. When the degree of it is slight, and the vagina not very relaxed, the complaint may sometimes be removed by a horizontal posture being continued through- * out the greater part of the day for several months, by the judicious use of tonic medi- cines, and by astringent fluids being injected into the vagina twice a day. In a moderate degree of the prolapsus, pregnancy takingm place has often proved the means of curing the disease. When the prolapsus is in a great degree, both internal and external remedies have generally been of little use. The incon- veniencies, however, of the disease may in a great measure be prevented by a pessary being constantly worn in the vagina. When the pessary is well adapted to the circum- stances, it does not produce pain, and in time the patient is hardly sensible of its pre- sence. I need not say that the pessary should be removed for a few minutes every two or three days, in order that it may be cleaned and not produce irritation. OF POLYPUS OF THE WOMB. This disease, although by no means so common as the former, is not very rare, and I have not unfrequently been consulted about it. If the symptoms be not inquired into with some attention, it may be confounded with the malignant ulcer, or what is usually called Cancer of the womb ; but a minute in- quiry into the symptoms will enable the prac- titioner in most instances to distinguish be-230 tween the two diseases. When an exami- nation has been made per vaginam, no doubt can remain; and therefore, before an opinion is decidedly given, an examination should always be made. In this disease no permanent advantage is gained by medicine. The strength of the constitution may be a little kept up by tonic and astringent medicines, and the profuse discharges of mucus and blood may be moderated by the application of cold and astringent fluids; but the disease can only be removed by an operation, which consists in tying the neck of the polypus by a liga- ture. This can be done safely, and with great dexterity by many practitioners in mid- wifery. In a few days after the operation, the polypus drops off, and the patient gra- dually recovers her usual health. In many instances the polypus does not return ; but a new polypus is occasionally formed, which in due time may be removed by a similar ope- ration.231 OF CANCER OF THE WOMB. This disease is not uncommon, more es- pecially at the middle and more advanced periods of life, and I have frequently been consulted respecting it. I have never known any medicine produce the least real amend- ment of the disease. Opium and other se- datives will not unfrequently relieve the greater attacks of pain; and in that way will prevent the constitution from being so soon worn down by the disease. It is to be ob- served, however, that different women suffer naturally very different degrees of pain in this fatal disease, and that its progress is much more slow in one woman than another. The diet should always be very temperate, con- sisting chiefly of vegetable substances, and the patient should abstain from wine and other fermented liquors. OF AN ENLARGEMENT OF THE WOMB. This disease is not uncommon, although by no means so frequent as cancer of the232 womb. It is more apt to occur at or near the middle period of life than at any other, and may be distinguished by a moderate at- tention to the circumstances of the case. There are considerable mucous discharges by the vagina, as in some other diseases of the womb, and the monthly evacuations are profuse. When the disease has made some progress, a tumour of a pyramidal shape and of considerable hardness may be felt imme- diately above the pubes. The neck of the uterus is likewise found to be enlarged by an examination per vaginam. These circum- stances sufficiently characterize the disease. It generally continues for many years, and the general health is often not much affected by it. In the course of my experience I have known three cases of this disease cured by medicine. Five or six grains of the pilula hydrargyri were directed to be given every night for many weeks, from half a pint to a pint of decoction of sarsaparilla was ordered to be drunk daily, and a large mercurial plaster was applied over the tumour and the whole lower part of the abdomen. The dis-233 ease in these instances gradually subsided, and at length disappeared altogether. One of these patients, who was about thirty-five years of age, afterwards became pregnant, and bore a very healthy child.234 OF SOME DISEASED AFFECTIONS OF THE OVARIUM. The most common disease of the ovarium is that of its being dropsical. It may take place at almost any period of life. It is not un- usual in young women, and often occurs about the middle age. This disease may in general be readily distinguished from Ascites by an examination of the swelling, which is almost constantly more or less uneven upon its surface, and often more or less hard in different parts of it. Sometimes, however, in Dropsy of the ovarium, when the disease is of considerable standing, the swelling is uni- form, and a sense of fluctuation is felt upon striking the tumour with the hand, almost as distinctly as in Ascites. Under such circum- stances the two diseases will be distinguished from each other by inquiring accurately into the history of the case. I do not recollect any instance in which Dropsy of the ovarium has been materially diminished by medicine. I have long, there-235 fore, given up the trial of active remedies in this disease, which I have found to be inef- fectual, and sometimes injurious to the con- stitution. I have contented myself with keep- ing the bowels regular, and with directing such diuretic medicines as would not impair * the general health. I have not found mer- cury, even when continued for several months together, and having its full influence upon the constitution, produce a cure or any ma- terial change in this disease. The disease will sometimes remain stationary for a good many years, and the general health will be very little impaired by it. In one instance, after it had existed for nearly thirty years, the disease disappeared spontaneously, and the lady, who is still alive, remained after- wards in good health. In three cases where the women were young, and the dropsy con- fined to one large cyst in the ovarium, I have known them to be effectually relieved by tapping, and the disease not to return for several years. In one of these the dropsy did not return for ten years. When the pa- tient is young, and Dropsy of the ovarium under favourable circumstances, it is always236 worth while to make a trial of this remedy. When the Dropsy of the ovarium is composed of several cysts, the disease may be partially relieved by tapping; but it almost con- stantly returns, and after a certain time very rapidly, so that there is only a short in- terval between the operations. Still, how- ever, some relief is afforded by each opera- tion ; and patients will be ready to undergo the operation for this relief every two or three months for several years. A firm swelling, about the size of the fist or a large orange, is sometimes to be felt in the situation of the ovarium, either upon the right or the left side of the abdomen. It will sometimes remain stationary, will sometimes go on enlarging to a much greater size, and is not, as far as I have seen, suppressed by any remedy. This solid structure of the ovarium is found not uncommonly blended with the dropsical cysts which have been lately mentioned.237 OF MY EXPERIENCE IN FEVERS. While I was a physician of St. George's Hospital, which was during a period of thir- teen years, I saw a good many cases of ty- phous fever. There were generally three or four cases of such fevers under my care at a time. Since I have ceased being a physician to that hospital, and more especially since my patients have been chiefly in the upper ranks of society, I have not seen more than three or four of such fevers in a twelvemonth. With respect to the contagious nature of these fevers, I am convinced that it is in ge- neral not considerable. I do not recollect an instance in which a patient in that hos- pital communicated the infection to a patient lying in the next bed. When patients are crowded together, and the apartments are ill ventilated, I entertain no doubt of this spe- cies of fever being capable of being commu- nicated readily from one individual to an- other. These fevers are sometimes without any23 8 symptoms which denote a local affection of a vital organ, but very frequently there are symptoms which indicate an inflammatory action of some of the viscera in the chest or belly, or of the brain. In these fevers I have met with no reme- dies which possess any specific powers of cure, or which are capable of shortening in any material degree their duration. Before they are fully formed they are sometimes cut short by an emetic, by active purgatives, by profuse perspiration, or by cold affusion ; but when they are quite established, I do not re- collect that I have seen any instance in which they have been shortened by these means. The most successful method of treating these fevers, as far as I have seen, is to remove or mitigate the symptoms as they arise. The symptoms denoting an affection of the brain should be relieved as speedily as possible by cupping, leeches, and the application of cold to the head. Cloths dipped in iced water, and kept almost constantly applied to the shaved scalp, have appeared to me more ef- fectual in removing delirium than any other remedy.239 When there is pain in any part of the chest or difficulty of breathing, these symptoms should be relieved as soon as possible by cupping or leeches, or blisters, and by saline medicines. If there be any pain in the abdomen, or any symptoms denoting an affection of the liver, the stomach, and the bowels, these are to be.relieved by their appropriate remedies. If there be too vigorous a circulation over the body, without any apparent local affec- tion, it may be corrected by a very cautious bleeding from the arm, by purging, and by saline medicines. If the actions of the con- stitution be feeble, they may be strengthened by tonic and stimulating remedies, the best of which I believe to be wine in suitable doses. By this mode of treatment fevers will often terminate favourably, which other- wise would have been fatal. During the greater part of the time in which I have practised medicine, physicians in general, and myself among that number, have, I believe, been too sparing in taking away blood in typhous fever. It was hardly ever directed to be taken away from the arm, i240 and not often locally, except by the appli- cation of leeches to the head. Of late years many physicians have gone into the opposite extreme, and have taken away blood too pro- fusely. In the course of a few years this re- medy, like every other, will find its proper level. During the course of a fever, patients require but little nourishment, and this should in a great measure consist of farinaceous matter. Even when the fever has entirely subsided, animal food should be taken for some time very cautiously and sparingly. I have known some instances of the most se- rious relapses of fever from patients having taken animal food too soon and in too large quantity; and I am disposed to think that the greater number of relapses arise from this cause. OF INTERMITTENT FEVERS. I have always practised in London, and have therefore not had many cases of inter- mittent fever under my care. While I was a physician of St. George's Hospital, I perhaps saw five or six cases of it in a year; and this chiefly occurred among the poor Irish who