452 OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. earnest and enthusiastic efforts of Professor Lister have already wrought great good to surgery, in many ways ; not the least being in the care and cleanliness in the treatment of wounds, which he has taught, and in the personal obser- vation and attention he has enforced by his own example. As the antiseptic treatment of wounds will form the subject of a separate article, it is not neces- sary to consider it further in this place. Yet apart from the antiseptic method in all its details, it is-probable that, in a modified form, it can be made largely and conveniently available in the treatment of wounds of operation, and open injuries. A piece of lint saturated with carbolized oil, or carbolated solution, will answer every practical pur- pose, and may be substituted for the rather cumbersome special dressing of Lister. No matter what dressing maybe resorted to, the surgeon must still remem- ber that it should at all times be inspected with repeated and scrupulous care; that soiled cloths, breeders of infection, must be at once removed ; and that absolute cleanliness of the wound and all its surroundings must be rigidly enforced. If there be much suppuration, the carbolic acid spray from an ordi- nary atomizer can be advantageously employed. All dressings should be light, and in changing them great gentleness should be used to avoid disturb- ing the soft parts, and arresting or interfering with the process of union. If adhesive straps have been laid across the line of the wound, and it becomes necessary to change them, this should be done in accordance with the great indication, the preservation of local rest. Treatment of Patients after Operation. The after-treatment of operations may conveniently be considered as local, and general. As regards the former, the part must be placed in the position of greatest comfort to the patient,and properly supported, while all strain upon the tissues is avoided. The position, too, should be selected so as to favor drainage, and the dressings should be as light, and as little cumbersome, as possible, while every attempt should be made to favor early unipn. If the sutures used are metallic, and are productive of little irritation, they may be left until it becomes evident that they are of no further service, or until they begin to cut out, when they may be removed. If the arteries have been tied with thread or silk ligatures, the latter must be left until it is apparent that they are sepa- rating or falling. They must always be handled with extreme caution, and no force should be employed to effect their dislodgment, for fear of pulling them oft' prematurely, and thus giving rise to bleeding which might prove troublesome. In arranging the threads, before closing the wound, it is well, as a rule, to carry them out either at the nearest point, or at the angles, and they should be laid straight in the wound; care must also be taken to pre- vent them from falling into loops, or from becoming entangled one with another; otherwise, in removing one which has fallen, an unsuspected ligature may be unduly pulled upon. It is well, too, to count the ligatures, and to be quite sure as the case progresses that the full quota of threads has been taken away. Instances are not uncommon, where many ligatures have been applied, in which one or more have in some way or other become buried or hidden in the depths of the wound, and, to the mortification of the surgeon, have made their appearance by ulceration weeks after the wound had been regarded as firmly closed and cicatrized. When the carbolized gut ligatures have been used, their removal will necessarily be spontaneous and by absorption, and the surgeon need not trouble himself as to their coming away. Best, support, drainage, cleanliness, the avoidance of unnecessary handling, with proper