OPERATIVE METHODS EMPLOYED IN AMPUTATION. 579 Scissors of various sizes and shapes are used in an amputation. There should be one pair, strong, and with blades set at an angle (Fig. 144), for cutting plasters and bandages ; a pair of ordinary “ surgical scissors,” sharp Fig. 144. Bandage scissors. Fig. 145. Scissors curved on the flat. and strong, for cutting ligatures and sutures; and a third pair, with blades curved on the flat (Fig. 145), also sharp and strong, for retrenching protruding nerves, tendons, and masses of fascia. Besides the various instruments required for an amputation, and the neces- sary dressings, the surgeon should see that there are in readiness plenty of clean sponges of a convenient size; warm and cold water; a hot-water can, or spirit-lamp, for heating strips of adhesive plaster, if the ordinary officinal plaster is to be employed—what is sold as the “ American Surgeons’ adhesive plaster,” though somewhat more expensive, is a more convenient article, adhering without being warmed ; an efficient styptic for controlling capillary hemorrhage ; and a little white wax for plugging the medullary cavity of the bone, if that should he the source of troublesome bleeding. Operative Methods Employed in Amputation. All the various methods of amputating may, as heretofore mentioned, he regarded simply as modifications of the two principal modes already referred to, the flap and the circular. Thus the oval operation, as perfected by Scou- tetten and Malgaigne, is a variety of the circular method, while the different plans of Sedillot, Teale, Lee, Stephen Smith, etc., may all he considered as modifications of the flap operation. Circular Method.—M. Fort, one of the most recent French writers on operative surgery, enumerates no less than seven varieties of the circular operation, distinguishing them as the procedures of Alanson, Benjamin Bell, Brunninghausen, Desault, Louis, Malgaigne,1 and J. L. Petit. The peculiari- ties of most of these methods have been sufficiently indicated in the section devoted to the History of Amputation,2 and I may add here that the special feature of Brunninghausen’s plan consisted in dissecting up a cuff of skin, as done by Hey, Bell, and Alanson, and then cutting the muscles and hone on the same plane, and that of Malgaigne’s operation in combining the pecu- liarities of both Desault’s and Bell’s methods, making thus what he called a “ quadruple incision.”3 The circular operation, as ordinarily practised at the present day, is in all essential particulars the operation of Iley, Bell, and Alanson, and is performed as follows:— The part to be operated upon having been washed and shaved, and the patient being thoroughly under the influence of an anaesthetic, he is brought ' Malgaigne himself enumerated nine methods, exclusive of his own. 2 Vide supra, pp. 557, 558. 3 Manuel de medecine operatoire, 3e 6dit. p. 290. Paris, 1840.