INFLAMMATION. 104 and fever. Abernethy, Cooper, Wilson Philip, Travers, whose doctrines and phrases were on the lips of all teachers, and dominant in the schools, referred the obscure phenomena of these conditions to sympathy, and constitutional irri- tation—somewhat empty phrases; and Hunter, the greatest of all, evidently— to us of this generation—owes his pre-eminence to his close and able observa- tion of Nature, whom he questioned through experiments upon animals; and to his fidelity to her teachings. This most fertile of all our sources of exact knowledge, that is, knowledge which has proved reliable, and of practical value in physiology and pathology, namely, experiments upon animals, was undervalued by these contemporaries of Brown and Broussais, because it was the fashion to believe that the phenomena ascribed to the influence of the mind and nervous system, e.g., “sympathy,” “constitutional disturbance,” and “constitutional irritation,” could not be adequately developed in the lower animals, and that the knowledge thus acquired could not therefore be profit- ably applied to man. In fact there are a few of the descendants of these sen- timental recusants still raising their voices in opposition to vivisection. If we omit Hunter, the real value of the writings of the authorities just cited, and a certain charm which they undeniably possess, will be found in their great ability as clinical observers and vivid portrayers of the symptoms of disease, and not in the interpretation of the phenomena they witnessed. Their opinions were too often warped by theories prevalent at the time, which have since passed away. The material results of the more practical researches of the present generation, promise to form permanent additions to our know- ledge; as, for example, the fact just cited from Senator that the injection of a little fresh pus will invariably produce fever in dogs, or that of the production of more intense and fatal fever by injection of putrid matter, as proved by Billroth and 0. Weber. But it is still regarded as possible that substances may be elaborated within the organism, by abnormal chemico-vital changes, under the influence of temporarily perverted nervous action, which may give rise to fever, or to inflammation, as certainly as the injection of fresh pus be- neath the skin, or of putrid matter into the veins. The clinical facts are undis- puted that the simple passage of a sound through the urethra may cause a chill and fever, and that a sudden fright may so affect the quality of a nurs- ing woman’s milk as to produce a poisonous effect upon the nursling. If an influence transmitted through nerves is competent to cause a change in a glandular secretion, begetting a poison, why may not the blood be similarly affected in the collapse following a severe injury, in which the generation of nerve force by nerve cells is temporarily suspended? It is not easy to submit such a question to the test of experiment, and it is not desirable to speculate; but it is certainly wise not to lose sight of these, and similar phenomena, as bearing upon the causation of fever.1 Mr. Savory lias quite recently entered a plea for consideration of the claims of the nervous system as bearing upon “ constitutional disturbance,” which may possibly be referred to with profit in this connection. This eminent surgeon contends that fever may arise from “ nervous” as well as from “ ma- terial” sources, and that the forms of fever thus produced present many symp- toms in common, such as malaise, and rise in temperature; but that, where there is actual blood-poisoning, chills and sweats, with great and sudden rises 1 In liis “ Lemons sur la Chaleur Animale” (Paris, 1876, p. 445), Claude Bernard concludes that fever is nothing more than an exaggeration of the physiological phenomena of combustion, in consequence of interference with the nerves whose office it is to control and regulate these pheno- mena. This interference may be reflex—as from a wound or injury ; or direct—as from section of the spinal cord. On this point Prof. Wood (ut supra) concludes that “the maintenance of the •normal temperature and its rhythm is dependent upon the nervous system which, within certain limits, controls both the production and dissipation of animal heat.”