ERYSIPELAS. 198 “the chain of morbid associations,” to use the figurative hut not unmeaning- phrase of another epoch. However this may be, the frequent occurrence of spontaneous vomiting was supposed to indicate a biliary derangement, and “a saburral condition” of the stomach, and this belief was confirmed by the accompanying thick coating upon the tongue. But now it is certain that vomiting is a frequent precursor of febrile attacks of very diverse nature, and that the degree and nature of the tongue’s coating is immediately related to the general state of the system, and not at all to that of the stomach. Al- though the reasons given for an emetic treatment of erysipelas may have been groundless, the method itself may have been good, by as much as facts are generally better than opinions, and practice than theory. It may very well be that an emetic or an emeto-cathartic given in the forming stage of this as well as of many other febrile diseases, will tend to mitigate its severity and modify its course, partly by cleansing the alimentary canal of its putrescible contents, and partly by quickening all the eliminative secretions, and very possibly by expelling in this manner a portion of the morbid poison contained in the blood. It is a treatment which may be eligible without being elegant, and that it is the former, our experience, especially in hospitals, does not per- mit us to doubt. The most appropriate emetic is ipecacuanha, the most unsuitable, as a rule, is tartar emetic; or, if the latter be used, it should be prescribed in small doses dissolved in a weak solution of Epsom salt or some analogous saline. The emetic treatment, it need hardly be added, is not so well adapted to surgical as it is to medical erysipelas. The use of alcoholic stimulants, in ordinary cases of the disease, is not only unnecessary but injurious, for they increase the fever, lessen the appetite for food, and impair the digestive function. It was part of a system of stimula- tion which Dr. Todd, of London, brought into vogue about 1860, to administer in this disease, at stated times and in small doses, so as not to excite nausea and intolerance, beef-tea and brandy. He even went so far as to say, “ If I were restricted to one remedy in this disease, I should assuredly choose brandy.”1 And he repeated and elaborated this idea in his clinical lectures published four years later. Considering that he had to do with neither sur- gical (traumatic) nor puerperal erysipelas, it is certain that he wrent far beyond either his contemporaries or his successors, in his recommendation. Nothing can be more certain than that erysipelas, as such, stands in no need of alcoholic treatment; but that the typhoid forms and states of the disease may and generally do call for it, as the same conditions do in all other febrile aftections, is unquestionable. And not only for alcohol but for other stimulants, cardiac and nervous, of which oil of turpentine is by many ranked highest, as it is also in whatever form of fever a tendency to the typhoid state is most marked; and next to it, or even higher but for its more transient operation, carbonate of ammonium may be placed. Not many years ago, the prevalent theory of erysipelas attributed its phe- nomena directly to the extravasation of the white corpuscles of the blood, and, as at that time quinia became endowed with a specific control over this migration, it was looked upon as the natural antidote of erysipelas. But as the theory could not be made to embrace all of the cases in which the utility of quinia had been demonstrated, another virtue was assigned to it, viz., that of destroying disease-germs; and, finally, this being found an inadequate explanation, the antipyretic virtues of quinia were invoked to account for its power in curing erysipelas. It was omitted, however, to show that in any true and real sense quinia did cure, i. e., arrest, this disease. It is claimed that the use of large doses of quinia in erysipelas was instituted, in this 1 Medical Times and Gazette, January, 1855, p. 29.