INFLAMMATION. 122 But local death when it follows an injury after ever so short an interval, even when the series of changes has been very imperfectly inaugurated—perhaps not even begun—is usually credited to inflammation; whereas it should be, probably more correctly, ascribed to the injury. There are cases occurring constantly in which tissues are half killed, as, for example, in a crushed limb, and are unable to take part in the increased nutritive action necessitated by the reparative effort, even to the extent of separating dead from living parts. In the stasis that follows the first afflux of blood, these tissues perish, through lack of vital power in their vessels to carry on the circulation. This lack of power, through injury, may manifest itself at any stage of the constructive pro- cess ; and, when it becomes manifest, sloughing and gangrene take place. In this sense inflammation may be said to terminate in gangrene. But it would convey a more correct idea of the pathological condition to say of such a result that the injury is too severe to he remedied by the limited power of repair with which the human organism is endowed. We may conclude from these considerations that neither ulceration, nor gangrene, can he properly styled a “termination” of inflammation. The results of the inflammatory condition to which this term is correctly applicable, will be enumerated hereafter. The Significance of Suppuration. Having now surveyed the different forms of suppuration, as it occurs in wounds in the process of healing by the second intention, on membranes, and in the substance of the tissues, and having examined, incidentally, the rela- tions of ulceration and gangrene to inflammation, we are in a position to form a judgment as to the uses of pus, and the general significance of this most characteristic of all the manifestations of the inflammatoiy condition. Mean- while, however, there are some physical qualities of pus, connected principally with abscess formation, which still remain to he noticed. Significance of Odors from Pus.—The discharge from an abscess, espe- cially in certain localities of the body, is liable to give off an offensive odor. This is due to contamination by fetid gases generated in the vicinity of the abscess—pus, like other substances containing fat, becoming readily tainted. Thus, the power by which gases permeate animal membranes, known as os- mosis', explains the fetor of the pus from abscesses forming near the rectum, or, in fact, in the neighborhood of any part of the alimentary canal. The badly smelling gases generated within the intestines are absorbed by the pus formed outside of it, through the intervening membranes. This is true of pus forming in the neighborhood of the mouth, tonsils, pharynx, and oesoph- agus. A peculiar sour smell has been noticed in pus from the vicinity of the small intestine, suggestive of the earlier stages of digestion. There is, conse- quently, a certain diagnostic value in the odor of pus. If the discharge from an abscess of the neck should be offensive, it may be safely assumed to come from a source as deep as the pharynx. In pus which is retained, and at the same time mingled with the secretions of an inflamed mucous membrane, as in that which occasionally collects in the antrum of the upper jaw, the fetor is excessive. In oztena, or where dead bone is present, or a foreign body wedged in the nasal cavities, it is notori- ously offensive. It is noticeable that in each of these cases the odor is pecu- liar, and differs from all others. Substances absorbed into the blood give their odor to pus: a French author states that ulcers of the leg in tanners, who work in badly smelling hides, are remarkable for their extreme fetor; and the odor of the dissecting rooms has been recognized in the pus of an