502 MINOR SURGERY. by some more elegant than either of the above preparations, and nearly as efficient. The most convenient way of using the ceratum cantharidis is to spread it on a piece of adhesive or diachylon plaster, leaving a margin of about l|-2 centimetres (J to f of an inch) wide, uncovered, which will adhere to the skin and thus hold the blister in position. The average length of time that a fly-blister may be allowed to remain in contact with the skin, is from six to eight hours; then it should be removed, and the part covered with a flaxseed-meal poultice. A blister raised in this way is not very painful, nor is it apt to be followed by strangury. In cases in which the skin is delicate, or in which urinary irritation is apprehended, camphor, alone or in combina- tion with opium, may be incorporated with the cerate before it is applied. Cantharidal collodion, painted on the skin in three or four layers, with a camel’s- liair brush, is the best means of blistering in cases of maniacs or other patients whose movements are not easily controlled ; it is, likewise, a very convenient application for uneven or irregular surfaces. Blisters must be cautiously used with children, even with those who are robust, and they are positively contra-indicated in the case of children suffering from any low form of disease. When a blistered surface is to be healed as quickly as possible, the vesicle should be carefully punctured at the most dependent point, to let the serum escape, and, without detaching the cuticle, the part should be covered with oxide of zinc ointment or simple cerate. If, on the other hand, there is need for keeping up the derivative effect of a blister, the cuticle should be stripped off and the denuded surface dressed with savine cerate or mezereon ointment, or the compound resin cerate. Nitrate of silver is sometimes applied to the skin for the purpose of exciting counter-irritation. A strong solution of this salt may be used where the ob- ject is simply to produce rubefaction ; but, for the purpose of exciting vesica- tion, preference should be given to the solid stick. Freely applied to the scrotum in this form, nitrate of silver is thought by some surgeons to be effi- cacious in abating an acute epididymitis. Acupuncture.—This method of exciting counter-irritation is effected by thrusting needles deeply into the subcutaneous tissues, where they are allowed to remain for a variable length of time. The needles should be of steel, polished, strong, sharp pointed, and from 5 to 10 centimetres (2 to 4 inches) long, and should have round metallic heads, or be fixed in cylindrical handles. In introducing the needles, the skin should be made tense between the thumb and fingers of the left hand, while each needle is forced through the integument into the deep-seated structures by a rotatory motion. As it is withdrawn, the skin around each needle ought to be supported. In performing the ope- ration of-acupuncture, certain localities containing important organs, such as large bloodvessels, the viscera, joints, etc., must be avoided. Acupunctura- tion has been found of service in cases of deep-seated neuralgia, especially of the sciatic nerve, cases of muscular rigidity, obstinate rheumatic affections, etc. Issues are ulcers made artificially by the application of caustics, or the moxa, or by the use of the knife, for the purpose of relieving either local or general disease by establishing a permanent, derivative action. When they are established with a view of producing a drain on the system, certain situa- tions, such as the nape of the neck, the insertion of the deltoid muscle on the outer side of the arm, and the outer aspect of the thigh, should be selected; for in these localities the subcutaneous areolar tissue is abundant, and there are no important bloodvessels or nerves. In the case of local affections, cir- cumstances will determine the points at which issues are to be made. Salient points of the skeleton and the immediate vicinity of large bloodvessels and