PHENOMENA OF ANAESTHESIA. 407 longest upon the anterior surfaces of the trunk, about the eyes, at the tips of the lingers and toes, and especially in the neighborhood of the anus and the organs of generation. The initial effects of inhalation are manifested in the brain by a great exaltation of the powers of perception and reasoning. Ideas are quickened, but, with a diminution of the powers of sensation, the sphere of vivid perception is correspondingly narrowed. Consciousness remains per- fect as long as it exists, but its field progressively contracts to a vanishing point, around which seems to gather an atmosphere of half formed and ever fainter perceptions. The powers of attention, memory, reasoning, judgment, and volition, can be exercised with perfect precision as long as the formation of ideas persists, but the progressive movement towards severance of the brain from all contact with the external world through the medium of the senses, becomes at length so complete that consciousness can deal only with ideas which originate within the brain itself. In this condition the patient seems to dream, and the memory of these dreams may be preserved after awakening. Sometimes all avenues of communication with the external world may be closed but one—usually the sense of hearing—and the patient experiences a feeling as if separated from his body; as if occupying the position of an im- passive spectator of the scene in which his material organization forms a con- stituent part. In such cases volition has ceased; perception, memory, imagi- nation and consciousness, alone remain. But, as the anaesthetic process advances, these functions also lapse into the potential state, and the patient passes into a condition of vegetative existence. The effects of amesthetics upon the powers of volition are somewhat variable. Children and adults of an impressible temperament are more easily overcome than patients of a vigorous, intellectual character. By an effort of the will, the progress of anaesthesia may be delayed, and a mind trained in habits of introspection and analysis will retain consciousness longer than if less happily organized. A similar phenomenon is often remarked during the progress towards alcoholic intoxication, when a sudden and powerful act of volition, exercised, perhaps, as the result of some unexpected stimulus from without, serves to restore the condition of sobriety. By such effort, and even without apparent effort, perfect intelligence may often be maintained for a consider- able period after the loss of the power of perceiving painful sensations. The patient may be conscious, intelligent, and capable of conversation, yet almost wholly insensible to pain; and, on recovery, quite oblivious of the passage of time, and of the majority of the events that have transpired. During the initial stage of anaesthesia, the power of muscular movement is usually exaggerated. Such voluntary movements as may be put forth, are performed with unwonted vigor and celerity. The patient may raise his hand or move his foot without willing the act, yet with perfect knowledge of what is done. The involuntary muscles exhibit the general disturbance with the greatest uniformity. The heart heats more rapidly, and sometimes more violently; the temples throb; the movements of respiration are accelerated. Sometimes cough will he excited, the patient vomits, the bladder and the rectum may he evacuated. Convulsive phenomena sometimes appear. They may be limited to insignificant fibrillary twitchings of the facial muscles, or the patient may be shaken as if in an ague-fit. Epileptic patients may he roused by the amesthetic to the manifestation of a complete convulsion, from which they will pass into a condition of the most profound insensibility—a combination of coma and anaesthesia. Sometimes the convulsive movement assumes the tonic form. This is said to be more frequently witnessed as a result of chloroform than of ether. An arm or a leg, one half of the body, or even the entire frame, may become perfectly rigid as if fixed in a tetanic