AMPUTATIONS. 654 bly pressing the front of the foot downwards, so as to make the anterior liga- ments as tense as possible. Trouble is sometimes experienced during the after-treatment of patients who have submitted to Chopart’s amputation, from contraction of the mus- cles of the calf drawing the heel upwards, thus, when the patient begins to walk, bringing the cicatrix against the sole of the shoe, and so causing irritation. This contraction can usually be prevented by bandaging the leg from above downwards, or by applying a broad strip of plaster connected with a weight and pulley, but division of the tendo Achillis may occasionally be required. Dubrueil recommends the use of a wedge-shaped pad in the shoe, the base of the wedge being directed forwards. Trouble from this source is less likely to be met with when the plantar flap is of ample dimensions, than when it is somewhat scanty. The statistics of Chopart’s amputation were particularly investigated hy the late Mr. Hancock,1 who found that 152 terminated cases gave but 11 deaths, a mortality of only 7.2 per cent., while no less than 120 of the 126 patients who recovered had useful limbs. Larger’s figures,2 from French sources, are less favorable, 38 cases having given 14 deaths, or 36.8 per cent., though only half of these w~ere properly attributable to the operation. Sub-astragaloid Amputation.—This operation appears to have been sug- gested by Lignorolles,3 though it was, according to Hancock,4 first performed by Textor in 1841. The peculiarity of the operation consists in the removal of the whole foot with the exception of the astragalus. Lignerolles and Vel- peau advised that the surgeon should make two lateral flaps, and turn them upwards towards the malleoli before disarticulating. Lisfranc employed a single dorsal flap, and Malgaigne a single flap from the inner portion of the sole. Yerneuil’s method, which seems to be the one generally adopted in France, is somewhat differently described by different writers; it is essentially an application of the oval method, the point of the oval being placed on the outer side of the foot, below and be- hind the external malleolus, while the base of the oval crosses the inner side of the foot over the middle por- tion of the internal cuneiform bone. Helaton modified this procedure by making another angle at the base of the oval, thus really making dorsal and plantar flaps, the junction of which was made further back upon the outer than upon the inner side. The plan recommended by modern English writers, and that which I have myself successfully followed in two cases (Fig. 187), is to make a flap from the heel, as in Syme’s ope- ration at the ankle-joint, only some- what longer, with a short anterior flap from the dorsum. As soon as the heebflap has been loosened as far back as the tubercles of the calcaneum,. the anterior part of the foot may be cut away, and the os calcis then grasped 1 Operative Surgery of the Foot and Ankle-joint, p. 386. London, 1873. 2 Bulletin de la Societe de Chirurgie ; apud Hayem, Revue des Sciences Medicates, Oct. 15, 1880. 3 Velpeau, Traite de Medecine Operatoire, t. ii. p. 499. Paris, 1839. 4 Op. cit., p. 191. Fig. 187. Sub-astragaloid amputation of foot.