216 HYDROPHOBIA—GLANDERS—MALIGNANT PUSTULE. soon die from inoculation of this poison, without manifesting the ordinary symptoms of rabies. It is well known that many persons bitten by rabid animals do not con- tract hydrophobia, the morbid matter being no doubt wiped off as the teeth penetrate the clothes. Hence the wounds inflicted by rabid wolves are much more dangerous than those received from rabid dogs; the difference being apparently due to the fact that wolves generally bite the exposed parts of the body, such as the face, neck, and hands, whereas dogs usually seize with their teeth those parts that are covered. Sir Thomas Watson writes that of 114 persons bitten by rabid wolves, 67 died of hydrophobia. Bouley gives the following summary of facts, collected from the report made to the Consulting Committee of Public Hygiene, France:— (1) In 49 departments wherein cases of rabies were reported by 108 communications, 320 persons were bitten by rabid animals. This figure is enormous, but must be re- garded nevertheless as far below the truth—for there are departments where the disease is common, from which no reports were obtained. (2) Out of 320 cases of persons bitten, the bites caused hydrophobia in 129, or a proportion of about forty per cent. (3) Out of 320 cases of persons bitten, the wounds were not followed by the disease in 123 known and specified cases. The established rate of exemption would, therefore, seem to be about 38 per cent. (4) Among the 320 bitten persons, 206 were males and 81 females, while in 33 cases the sex was not mentioned. With reference to the distribution of cases throughout the year, the author mentions the following facts:— During the three spring months, March, April, and May, 89 cases occurred; during the summer months, June, July, and August, 74 cases; during the autumn months, September, October, and November, 64 cases; and during the winter months, Decem- ber, January, and February, 75 cases. This leads to the conclusion, that there is no great difference in the number of cases between the seasons ; that the danger from mad dogs in the winter season is about the same as in the heat of summer ; and that in the spring cases are most frequent, and in the autumn least frequent. The popular opinion, which regards winter as free from the curse of hydrophobia, and which indicates that the disease exists in summer more than at any other season, has no foundation in fact. This brings us to a conclusion of great importance, namely, that as far as sanitary measures, and the protection of the people are concerned, we should, at all times and in all seasons, be equally on our guard, and should take efficient measures of protection against dogs. Hydrophobia is not peculiar to any age—it prevails in all countries and in all climates. It is possible that idiosyncrasy may exert an important influence in preventing the effects of the poison. It is well known that this is true of other zymo- tic poisons. Tliis influence of idiosyncrasy may be illustrated by the experience of Hr. Ilertnich, of Berlin, who inoculated fifty dogs with saliva taken from another dog affected with rabies, and not one in five was affected. Rabies in the Hog.—The disease as it affects the dog, has been well de- scribed by Mr. Youatt, and, as his description has become classical, I make the following extracts In the greater number of cases there are sullenness, fidgetiness, and continual shift- ing of posture. When I have had opportunity I have generally found these circum- stances in succession. For several successive hours perhaps he retreats to his basket or his bed. He shows no disposition to bite, and he answers the calls upon him laggardly. He is curled up, and his face is buried between his paws and his breast. At length he begins to be figdety. He searches out new resting-places, but he very soon changes them for others. He takes again to his own bed; but he is continually shifting his posture. He begins to gaze strangely about him as he lies on his bed. His counte- nance is clouded and suspicious; he comes to one and another of the family, and he