HISTORY OP AMPUTATION. 557 land, of the double incision of the soft ■parts; the skin and superficial fascia being divided first, and retracted, and the muscles cut by a second incision at the highest point thus exposed. It is right to add that, according to Vel- peau, both of these writers were anticipated by Maggi, who is said by the Fig 103. Fig. 104. Application of the common tourniquet. (After Heister.) Petit’s tourniquet. (After Petit.) surgeon of “ La Charite” to have employed the double incision in 1552. I have, however, read very carefully Maggi’s account of amputation, and can- not find that he recommended a double incision, though he directed that an assistant should retract the soft parts as much as possible, so that they might more readily be brought down again to cover the bone.1 Louis2 practically returned to the Celsian method, dividing all the soft parts at the same level, but sawing the bone at a higher point—an important feature of the operation, the value of which Petit and Cheselden had overlooked. Louis also employed digital compression instead of the tourniquet, believing that the latter inter- fered with the retraction of the muscles. Valentin3 (1772) advised that the position of the limb should be varied at different stages of the operation, so that the muscles of each part should be left as long as possible. "With a similar view, Hey,4 of Leeds, in amputating the thigh, divided the posterior muscles at a lower level than the anterior, in order that their greater tendency to retraction might thus be compensated for. To this surgeon, together with Alanson,5 of Liverpool, and Benjamin Bell,6 of Edinburgh, is due the im- speaks of having suggested it independently many years before. In his account of the famous case of Samuel Wood (avulsion of arm and scapula), which, according to Haller, was first ap- pended to the edition of his “Anatomy of the Human Body,” published in 1741 (1740), Chesel- den refers to the double incision as having been introduced by himself “ about twenty years since” (Anatomical Tables, Tab. xxxviii. page 43. Boston, 1796). Lesne, Petit’s pupil and edi- tor, referring to Cheselden’s publication of 1749, declares that Petit had publicly taught this method “ more than thirty years before.” (Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, etc. [Petit], Dis- cours Preliminaire, t. i. p. lxv.) 1 Bartolomaei Maggii de vulnerum sclopetorum et bombardarum curatione tractatus. De Chirurgia Scriptores, etc. [ed. Conrad Gesner], fol. 267 et seq. Tiguri, 1555. 2 Memoires de l’Academie Royale de Chirurgie, t. ii. pp. 185, 248 ; t. iv. p. 159. Paris, 1819. 3 Recherches critiques sur la chirurgie, p. 135. 4 Practical Observations in Surgery, page 318. Philadelphia, 1805. 5 Practical Observations on Amputation, etc., page 15. Second edition. London, 1782. 6 System of Surgery, seventh edition, vol. vii. page 265. Edinburgh, 1801.