TRANSFUSION OF BLOOD. 513 with the flexible tube attached is then filled with defibrinated blood, and quickly connected with the canula which has previously been introduced into the recipient’s vein. The blood should be slowly and steadily injected. If air be drawn into the syringe with the blood, it may be expelled before the syringe is attached to the canula by holding the syringe in a vertical position with the nozzle upwards, and pushing in the piston sufficiently far to displace the air. Should it be deemed necessary to introduce more than one syringe- ful, the syringe may be charged again with defibrinated blood, and the injec- tion repeated. The wounds of the veins of the supplier and the recipient should be treated as in a case of ordinary venesection. Many other ingenious instruments have been devised for effecting mediate transfusion, among which may be mentioned Collin’s apparatus, which is used in the French army, and Ilasse’s syringe. In Ilasse’s syringe, the piston is moved by a female screw, which enables the operator to regulate the flow of blood with the utmost nicety. Transfusion by hydrostatic pressure is urgently recommended by Dr. Friedrich Esmarch, who considers it free from many of the objections which have been urged against the use of the syringe. Arterial Transfusion, as recommended by Hiiter, is occasionally prac- tised. In this operation, defibrinated venous blood is injected into an artery (usually the radial above the wrist, or the posterior tibial behind the inner malleolus), towards the distal extremity of the limb. The artery is exposed and secured by a ligature ; it is then opened on the distal side of the ligature by a valvular wound, into which the point of a canula or the nozzle of a syringe is introduced. When the operation is completed, the artery is cut across and the peripheral end ligatured. Auto-transfusion is a term applied to an expedient that may be resorted to in cases of excessive hemorrhage to support a moribund patient till trans- fusion can be performed, or other means of resuscitation adopted. It consists in the application of elastic bandages, or, if these be not at hand, muslin bandages, to the extremities, for the purpose of forcing the blood towards the vascular and nervous centres. Fig. 85. Intra-venous Injections of Milk, or of various Saline Solutions, are sometimes employed, as a sub- stitute for transfusion, after ex- cessive hemorrhage, and in dis- eases which greatly deteriorate the quality of the blood, as per- nicious anaemia, epidemic cho- lera, carbonic acid poisoning, etc. In 1850, Dr. E. M. Hod- der, of Toronto, first made use of milk injections in the treat- ment of cholera collapse. Since then, this operation has been repeated by Dr. J. W. Howe, Dr. T. Gaillard Thomas, Dr. Bullard, and others, in the treatment of various disorders, with more or less benefit to the patients. The writer has him- self resorted to infusion of milk vol. i.—33 Funnel and tube for intra-venous injection of milk.