SCURVY. 280 not yet changed those huts of wood and plaster of which Paris was composed, into sumptuous palaces. London was still worse built, the Strand being composed of mud walls and thatched houses. These wretched hovels swarmed with people until after the great fire of 1666, when the houses were less crowded, one person occupying as much space as two in the old city. Yet, with this amelioration, the deaths from scurvy between the years 1671 and 1686, were 9451. For the period from 1686 to 1701, there were 1569 deaths, and only 226 between 1701 and 1776. This remarkable decrease took place pari passu with hygienic improvements both in the dwellings and food of the people. The earliest account of the disease occurring at sea, is that related of a Venetian merchantman during a voyage to Norway in 1431. A little later (1497), the crew of Vasco da Gama,1 in a voyage to India, experienced the most frightful sufferings from this cause, so that— “ The livid gums with growth prodigious swelled Breathing infection that depraved the breeze.”2 The sixteenth century was marked by frequent epidemics at various points in Europe and in North America, and during long voyages, and the disease was alluded to by numerous writers. Thus Euricius Cordus3 in his Botanolo- gicon, published in 1534, states that the herb Chelidonius minus, called by the Saxons Scarbock crout, is an excellent remedy for the disease, and the same fact is also alluded to by Julius Agricola4 * in his work Medieina Herbaria, published in 1539. Jacques Cartier6 relates in an account of his second voy- age, in 1535, that an epidemic of scurvy broke out among the natives of Stadacona, in the month of December, and also affected the people of his ships, so that— “By the middle of February, of 110 persons there were not ten whole. Some did lose all their strength and could not stand on their feete ; then did their legges swel, their sinnowes shrinke as black as a cole. Others also had all their skins spotted with spots of blood of a purple colour; then did it ascend up to their ankels, knees, thiglies, shoulders, armes and nepkes ; their mouths became stinking, their gummes so rotten that all the flesh did fall off, even to the rootes of the teeth, which did also almost all fall out.” He learned from a native the virtues of a decoction of the bark and leaves of a tree called hanneda (probably tlie American swamp spruce), the use of which cured his men. The frequency of events analogous to the foregoing, both on shipboard and on land, invested the subject of scurvy with an interest and an importance that could not fail to lead to a more thorough investigation into its nature and causes. The first special treatise was published hy Echthius,6 a physi- cian of Cologne, in 1541, in wThich he presented a fair summary of the phe- nomena of the disease as he had seen it, and differentiated it from other pathological conditions with which it had up to that time been confounded. He attributed the disease to alterations in the blood, and not to those of the spleen or other viscera, as had been erroneously done by his predecessors. Olaus Magnus,7 in his history of the northern nations, bearing date 1555, gives, as of one of the diseases peculiar to them, a lengthy description of scurvy, vulgarly called Scharbock; ascribes its origin to the character of the food; and 1 Hakluyt Society’s Publication, p. 72. 2 Camoens, The Lusiad ; Canto V. 3 Botanologicon. Colon. 1534. 4 Medieina herbaria. Basil. 1539. 5 Hakluyt, Principal Navigations, etc. London, 1598. s De scorbuto epitome. Wittbg. 1585. 7 Hist, de gentibus septent. Romas, 1555.