451 MODE OF CONDUCTING AN OPERATION. trolling existing hemorrhage, but also for preventing it in regions where Esmarch’s bandages are not applicable. Thus if a pin be passed beneath the facial artery as it mounts over the lower jawbone, plastic procedures may be readily practised on the face with little loss of blood; and in the same man- ner, operations around the mouth and lips may be greatly facilitated by judi- ciously transfixing the adjacent tissues with acupressure needles, around which strong compressing threads are carried. In cleansing the wound, sponges may be used, but they should then have been previously washed in carbolic acid solution to prevent infection of the wound; or clean napkins may be profitably substituted. In the removal of tumors, as for example of the mammary gland, bleeding can often be prevented to a great degree by tearing the tissues with the end of the finger, rather than by cutting them with the knife. When enucleation is thus effected, the vessels contract, there is but little bleeding, the outlying diseased portions come away with the affected mass, and the operation is quickly over. Under certain circumstances, where the tissues are tight, and bind, and the divulsion cannot he conveniently effected by the end of the fin- ger, knives with silver or rounded blunt steel edges—“ dry dissectors”—may be resorted to. When after-oozing takes place, from incised wounds, or from the face of stumps, it may be checked by the use of cold water or ice, or better still by sponges or napkins wrung out of very hot water, or by hot water it- self. In the application of the actual cautery, care must be taken to avoid the ignition of ether vapor, when it is the anaesthetic employed. Deep caute- rization may at times be conveniently effected by Paquelin’s thermo-cautery, but this should be tested before operation, since it often fails to become heated at the critical moment. The proper fluid to be used in this instrument is painter’s benzine of 0.715 specific gravity. Wounds of operation, particularly when of any extent, should not be closed until all bleeding has ceased, since the presence of blood interferes with immediate union. For drawing the lips of the wound together, sutures of silk, or fine silver, or soft iron wire, may be employed. The latter should not be used upon the face or exposed parts, since the oxidation of the iron leaves a small discolored point which does not disap- pear for some time. When possible, the sutures should be inserted before the patient recovers from the influence of the anaesthetic. Perhaps the most important matter in the healing of wounds is the estab- lishment of free drainage. Surgeons may be greatly divided as to the par- ticular form of after-dressing, but nearly all agree as to the necessity of drainage. It is therefore incumbent upon the operator to see that his wound is not closed too tightly, but that a free escape is afforded for all fluids which may form. In deep wounds, this can be best accomplished by the insertion, before closure, of a small, perforated, rubber tube, through which these fluids can escape. After six or seven days, the tube can be gradually withdrawn by cutting off’ half an inch or an inch daily ; when the drainage through its track will be found sufficient to keep the wound free. If the rubber tube be left too long in situ, it may possibly serve to keep up the purulent discharge. The after-dressing of the wounds of operation has been a matter of much discussion, and the surgical world, sometimes influenced by fashion, epidemic opinion, or honest conviction, has been greatly divided. Poultices, water dressings, dry dressings, earth dressings, cerate cloths, open air dressings, and many other forms of topical application, have all had in their day active sup- porters, and have doubtless furnished excellent results. At the present mo- ment, the antiseptic treatment of Professor Lister is on trial. It has a host of ardent partisans, many lukewarm supporters, and some, perhaps not a great many, opponents. Whether it has realized, whether it will realize, all that has been claimed, and all that is hoped from it, remains to be seen.. But the