GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING INFLAMMATION—DEFINITIONS. 67 phases well-marked features which in a popular sense might justify the use of this term, does not possess the essential qualities ot a disease in the more precise language of science; and it cannot be spoken of as a disease ontologi- cally. In very many, indeed in most of its phases, it is a benign, healthful process to which, even in its popular sense, the appellation of disease would be regarded as inapplicable. It "is better, therefore, with our incomplete knowledge, to assume that in- flammation is a process more or less abnormal, or a condition—not even in a majority of instances a morbid condition—presenting as its characteristic features a series of textural changes typically uniform in character, although varying widely in aspect, and leading to different results according to the nature and degree of persistence of the causes which have given rise to it. This designation is as proper, and as intrinsically correct, as when the word condition is applied to a local numbness, to intoxication, to pregnancy, or to the moribund state. When the causes which have given rise to inflammation cease to act, the features which characterize the condition disappear; it has no inherent power of continuance beyond that which has been impressed by injury of some sort upon the local nutritive machinery. The textural changes which belong to the condition, as far as they are objective, constitute its symptoms; as far as these changes are subjective, they constitute its 'pathology. The means which have been found to modify these symptoms favorably, or which, through a knowledge of their course, may lie rationally expected to lead to such a result, constitute its remedies, and will be considered under the head of treatment. These considerations occur naturally to the surgeon familiar with the clinical aspects of inflammation in any attempt to bring them into causal relation with the histological phenomena by which they are explained. Until this relation is established there is no solid basis from which to reason in studying its symptoms in detail, and its treatment is of necessity entirely em- pirical. Histology teaches us that the essential features of the inflammatory process are, an increased afflux of blood to the affected part, with an exagge- rated tendency to cell proliferation and tissue formation. A knowledge of the mechanism of this process affords the only rational explanation of the various manifestations which it presents to the unaided eye; and, when com- bined with clinical observation and experience, this knowledge gives us all the power we can safely exercise in favoring its constructive tendencies, and in averting or controlling its proclivity to destructive results. It may be proper to remark, in this connection, that the destructive phases of the inflammatory process do not apparently arise from any noxious quality inherent in the process itself, but, rather, from the intrinsically detective power of the human structure to resist and repair injuries. ^Naturalists have taught us that this power of repairing injuries exists in a much greater de- gree in the lower animals than in our complex organisms. The destructive phases of inflammation are also explained in some degree by the degradation in vital quality of our tissues which results from unhealthful habits of life, and surroundings defective as to hygiene; by the more aggravated character of injuries rendered possible by human ingenuity—as exemplified in gunshot wounds; and by ignorance of the real nature and scope of our reparative powers, and the means by which they may be aided and supplemented. The truth of the last averment is rendered probable by the increased power of repair, the greater rapidity with which the reparative process is accomplished, and the remarkable infrequency of the destructive symptoms of inflammation manifested in wounds which have been subjected to judicious drainage and treated early and skilfully in accordance with the antiseptic method.