PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 8 suppurate. This basis-substance assumes a fixed character which varies according to the nature of the tissue; it becomes different in bone, different in tendon, and different in cartilage. And these peculiarities of the basis- substance invest the tissue with its peculiar type. The metamorphoses of tissue sketched here will be spoken of again further on. For the present this reference will suffice to make clear the structure of the capillaries. We know now that the presence of the brown lines after staining with silver by no means allows us to conclude that the nucleated fields were once isolated and have here been connected. And we have no cause for ignoring the experience that in the tail of the tadpole the vessels develop from solid sprouts. A very excellent confirmation of this doctrine of the development of vessels is found in the researches of E. Klein1 on the embryo chick. The first bloodvessels in the embryo can evidently not be produced as sprouts of already existing vessels. The first bloodvessels, as shown by Klein, are formed by single cells. The cells grow ; the peripheral part of the enlarged body of the cell becomes bloodvessel; the central part becomes isolated from the peripheral by the formation of slits between them, so that the central part then lies in a cavity. By the subdivision of this central portion blood-corpuscles are formed.2 We, accordingly, have to deal with an encapsulated closed bloodvessel, with blood-corpuscles in the interior. The individual capsules send out solid processes; the processes become hollowed out, they coalesce with the processes of other capsules, and thus there is formed a system of communicating canals. In principle, then, this development of a vessel is analogous to the one already delineated. In the one case, as in the other, there are masses which are at first solid, and subsequently become hollowed out. A similar mode of formation of blood- vessels also occurs in neoplasms, and Rokitansky was the first who described them as cystic formations—as cysts containing blood-corpuscles. After all that I have already said, there can no longer be any doubt that in their embryonic state the capillaries consist of contractile protoplasm. But why do they not react invariably in the tail of the tadpole?3 A living muscle invariably contracts under the influence of sufficiently powerful irrita- tion, why not the capillaries? As the result of a comparison of the capillaries of a mammalian embryo with those of the tail of a tadpole, I have been led to suspect that the capillaries of the latter animal acquire, at an earlier period than those of the former, that rigidity which is peculiar, even in a more marked degree, to the vessels of the adult animal. The tadpole, though it is an embryo as regards its stage of development, still lives independently in the water, and uses its tail as a means of propulsion, even before the blood circulates in it. And it is therefore readily understood why the tissue here acquires, at an early period, the rigidity which corresponds to its developed function. Accordingly, in my experiments, I made use of the youngest tadpoles possible (1.5 centimetre long), and directed my attention principally to the vessels lying nearest the edge, because I believed that their growth began at the margin of the tail. And, true enough, I learned4 that under these circumstances the capillaries regularly narrowed their lumens after every somewhat powerful irritation, and again dilated the same after the removal of the stimulus. But, when I lay stress upon the fact that the capillaries react promptly only in an early embryonic state, I do not mean to say that the capillaries of older animals do not contract at all. If we consider certain phenomena in living 1 Wiener Sitzungsberichte, Bd. 63. 2 This description is schematic. The occurrences in the interior of such a cell are exceedingly variable. What I have described, however, is in principle based on observation. 3 See page 6. 4 Wiener mediz. Jahrbiicher, 1877.