SKIN GRAFTING. 543 A. Poncet, in the previous year, 1871, had reviewed the whole matter, method and all, in a paper entitled “ Des greffes dermo-epidermiques, et en particulier des larges lambeaux dermo-epidermiques,”1 * taking up the same texts. In a discussion upon the subject,3 participated in by JLetievant and others, the former says, speaking of animal grafts, “ I call these grafts zoo-epidermic, in opposition to human grafts which I dis- tinguish under the name auto-epidermic or hetero-epiderrnic, according as the grafts are gathered from the subject grafted or from his neighbors.” Then the means employed to secure the grafts are referred to, the lancet of Reverdin, the scissors of Pollock, the cataract-knife of Ollier—all effecting the lifting of the epidermis and of the superficial layer of the dermis. But even with the weight of testimony in its favor, Letievant felt called upon to appose the remark “that the practice of skin grafting should be rejected as hurtful, and that it led to neglect of the important indications of the treat- ment of wounds,” and at the same time undertook the defence of zoo-epidermic grafts, from the dog for example, because auto-grafts were painful, and caused new wounds in the patient. M. Christot promptly denied that he had declared grafting to be useless, but did not avow himself a partisan of the process ; and with this denial further oppo- sition to skin grafting seems to have ceased. We have presented with some liberality the views of Reverdin with regard to the process of his inventing, frequently quoting his own words. It is here interesting to compare or contrast the ideas entertained by Poncet with those of the master, following upon the discovery of Reverdin, although antedating in publication the formalized expressions of the latter. At the end of the discussion just referred to, Poncet® took occasion to recommend the practice of Ollier in the employment of large and numerous grafts, stating at the same time that he had failed with epithelial grafts alone ; and continuing his discourse he goes on to say that “as to the proliferation of the epithelial elements, it is a simple action of the presence of the mucous layer of the epidermis, determining at times the epithelial transformation of the elements of the embryonal tissue, to which it is united. . . . In the seam of junction of the granulations with the morsel transplanted, the same phenomena are observed as in the union of the margins of a wound by first intention. The extension of the graft has not seemed to us to be owing to a prolifera- tion of the mucous layer. It must act by its presence upon the embryonal elements directly in relation with its margins, and thus determine their epidermic transformation.” In the same connection we refer to the opinions already advanced by Reverdin, and we- propose to adduce those of Coste, as expressed in a conference upon epidermic grafting held on the 31st of May, 1873, at the Ecole de Medecine.4 “ How,” asks the distin- guished professor, “ is the adhesion brought about ? IIow is proliferation accomplished ? That is very simple. The transplanted epidermis determines by its presence, by its contact, the transformation of the embryonal cells of the granulations into epidermic cells. This, according to Reverdin, Colrat, and Poncet (de Lyon), is the most probable, and even the only possible theory.” On the other hand Mr. Bryant gives utterance to a directly opposite doctrine. In notes from the Wards of the Cork Hospital,5 communicated by Mr. Martin Howard, we find the following: “ The question was asked whether the skin graft was an excitor of skin action, or were the cells proliferated ? Mr. Bryant declared that the grafts grew, the skin being prolonged from the graft, and that the border also threw out a growth. This he proved in the following ingenious way. He had a white man under his care, suffering from an ulcer on his leg, and on this ulcer he grafted a portion of the skin taken from a negro in the hospital. As the ulcer decreased in size, the piece of black skin increased considerably.” However satisfactory this experiment may have been, the observation is at variance with those of Reverdin and of Coste, the latter of whom expressly declares6 that “ grafts borrowed or obtained from a negro and implanted upon a white person, rapidly lose color and bleach out entirely, from the effect of the pro- gressive absorption of pigment. “ I saw,” says this author, “ a remarkable example of 1 Lyon Medical, t. viii. p. 494, 1871. 2 Ibid., p. 520. 3 Lyon Med., p. 564. 4 Marseille Medical, lOe annee, No. 7, Juillet, 1873. 6 Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. lxi. p. 388. 6 Loc. cit., p. 398.