627 MORTALITY AND CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER AMPUTATIONS. that of amputation for acute disease (principally acute necrosis of the femur) over 83 per cent. Period of Amputation.—Amputations for injury have been usually divided by surgical writers into primary or immediate, and secondary or consecutive / operations; but a better classification is that of modern army surgeons, who make a third class—the mediate, intermediate, or intermediary—which, in point of time, find a place between the other two. Primary amputations are those done before the development of traumatic fever, a period of twenty-four, forty-eight, or, in some cases in which shock has been much prolonged, even as much as seventy-two hours; intermediate amputations are those done during the existence of acute inflammatory symptoms, a period variously estimated at from two to four weeks; and secondary amputations are those done after the subsidence of fever and the occurrence of healthy suppuration.1 It has long been acknowledged by military surgeons that, except as regards opera- tions at the hip or upper part of the thigh, primary give better results than secondary amputations ;2 but the contrary has been very commonly asserted in relation to civil practice. But even if it were true (which it is not) that the death-rate was less after secondary amputations, this would by no means invalidate the propriety of prompt operation in cases which require such interference; for they are, in the first place, of course the most favorable cases, in which conservative treatment is attempted, and a considerable num- ber of them are, moreover, eliminated by death during the intermediate period; so that the cases of patients who survive long enough to submit to secondary amputation, have been, as it were, doubly selected. Intermediate operations are universally acknowledged to give worse results than either primary or secondary, and experience has but served to confirm the opinion advanced long ago by Benjamin Bell, that “ unless the operation . . . can be performed soon after the accident, it cannot again be admissible for a con- siderable time; for whenever a limb has become swelled and inflamed, it can never, but with the utmost danger, be taken off till those symptoms subside.”3 In order to show the advantages of primary amputation in civil as well as in military practice, I have prepared the following Table which contrasts the results of operations for injury done before the onset of inflammatory fever with those done at a later period. 1 M. Verneuil applies to these three classes of operation the names of antepyretic, intrapyretic, and metapyretic, respectively. 2 The reader who is interested in reviewing the acrid disputes upon this question in times gone by, will find a good account of them in Malgaigne’s well-known paper in the Archives Generates de Mifdecine for April, 1842. See also Memoires de l’Academie Royale de Chirurgie, tome ii. pp. 199, 322, and tome iv. p. 133. Paris, 1819. 3 Op. cit., vol. vii. p. 230.