TREATMENT OF ERYSIPELAS. 201 In erysipelas of infants at birth no treatment is of much avail, but it necessa- rily must consist mainly of topical agents, such as have been enumerated for the disease as it occurs at a later age. Of these, oxide of zinc and mercurial ointments are most generally recommended. When erysipelas affects persons at the opposite extremity of life, the only modification of the ordinary treat- ment should consist in the free hut judicious administration of alcoholic stimulants, and of the preparations of hark in tonic and stimulant doses. When the disease commences in the fauces, or extends into the larnyx, these parts should be treated with astringents (nitrate of silver, chloride or sulphate of iron), which may be applied by means of a swab or brush, or, still better, by means of the steam atomizer, which is equally appropriate when the inflam- mation invades the bronchia. If the swelling of the mucous membrane of the larynx interferes with respiration, it should be scarified, and, if this pro- cedure fail to give relief, the operation of tracheotomy remains as a last re- source. It is possible that a large blister on the chest might be of service, but the evidence of its virtues is not conclusive. It is unnecessary in this article to discuss in detail the treatment of epi- demic erysipelas, or even of those typhoid states of the disease in its sporadic form which are occasionally met with. As in all similar cases, the treatment of the local affection must be subordinated to the type of the attack, that is to say to the treatment of the typhoid state. In carrying out this idea, the practitioner must not be misled by the delirium, etc., into believing that a meningitis exists, for no lesions representing that disease are ever found after death. The most efficient remedies are alcohol and opium, or, for the former, coffee may be substituted, and quinia in small and repeated doses should be given, while stimulating food is not omitted. As in other typhoid affec- tions, serpentaria,* ammonia, camphor, musk, etc., may be useful. In this form of the disease, good nursing is of primary importance, and includes not only the hygienic measures that have been pointed out, but the watchful and judicious administration of stimulants, tonics, and food, as they may be re- quired by the varying condition of the patient.