130 INFLAMMATION. hectic fever towards its usually fatal termination, is explained by the fact that the temperature of the blood is not sustained at a high figure ; it rarely exceeds 103.5° Fahr., and falls two or three degrees in the morning under the influence of the nocturnal perspiration—sometimes even below the normal standard. Before midday, the chilly period, which may be very slight, comes on, and is followed inevitably during the remainder of the day by fever, and during the night by sweating, often profuse. Sometimes there is a double movement, with chilliness in the afternoon as well as in the morning. The best diagnostic signs of hectic from typhoid or malarial fevers, are the regularity of the night-sweats in hectic, and the fact that the pulse retains its frequency during the apyrexia, even in the morning when the temperature is down to the natural degree. This depression of temperature in the morn- ing bears a certain relation to the profuseness of the sweating during the night, and is associated with feelings of weakness and depression. The worst signs in hectic are the intensification of its symptoms; increas- ing frequency of pulse; higher fever in the evening, with greater depression towards morning; more exhausting sweats at night, with the occurrence of diarrhoea, and aphthse in the mouth. The sweats and diarrhoea are called colliquative in consequence of the rapid emaciation and exhaustion by which they are accompanied. Chronic Inflammation. Of all the various forms which the inflammatory process is liable to assume, the most common is that known as chronic inflammation, in which the condi- tion tends to persist indefinitely, for the main reason that the object for which the increased nutritive effort has been undertaken has proved to be unattain- able. The dominant idea, which will explain most of the phenomena pecu- liar to this condition, is the non-fulfilment of a 'purpose. In chronic inflammation, all the cardinal symptoms may be present, but in a limited degree, the causes on which they depend being very much dimin- ished in their intensity; pain is comparatively slight—it may be entirely absent, or intermittent, or possibly represented by itching; heat is generally recognizable, but is not a prominent symptom ; redness is represented by a dull tint, sometimes livid, in consequence of passive liyperaemia from stretch- ing of the vessels by previous over-clistension and existing diminished activity of the circulation; swelling, the most important of the four, takes the form of induration, because the exudation has had time to become organized into tissue: hence the hard embankment around an indolent ulcer, and the almost cartilaginous hardness surrounding an old sinus—a fistula in ano, for example. In the latter affection, which affords perhaps the best, because the most familiar, surgical illustration of chronic inflammation, an abscess has been prevented from healing by too much motion in its immediate neighborhood. Its walls have shrunken, but have failed to unite, through lack of sufficiently prolonged quiet contact; a limited amount of inflammatory exudation is still furnished, a portion of which goes to build up the sheathing of cartilaginous hardness outside of the cylindrical tube which remains, and the rest of which furnishes the scanty supply of serous pus yielded by the internal walls of the sinus. These walls are lined by what remains of the granulating surface of the original abscess. The granulations are now scanty in number and irregular in size ; most of the surface is red and smooth, and, if closely examined, will be found, to the naked eye, to resemble mucous membrane. In fact, this close resemblance of the internal surface of an old sinus to a membrane, led to the impression, so long prevalent, that there was an especial membrane