SYMPTOMS OF ERYSIPELAS. 185 he attributes exclusively to the retention and putrefaction of the exudations beneath the integument. Hence he condemns all dressings which tend to retain the discharges within such wounds. It is of importance to note that in this as in all other forms of traumatic erysipelas, the general precede the local symptoms. After a chill, followed by fever, the wound becomes dry and painful, and begins to be surrounded by an erysipelatous blush. In erysipelas of the face, as in other forms of erysipelas, the general symp- toms vary with the existing type, from sthenic to adynamic, but as this form more frequently than others affects persons previously in good health, its type is, on the whole, sthenic, and its issue favorable. The extension of the inflam- mation to the scalp is doubly inauspicious, for it not only denotes an inability to prevent the spread of the disease, but directly aggravates it by giving rise to derangements of the brain functions. Although delirium is apt to occur in erysipelas of the face, it is much more marked in that of the scalp, when it is usually low and muttering, though occasionally maniacal. In all forms of erysipelas, however, provided that the temperature is high, there is more or less tendency to delirium. At night it is of common occur- rence, even when the eruption is confined to the face. It does not arise from inflammation of the brain of its meninges,for after death, in cases presenting this symptom even in an aggravated degree, no inflammatory exudation has ever been found within the cranium, and not even venous congestion uni- formly. The delirium and coma preceding the fatal issue of the disease must therefore be attributed either to congestion of the brain or to an altered condition of the blood, or to both of these causes together. Many years ago (1860), Todd combated the prevalent idea that the cerebral symptoms of erysipelas were produced by a lesion of the brain, and explained them by the circulation of noxious blood through that organ. On the whole, we may fairly conclude that congestion has a share in producing the brain symptoms, because they are more frequent in erysipelas of the scalp than in that of any other part; but that the blood lesion shares in their production is denoted by the occurrence of coma in the puerperal and other forms of epidemic erysipelas, in connection with gangrene and evidences of blood-poisoning. Many writers have attached importance to the gastric derangements in this form of erysipelas, and have described vomiting, and especially bilious vomiting, as quite characteristic of it. The symptom does indeed often occur, but perhaps is quite as often wanting. There is less reason for sup- posing that it is occasioned by any special disorder of the stomach or liver, than for regarding it as a sympathetic phenomenon due either to the altered quantity or to the quality of the blood circulating in the brain. The duration of erysipelas of the face, especially when idiopathic, may be stated at from one to two weeks; but this may be greatly exceeded when the disease involves the scalp, or becomes phlegmonous. This form of the disease is perhaps less liable than others to relapses. Besides the sequelae common to all the forms, there is one that is indeed rare and seems peculiar to erysip- elas of the face. It is blindness, due to an atrophic degeneration of the optic papilla, which sometimes affects only one eye, and sometimes both eyes. The impairment of sight when it occurs only in one eye, begins towards the close of the attack, or when the swelling of the eyelids has subsided suffi- ciently to permit them to be raised. When both eyes have been involved, the impairment of sight appears not to have been noticed before the com- plete subsidence of the erysipelas, and, after varying in degree, to have left a permanent defect of vision, sometimes, however, in regard only to certain colors.1 1 Parinaud, Archives Generates de M6decine, Juin, 1879, p. 64t.