TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 159 Antiseptics, as has been already remarked, are replacing antiphlogistics ; and we find ourselves, therefore, obliged to consider the claims of the former as remedies for inflammation. Amongst the antiseptic substances which have recently attained prominence, carbolic acid holds, at present, the first place. This drug, practically introduced to the profession by Lister, owes its* pre- eminence as an antiseptic to its volatile and pervading quality, in addition to its power of destroying the vitality of the lower forms of life without seriously endangering that of the human organism. There is no other of the antiseptic substances daily brought within our cognizance which possesses this combination of qualities in so eminent a degree. But chemistry may at any time present us with a substitute possessing superior qualities. Beyond this power of destroying the vitality of microscopic organisms which are noxious to our vital processes, and thus protecting us from their harmful action, there is no positive evidence that carbolic acid possesses any positively controlling quality as regards excessive vascular action, or any other of the manifestations of destructive inflammation. It simply secures for us free play for our reparative processes. This is the sum and substance of the antiseptic method of dressing wounds. Some of the other prominent antiseptics which have recently come into use, possess additional qualities. Thus salicylic acid, which is restricted in its antiseptic applications in consequences of its lack of volatility, has the power of lowering the temperature of the blood, and of controlling rheumatic inflammation. The additions to our materia medica to he anticipated in the discovery of new antiseptics, especially of those with peculiar powers, promise, with what has been already gained for humanity in this direction, to add to our reme- dies in inflammation far more than we have lost by the exclusion of anti- phlogistics. It will be a great gain to the science of surgery that the mode of action of these remedies can be explained on a basis of rational therapeu- tics.