302 SCURVY. nature of the attendant circumstances—particularly the possibility or not of changing or ameliorating the hygienic surroundings. In the earlier stage of the disease, recovery under proper treatment is assured; and it is remarkable how soon the spongy gums and discolorations of the surface will recede, and the patient regain strength and cheerfulness. Even in cases of notable in- tensity, unaccompanied by involvement of the internal organs or serious com- plication with other maladies, the prognosis is very hopeful when the patient can be put under favorable influences. Yet it must be said that often appa- rently slight cases do not recover as rapidly as others which are seemingly, from external appearances, much more severe. Complicated cases, with im- plication of the thoracic or abdominal viscera, where these conditions have entailed no considerable eftusions, though more unfavorable than the preceding groups, are still amenable to well-directed therapeutic measures. The same conditions, however, linked with abundant outpourings of serum and blood into the pleural, pericardial, and abdominal cavities, are exceedingly unfavor- able, and bode a mortal issue. Excessive and frequent hemorrhages are liable to bring on speedy death by syncope; epistaxis was at an early period con- sidered a mortal sign, and one necessarily fatal. Colliquative diarrhoea and dysentery exhaust the strength rapidly, and induce a fatal issue by causing early and profound prostration, or by their continuance lead to the same result through gradual asthenia. Persons weak and feeble, either constitutionally or from the inroads of prolonged disease, especially of a malarial character, from a previous attack of scurvy, or from other cachectic complaints, are less apt to recover than those of an opposite character. The attendant circum- stances have also an important influence on the prognosis. On shore it is easier to secure good accommodations, with dry, well-ventilated, and clean apartments, and abundant supplies of fresh vegetable food and other desirable forms of nourishment, than on the sea; in long voyages, or in exploring par- ties into the interior of unknown countries or in high latitudes, it may be impossible to control to any considerable degree these indispensable require- ments for the recovery of the sick, and the outlook will be gloomy indeed for successful treatment of even the mildest cases. Treatment of Scurvy. There is no disease within the whole range of pathology which yields such satisfactory results to well-directed and judicious treatment as does scurvy; and this is all the more gratifying when it is remembered that, during its period of rifeness from the 14th to the 18th century, it did more destruction to armies and fleets than the sword of the enemy and the other dangers of warfare combined. Equally as remarkable results in warding off the disease attend the intelligent adoption of the prophylactic, hygienic measures which experience has shown in multitudinous instances, through a long period of time and almost everywhere, to be indispensable to the maintenance of health. A cursory consideration of these measures will be a fitting prelude to a dis- cussion of the means which should be had recourse to in the actual invasion of the disease. Prophylaxis.—Great ameliorations have been effected during the last cen- tury, and particularly within the last thirty years, in the physical conditions under which the sea-farer and the poor in northern climates live. Both house and ship hygiene have made advances, and the people everywhere enjoy the fruits resulting therefrom, in possessing better lodgings, greater variety of food, purer air, more comfortable clothing, and, as a necessary corollary of this, a