CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 79 The presence of dead tissue in a wound, before a granulating surface has be- come organized, involves a certain danger of septic poisoning. The necessary occurrence of these several sources of irritation in a contused wound, as conse- quences of its nature and mode of production, explains the greater liability to inflammatory complications of this form of surgical injury. In lesions of the internal viscera from mechanical violence, when they are of moderate extent and do not implicate large bloodvessels, it is probable that healing 'often takes place without any recognition, or even suspicion, of the existence of such a lesion—the uniform high temperature of the injured part favoring prompt repair, as in a subcutaneous wound. This is rendered probable by the discovery of recent cicatrices in the lungs, liver, and kidneys in patients who have died from the later consequences of coexisting external injuries. It is evident, from this brief survey of the exciting causes of inflammation arising from mechanical violence, that, as far as we can learn from clinical observation, these causes act primarily, and, in fact, mainly, by stimulating the process of repair. Deviations from the simple constructive process which may manifest themselves subsequently, in the progress of a case, are explained: first, by the conditions peculiar to the injury, e. y., the necessity for getting rid of matters foreign to the economy in order to accomplish healing, and by other causes of delay in the process; secondly, by the accidental interference of noxious agents which, by acting directly upon a wound, impair the quality of the materials furnished by the organism for healing it. The presence of a dot of blood of any size in a wound has always been re- garded as a possible cause of at least partial failure of union, and of pus forma- tion. Thus, bleeding in a stump after the ordinary mode of dressing, in consequence of failure to secure a vessel which has bled after reaction, or from inadvertent bruising, or injudicious pressure, has often been the cause of pro- longed heat and pain, and of fever protracted beyond the usual limit, and finally of suppuration, abscess, and sinus. To prevent repetition it may be stated here, that this very frequent cause of inflammation which, combined with the presence in the wound of ordinary ligatures of silk, has been, hereto- fore, one of the most common causes of ill behavior in wounds, has been found by recent clinical experience to be preventible by the use of antiseptic dressings and ligatures of prepared catgut. When these precautions have been care- fully employed, clots even of considerable size have been observed to shrink and lose their color, and to become organized by the appearance in their sub- stance of embryonic cells and newly-formecl capillaries, and to assist directly in forming a bond of union. The prevention of putrefaction by the antiseptic method, a result which can always be commanded, apparently favors the more perfect accomplishment of the constructive process. In recent experiments on animals, masses of living, and even of dead (but not putrid) tissue, have been successfully included in the peritoneal cavity, and have become organized.1 1 A paper was presented at the Berlin Medical Congress of April, 1880, by Dr. A. Rosenberger, of Wurzburg (Archie filr klivische Chirurgie), on this subject. Having observed that foreign bodies and ligatured portions of tissue, e. g., the returned pedicle after ovariotomy, etc., caused no trouble, as a rule, in operations conducted antiseptically, Dr. R. introduced pieces of living muscle, and even whole kidneys, with antiseptic precautions, into the serous cavities of animals without any, or with only the very slightest, reaction. After a time the pieces of living tissue disappear without leaving a trace. The tissue need not be from the same animal, or even from the same species of animal. The process seems to be, at first, one of encapsulation. From the capsule cells wander into the inclosed tissue and break it up. The capsule receives a capillary network from its surroundings, and the foreign tissue thus nourished, if it come from an animal of the same species, may continue to live on. In certain cases of partial failure, amongst those in whom masses of dead tissue previously soaked for many days in alcohol had been introduced, a pus cavity was found in the centre of the foreign mass, which had become permeated by leuco- cytes and by new capillary loops. (Medical News and Abstract, May, 1881.)