377 FATTY EMBOLISM. into the peritoneal cavity of rabbits, Scriba has been able to confirm the views of Bergmann,1 that the symptoms depend mainly on the quantity injected and the rapidity with which it is introduced, or the proximity of the vein selected to the heart; in this way it is possible to vary the result from a death so instant as only to bear comparison with the injection of air into the veins, to the slightest possible dyspnoea; and even this may be wanting, though after death the fat may actually be found arrested in the lungs. Scriba finds, moreover, that, if the distance from the heart of the point of entrance of the fat into the circulation be at all great—as in the majority of fractures taking place in the human subject it would be—and if the force that propels it into the veins be slight, the quantity required to produce any alarming symptoms in an animal is very great; in no case is Scriba of opinion that death can be caused by the. injection of less than three times the amount of blood present in the femur of an animal. Further, much light has been thrown by experimentation on the ultimate destiny of the fat that is carried into the pulmonary capillaries—a point of great clinical significance; for it is not impossible that, in some cases, the particles may he carried off, and, by their subsequent impaction in other organs, cause even more serious mischief. Some undoubtedly pass at once, without any detention, through the pulmonary circulation, and either form emboli elsewhere, or are caught up by the glomeruli of the kidney and excreted with the urine; for, after injection of fat, large masses have been found in the urine and the vasa afferentia; glomeruli and tubules have been seen full of it, while the same condition has been detected after fractures in man. Indeed, from the intermittent appearance of oil in the urine, from its abundance for the first few days, and then its absence till the end of the second week, when it may appear again for a short time, Scriba concludes that in man, after the lapse of from six to eight days, the emboli become detached, and that they then pass on either to he excreted by the kidneys, or to be caught by the capillaries in other organs—these in their turn setting free the particles they originally detained to he carried into the veins, and so cause, as it were, secondary pulmonary embolism. It has happened, somewhat unfortunately, that in very many of the recorded cases no observations were made on the presence of oil in the capillaries of other organs; but it has been observed in the liver (though not to any large extent, possibly from the action of the hepatic cells which may take it up), and on several occasions2 in the brain and spinal cord. The symptoms characteristic of fatty embolism, when uncomplicated, besides the presence of oil in the urine at irregular intervals, and the dys- pnoea, which of course varies with the number of capillaries obstructed, are a fall rather than a rise of temperature, slight haemoptysis with irregular action of the heart, pallor and lividity of the skin, shallow respiration grad- ually passing into Cheyne-Stokes breathing as the case becomes worse, and loss of reflex excitability with, at times, spasms of various kinds, or paralyses. But it is very seldom that the symptoms met with after accidents or operations resemble these; much more often there is observed a condition of which an excellent example is given in a case related by Southam :3 the operation (primary amputation of both lower extremities) was borne well; a comfort- able night was passed ; and the general condition was regarded as satisfactory, though the temperature had risen from 101°.2 F. the previous evening, to 103J F. in the morning. Suddenly, in the afternoon, the patient became restless and excited, his face wore a dusky look, his pulse and respiration ' Berliner klin. Wochenschrift, Aug-. 18, 1873. 2 Czerny, Berlin, klin. Wochenschrift, Nov. 1875. Lancet, July 10, 1880.