674 AMPUTATIONS. Lateral Flap Method.—In this form of operation, the flaps, as the name im- plies, are taken from the sides of the limb instead of from its front and back. Here, too, we may enumerate three varieties of the operation, viz., Larrey’s, Lisfranc’s, and Dupuytren’s. Larrey’s Method.—Larrey began by exposing and tying the femoral artery just helow Poupart’s ligament. The sur- geon introduces the point of his knife on the front of the limb, a few fingers’ breadth to the inner side of and below the anterior iliac spine, pushes it hack- wards till it strikes the anterior face of the bone, then inclines it towards the median line of the body, so as to graze the inner surface of the cervix femoris, and, finally, effects transfixion below the tuber ischii. An internal flap, four inches long, is next cut, as in Helpech’s method, and, after disarticulation, a corresponding external flap is cut in the same manner. The elder Blandin’s method differed from Larrey’s simply in the formation of both flaps before attempting disarticulation. Lisfranc’s Method.—In this operation, the surgeon employs a double- edged knife, transfixes on the outer side of the femur, and thus cuts the ex- ternal flap before the internal. As each flap is formed, he proceeds to tie the bleeding vessels, before proceeding to the other steps of the operation. Lupuytren’s Method.-—This differs from Larrey’s method in that the inter- nal flap is cut from without inwards, the joint being then opened and the head of the femur turned out, when the external flap is made in the ordinary manner. These lateral flap operations give rather unwieldy stumps, and seem to me less desirable than the other methods which have been described in the pre- ceding pages. The most pressing risk, in any amputation at the hip-joint, is that of hemorrhage, for a very few jets from the femoral artery will reduce any patient to a state from which he is not likely to rally. Hence special pre- cautions should invariably be adopted against bleeding, in this operation. As already mentioned, Larrey directed that the main vessel should always be tied in the groin as a preliminary step to hip amputation, and if there be no efficient means at hand for restraining hemorrhage during the operation, such a course will be found advantageous. But under ordinary circumstances, it is, I think, better to dispense with preliminary ligation ; the separation of the vessel from the surrounding tissues, which is unavoidable when an artery is tied in its continuity, cannot but expose the patient to more danger of sec- ondary hemorrhage, following the operation, than when the cut end of the ves- sel is simply picked up with tenaculum or forceps as in other cases. Hence, when it is practicable, I advise that the surgeon should rely upon compression with an aortic tourniquet or other mechanical means of controlling the cir- Fig. 199.