TRAUMATIC OR INFLAMMATORY FEVER. 103 best evidence thus far attained, brings us however but little nearer to a know- ledge of its essential nature and immediate cause. As throwing light upon the causes of surgical fever, it is worthy of notice that, in his elaborate experiments, Senator resorted to a subcutaneous injection of fresh healthy pus for the purpose of producing the state of fever in his do^'s artificially. He habitually employed this pyrogenic device, and it always succeeded. In two or three hours after the injection of the pus, the tempera- ture of the hlood began to rise until it reached a certain figure, at or about which it remained for two days or so, and then, unless the injection was re- peated, it subsided; meanwhile the animal manifested all the symptoms of fever. This affords a demonstration of what has been recognized as the fever producing, or “ infective” power of the products of ordinary inflammation. On the basis of these and similar experiments, Dr. Sanderson1 formulates, very concisely, the conclusion that “ fever is the product of a fever-producing cause contained in the blood or tissue'juices, the morbific action of which on the organism is antecedent to all functional disturbances whatever.” He also employs the term “infective agent” as synonymous with “fever-producing cause” and speaks of fever as “from first to last a disorder of protoplasm.” Prof. Wood, in his conclusions, expresses the following opinion concerning the causes of fever: “In most cases of fever, and probably in all cases of se- rious fever, there is a definite poison circulating in the blood, the poison sometimes having been formed in the system, sometimes having entered the organism from without.” This may be regarded as a fair exposition of the doctrine of the day as re- gards fever. The theory so long prevalent that fever took its origin in dis- order of the nervous centres, has been given up by recent authorities in surgical pathology. Billroth has rejected it; so also have the French encyclopedists. All avow a belief in a material cause; and the search for this material cause, which includes also the cause of inflammation, is, at the present time the fore- most problem of surgical pathology. It has been thought to exist in the “infective quality of the products of inflammation;” in putridity—as in the soluble “sepsin” of Bergman—the analogue of serpent venom; and finally, in the micro-organisms which have been proved to be so intimately associated with putrefaction. There seems to be no valid reason why there should be a solitary material, pyrogenic, or phlogogenic principle. There may be, and judging from clinical experience there ai’e, probably, multiple material causes both of surgical fever and of inflammation; and some of them are, apparently, being identified. It is questionable if it be wise to reject the influence of the nervous system so entirely in the search for these material causes of fever. That its influence has been heretofore vaguely exaggerated, is proven, as one of the direct results of more certain and accurate knowledge; but, as in all fluctuations in human opinions, there is danger that the opposite views may be carried to ultraism, and that belief may become a matter of fashion. The writings of the great English masters of surgery in the early part of this century offered little that the mind could grasp in explanation of the nature and causes of inflammation dence on the subject since the lectures on calorification of Claude Bernard, in 1876 : “ Fever is a complex nutritive disturbance in which there is an excessive production of such portion of the bodily heat as is derived from chemical movements in the accumulated material of the organism, the surplus being sometimes more than the loss of heat production resulting from abstinence from food. The degree of bodily temperature in fever depends, in greater or less measure, upon a dis- turbance in the natural play between the functions of heat production and heat dissipation, and is not an accurate measure of the intensity of the increased chemical movements of the tissues.” (Fever : A Study in Morbid and Normal Physiology, p. 240. By H. C. Wood, A.M., M.D. Pub- lished by the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C., 1880.) 1 Report on the Causes of Infective Diseases, 1875.