312 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. sprain, a penetrating or even epiphyseal fracture, may prematurely give rise to the characteristic lesions of dry arthritis, and sometimes even to true or false anchylosis. The rheumatic diathesis, in the various places in which its spontaneous manifestations arise, very readily and rapidly causes serous effu- sions, oedema, plastic exudations, temporary or permanent (under the form of various neoplasms—fibroma, cancer, etc.), simple or hemorrhagic congestions, all accompanied by severe pains, fixed or wandering, temporary, intermittent, remittent or continuous, assuming the form of local liyperaesthesia or irra- diated neuralgia; and, on carefully watching an injured rheumatic, it is easy to recognize at the seat of injury, or in its immediate neighborhood, an entire series of anatomical lesions of functional disorders, having the greatest resem- blance with those which have been mentioned—lesions and disorders which, to my mind, constitute the arthritic complications of wounds. Among these, for example, I include serous effusions in cavities or connective tissue, marked cellular proliferation, pseudo-phlegmons, active hemorrhages, erythema and other severe eruptions in the neighborhood of the wound, neuralgia, and, at a later period, neoplasms and certain affections of the cicatrix. (2) Influence of Injuries upon Rheumatism.—It would he undoubtedly proper to distinguish cases according as the injury occurred before, during, or after the rheumatic attack; but the facts are wanting for the carrying out of this programme. There are scarcely any observations on record of wounds contracted during an attack of articular rheumatism ; those of wounds prior to the first rheumatic manifestations, and which produce the unexpected and premature appearance of the diathesis, are equally rare. Nothing is more common, on the contrary, than the renewal of rheumatic symptoms of older or more recent date. This fact, equally well known to the physician and surgeon, has been recognized in a summary manner for a long time. The wounds which may excite the diathesis are extremely varied; strains, frac- tures, slight or serious contusions, the most varied surgical operations, the removal of tumors, incision of fistula;, lithotomy and lithotrity, etc. In their turn, the manifestations of the diathesis thus reawakened, are no less variable; sometimes the entire economy is disturbed by a fresh attack of acute, general- ized rheumatism, sometimes there is only a local affection, striking a part which had been previously involved, without this predisposing condition being however necessary. We find recorded cases of acute or chronic arthritis, certain cutaneous eruptions (herpes among others), neuralgic pains, muscular spasms, contractions, pericarditis, cystitis, pulmonary congestion, hepatic or nephritic colic, changes in the urine, profuse sweats, etc. Chronic rheumatism affecting important organs, such as the heart, lungs, kidneys, and walls of vessels, may at length affect their structure more or less profoundly, and convert them into weak points which will feel the effects of the traumatism. But the complications which then arise have only distant relations with rheumatism, and may be more conveniently studied when we come to the special consideration of the constitutional conditions developed by affections of the great viscera. Gout.—Like rheumatism, gout generally respects the reparative process, and usually does not interfere with the cicatrization of wounds. Neverthe- less it is sometimes manifested at the site of injury by fluxions with acute pains, which are capable of simulating frank inflammation, hut wdiich are only congestions, usually of a temporary character. The pain also occurs without any apparent lesion, and under the form of neuralgia. In these cases, indeed, the curative process is temporarily suspended or at least retarded. At a later period, chalk stones may appear around wounded joints, and in cases of fracture exuberant callus has been observed. Repeated slight injuries