270 RACHITIS. The kidneys themselves are not diseased in rickets, but there is an exagge- rated discharge of phosphates in the urine, and, as stated above, lactic acid and free phosphoric acid have been found in this excretion. The urine is commonly pale ; its urea and uric acid are diminished ; and it sometimes con- tains a sediment of oxalate of lime. The brain is usually well developed, and appears healthy, with the normal proportion of white'and gray substance. In one case the weight of this organ was ascertained by Dr. Gee to be fifty-nine ounces, and in another forty-two and a half ounces. In both brains the proportions of white and gray sub- stance, and their color and consistence, seemed normal. Anatomical Characters of the Third Stage, or that of Reconstruction. —This stage will be better understood, if we recollect what has occurred during the first and second stages. The very vascular periosteum is drawn tightly over convexities, the pressure upon which diminishes the hypersemia and the amount of exudation underneath. Over the concavities the periosteum is loose; it is hypereemic, with abundant new capillaries, the interspace between it and the bone being filled with the gelatiniform substance already described. The reparative process goes forward more rapidly, and the deposition of lime salts is more abundant upon the concave surfaces, where there have been free exudation and no compression of the capillaries, than elsewhere. The lime salts are deposited from the blood. Consequently, from the increased capillary circulation and hypersemic state of the periosteum produced by rachitis, the chalky matter is rapidly effused wherever there is an open space under the periosteum, and where the capillaries are in a state of engorgement. Hence the reconstructed bone is thicker and firmer upon the concave aspect of the long bones than elsewhere, and thinnest upon the convex aspect where the periosteum is more tense, and its capillaries more or less compressed. It is a question whether true ossification occurs at first during the repara- tive stage. The deposition of chalky matter is designated by some writers as a petrifaction rather than a true bone-formation. Trousseau likens it to the formation of callus after a fracture. It certainly produces a substance more compact than ordinary bone. The term “eburnation” has been applied to this new osseous formation, and I have designated it “osteo-sclerosis.” Some years since I examined microscopically an adult bone which exhibited the rachitic curvature in a marked degree, and was very hard. It contained the elements of true bone, but I was in doubt whether the part examined was formed during convalescence from rickets, or in the subsequent growth. Recovery from rickets is gradual. Little by little, the cartilaginous and periosteal proliferation ceases, the hypersemia abates, and the bone-producing tissues return to their normal state. Certain of the deformities are perma- nent, but others disappear in the further growth of the skeleton. Symptoms of Rachitis. Preceding and accompanying rachitis, symptoms may be present which are due to indigestion and intestinal catarrh, such as flatulence, unhealthy stools, and poor or capricious appetite. When rachitis begins, the infant becomes fretful; its sleep is apt to be restless and disturbed, and it awakens often. It repels attempts to amuse it, and is apparently annoyed by them. Nurse and mother speak of it as a cross child. It perspires freely from the head and neck, both when awake and when asleep, while the extremities and trunk are dry. Its pillow" is wet with perspiration during sleep, and sweat drops may be seen upon forehead and face. If the surface be dry, a little excitement or