362 SHOCK. Great loss of blood, especially if it has taken place suddenly, brings on all the symptoms of collapse, but usually accompanied by syncope ; and certain poisons (as nicotin and muscarin) which act directly on that part of the nervous system that is in immediate relation with the heart and vessels, produce the most intense prostration of mental and bodily vigor through the diminution of vascular tension, and these cases are of more than ordinary interest, for in this way the practical physiologist is able at will, by methods the working of which is fairly well understood, to produce a condition not to be distinguished by any of its symptoms from that consequence of injury or mental emotion which has been so long unintelligible. Indeed, so close is the resemblance presented by cases of this kind to the collapse caused by abdominal injury, for example, that Furneaux Jordan and others have included hemorrhage and this class of poisons among the causes of shock. But it would seem alto- gether more reasonable to restrict the definition, by retaining the idea of in- direct, perhaps reflex (whether traumatic or mental) origin, and to regard these cases in which the result is produced by some influence acting directly on the vascular tension, as a means of explaining those in which the same is brought about indirectly and reflexly as the consequence of some perhaps distant injury. Symptoms of Shock. Few conditions are more characteristic than that of a patient suffering from the graver effects of shock ; none resemble death itself more closely. lie lies perfectly quiet, giving no heed to anything that goes on around; with limbs helpless and prostrate, as they may he placed, or as the chance of the moment may dictate ; conscious, yet seeing only in a mist, and hearing none but loud and repeated questions (though rare instances are met with in which the senses, especially the hearing, are acute beyond all measure); with no paralysis, yet replying with difficulty, in a syllabic, scarcely audible voice, and only executing with painful slowness some simple movements often left half finished. The expression of the face is quite changed; all the features, especially the nose, are smaller and shrivelled; the weary eyes have lost their lustre, and lie rolled upwards in deeply sunken sockets, surrounded by a dusky ring; the pupils in general are dilated, and react very slowly to the stimulus of light. The skin, and such parts of the mucous membrane as are visible, are pale, but livid too; the fingers and nails blue, and the skin on the palmar aspect hanging in loose folds. Large drops of sweat hang on the forehead and eye- brows ; the whole body is cold; at times a shiver passes through all the limbs; and the loss of temperature is often so great as to make the ther- mometer fall two or more degrees. Common sensibility and the sense of pain are much blunted over the whole body ; only some paroxysm more sharp than ordinary can rouse to any movement, while the worst of news is heard with- out emotion, so great is the already existing depression. The pulse is almost imperceptible, irregular, unequal, and very rapid ; the arteries are small and the tension low; the ascent in a sphygmographic tracing is very short and sloping, but the apex fairly well marked ; the presence ot dicrotism in these cases probably depends upon the amount of hemorrhage. The respiratory movements are very irregular—abnormally deep, sighing inspirations break- ing suddenly into a series of very superficial ones which are scarcely audible; sometimes, especially as the graver symptoms are passing off and reaction is beginning to set in, there is vomiting; the sphincters generally remain closed, but no rule can he laid down upon this point; retention of urine occurs per- haps more frequently than not, and sometimes, with this, there is partial sup- pression.