372 SHOCK. hot bath, beginning at a temperature of 98° F., and gradually increasing it to 110° F. By leaving a patient in a bath in this way for a quarter of an hour, the temperature of the body has been raised from 96° F. to 98°.5 F., the respirations reduced in number from 36 to 20 in the minute, and the cold and clammy skin rendered warm and dry. When the heart shows signs of failing, external heat is sometimes of further use in the form of flannels or sponges wrung out of water as hot as can be borne, and applied to the cardiac and epigastric regions. Counter-irritation more vigorous than this is of question- able service, though there can be no doubt that sinapisms and blisters applied to the extremities can, by the irritation of sensory nerves, cause a slight elevation of the general blood-pressure. In persistent vomiting, a mustard- plaster may sometimes be applied, with very good effect, to the pit of the stomach. The use of stimulants cannot be avoided in a severe case of shock. It is quite true that a patient may recover without their employment, but no one who has ever seen the color come back rapidly to a patient’s face, or felt the pulse beat stronger at the wrist, after a small quantity of brandy has been swallowed, will hesitate again as to the propriety of their use. The quan- tity must be judged of individually in each case, but need never be great; if reaction is coming on fairly, and continuing evenly, very little is required; if the reverse be the case, and one or two ounces of brandy produce no effect, it is probable that it is not being absorbed by the stomach, and the ingestion of a further quantity would only result in causing vomiting. In this case, or where the power of swallowing has been lost, enemata of small volume containing brandy may be tried, or subcutaneous injections of brandy or of ether,1 but usually, it must be confessed, with little hope. Afterwards, when reaction has fairly set in, there is no proof that stimulants are of much avail; nourishment of a more lasting character is required, but a very careful -watch should be kept on the pulse, and a small quantity of brandy administered whenever this shows signs of failing, and repeated every half hour if need be. Opium, in some form or another, is nearly always required to allay pain and to procure rest; if this can be obtained, nourishment need not be pressed just at first. Opium seems of equal service, however given: by the mouth, by the rectum, or hypodermically ; if it cause sickness when injected under the skin, it may be combined with atropia ; or it may be given by the mouth, the required quantity, in form of the liquor opii sedativus, undiluted, being placed upon the tongue; or sometimes a freshly made pill of crude opium will answer the purpose when nothing else is successful. It must be very seldom that a case presents such peculiar features that artificial respiration, would be of any service; it is nearly always the heart that gives out first, and death from asphyxia, due to the lungs failing to act, must be very rare. Transfusion has been tried in a sufficient number of cases to prove its futility, as long as shock is unaccompanied by serious hemorrhage; when this is the case, the question rests on altogether different grounds. Up to a certain point, simple hemorrhage has scarcely any effect upon the blood-pressure, the vasomotor nerves causing the vessels to contract in proportion to the loss of the circulating fluid; but beyond that point the compensation fails, and the pressure falls with great suddenness.. If, in a case of this nature, uncomplicated, transfusion be resorted to at this critical i Verneuil (Journal de Med. et de Cliir. Pratiques, Mars, 1877) recommends subcutaneous injections of ether, 15 minims, repeated in an hour’s time if required, stating that he has seen very great benefit derived from it. [The editor is confident that he has saved life, in cases of severe shock, by the hypodermic use of ether ; it may be administered very freely, a syringeful (about 30 minims) being injected every five or ten minutes until the patient is able to swallow, when carbonate of ammonium, 5 grains every half-hour by the mouth, may be substituted.]