CAUSES OF TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM. 387 are the consequence, the vagaries not unfrequently having reference to the functions of the affected part. These symptoms mostly subside alter active suppuration has been established, but sometimes death occurs before this happens. How truthfully a case of this kind is described by Dr. John Brown, in “Bab and and his Friends.” “Ailie’s right breast had been amputated—one night she had fallen quiet, and as we hoped asleep ; her eyes were shut. We put down the gas and sat watching her. Suddenly she sat up in bed, and taking a bed-gown which was lying on it rolled up, she held it eagerly to her breast—to the right side. We could see her eyes bright with surprising tenderness and joy, bending over this bundle of clothes. She held it as a woman holds her sucking child; opening out her night-gown impatiently, and holding it close and brooding over it, and murmuring foolish little words as over one whom his mother comforteth, and who sucks and is satisfied. It was pitifuland strange to see her wasted, dying look, keen and yet vague—her immense love. ‘ Preserve me !’ groaned James, giving way. And then she rocked backward and forward, as if to make it sleep, bush- ing it, and wasting on it her infinite fondness ‘ Wae’s me, doctor; I declare she’s thinking it’s that bairn.’ ‘ What bairn ?’ ‘ The only bairn we ever had, our wee Mysie ; and she’s in the kingdom forty years and mair ’ It was plainly true; the pain in the breast telling its urgent story to a bewildered, ruined brain, was misread and mistaken ; it suggested to her the uneasiness of a breast full of milk, and then the child ; and so again once more they were together, and she had her ain sweet Mysie in her ‘bosom.” The record of a favorable case of surgical fever with traumatic delirium, after operation, is here presented. (Fig. 29.) The age of this man had doubtless something to do with the symptoms, for it should be noted that persons over 65 or 70 years old are almost if not quite as liable to be affected with delirium, after great injuries or operations, as children. The form of delirium is generally like that set down in the chart. Independently of operations, compound fractures are very apt to be accom- panied by delirium, after a few days from the time of the accident. Fortu- nately, except in cases complicated with the effects of drink, which will be considered under the head of delirium tremens, the delirium is not apt to be violent, at least in adults. During febrile exacerbation, it takes the form of mild wandering, which is not accompanied by uncontrollable acts. It may be that the local injury is a constant reminder, through pain inflicted by move- ment, and that thus the judgment is enabled, in a marked degree, to control the wandering senses. This form of delirium is not at all serious in its import. It gradually subsides, and is not apt to return without some extraordinaiy cause. As in almost everything else, the patient becomes accustomed to his own condition and to his surroundings. Then fever- may occur, as, for ex- ample, during the separation of a piece of bone, but the brain will be wholly indifferent to it. Simple fractures in the old not unfrequently give rise to delirium, which is also not violent in form, but much more serious in its indications than that which I have just described. Senile delirium is always a bad symptom in surgical cases, especially so when comparatively simple causes give rise to it. It indicates an inherent weakness, not only in the brain itself, which is pro- bably affected by reason of deterioration of its bloodvessels, but also in other important structures, which are undergoing the alterations of age. Extensive lacerated wounds will often give rise to delirium, which may last but a short time, the accompanying fever being ephemeral in character and scarcely worthy the title of surgical fever. I have the chart of such a case, which gives the record of what followed a lacerated wound of the forearm in a woman 38 years of age. On the day of the accident, the temperature rose from 981° to 103|° F. On the third day, 101° F. was recorded in the