595 DRESSING THE STUMP. And Sir J. Y. Simpson, discoursing on “ The General Inutility of Dress- ings,” says d— “ I believe . . . that after the sides and edges of a wound are properly approxi- mated and adjusted with its metallic stitches, the best dressing, as a general rule, is— nothing, absolutely nothing. ... I have found that occasional streams of cold air directed upon the wound or its vicinity from a pair of bellows prove both most beneficial locally in keeping down morbid heat and irritation, and are most grateful to the feelings of the patient.” Pneumatic Occlusion and Pneumatic Aspiration. —In contrast to the views of the writers just cpioted, who attributed a positively curative action to the contact of atmospheric air, we may next consider the modes of dress- ing recommended by several French surgeons who, by preventing exposure of amputation wounds to air, endeavor to place them in a condition analogous to that of subcutaneous injuries. As pointed out by II. Larrey in the dis- cussion before the French Imperial Academy of Medicine, the germ of these ideas may be found fairly set forth in the Treatise on Wounds of Caesar Magatus,1 2 a Franciscan Monk and Professor at Ferrara, who lived from 1579 to 1647; but the first practical application of the method in modern times, may probably be attributed to Chassaignac,3 who, in connection with his sys- tem of drainage tubes, recommended that the wound should be closely covered with strips of plaster, and so excluded from the air. Pneumatic Occlusion.—The name of “Pneumatic Occlusion” was given by M. Jules Guerin to a method of dressing wounds of all kinds, including those made by amputation, which he described before the Academie de Medecine, in Febru- ary, 1865.4 The apparatus required for this mode of treatment consists of (1) an exhausted metallic receiver, provided with gauge and stopcock; (2) a series of envelopes or sleeves of vulcanized India-rubber, of various forms and dimensions, ending in vulcanized India-rubber tubes, which are firm enough to resist atmospheric pressure; and (3) a series of very fine elastic envelopes which are capable of adapting themselves to the inequalities of the part to which they are applied, and which are permeable to the atmosphere, and are placed inside of the others. The stump is first surrounded with the thin elastic envelope, and then placed inside of the India-rubber sleeve, the neck of which is made to clasp the limb with sufficient closeness to prevent its slipping; the exhausted receiver is then attached, and, the stopcock being turned, the air and gases contained in the sleeve pass into the receiver, and the former, with the fine enveloping tissue, yielding to atmospheric pressure, mould themselves to the surface of the stump, which they hermetically seal. A somewhat similar apparatus, but employed with a different purpose— that of keeping the stump at an even temperature—had been previously sug- gested by Jules Guyot, whose mode of treatment was designated as the In- cubation Method. Pneumatic Aspiration is the name given by M. Maisonneuve5 to a method of dressing stumps, not unlike that of M. Guerin, which has just been de- scribed. It consists— 1 Acupressure, etc., page 116. Edinburgh, 1864. * Caesaris Magati Scandianensis De Rara Medioatione Vulnerum, etc. Yenetiis, 1676. 3 SSdillot, op. cit., tome i. p. 342. 4 Bulletin de l’Academie Imp^riale de Medecine, tome xxxi. p. 396. 5 Practitioner, vol. i. p. 1. London, 1868.