370 SHOCK. Furneaux Jordan would place it very early, believing that there is in shock, at lirst, a diminished frequency of pulse that soon passes off, giving place to rapid and irregular action. The most satisfactory sign is an increase of strength in the heart’s beat; this soon leads to diminished rapidity and more regular rhythm. Vomiting, especially if the stomach is full, is very com- mon ; but it should not continue, and must not be confounded with that sign of the persistence of shock, intense irritability of the stomach allowing nothing to remain there. Then the respiration becomes deeper and more even, the face loses its livid pallor, the countenance begins to show some ex- pression, and the limbs, instead of lying helpless, are moved to more com- fortable positions; but it is a long time, even if no fever sets in, before the will acquires its accustomed power; and it may be as much from this as from anything else that prolonged retention of urine is so often met with. In general, even if there has been no wound, reaction is marked by a certain amount of fever ; the skin becomes hot and dry, the face flushed, the urine scanty and high colored, the pulse full and bounding, and there is thirst, with restlessness and headache. Where shock after accidents or operations has been severe, there is an attack of ordinary traumatic fever, varying with the nature of the accident, the method of its treatment, and the constitution of the patient, from a slight rise of temperature attended with the ordinary sleeplessness and constipation, to a condition of the most extreme excitement, rapidly running on to fatal exhaustion—that form to which Travers gave the name of “ prostration with excitementthen the languor that character- ized the early stage passes, after a variable interval, into restlessness, jactita- tion, and precordial anxiety ; often, but not always, there is delirium varying in degree from occasional incoherence to wild and fierce excitement, more frequently occurring and more marked during the night; at times the con- dition is scarcely distinguishable from that in an ordinary case of Delirium Tremens. Soon succeed exhaustion, marked by somnolency ; a profuse chill and clammy sweat; a haggard and livid aspect; a small, irregular, or flutter- ing pulse,; innumerably rapid, panting respirations; passive convulsions, hiccough, and subsultus; the stupor and stertor of apoplexy, and death. The question of prognosis must be answered in each case mainly from the degree of the injury sustained: for, though shock is by no means wholly dependent on this, generally, in severe cases, there is either great injury or injury of some great part. Loss of the power of swallowing, showing that probably there has been inhibition of the glosso-pharyngeal centre in the medulla oblongata, in the immediate neighborhood of other centres indis- pensable to the maintenance of life; and insensibility of the conjunctiva, leading to the conclusion that the fifth pair of nerves has become implicated, must each of them be regarded as of the gravest import. Any hemorrhage, even if slight, is a complication much more dangerous than would at first be supposed, owing to the extreme depression of arterial tension already exist- ing ; the clinical observation made by Travers, with regard to the very serious import of the loss of even a small amount of blood in syncope or shock, has been demonstrated and explained by the physiological experiments of Tappeiner. The longer reaction is delayed, and the more incomplete and fluctuating it is, the more hopeless the case. Still, even in the worst, some- times recovery does take place, against all hope, when the patient has lingered hours and even days in an almost lifeless state. Among conditions usually regarded as unfavorable, must be placed either extreme of life; and, of the two, advanced age as the most threatening; and similarly that condition of premature degeneration of which the abdominal viscera especially present such frequent examples. In the case of operations, prognosis may often be rendered much more easy