SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION IN TENDON, CUTIS, BONE, ETC. 87 of cells at the expense of the basis-substance. The cells do not consume the basis-substance, but the basis-substance is converted into cell-body; is trans- formed again into protoplasm. By this time I was dually compelled to drop the assumption of fissures between the cells and basis-substance of the cornea. I was forced to assume that the parenchyma of the cornea was a coherent, living mass, which was traversed by neither crevices nor fissures. In the living cornea no cells migrate ; the migration is only apparent. The inflamed cornea of the frog is capable of assuming, at any part, the appearance and peculiarities of the amoeboid cell. Such a metamorphosed spot, however, is not yet a migrating cell. It does not become a migrating cell before it separates from its matrix, and such a separation takes place in mass, only in actual suppuration. But this does not exclude the possibility of certain pieces being separated under other favorable conditions, and of their appearing as migrating cells on the surface of the cornea or in some pathological cavity. I shall return to these new observations on the phenomena observed in the basis-substance, on a subsequent page (p. 52). For the present, what I have said will suffice to make the subject of suppuration of the cornea fully comprehensible. Suppurative Inflammation in Tendon, Cutis, Bone, Cartilage, AND OTHER CONNECTIVE SUBSTANCES. In the tendon, the cells have other forms, and a different arrangement from that which exists in the cornea. In the latter, the cells are flat and their broad sides lie parallel to the surface. Hence we see them most advantageously in entire cornere, or in lamellae of entire corneae, if spread out on the slide; for then the cells present their broad surfaces to the observer. But in tendinous tissue, the cells are composed of little rods, which run parallel with the fasciculi of the tendon, anti with its long axis. The processes of these cells are ribbon-like; they pass out from the rod-like cells just as flags do from flag- poles. In place of the flat cells of the cornea, with thread-like processes, we have, accordingly, in the tendon, rod-like cells (flag-poles), to which on the same level numerous (three or four) flags are attached. These flags however do not wave free, but become attached to the columns of basis-substance (“ fibrillar fasciculi,” these columns are called here), and as it were envelop them. In my lectures, I demonstrate this relation by placing a white wax- candle, as representative of the fibrillar fasciculus or column of basis-sub- stance, side by side with a red wax-candle, as representative of a cell. On the free vertical border of the red candle (flagstaff'), I attach, at each level, several flags cut out of red paper (Fig. 7), and wrap them about the white candle so as to inclose it as if in a sheath. In cross-sections, these rod-like cells with pendant processes resemble flat cells with thread-like processes; in short, resemble cornea corpsucles. In the cross-section of a tendon stained with gold, we therefore see a picture analogous to that of the lamella; of the cornea. In cross-sections of young ten- don, the cells are large, and the basis- substance (in this instance the trans- Fig. 7. C. cells. F, flags. F' is caller! Boll’s Streifen, and is nothing else than a longitudinal section of a flag.