341 GENERAL EXAMINATION: HISTORY OF THE CASE. same habit, not infrequently, is instrumental in producing follicular pharyn- gitis, but the prognosis will be very different in a case of this nature arising from smoking, and in one symptomatic of pulmonary disease. The surgeon’s opinion in regard to a sore on, or a discharge from, the male or female geni- talia, will be influenced in no small degree by the known purity or depravity of the patient. But, on the other hand, a chaste and virtuous young woman, or an innoceut wet-nurse, may suffer unjustly in character, the one having been infected by an impure kiss from a lover whose lip bears a syphilitic crack, and the other by suckling a syphilitic child. In childhood, a prepuce elongated by habitual traction with the fingers, at once excites the suspicion of either stone in the bladder or the existence of a tight phimosis. Sexual weakness, when ascertained to be the result of venereal excess, assumes a very different importance from that which it possesses when induced by the oxa- late of lime diathesis, or by spinal concussion. Antecedent History.—This embraces a history not only of the past life of the patient, but also of that of his ancestors. Nothing is better established than the transmissibility of disease. It is much more likely to abide with the children, than the wealth which they inherit. Singularly enough, it some- times happens that morbid legacies will skip a generation and appear in the succeeding one, although such cannot be said to be the rule. The value of a knowledge of antecedents in imparting certainty to diagnosis, is incalculable. A patient who in the past has been the victim of syphilis, and who, after probably the lapse of years, is attacked with pains in the course of certain bones, will demand a different kind of treatment from that proper to a case of idiopathic rheumatism ; and the same will be true of an iritis arising from a similar cause. There are many instances of persons who exhibit symptoms of pulmonary disease, but in whom no detectable lesion exists. The physi- cian may be in doubt as to the necessity of a change of climate, but if it be shown that a maternal or paternal ancestor has died of tuberculosis, that doubt will be immediately solved and the change advised. A pain in the knee or in any other articulation of a child, awakens much more anxiety when it is known that there is an antecedent history of tubercular disease; and so in the clinical investigation of obscure tumors, the diagnosis is influenced in no small degree by what can be learned with regard to the physical sound- ness or unsoundness of ancestors and other relatives. Personal History is no less important than a history of antecedents in interpreting morbid phenomena. In this is comprised a knowledge of con- stitutional peculiarities. An individual possessed of a sanguine temperament, as manifested by the possession of a strong and vigorous heart, a full and bounding pulse, a florid complexion, a warm surface, and the other signs of a dominating vascular system, is one predisposed to acute inflammation of different organs. Apprised of such a constitutional predisposition, the sur- geon will be ever on the alert, anticipating these complications, and prepared to combat them before they have gained strength or have become fully entrenched. The patient may possess a 'phlegmatic temperament, character- ized by a dark complexion, a lazy circulation, and obtuse sensibility, with the mental operations and bodily movements alike conducted sluggishly. Individuals so constituted are stolid, indifferent to suffering, and disposed to endure quietly rather than complain by word or other demonstration. Here the tendency, on the part of the medical attendant, is to undervalue the power or severity of the disease or injury, and to be betrayed into a false sense of security while the mischief is underrated or is not detected until too late for successful management. Allowance must also be made for persons