410 ANESTHETICS AND ANESTHESIA. inhibited by anaesthetic vapors. A vigorous specimen of this species, placed for half an hour under a bell-glass with a sponge saturated with ether, will no longer exhibit any irritability. Its healthy appearance remains unchanged, but it no longer absorbs carbonic anhydride, and its leaflets will not shrink when touched. Restoration of the plant to a pure atmosphere is soon fol- lowed by complete recovery of all its natural functions. Each one of these experiments illustrates the tendency to inhibition of cer- tain molecular movements in the presence of an anaesthetic substance. All molecular movement is not thus arrested. Alcoholic fermentation ceases in a solution of ether, which still permits the transformation of cane-sugar into grape-sugar. It is at present impossible to describe the essential nature of the inhibitory process. The only thing beyond dispute is the fact that anaes- thetic substances tend to restrict the ordinary freedom of chemical exchanges in living matter. In the animal body, while all parts are thus modified by the anaesthetic, certain tissues are more than others affected by its presence. To this fact is due the progressive character of artificial anaesthesia. The more highly differentiated the tissues of an animal, the more evidently suc- cessive and complex the phenomena of anaesthesia. Consequently it is in the higher animals, with an elaborate nervous apparatus, that these phenomena are most conspicuous. The action of anaesthetic vapors and liquids is exerted through the medium of the circulating fluids of the body upon the cellular units of which it is composed. Introduced into the blood by passage through the walls of the pulmonary air-cells, absorbed by the surfaces of the alimentary canal, or con- veyed directly into the current of the blood by intra-venous injection, it is only when the nervous elements have been reached that the anaesthetic process begins. Primarily local in its action, the effect of the anaesthetic becomes generalized when the central nervous organs are invaded. Numerous experi- ments have thus shown that the local action of chloroform upon the substance of the spinal cord is sufficient to abolish peripheral sensation and muscular movements, even though the peripheral organs have been sheltered from its action. In like manner, the functions of the brain having been abolished, all those peripheral functions which depend upon the integrity of the cerebrum are, for the time being, incapable of performance. When freely circulated through all parts of the body, the anaesthetic produces local effects throughout the whole mass of the body, but the consequences of its action upon the principal nervous centres are the most conspicuous of the resulting phe- nomena. The condition of artificial anaesthesia presents many points of resemblance to natural sleep, but there are also certain important points of difference. The advent of normal sleep is heralded by a gradual failure of the special senses. The eyes close, general sensibility fails, and, finally, the sense of hearing is abolished. In the locomotive apparatus, the voluntary muscles of the limbs are the first to yield; then follow the muscles of the trunk. The power of reflex movement is not abolished. Respiration and circulation continue, though with a slightly diminished rate. As sleep invades the brain, percep- tion of the external world is gradually diminished by the failure of the external senses. But this arrest of communication does not at once prevent the development of ideas within the brain. Certain groups of cortical cells may remain active after the establishment of sleep in certain other groups. Deprived of that guidance which is derived from the impressions of sense, the attention of the waking portions of the brain is attracted to such impressions of internal origin as may arise in the territories of the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves. Hence a succession of erratic ideas, attended with varying degrees of consciousness, dependent upon the degree of uniformity in