INFLAMMATION. 80 It is a circumstance of daily observation that a slighter degree of mechanical disturbance than any of the sources of injury heretofore described, not amount- ing to violence, but more or less persistent in character, is capable of begetting a condition of local hypersemia, and, if continued, of exciting positive inflam- mation. This is exemplified by tbe friction of the skin by articles of clothing; and by the action of cold winds upon the surface. The normal motions of a joint are competent to excite inflammation of a higher grade in a trifling lesion in process of healing, seated, perhaps, on its dorsal aspect, as for example an abrasion of a knuckle—which is so likely to fester. In other words, the simple process of repair whilst in kindly progress, is, by this form of excita- tion, liable to be irritated to the point of suppuration. A blacksmith received a kick from a horse upon the knee. After a few days’ rest, as the contusion had ceased to be painful, he resumed his work. But pain about the knee soon returned, and some days later he was brought to the New York Hospital with much fever and an acute fluctuating swelling around the joint, simulating inflam- mation of the joint itself. After evacuation of the abscess, the case did well. The patient, who was addicted to beer, and thus predisposed to suppurative inflammation, explained in regard to his condition that he had been doing perfectly well after the acci- dent, but, on returning to his work, “ he must have taken cold, and then inflammation set in.” The true explanation of the occurrence of destructive symptoms in this case was the irritation inflicted upon parts undergoing the process of repair by too early re- sumption of the use of the joint. By this exciting cause the constructive grade of inflammation was disturbed in its progress, and converted into suppurative inflammation. Slight but persistent mechanical action must therefore be recognized as one of tbe exciting causes of inflammation. It is a frequent cause of interruption and of complication of tbe healing process, and its power of doing barm is very commonly underestimated. Its bearing upon the great value of quies- cence as a remedial agent in inflammation will be hereafter considered. The action of a chemical irritant in exciting inflammation is illustrated by the phenomena which follow the application of a drop of nitric acid to the surface of the skin. Within a minute or two, an increased redness is percep- tible immediately surrounding the drop of acid. This area of redness steadily extends, growing more intense in color, until it attains a diameter of two or three inches. At the same time there is a slight increase of fulness and heat in the part. W ithin the hour, these symptoms may have disappeared. The redness, due to acute hypertemia, has passed away, as have all the symptoms except a scarcely perceptible circle bounding the margin of the yellow-tinted eschar produced by the action of the acid upon the epidermis and the true skin—which latter is involved to a depth measured by the strength of the acid. After a day or two even this narrow circle of redness vanishes, and at tbe end of a fortnight the yellow eschar, which has become somewhat darker in color, becomes detached, disclosing a smooth cicatrix, of a positively red color, invested with epidermis. These phenomena represent, typically, the behavior of most chemical irritants as excitants of inflammation. Their action is limited to that of a simple stimulus to repair; and, when severe enough to produce death of tissue, the sloughs are thrown off without suppuration, pro- vided that the air has been excluded, or that antiseptic dressings have been employed. Burns by phosphorus would seem to constitute an exception, as the acid generated by the combustion of the phosphorus acts as an additional irritant to the raw surface. ITeat produces results similar to those of the potential cautery,, but in greater variety. It may cause a simple blush of transient hypercemia, or vesication,