326 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. there arc intimate relations between the nature of the complications and the lesion of this or that organ. 1 have thought it well to reproduce here some of the information which we possess on this subject. It is necessary, how- ever, to remark that though the framework may be prepared, it cannot at this time be tilled up. We possess somewhat precise information only in regard to those conditions which are produced by hepatic, by renal, and by cardiac affections; in the future, the series will undoubledly he made complete. Hepatism.—It is difficult to define this condition precisely, and to briefly indicate the general disturbances which characterize it, for the lesions of the liver are numerous; of very various kinds; often latent at the beginning, dur- ing their entire course, and even when they are in an advanced stage; and finally are manifested by a sufficiently complex set of symptoms. Neverthe- less it is correct to say that they more especially affect the functions of the digestive and circulatory apparatus, and that they interfere with nutrition by the changes produced in the quantity and quality of the blood. Each distinct hepatic lesion (chronic congestion, atrophic or hypertrophic cirrhosis, fatty or amyloid degeneration, syphiloma, lithiasis, biliary reten- tion, cancer, cystic disease), evidently acts after its own manner and with more or less intensity upon nutrition, digestion, the peripheral or cardiac circulation, and the composition and genesis of the blood. But from the point of view which we occupy, that is to say as far as concerns the relations of affections of the liver to injuries, the differences are not as marked as might be believed. In fact, in autopsies upon individuals suffering from hepatic disease, who have succumbed from the results of their wounds, the most varied changes have been found: fatty degeneration, cirrhosis, old perihepa-' titis, amyloid degeneration, lithiasis, cancer, unrecognized hydatids, etc. Everything leads us to believe that when the number bf cases shall be in- creased, less confused results will be obtained ; but, at the present time, we are compelled to satisfy ourselves with merely referring to the influence of hepatic affections, taken all together, upon traumatism, and vice versa. In the first place, we may declare, without fear of contradiction, that this influence is generally injurious; that every wound is serious in a patient suf- fering from hepatic disease; that every such patient is in danger, and that in case of such coincidence, the prognosis is rendered gloomy by each of the two factors in the morbid association. After this statement, if we reflect upon the extreme frequency of secondary changes in the liver; upon its almost inevitable implication by toxic agents such as alcohol, arsenic, and malarial and septic poisons; upon its implication sooner or later when the kidneys, spleen, or heart are chronically affected; upon its almost certain participation in all cachexke (tuberculous, cancerous, purulent, etc.); we shall understand what weight hepatism possesses in the question of surgical indications and contra-indica- tions, and we shall wonder that a fact of such gravity should have for so long a time remained unrecognized. The chief complications observed in these patients, at the region of the wound, are: inflammations of bad character ; bronzed, erysipelatous, and dif- fuse phlegmons; sphacelus; wandering erysipelas, and, as a natural conse- quence of these local complications, grave traumatic fevers, septicaemia of an adynamic form, and pyaemia following a rapid course; secondary arte- rial, venous, or capillary hemorrhages are especially to be dreaded on account of their frequency and gravity, and the slight efficacy of ordinary hemostatic measures. The blood, moreover, does not flow through the wounded vessels only, but also escapes at a distance through the nasal and intestinal mucous membranes. Independently of these acute and serious accidents, we also find in these patients that the wound assumes a bad appearance, remains atonic