285 ETIOLOGY OF SCURVY. decreased prevalence noted, exactly accorded with the character of the food supply as to quality and quantity. In the early part of the wrar, this was of the most wretched kind; afterwards the greatest improvements were made, and with the most satisfactory results. The French fared even worse than the English forces, as regarded their supplies, and the consequence was the rapid appearance of the disease, so that 20,000 cases were reported; yet for the month of February, 1855, fresh meat of good quality, though lean, was issued, at first twice and afterwards five times a week; there was an irregular supply of bread, but rice was occasionally allowed, with dried vegetables such as peas and beans. With the opening of spring and the growth of vegeta- tion, especially dandelion, which the men procured for food, the disease abated only to be renewed in the following July, when the hot, dry weather destroyed the greens attainable earlier in the year. The Sardinian and Turkish forces suffered, if anything, still more severely than their English and French allies. During the war of the Rebellion, 1861-65, both the United States and the Confederate forces occasionally suffered from scurvy, or from its influence in other diseases. The cases of scurvy occurring in the various naval services, are isolated and infrequent, in consequence of the rigid hygienic measures now adopted. It has not been banished from the mercantile marine as it should be, yet the condition of the men in this service has been greatly improved by wise legal enactments. Since the passage of the Shipment Act, in Great Britain, in 1867, scurvy has decreased about 70 per cent. The “Dreadnought” Hos- \ pital-ship1 still continues to receive annually an average of 90 cases, or about one twenty-fifth of all the cases admitted, due to the issue of improper food, or of rations defective in vegetable matter and acid juices. According to the report2 of the U. S. Marine Hospital Service, there were admitted in 1873, 47 cases; in 1874, 59 cases; and in 1875, 25 cases; an average of nearly 44 for each of those years. The latest record of the general occurrence of scurvy was during the siege of Paris by the Germans, in 1872, from the usual cause —food deficient in fresh vegetable material. Etiology of Scurvy. Scurvy has no geographical limitation. It has prevailed in the extreme high latitudes of both the northern and southern frigid zones, on vessels engaged in arctic explorations, and among the native Laplanders and Esquimaux; almost everywhere within the temperate zones, in the eastern and western continents; and on numerous occasions both ashore and afloat in torrid re- gions3 of the equator. It affects alike all races, the Caucasian, Malay, Negro, and Indian. Nor has it been confined to mankind, for at least one authentic case has been recorded by Berenger-Feraud,4 of a Gorilla having suffered from scurvy. All classes of society, rich and poor, high and low, are equally liable, whenever surrounded by circumstances that preclude the attainment of the requisite nutriment. The disease has been observed at all ages from infancy to senescence; the orphan asylum at Moscow was invaded, alike with the asylum for the aged at Christiania. The crews of affected ships, and the forces holding besieged towns or fortresses, have suffered without regard to age. In epidemics, and 1 Scurvy in Merchant Ships, 1865. 2 Report of Supervising Surgeon-General, U. S. Marine Hospital Service, 1876. 3 The seasons exercise no control over the occurrence of the disease other than that arising from their influence upon the growth of vegetation and upon human health, through the physical qualities of heat, cold, and dampness. Of the 68 epidemics, referred to by Hirsch, in which the season was noticed, 37 occurred in spring, 21 in winter, 8 in summer, and 2 in autumn. 4 Comptes Rendus, 1858.