518 MINOR SURGERY. Hypodermic Injections. Hypodermic injection is a simple method of introducing certain drugs, especially anodynes, into the system, and is frequently resorted to hy surgeons in cases in which a more prompt and decided impression is desired than could be obtained were the same remedies administered either by the mouth or by the rectum. Although this operation, in the hands of an experienced person, is one of extreme simplicity, and free from danger, yet unpleasant and even fatal consequences have followed its employment when incautiously per- formed ; hence, as a rule, the surgeon should either do the operation himself, or intrust it to an intelligent assistant. The instrument employed consists of a small syringe, holding about 30 minims, with an adjustable nozzle, which is a hollow needle. (Fig. 88.) The Fig. 88. Syringe for hypodermic injections. barrel is made of either glass, hard-rubber, metal, or a combination of glass and metal. In order that the syringe may be air-tight, the piston must accu- rately fit the cylinder; hence the calibre of the latter must be the same through- out. A glass syringe may be graduated to minims, either on the barrel or on the piston-rod ; other forms of the instrument have the piston-rod graduated. The perforated needle may be attached to the barrel by either a screw or a socket-joint. The metallic syringe is the one to which the writer gives pre- ference. This has two delicate needles with lancet-shaped points, which are attached to the barrel by a screw-joint. It is provided with a screw-cap that is to be kept on the end of the barrel when the instrument is not in use, in order that the piston may always be moist, and the cylinder free from dirt. A delicate piece of annealed wire, sharp pointed and attached to a small handle, will be found useful to remove dirt or moisture from the needles whenever they become clogged ; this may be dispensed with, however, if the operator will introduce a fine wire into the needle immediately after it is used. Hard-rubber syringes, with gold or platinum needles, are best suited for the injection of certain mineral substances, and particularly iodine. The drug most commonly employed by the surgeon for subcutaneous injec- tion, is the sulphate of morphia. When it is extensively used in this way, as in hospital practice, Magendie’s solution will be found the most convenient preparation, for eight minims of this solution represent about a fourth of a grain of the sulphate of morphia. As, however, the solution soon loses its strength by the development in it of a penicillum, and is thereby rendered unfit for hypodermic use, it is a better plan, in private practice, for the sur- geon to carry the drug in powder, and to make a fresh solution whenever occasion demands its employment. The writer is in the habit of carrying morphia in quarter of a grain powders, put up in tinfoil. When an injection is to be given, one of these powders may be quickly dissolved in ten or twenty minims of fresh water, the quantity of the liquid being accurately determined by being drawn first into the syringe and then injected into a spoon. The