AMPUTATIONS. 638 joint opened from the radial side. Disarticulation having been effected, the cut vessels are secured (three or four commonly require attention), and the wound is closed transversely. Elliptical Method.—This is, upon the whole, probably the best operation in this particular situation. The lower segment of the ellipse may be made from either the palmar or the dorsal surface of the hand, the former plan being preferable as giving a firmer covering for the ends of the bones. The patient’s hand being supinated, the surgeon begins his incision, with a strong, short-bladed knife, about three-quarters of an inch below the styloid process of the radius, curves it downwards through the tissues of the palm to a point about an inch lower, and then upwards again to three-quarters of an inch below the styloid process of the ulna; the hand is then pronated; and the ends of the first incision joined by another, slightly curved upwards, and crossing the back of the hand about half an inch below the joint. The cuff’ thus marked out having been dissected upwards as far as necessary, disarticu- lation is effected from the radial side, and the operation terminated as in the circular method. The wound forms a curved cicatrix on the dorsal side of the stump, the bones being covered by the firm tissues of the palm. Flap Methods.—Of these, the best is the single palmar flap method (Fig. 174), the flap being cut from without inwards, and the result of the operation Fig. 174. closely approximating to that of the elliptical method, as just described. The formation of a flap by transfixion, as practised by Lisfranc, is attended with much difficulty, and is now generally abandoned. Another plan is to employ two flaps—either lateral or antero-posterior—but I do not recommend this mode of procedure. A better plan (but still inferior, I think, to either the palmar flap or the elliptical method), is that of Dubrueil, who makes a single external flap, from the tissues around the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Amputation at the wrist joint appears to be seldom performed either in civil or in military practice; I have myself done it but once, for gunshot injury, in a lad of seventeen who made a good recovery. The death-rate, as shown by the following Table, appears to be unduly high—a circumstance