AMPUTATIONS AT THE KNEE AND KNEE-JOINT. 665 may follow. Mr. Erichsen advises that, in order to prevent retraction, the flap should be turned upward and the attachment of the quadriceps femoris divided, but in my own cases I have not found this necessary. The semi- lunar cartilages should, I think, be removed, though A. Guerin recommends their retention. The articular cartilage of the femur need not be interfered with: it undergoes spontaneous separation, by a process of slow exfoliation, and comes away with the discharge in shreds or fragments of greater or less size during the second or third week; some writers advise that it should be removed by sawing around the condyles with a Butcher’s saw, but this seems to me an unnecessary complication. Amputation at the Knee.—Amputation at the knee, as distinguished from the knee-joint, may be done by any of the methods above described, the only ditference between this operation and the disarticulation being that a portion more or 194* less considerable of the end of the femur is removed by sawing through the condyles. The anterior flap method gives, I think, the best result, and, the patella being retained, furnishes an admirably firm and rounded stump. Several special forms of operation are practised in this situation, and may be here briefly referred to. Carden’s Amputation.— This operation, which was introduced by Mr. Carden, of Worcester, is done by taking a large rounded skin flap from the front of the knee; divid- ing the tissues on the back of the limb by a single transverse incision, made either by transfixion or from without inwards, on a level with the base of the flap; reflecting the flap and dividing the deeper tissues straight down to the bone, above the patella which is drawn downwards by flexing the knee; and finally sawing through the base of the condyles. (Fig. 194.) This method of ope- rating is undoubtedly better than Syme’s plan (which that surgeon abandoned in favor of Carden’s) of taking a posterior flap to cover the sawn end of the condyles, but seems to me less desirable than that which I have described simply as amputation at the knee—a posterior being added to the anterior flap, and the patella being pre- served. It has, however, been very successful in the hands of its author, thirty cases recorded by Mr. Carden himself having given but five deaths and twenty-five recoveries.1 Amputation at knee by Carden’s method. Gritti’s Amputation.—This operation, introduced by Rocco Gritti, of Milan, in 1857,2 may be regarded as an application of the osteo-plastic method of Pirogoff, to amputations at the knee. A rectangular flap is taken from the front of the leg and knee, and a shorter flap from the back of the limb; the 1 British Medical Journal, 1864. Mr. Carden reports thirty-one cases, one of which, however, appears to have been a disarticulation. 2 Annali Universali di Medicina. Milano, 1857.