526 MINOR SURGERY. organized inflammatory products, especially when they are deep seated, than in those of extravasation or serous exudation. Percussion (Tapotement) is another form of massage, which consists in tap- ping the surface of an affected part either with the tips of the fingers held in a row, a small hammer, or the ulnar border of the hand. Sometimes the palm of the hand is brought into requisition, when a considerable surface of the trunk, as the loins, is the subject of treatment. It is claimed by some authors that percussion will cure, or ameliorate, some forms of neuralgia and- of peripheral paralysis, by promoting the absorption of exudation from around the affected nerves. The beneficial effects of percussion in these cases will be greatly increased if the nerves be stretched and the overlying integuments kneaded. Passive and Active Motion, in conjunction with the manipulations already considered, are found of special service in getting rid of those trouble- some conditions so often following sprains, dislocations, fractures, and other affections that require immobilization of the affected limb as an essential feature of the early treatment. While the limb is subjected to stroking, kneading, etc., passive motion of the joints should at first be made by the manipulator, and, as soon as practicable, the patient himself should be encour- aged to employ active motion. The persistent employment of passive and active motion will often restore the functions of a stiff joint sooner, and with less suffering to the patient, than the forcible breaking up of adhesions under anaesthesia. In the treatment of old sprains, and of the later stages of fracture of the extremities, where the muscles have lost tone and become flabby in conse- quence of disease, Dr. Douglas Graham1 suggests the employment of what he calls ado-passive motion, as a means of restoring the strength of those mus- cles, and of giving the patient confidence to use them. This manipulation consists in “alternately resisting flexion and extension, while keeping the resistance less than the strength of the limb, so that the patient may not re- cognize his weakness there.” Muscle-beating.—C. Klemm, Manager of the Gymnastic Institution in Riga,2 has suggested a form of massage which he terms musde-beativg. The instrument that he uses in practising this treatment is called a muscle-beater, and consists of three elastic tubes fastened together near a handle to which they are attached. The circumference of each tube is about that of a finger; the length and the thickness of the material of which the tubes are made vary according to the different, purposes for which the instrument is em- ployed—hence muscle-beaters of different sizes are needed. Muscle-beating is not to be made on a naked surface, except in case of the head or the hand; the part should he protected by a thin covering of some kind. The duration of a “seance” should be determined by the impressionability of the part; it is always well to suspend the operation as soon as a sensation of moderate burning, or an increase of the surface temperature, is felt by the patient. The application of this manipulation should be interrupted by slight pauses of a minute or two, in order that excessive irritation of the skin may be avoided. Among the many diseased or abnormal conditions for which muscle-beating is recommended by C. Klemm, are coldness of the extremities, muscular ataxy, stiffness of the joints consequent upon sprains, dislocations, rheumatism, 1 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xix. p. 578, 1877. * Muscle-beating, or Active and Passive Home Gymnastics. New York, 1879.