HYDROPHOBIA—GLANDERS—MALIGNANT PUSTULE. 224 amyl. It was immediately given to him, and had the same happy effect as on the first occasion ; his pulse fell, his respiration became more calm, and he took half a pint of milk, three raw eggs, and half an ounce of brandy, which he swallowed very readily and with great comfort. lie then fell asleep, and I left him. I returned the next morning at 9 o’clock, having asked Dr. John Ashhurst to see him in consultation with Dr. Carroll and myself. We found that our patient had had some sleep, but that for an hour or more he had been very much excited. He could not have a glass of water brought near him now ; it was tried, and on its approach he shook convulsively. Nearly a teaspoonful of the nitrite of amyl was now administered, and he again became quite calm and drank nearly a pint of water, and soon after took some milk and eggs. At 3 P. M., however, the spasms returned, and, on attempting to give him the amyl, he exclaimed that he was choking, and immediately went into a convulsion which ended in death. No post-mortem examination was permitted. My friend Dr. Solliday, of Tamaqua, administered the nitrite of amyl in a case of hydrophobia in a girl, aged 17, who was bitten by a spitz dog which was suffering from rabies. The wound was inflicted on the lower lip, on Nov. 26, 1877 ; the wround was very slight, and healed quickly. On Dec. 20, three weeks and three days after the accident had happened, hydrophobia became manifest. The spasms came on every fifteen minutes, and the disease was well developed. In the evening, twenty-four drops of the nitrite of amyl were given by inhalation. She now complained of numbness in her extremities, and soon became very calm, and remarked that, if the room were quiet, she could sleep. At this moment a glass of water was given to her, which she swal- lowed without trouble. In fifteen minutes she was in a quiet sleep, which continued for four and a half hours. She was awakened by a violent storm of rain which made a great noise on the roof and shed of the house in which she lived. The spasms imme- diately returned, and were more violent than at any time previous, and continued until death took place, late in the afternoon of the 21st. No post-mortem examination was permitted. In both of these cases the relief on inhalation of the nitrite of amyl was very marked, and exceedingly comforting. It relieved the spasms in both cases, so that the patients could drink both water and milk to satiety. But in neither case did the amyl appear to stay the advance of death. In the Lyon Medical there is reported a case of hydrophobia in which, owing to the experiments of Drs. Schmidt and Zehenden with oxygen, that gas was inhaled, and the disease disappeared. The case was that of a little girl bitten in the hand by a rabid dog. The wound, after being cauterized, healed in a few days ; but a fortnight afterwards the evidences of hydrophobia were manifested. Three cubic feet of oxygen were then inhaled by the patient, and in the course of an hour and a half the distressing symptoms disappeared, and the child became calm. Two days afterwards the symptoms reappeared; there were difficulty of breathing and swallowing, and convulsions ; the oxygen was again inhaled, and at the end of forty-five minutes the attack entirely subsided, and never returned. [Other modes of treatment which have been recommended are the inhala- tion of ether or chloroform; the application of an ice-bag to the spine (Todd, Erichsen); the persistent employment of a primary galvanic current (Ham- mond); transfusion of blood (Shinkwin); and intra-venous injection of saline solutions (Culver), and particularly of bromide of potassium (Duboue). The monobromate of camphor is also credited with having effected a cure in some cases.]