521 SURGICAL USES OF ELECTRICITY. through the integuments into the cavity containing the fluid to be evacuated. On withdrawing the stylet and opening the stopcock, the fluid passes quickly into the bottle. If there be more fluid than one bottle will hold, the stop- cock of the tube connected with the canula may be closed, the stopper Fig. 91. Potain’s aspirator. removed, and the bottle emptied; it is then to be re-exhausted by the air- pump. Occasionally, as in the case of cold abscesses, the flow of pus is suddenly stopped by a small mass of lymph or cheesy matter becoming lodged in the canula. Such an obstruction may be easily removed by pass- ing a blunt stylet or plunger through the canula. With Potain’s aspirator all unpleasant odors are conveyed with the pus into the bottle-reservoir, and therefore do not escape into the patient’s room. This is an advantage not possessed by any other variety of the instrument. As the canulse of this apparatus are blunt-pointed, they will not wound the delicate inner surface of the sac of an abscess as its walls collapse; hence hemorrhage into the cavity of an abscess is less liable to follow the use of this aspirator than of those that are provided with sharp-pointed canulse. In aspirating an abscess, it is advisable to use a large canula, in order that the pus, even if it be somewhat consistent, may escape freely. When urine or serous accumulations are to be drawn off, a smaller canula should be selected. The slight wound made by the stylet or canula should be carefully closed by a strip of adhesive plaster. Although the operation of aspiration is made very simple by the improved instruments now in use, yet certain precautions must be observed to render its performance free from danger. The operator should make himself perfectly familiar with the relation that the bloodvessels and nerves, or other important organs, bear to the cavity containing the fluid, before he proceeds to introduce the canula or needle. Without this special knowledge, he is liable, of course, to do his patient an irreparable injury. Surgical Uses of Electricity.1 The surgical uses of electricity consist chiefly in the various applications of the operations known as electrolysis and electro- or galvano-cautery. Electro- 1 The writer takes pleasure in acknowledging his indebtedness to Dr. Chakles K. Mills, Lecturer on Electro-Therapeutics in the University of Pennsylvania, for valuable assistance in preparing this section.