644 AMPUTATIONS. Amputation at right shoulder by oval, or Larrey’s method. Le Dran’s operation, which was done in 1715, certainly excited the most attention, for it is fully described by Garengeot1 and La Faye,2 who give no account of Morand’s case, though in his notes to Dionis,3 La Faye undoubtedly attributes to the latter the priority. This operation has been performed in a great variety of ways—Sedillot enumerates at least twenty, Velpeau thirty, and Lisfranc thirty-six—but I shall describe only three methods: the oval, or Larrey’s; the external flap method,or Dupuytren’s; and the antero-posterior flap method, or that of Lisfranc. Oval Method.—The circulation being controlled by compressing the sub- clavian artery upon the first rib with a wrapped key, boot-hook, or tourni- quet handle, the point of a strong and not very large knife is introduced below and a little in front of the acro- mion process of the scapula, and a deep incision is made in a longi- tudinal direction, and reaching about an inch and a half below the neck of the humerus, the length of the first cut being thus about three inches. (Fig. 177.) From about, or a little below, the middle of this incision, the knife is then carried obliquely down- wards in front and behind, making the lateral branches of the oval, which branches, if the limb be muscular, should be somewdiat curved, with their convexity down- wards. These lateral incisions (of which, if the circulation be well controlled, the posterior should be made first-, but otherwise the an- terior, on account of the large size of the posterior circumflex artery) should terminate at the points at which the anterior and posterior axillary folds end in the tissues of the arm. The lips of the wound being then loosened from the bone by a few rapid strokes of the knife, the surgeon proceeds to efiect disarticulation, first rotat- ing the arm forcibly outwards while he divides the subscapular muscle wThich is thus rendered tense, next cutting through the capsule of the joint and the tendon of the long head of the biceps, and finally, while the arm is forcibly rotated inwards, severing the infra-spinatus and the supra-spinatus muscles, and the teres minor. The knife is then slipped crosswise behind the neck of the bone, and at the same moment an assistant grasps the axillary artery be- hind the knife, the vessel being always found in the first muscular interspace from the anterior axillary fold; the lateral incisions are then connected by a transverse cut through the tissues of the arm, from within outwards. The vessels are then quickly tied, the brachial and the subscapular arteries being the largest which require attention, and the sides of the oval are brought to- gether so as to make a linear wound, the direction of which corresponds with the long axis of the patient’s body. The appearance of the stump resulting 1 Traite des Operations de Chirurgie, t. iii. p. 456. Paris, 1731. 2 Memoires de l’Academie Royale de Chirurgie (an 1740), t. ii. p. 166. Paris, 1819. 3 Cours d’Operations de Chirurgie, p. 758. Paris, 1740.