496 MINOR SURGERY. one-lialf of its width, covering first one half of the end of the stump and then the other, after which make two circular turns, to fix the extremities of the recurrent turns. If considered necessary, the stump may now he envel- oped by spiral or spiral reversed turns made in the usual way. (Fig. 68.) In addition to the foregoing roller bandages, another variety, denominated the T-bandage, is occasionally used to retain dressings. The simplest form of the T-bandage consists of two strips of muslin, one a transverse piece, suffi- ciently long to pass once or twice around the part to which it is to be applied; the other, a longitudinal piece, which is sewed at right angles to, and at the middle of, the transverse piece. The longitudinal piece should be, as a rule, about half the length of the other. When two longitudinal strips are attached to the transverse piece, the double T-bandage is formed. The Single T-bandage is sometimes applied to the head, to keep dressings on the scalp. In applying it to this portion of the body, the transverse piece is carried around the vault of the cranium, and the longitudinal strip taken over the summit of the head and beneath the transverse strip on the opposite side; it is then turned back on itself and pinned. When it is necessary to cover a considerable surface of the scalp, the longitudinal piece may be made of sufficient width to meet the particular indication. If the free end of the longitudinal piece be slit into two tails for about two-thirds of its length, the single T-bandage becomes a useful means of keeping dressings on the perineum after operation, as in cases of fistula and abscess in this region. When this form of T-bandage is applied to the perineum, the transverse piece is secured around the body, just above the pelvis, while the longitudinal piece is brought down between the nates, and its tails, separated so as to pass on either side of the genitals, are carried obliquely upwards and outwards and fastened to the transverse piece. Another modification of the single T-bandage is employed for the ear. The modification consists in attaching one end of an ear-shaped piece of muslin to the centre of a transverse strip; to the other extremity of the ear-shaped piece is sewed a longitudinal strip. If it is designed to retain a dressing on the surface of the head immediately around the ear, a slit is made in the ear-shaped piece, through which the auricle passes. The Double T-bandage is a convenient means of retaining a dressing on the nose. In its application, the portion of the transverse strip intervening between the attachments of the longitudinal pieces, is placed on the upper lip below the nose; the longitudinal pieces are then brought up along the sides of the nose to its root, where they cross each other; thence they pass over the top of the head, and are secured by the extremities of the transverse strips which are carried around the head. The double T-bandage consisting of a broad transverse piece of muslin with two narrow longitudinal strips sewed to its upper border, is the best bandage in use for retaining dressings on the chest, especially after operations on the mamma. The transverse piece should be about 20J centimetres (8 inches) wide, and long enough to pass one and a quarter times around the thorax. The two longitudinal strips, each about 5 centimetres (2 inches) wide and 51 centimetres (20 inches) long, should be attached to the transverse piece, a short distance apart, one on either side of its middle. The transverse piece is carried around the chest and pinned in front; the longitudinal strips are brought directly over the shoulders, and se- cured by pins to the upper margin of the broad piece. Another form of bandage, termed the Sling, is occasionally found serviceable in cases of fracture of the lower jaw, and in keeping dressings on the nape of