OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. 462 rheumatism, neuralgia, diseased bones, and the ends of stumps, are examples in point. But, strange to say, its precise relations to surgical operations, and the influence it exerts upon their results, had never, as far as we know, re- ceived that precise study which they deserved, until the year 1869, when Dr. Addinell Hewson, of Philadelphia, published in the Pennsylvania Hospital Reports for that year, a paper on the “ Influence of Weather on the Results of Surgical Operations.” This was followed, in 1870, by the published lec- tures of Dr. Richardson, of London, in the Medical Times and Gazette for January and February of that year. The observations of these two investi- gators agree in the main, and may be thus epitomized. It must here be stated that by “the weather” is meant the measure of the changes of the conditions of the temperature, humidity, and pressure of our atmosphere, relatively to each other. Dr. Hewson’s deductions are based upon the observation of 259 ope- rations performed at the Pennsylvania Hospital in the thirty years preceding 1860, during which period a meteorological register had been faithfully kept by Dr. Conrad, the apothecary. Taking, as the expression of the changing weather, the barometrical condition, and regarding it as ascending, stationary, and descending, Dr. Hewson found that, of the 259 operations, 102 were per- formed when the barometer was ascending, 91 patients recovering and 11 dying, giving a death-rate of 10.7 per cent.; 34 operations were performed when the barometer was stationary, giving 26 recoveries and 8 deaths, a mor- tality of 20.6 per cent.; and 123 operations were practised when the barometer was descending, with 88 recoveries and 35 deaths, a mortality of 28.4 per cent. In other words, with an ascending barometer the mortality of operations was a little less than eleven per cent., with a stationary barometer more than twenty per cent, and with a descending barometer more than twenty-eight per cent. In the same general way, it was observed that the results of opera- tions were most favorable in autumn and winter, and least so in summer. The most happy month for operating was October, then January, then April. The frequency and mortality of pyaemia bore a direct relation to low baro- metrical pressure and moisture of air, while the deaths from shock occurred in a constant ratio with the opposite condition, dryness of weather. The deductions of Dr. Richardson tend strongly in the same direction, for he finds that the most favorable time for operating is when the barometer is steadily rising or steadily high ; when the wet bulb thermometer shows a reading of five degrees lower than the dry bulb; and when, with a high baro- meter, and a difference of five degrees in the two thermometers, there is a mean temperature at or above 55° Fahr. On the other hand, the time is unfavorable for operations when the barometer is steadily falling, or steadily low; when the wet bulb thermometer approaches the dry bulb within two or three de- grees; and when, with a low barometrical pressure, and approach to unity of reading of the two thermometers, there is a mean temperature above 45°, and under 55° Fahr. Such are the results of precise observation, and they seem to accord with the general empirical idea that large operations should not be unnecessarily performed in very warm weather—at all events in the height of an Ameri- can summer, when the thermometer frequently ranges from 90° to 100° in the shade. We all know that at such times a certain degree of lassitude is felt by every one; and it would seem reasonable that the combined influence of intolerably warm days and breezeless sultry nights, must be to weaken the constitution temporarily, and to deprive it for the time being of those powers of resistance which are so essential to speedy convalescence after operation. It is not likely, as is commonly supposed, that wounds heal less kindly in warm weather, but it is certain that debilitation from any cause does seriously inter- fere with the general recuperative powers, and the main consideration after