575 INSTRUMENTS REQUIRED FOR AMPUTATION. are included under the generic name of the “ hull-dog” forceps, the invention of which is attributed to the late Mr. Liston. Dr. Hodgen, of St. Louis, has devised an ingenious form of artery forceps by which the vessel is drawn from its sheath by the weight of the instrument, a cutting slide serving 'afterwards to divide the ligature, and thus enabling the operator to tie the artery without the help of an assistant. The tenaculum, or sharp hook (Fig. 134) is, upon the whole, not so conve- nient an instrument as the forceps, though invaluable in certain cases, as Fig. 134. Tenaculum. Fig. 135. when the parts are matted together by inflammatory action of long-standing, so that the vessels cannot be readily seized by the forceps, or when an artery bleeds in close proximity to the bone. In some cases it is even necessary to take up a mass of tissue, including the vessel, with two tenacula,, and throw a ligature around the whole, withdrawing the second tenaculum before the knot is finally tightened. Though I have very often practised this ligature en masse, and have never seen any evil consequence result from it, yet it is better when practicable to draw each vessel a little way from its sheath, and tie it separately. The tenaculum should be of sufficient size—an inch to an inch and a quarter in the transverse portion of the hook—and not too much curved. Besides the artery forceps which have been described, the surgeon will do well to have in readiness some serrefnes (Fig. 135) and spring-clips (Figs. 136,137), which are known here by the name of the late Mr. Hunneley. These are particularly convenient in case, after the removal of the tourniquet, several points should be seen bleeding simul- taneously. These clips can be quickly applied, so as to control the hemorrhage temporarily, and then removed one by one as the surgeon is ready to supply their place by ligatures. Serre-fines. Fig. 136. Fig. 137. Nunneley’s clips. Ligatures may be made from a great variety of materials, such as catgut, horsehair, or other animal substances, silver or iron wire, or, which I much prefer, fine whip-cord or strong silk. Animal ligatures were employed by Sir Astley Cooper and by Dr. Physick, and in the form of the carbolized catgut ligature have been revived by Prof. Lister and his followers, and are habitu- ally used by those surgeons who employ the so-called “antiseptic method.” The late Prof. Eve, of Nashville, thought highly of a ligature made from the sinew of the deer, and Mr. Barwell has employed ligatures from the middle coat of the aorta of the ox, and Mr. T. Smith and Mr. Croft those from the tendon of a kangaroo. Metallic ligatures were used, about fifty years ago, in a number of experiments on the lower animals by Dr. Levert, of Alabama,