INFLAMMATION. 132 Catarrhal Inflammations. The group of inflammations called catarrhal, constitutes a variety presenting certain well-marked features. They occur in mucous membranes only, and, as the term catarrh implies, are characterized by increased discharge, as a cardinal symptom. Rarely acute, except when excited directly by trau- matism, poisonous contact, or the influence of chilling, the catarrhal inflam- mations belong, therefore, to the chronic class, and, with the exceptions just noted, are chronic from the first, both as regards mildness of symptoms and tendency to indefinite continuance. Some of the causes of chronic catarrh are exposure to habitual contact of irritating substances, as, in the case of the air-passages, to dust, to very cold or very warm air, or to sudden alterations of temperature ; in the case of the urinary passages, to concentrated or exceptionally irritating urine; in the female passages, to acrid uterine discharges, aided by obstruction to circula- tion from the varying volume of the uterus. Certain constitutional and meteorological causes contribute strongly to the production of chronic catarrhal inflammation, e. g., the peculiar irritability of membranes that belongs to the gouty diathesis; the relaxed condition and slowness to take on a healthy state after injury that occurs so constantly in the scrofulous; and sudden or frequent changes of temperature. The discharge in catarrh consists of an increase in the normal secretion of the part by the addition of more or less inflammatory exudation. It con- tains also an increased number of cellular elements, besides the occasional mucous corpuscles and exfoliating epithelium usually present, in the shape of leucocytes and young epithelium. When the proportion of leucocytes is large, the discharge puts on the aspect of pus. Under these circumstances the grade of the inflammation more nearly approaches the acute form; exfoliation of epithelium is more complete ; and the exudation from the sub-epithelial surfaces partakes more of the character of true inflammatory effusion. This exudation tends also to infiltrate the sub-epithelial connective layer surrounding the capillaries, with leucocytes, and thickening of the membrane follows as a consequence of their germination and development. As to the changes which take place in the epithelium lining the follicles of an inflamed mucous membrane, histologists are not fully agreed. These little mucous glands often enlarge and become more prominent. As in follicular pharyngitis, their secretion fails to lubricate the gullet, and there are dryness and pain; or, as in urethritis, a little submucous abscess may form ; or there may be ulceration from obstruction of the follicular outlet; but the latter is rare except in tuberculosis or epithelioma, or where there is coexisting disease of periosteum of bone, as in syphilitic ozsena. The nature of the discharge in chronic catarrh is liable, therefore, to vary with the grade of the inflammation, the constitution of the individual, and the locality in which it is developed, as well as with the nature of its excit- ing cause. In regard to the latter, it is of the first importance to form a correct opinion. This is to be done by careful and thorough inspection of the affected surface, as far as possible, and by close scrutiny of the discharge as to its physical character, and especially its anatomical elements. It is not rare for a chronic discharge of the ear to be kept up by the presence of a foreign body; and this is also occasionally true of nasal catarrh. The odor of the discharge in the ozrena or scrofulous nasal catarrh of early life, is so peculiar as to be diagnostic; its vulgar name in France is taken from that of the bedbug. The odor exhaled by the nasal secretions of syphilis, even where no dead bone is present, is often very characteristic. As already