PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 44 shows cells under the microscope, besides a network of processes and an intercellular substance. If the cornea, or the cord of the tendon, has fallen apart into fibrillne, the cleavage extends through the entire basis-substance, as was first recognized by Ileitzmann; it implicates the network as well as the intercellular substance. Only the cell-bodies themselves (the points of junction of the network) withstand the cleavage here and there. Hence also, histolo- gists of former times taught that connective tissue consisted of bundles of fibrils and of connective-tissue corpuscles. The Transversely Striped Muscular Fibres; Continuation of the Discussion on the Nature of the Fibrill^e. The property of being resolved into fibrillae belongs not Only to the con- nective substances, but also to other varieties of tissue. It has been made known (by Briicke if I mistake not) that transversely striped muscles which have been preserved in alcohol, are very easily separated into very fine fibrilla?. This method of preparation presents us with really splendid pictures of bundles of fibrillin. Each fibril shows the rudiments of the transverse stria- tion, and accordingly looks like a string of beads. On this account, too, we call the transversely striped muscular fibres, bundles of primitive fbrils. All the strings of beads together make up the bundle, the muscular fibre, this lying in a closed sac (the sarcolemma) which is everywhere closely adherent. Formerly, every such fibril was thought to consist of a series of little rods (sarcous elements), that were united by a kind of cement, an intermediate sub- stance. As long as the fibrils cohere, it was said, they present the appearance of transverse stnation, because a number of sarcous elements with intermediate substance are arranged in juxtaposition, and run in a transverse direction. But it was supposed that the muscular fibre could be divided into disks, as well as into fibrils. Muscles of the hydrophilus, preserved in dilute muriatic acid, present such an appearance.1 Every such transverse disk, consisting only of sarcous elements, was called a Bowman’s disk. Following Briicke and Rollett, Bowman’s disks also received the name of chief substance (Hauptsub- stanz) and the cement between them that of intermediate substance. During the last fifteen years, however, the theory of the structure of muscles has materially changed. During this period, so many new and contradictory views on this subject have been published, that I am scarcely able to form a clear idea of the state of literature on the question. Therefore I cannot give a general survey of it, and I have no inclination to do so. I believe that the histologists who are at the present day quarrelling about the presumably very complicated structure of muscles, are on a wrong path. I have conclusive proof that muscle (as far as its perceptible, microscopic structure is concerned) is very simply formed. But I should like to support the description I intend to give by first drawing the following picture. In the transversely striped muscle, the appearance of things is at times somewhat the same as in a dance. The couples change, and the grouping varies. AVhoever does not observe the changes, will, it is true, always see dancing couples. Nevertheless they are not always the same couples. And it may happen that at one time only single pairs are dancing; at another time two pairs are grouped together; then again several pairs. The dancers may resolve themselves into rows walking in single file (fibrillee), or may form a broad front and march in columns. Finally, they may break up the dance and move about without regular order, or may remain quiet after breaking up. 1 But as a rule several disks adhere together in the specimens.