668 AMPUTATIONS. thigh rendering it important that the lower flap should be of ample size. If the knife be kept close to the bone, in cutting the posterior flap, this, if the limb be a large one, will be found to be thick and unwieldy ; hence in ope- rating upon muscular subjects, it is better to follow Sedillot’s plan, and, by keeping the knife away from the bone, include in the flap only the superficial Fig. 195. Amputation of thigh by antero-posterior flap method. muscles; or the flap may be made of the proper dimensions by cutting it from without inwards. Both flaps having been formed, the bone is cleared by a circular sweep of the knife, and the tissues are then pushed upwards, so as to allow the application of the saw an inch or more above the point of junction. At least seven or eight ligatures will be required after amputation in the lower third of the thigh, and sometimes a much larger number. An admirable stump is afforded by this mode of operating, the bone being well covered by the anterior flap, and the cicatrix drawn out of the line of pres- sure. In applying the tourniquet for amputations in the lower part of the thigh, the compress should be placed over the femoral artery at the apex of Scarpa’s triangle. Amputation in the Middle or Upper Third oe the Thigh.—In either of these situations, the best operation is, I think, the modified circular. The skin flaps should be taken from the front and back of the limb (see Fig. 147, page 583), and care should be taken, after dividing the muscles, to push them well upwards, so that the bone may be sawn at a considerably higher point. The muscles on the back of the limb should be cut rather longer than those in front, on account of their greater tendency to retraction. In amputating at the upper part of the thigh, there may not be room for the application of the tourniquet, and the surgeon must then use an aortic compressor of some kind (as in amputating at the hip), or must rely upon manual pressure by an assist- ant. The best mode of controlling the circulation by manual compression, is, standing beside and behind the patient, to grasp the great trochanter of the limb to be removed with the fingers of the corresponding hand, and with the thumb make firm pressure on the artery just below Poupart’s ligament; the