DEATH FROM ANESTHESIA. 423 Edinburgh, where it is reported that during a period of ten years only one death occurred in an estimated total of 36,500 administrations of chloroform. Rendle estimates that in twenty of the principal London hospitals chloroform is administered about eight thousand times each year, with a mortality ot three per annum. This would yield a ratio of 1 to 2666, which agrees very closely with Richardson’s later estimates. The well-known assertion that, during the Crimean war, not a single fatal case of anaesthesia occurred among the 20,000 patients who were chloroformed in the French army, may he received with a certain degree of reserve, for, in military practice, it is not always easy to assign due weight to the different causes which may co-operate to produce a fatal result. It is admitted by the highest American authorities that, during the war of the rebellion, seven fatal cases resulted from eighty thousand inhalations of chloroform, giving a ratio of 1 to 11,448. Ivappeler reports for himself and for three other Ger- man surgeons—Billroth, Russbaum, and Kdnig—about thirty-nine thousand administrations of chloroform, with but two fatal cases. This would give a ratio of 1 to 19,500. The same author admits the insufficiency of German re- ports concerning the mortality after use of chloroform. Much allowance must be made for the personal equation of each surgeon in estimating the value of individual experience in this matter. If now the above statistics, excluding the earlier tables of Andrews and Coles, be consolidated, a total of 218,165 inhalations of chloroform gives a mortality of twenty-four cases. This yields a ratio of 1 to 9090, which is probably the most favorable award that can be made to chloroform. (See Note, p. 433.) Information regarding the actual mortality caused by sulphuric ether, is no more easily discovered than in the case of chloroform. Ivappeler could dis- cover only thirteen fatal cases assigned to ether, and of these thirteen, only four could without contradiction be ascribed to the influence of ether alone. Turnbull has collected the histories of eighteen cases which proved fatal after the inhalation of ether; but of these only nine cases can be fairly charged to the anaesthetic. It is probable that the ratio fixed by Dr. Andrews (1 to 23,204) expresses very nearly the actual risk from ether inhalation. It should be observed in this connection, that such statistical estimates take no cogniz- ance of the innumerable cases in which alarming symptoms, rarely noted after ether, present themselves during the course of anaesthesia from chloroform. Very little is known regarding the comparative dangers which attend the use of the majority of anaesthetic substances. Many of them have caused death at an early period in the history of their employment, so that they have been laid aside before their fatality could be justly estimated. There appears to be good reason for the belief that the lethal energy of an anaes- thetic is closely related to the molecular weight of the shbstance—increasing directly as its weight increases. The presence of the haloid elements also adds greatly to the deadly efficiency of an anaesthetic compound. Nitrous oxide, in spite of its asphyxiating property, is the safest of all anaesthetics for brief operations. This gas has been administered more than a million times, with but seven fatal cases. Used according to the method of Bert [admin- istered in a chamber of compressed air in mixture with oxygen gas], it is theoretically as harmless as atmospheric air. Post-mortem Appearances after Death from Artificial Anesthesia. Excluding the rare cases of asphyxia in which death has been occasioned by the intrusion of a foreign body into the larynx or trachea, and the equally rare cases in which suffocation may have been caused by the use of an ill-con-