INFLAMMATION. 120 scribed, these latter suffer both from its presence, and from its pressure; muscu- lar fibres are broken down ; those of connective tissue give way or are pushed aside ; capillaries and nerves are first put upon the stretch, and then ruptured. The stretching of nervous filaments explains the sensation of aching that belongs to acute abscesses when forming, and their rupture, the sharper sudden darting pains that occur at intervals. In this manner, by steadily encroaching upon neighboring parts, pus forms a cavity for itself. The forces by which this end is accomplished are (1) the exaggerated afflux of blood to the part, indicated by the pulsatile character of the pain, and evidently de- rived directly from the heart’s impulse; and (2) the irrepressible tendency to cell-germination provoked by the exudation which is being constantly sweated out through the walls of the distended capillaries. And here it is again worthy of notice how close a resemblance exists between the mode in which an abscess makes a place amongst the tissues for its growing bulk, and that followed by a round-celled sarcomatous tumor; a resemblance as close as that which is recognizable between the leucocytes of the growing abscess and the cells of the sarcoma, or between the fluctuation of the abscess and the feel, which so closely resembles fluctuation, of a soft cancerous tumor. But pus, it is to be observed, may form where there are no capillaries, in the so-called non-vascular tissues, as between the layers of the epidermis, or in the substance of the cornea, or of cartilage. In regard to the minute changes which occur in these localities, histologists are not as yet entirely agreed. It may be stated in general terms that, when affected by inflamma- tion, the non-vascular tissue tends to revei’t for the time to its embryonic condition. Clinically there is evidence, as regards cartilage, that, in wounds attended by loss of substance, the loss is substituted by connective tissue, often without suppuration. One of the best examples of this result is the fibrous anchylosis that folloAvs the destruction of articular cartilages. They are replaced in many cases by connective tissue, binding together the ends of the bones, and at the same time preserving a limited degree of motion—con- verting, in short, a diarthrodial into a synarthrodial articulation. Ulceration. The phenomena which follow the formation of a cavity in the tissues by a collection of pus, are better considered now, for they still further illustrate the nature of this typical inflammatory process. Suppuration occurring beneath the surface may culminate in several ways, but the most common result, certainly of an acute abscess, is for the cavity, as it enlarges, to approach the external surface of the body, or that of one of its hollow viscera—simply because there is the least resistance in these directions ; then by its steadily increasing pressure to cause, first, distension and stretching, and, in the next place, ulceration, of the tissues subjected to its action ; and, finally, for the contents of the abscess to be discharged through the opening thus effected by the ulcerative process. In common language the abscess forms, and then bursts. This may be regarded as the natural termination of an abscess; and it is frequently imitated by art. The phenomenon of ulceration, by which the spontaneous discharge of an abscess is accomplished, has been commonly described as one of the “terminations” of inflammation, because it apparently brings this usually painful process to an end. After its contents have been thus evacuated, all the symptoms of the abscess are strikingly relieved, and, as a rule, it gets well forthwith. It is proper, therefore, to notice more par- ticularly in what the process of ulceration consists. As an abscess increases in size, a certain amount of redness makes its