566 AMPUTATIONS. and keep lip the tension even if the tourniquet-plate should be slightly displaced to one or the other side. The tourniquet is next applied’ with its plates closely approximated, and placed immediately over the compresses, so as to exercise pressure in the line from the compresses through the vessel, to the subjacent bone. The strap F'g- i°5. is then drawn quite tight, and se- cured by the buckle, when a few turns of the screw will be found to completely control the circulation. It is desirable that the plates of the instrument should not be separated by more than half the length of the screw, as if separated by its full ex- tent, the instrument becomes, as it were, top heavy, and is apt to slip. It is sometimes supposed that, provided that the compress be placed over the artery, it makes no differ- ence to what part of the limb the tourniquet plate is applied. This is an error, as can be readily perceived by reflecting upon the mechanism of the instrument. The tourniquet is so arranged that it makes direct pres- sure but at two points; immediately below the plate, and at a point dia- metrically opposite; at every other point of the circumference the pressure produced by tightening the strap is oblique or gliding. Hence the inevitable effect of placing the plate elsewhere than either immediately over the artery, or diametrically opposite to it, will be to push the vessel more or less to one side, when the circulation may not be controlled though the instrument be applied as tightly as possible. Hence, The modern tourniquet. Fig. 100 The field tourniquet. Fig. 107. Signoroni’s horse-shoe tourniquet. whenever it is practicable,'the tourniquet plate should be fixed as above directed, immediately over the artery ; when this cannot be conveniently done, asint.ie case of the axillary, or in that of the popliteal artery, it should be placed at a point diametrically opposite, over the point of the shoulder in the case o ie former, and just above the patella in that of the latter vessel. Various other forms of tourniquet have been devised by surgeons, but none