508 MINOR SURGERY. The artificial or mechanical leech is a cupping apparatus which combines in a single instrument a scarificator, a cup, and an exhausting syringe; or con- sists of two parts, viz., a small steel cylinder containing a lancet that is pro- pelled by a cord, or, better, projected by a spring, and a hollow glass cylinder with a piston that is moved by a screw (Fig. 81). In using this apparatus, the piston of the exhausting instrument should be drawn out slowly, or at the same rate as the blood flows from the wound. If a vacuum be made over the wound before sufficient blood has escaped to fill the cylinder, its edge will be apt to compress the integuments to such a degree as entirely to check the flow of blood. Venesection.— For this operation, any superficial vein which is acces- sible, and which can be readily made prominent, may be selected; hence the veins at the bend of the elbow, those in the vicinity of the inner ankle, and the external jugular vein, are generally chosen. In this country, the operation is usually performed either upon the median basilie or the median cephalic vein. The median basilic vein is generally larger in size, more superficial in situation, and less movable than the median cephalic, and therefore preference is usually given to the former; although an operation upon the latter, in consecpience of its remoter position from the course of the bra- .chial artery, is attended with less risk. At the bend of the elbow, the median basilic vein crosses the brachial artery to the inner side of the tendon of the biceps muscle, and is separated from the artery h}r the dense bicipital fascia. With a little care on the part of the operator, the danger of puncturing the artery may be avoided by opening the vein either above or below the point at which it crosses the other vessel. There are required for the operation of venesection, a lancet or sharp-pointed bistoury; a piece of bandage or tape, from two to four centimetres (an inch or an inch and a half) wide; a small compress; a bowl; a staff; a basin of water, sponge, and towel. The patient should he in the sitting posture, grasping a staff or other firm body in his hand, with his arm bared and extended, and his forearm supinated. The bandage or tape should be applied to the arm a few centimetres (an inch or two) above the elbow, sufficiently tight to arrest the superficial venous circulation without checking the radial pulse. ISTow, as an assistant holds the bowl in a convenient position for catching the blood, the operator grasps the upper part of the forearm with his left hand in such a way as to enable him to support the limb, and, at the same time, to control the vein with his thumb just below where the puncture is to be made; then, with a lancet held firmly between the thumb and forefinger of his right hand, he quickly incises the distended vessel at a point not directly over the artery. The incision should be about 5 millimetres (a fifth of an inch) long, and in a direction oblique to the long axis of the vein. On removing the thumb from the vein below the incision, the blood will flow in a continuous stream if the vein be fairly opened, and if there be no obstruction in the wound. Should the escape of blood be slow, the patient should be directed to grasp firmly the staff or other body that he holds in his hand; or the operator may stroke the forearm from the wrist towards the elbow. If the position of the forearm be changed from supination to prona- tion, after the vein has been incised, the wound of the skin will not corre- spond with that of the vein, when there may either be an arrest of the flow of blood, or the blood may escape into the cellular tissue and give rise to a thrombus. As soon as the required quantity of blood has been drawn, the operator places the index finger or thumb of his left hand on the wound, and quickly loosens the fillet or bandage above the elbow. The compress is now placed on the wound and secured by a figure-of-eight bandage, the intersec-