100 INFLAMMATION. as “traumatic” or “simple inflammatory” fever. It is more likely to be slight in its manifestations, or even to be entirely absent, after simple and uncomplicated injuries, such, for example, as an incised wound which is uniting promptly by the first intention. After a contused wound or a partial crushing, traumatic fever would be more certain to occur and to be well marked, and to merge, possibly, into a graver form of surgical fever. As a rule, fever makes its first appearance in the evening of the day on which a serious injury, say a compound fracture, has been received, following the reaction from the collapse or shock of injury which takes place more or less slowly according to the gravity of the case. If a wound involve per- fectly healthy tissues, and lias been promptly and properly cared for, or if it be a subcutaneous lesion, such as a simple fracture, febrile symptoms may not show themselves for twenty-four hours, or even a longer time, or they may, possibly, not appear at all. In a healthy young man whose hand was utterly crushed between cog-wheels, re- quiring primary amputation, fever did not manifest itself for thirty-six hours, and was then limited by a temperature of 100° Falir., the wound uniting by the first intention except where the ligatures of silk prevented ; and before the sixth day the symptoms had disappeared. In an amputation at mid-leg for a crushed foot, through parts not entirely sound, fever showed itself the same evening, and continued until the beginning of the second week. In a similar case, in which the operation, through reluctance to submit to mutilation, was delayed, fever came on within a few hours ; by the end of the week it had assumed a septicasmic character, and before the end of the second week it had terminated fatally, the temperature having risen to 104°+ Falir., the blood, after death, coagulating imperfectly. This case affords an example of an unfavorable termination of what seemed to be at first simple traumatic or inflammatory fever, and it illustrates the mode in which traumatic fever reaches this exceptional termination, as observed clinically, in fatal cases, namely, by merging into another form of surgical fever attended by greater danger to life. This difference in the character of the accompanying fever marks also the distinction which is assumed to exist, in the language of the day, between a healthy or construc- tive inflammatory process and an unhealthy or “ infective” inflammation. As a rule, traumatic fever is moderate in character, and terminates early and spontaneously. In connection with subcutaneous wounds and injuries, as in a case of simple fracture, it is either entirely absent or very mild and tran- sient ; and the same is true, for the most part, of wounds which have been thoroughly protected by antiseptic dressings, and in which catgut ligatures have been employed. The aspect of a patient on the invasion of traumatic fever becomes slightly altered ; his countenance is somewhat pinched and anxious; he is a little restless, apt to resent disturbance, and awakes frequently from his sleep. ITe is conscious of feeling fatigued, hot, and thirsty, and has usually a dry mouth. The tongue gradually becomes coated, and there is little or no desire for food. The urine is scanty and deeper in color. The pulse is more frequent than it should be, and the thermometer, under the tongue, shows a decided increase of temperature. Although the patient may feel slightly chilly on exposure, simple traumatic fever is not usually ushered in by a rigor, and the tempera- ture rarely exceeds 102.5° Fahr. The fever reaches its climax in about thirty- six hours; it may continue, with a slight remission in the morning and a corresponding increase towards evening, for two, three, or four days. About this time the fever begins to decline, the temperature diminishing, and the pulse gradually returning to the natural standard; so that, at the end ot a