74 INFLAMMATION. freer access of fresli air. In the comparatively severe cold of the winter, and the changeable weather of spring, it is more difficult to secure healthy con- ditions as to ventilation. Erysipelas occurs more frequently in the late win- ter and early spring months. Exciting Causes of Inflammation.—Strictly speaking, there is but a soli- tary cause for inflammation, and that is irritation of the living tissues by something which is called an irritant; and this act constitutes, technically, an injury. But there is an endless variety of irritants which may he sepa- rately recognized and classitied for study of their nature and mode of action, with the ultimate purpose of modifying their influence and controlling their injurious effects. This constitutes etiology, the practical value of which lies entirely in its bearing upon treatment. We have enumerated certain of the remote influences which tend to invite and favor the action .of irritants in causing inflammation ; and we have next to examine more closely the nature and qualities of the more immediately exciting causes of the inflammatory movement, so that we may be able to intelligently aid and favor it, as far as it is reparative or constructive, or to avert or control any of the destructive phases which it is liable to assume. The 'proximate or determining causes of inflammation, more commonly spoken of as exciting causes, may act upon the body from without, as when a bullet strikes it; or they may take their origin within the body, as in epididymitis from tubercular deposit, or eczema from diabetes. Tliis sub- division of the causes of inflammation, which has been already mentioned, is followed by the French school. The external causes are more obvious and easily recognized; the interned more obscure, and these cases are likely^ to be regarded as “ spontaneous” or “idiopathic.” It may be inferred from what has been already stated concerning the inflammatory predisposition, that the latter is more commonly present in connection with internal causes, for in them the pre-existence of some morbid condition of the organism is almost necessarily assumed. External causes of inflammation are for the most part either traumatic or (to adopt a parity in nomenclature) toxic in their nature, the locality in which the inflammation develops itself being determined more or less entirely by chance. Internal causes, on the other hand, are not only aided or invited by some predisposition on the part of the organism, but the part or organ in which the inflammation locates itself is in most instances also determined by it. Cold and Sudden Chilling as Causes of Inflammation.—There is a frequent cause of inflammation which cannot be strictly included under either of these heads—cold or chilling—as applied to the whole body, or to a part. The ordinary hyperremic and catarrhal symptoms which so commonly follow chilling of the body, especially of the feet, are familiar to all. They are caused by sudden changes in the constitution of the blood from the temporary arrest of function of the skin as an emunctory, whereby certain effete and presumably noxious materials which should be eliminated are retained and act as blood-poisons. In this manner a species of temporary intoxication is produced. The resulting inflammation is not usually of a serious character, and shows a certain preference for the air-passages, although it may affect any part of the body—especially a part that has been previously weakened. A general chilling varies greatly in the degree of gravity of its effects; it may involve any internal organ of the body, and to such an extent as to prove mortal. A gentleman of 28, in full health, stripped himself entirely on returning home from business, on an exceptionally hot day, and threw himself on a lounge before an open