487 SPIRAL BANDAGES. the base of the finger and taken back to the wrist, making a figure-of-eight of the finder and wrist. A figure-of-eight turn is made in like manner around the base of each finger and the wrist" in succession, and the roller is finally fastened at the wrist. (Fig. 49.) This bandage is admirably adapted to con- fine dressings to either surface of the hand, as occasion may require ; it is less cumbersome, and retains a dressing with more security, than any other means used for the same purpose.. Fig. 48. Fig- 49. Spiral bandage of a finger. Spiral bandage of the hand, or demi-gauntlet. The Spiral Reversed Bandage of the Lower Extremity.—Two rollers, each centimetres (24—3 inches) wide and 64 metres (7 yards) long. The initial end being secured just above the malleoli by two circular turns, the roller is carried obliquely across the dorsum of the foot, and, on reaching the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, is conducted directly around the foot; the body of the foot is now covered by two spiral reversed turns and the same Fig. 50. Spiral reversed bandage of the lower extremity. number of figure-of-eight turns, the latter being around the ankle and instep, and the roller is then continued up to the knee by spiral reversed turns, each turn covering one-third of the preceding ; the reverses should be in a line on the outer side of the spine of the tibia. As in the case of the elbow, the knee may be covered by spiral, spiral reversed, or figure-of-eight turns. If it be de- signed to keep the knee flexed, the figure-of-eight turns should be employed. From the knee the roller is conducted up the thigh by spiral reversed turns, and is secured by pins. The second roller is used for the knee and the thigh. (Fig. 500 A modification of this bandage is occasionally employed to cover the heel, and is known as the American Spiral in contradistinction to that just de- scribed, which is sometimes called the French Spiral. The turns by which the heel is included are made in the following manner: After the foot is cov- ered by two or three spiral turns, the bandage is carried directly over the point of the heel, across the tarsal portion of the foot, thence beneath the in- step, around one side of the heel and up over the instep again ; from this point it is conducted beneath the instep, around the other side of the heel and up