AMPUTATIONS. 662 what broad compress should be used, and the screw of the instrument should be applied diametrically opposite, upon the front of the limb, just above the patella. Lee’s Method.—This operation, which may be considered a modification of Teale’s method, was described by Mr. Henry Lee, of St. George’s Hospital, London, in a paper read before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of that city in 1865.1 The dimensions and shape of the flaps are the same as in Teale’s method, but the longer is taken from the back of the leg, and embraces only the superficial muscles, the deeper muscles with the vessels being divided transversely by a circular incision on a level with the upper end of the flaps. The long flap made in this operation has less bulk and weight than that made by the ordinary transfixion method, but still seems to me, unless in very slender limbs, heavier than is desirable. I have, therefore, in muscular sub- jects, adopted a further modification, which consists in separating the gastro- cnemius from the soleus muscle, and including the former only in the flap, the latter being divided circularly with the deeper layer. (Rig. 192.) Fig. 192. Amputation of leg by Lee’s method (modified). Amputation above the Point of Election may be done by the circular, or Larrey’s method, the fibula being separated by disarticulation, and the tibia sawn through immediately below the attachment of the ligamentum patellae. The risks of amputation of the leg are not inconsiderable, the death-rate, for all cases taken together, being, as shown by the Table on page 630, no less than 34.3 per cent., or more than one in three. The danger increases with the proximity of the seat of operation to the trunk, the mortality of the supra-malleolar amputation being less than that ot amputation at the point of election. At least, this has been my own impression, and it is confirmed by the statistics published by Dr. Gorman from the records of the Boston City Hospital,2 which give the death-rates of amputations in the upper, middle, and lower thirds of the leg, as being respectively 42.8 per cent., 26.9 per cent., and 22.2 per cent. The late Dr. Otis,3 too, reported of the supra-malleolar operation, that during the late American war its moi- 1 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xlviii. p. 195. 8 Medical and Surgical Reports of the Boston City Hospital, Second series. Boston, 1877. 3 Circular No. vi., S. G. 0., 1865, p. 47.