246 SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. Another disease sometimes influenced by scrofula is gout. To this Sir James Paget1 thus refers in his Clinical Lectures and Essays: “It is not very rare to find gout mingled with scrofula The real mingling of gout and scrofula is found in elderly persons. In these a gouty inflamma- tion may drift into true scrofulous inflammation, and the risk, though it be not great, should always he kept in mind.” And further: “I believe that we may hold cases such as these to he due, mainly, to the coincident inheritance of both gout and scrofula; and I may mention two other sets of cases which may he referred to the same unhappy lot in life. In the first, an acute attack of gout is followed, as any fever may be, by some evidence of scrofula. In the second, among the cases of what I have called senile scrofula, some occur in old persons whose tissues have degenerated in long-continued or almost constant gout.” Causes and Course of Scrofula.—Scrofula occurs chiefly at two periods of life; the limits of the first period extending from about the third to the fif- teenth year, while the second period scarcely commences before the age of sixty. Put though it is most common in childhood and old age, no time of life is free from its occurrence. It attacks persons in every rank of life, spar- ing neither male nor female, rich nor poor; hut the children of the poor are so much more liable to scrofula than the children of the rich or comfortable classes, that poverty is justly regarded as, at least, a predisposing cause of scrofula, on account of the indifferent and insufficient food, the foul and heavy air, the scanty clothing, constant exposure to wet and cold, and the hundred other evils with which it is associated. But the most powerful cause of scrofula is universally admitted to he inheritance, the inheritance of a predis- position to the disease; for it does not appear that children are ever born suf- fering from scrofula. It may probably be inherited either from parents who are scrofulous, or from those who are tuberculous; and the predisposition may be so strong as to amount almost to preordination, when, for example, the disease is not averted even by the most ample and ably directed means. Some children who are born thus predisposed to scrofula, are said to present certain general features of character and form which are significant of the disease. The dark type of strumous subject so frequently described, is per- haps more often met with than any other, but the cases related above show that the disease is not confined to the individuals of any type or types. On the other hand, the features of the individual are liable to be seriously modi- fied by scrofula. The upper lip may become large and tumid, the face coarse, the eyelids red and swollen from repeated attacks of inflammation; so that scrofula may often be easily recognized by the changes it has thus induced. Even the anaemia so frequently observed in scrofulous subjects, is said by Birch-Hirschfeld2 to be a result and not a precursor of the disease, which occurs as often in those who are full-blooded and in whom the normal ratio of the two forms of blood-corpuscles is preserved. . Prognosis of Scrofula.—The manifestations of scrofula are the same at all periods of life, and similar tissues and organs are liable to be attacked. But while there is said to be a natural tendency towards recovery in young sub- jects, aged persons undoubtedly grow worse, not better. The prognosis depends, however, not merely on the age of the individual, but on the parts which are affected. Affections of the skin and mucous membrane, for example, may exist for many years with scarcely an appreciable effect upon the general 1 Clinical Lectures and Essays, 2d ed., p.359. 2 Ziemssen’s Cyclopedia, vol. xvi. English translation, London, 1877.