95 SYMPTOMS OF INFLAMMATION. lief has not been seriously denied, nor even very carefully examined. It is probably, in the main, destitute of any serious foundation in fact. Apart from the argument derived from Nature’s evident intention to protect tlie organism from tlie invasion of noxious agents, generally, and to prevent the passage of solid substances through the bronchial passages to the ultimate air cells of the lungs, especially, there are other considerations opposed to the belief that our bodies are so greatly exposed to harm through this avenue. As regards noxious micro-organisms, Pasteur asserts that one of them, the vibrio septica, cannot develop when exposed to free oxygen, and infers the ex- istence of the same peculiarity in other members of the family, describing them by the name—significant of this peculiarity of non-viability when exposed to oxygen—of anaerobies. Here, at once, is a valid source of pro- tection against their noxious influence as introduced by the lungs. The ova of the echinococci gain access to our tissues through the digestive passages, and, undoubtedly, penetrate and traverse their walls, effecting their ultimate lodgment, by preference, in the liver. We can hardly assert that the more minute and indestructible bacteric germs—the dauersporen—might not reach the blood through the air passages. It has been held, and with probability, that the malarial poison becomes entangled in the saliva and introduced into the blood with the food; and the same avenue of entrance is of course avail- able for bacteria and their germs. Here the well known power of the diges- tive secretions comes in play as a protective influence ; but if they are impotent as to the ova of the tcenia echinococci and the trichina, surely the same immu- nity may be assumed for the' indestructible bacteric dauersporen. Possibly the germs of other noxious microscopic fungi may not be so tenacious of life as those of the vibrio septica, but it is evident that we must await a more extended knowledge of their nature and habits in order to pursue this sub- ject intelligently. The facts, however, which tell most strongly against the probability of the habitual introduction of infective poisons through the lungs, unless, indeed, they may exist in the form of gas, or vapor, are derived from clinical expe- rience. When a case of infective disease, erysipelas, for example, is intro- duced into a surgical ward, as a rule, the patients with open wounds, alone, receive the infection. Alphonse Guerin states concerning his wound dressing of cotton-wool, so largely tried at the Hotel Dieu of Paris, that patients whose wounds were thus protected escaped pyaemia, whilst their unprotected neighbors breathing the same air, almost invariably became victims of this disease. Nussbaum gives evidence that pyaemia and hospital gangrene have disappeared from his surgical wards since he adopted the practice of protecting all wounds antiseptically. Trelat states, before the Surgical Society of Paris, that since the advocates of Listerism have introduced their manifold antisep- tic precautions into the hospital wards, pyaemia is no longer to he encountered there. Lister himself says freely that he cares hut little how foul the air of a hospital ward may he, as regards its power of inducing infectious diseases, provided that antiseptics are thoroughly employed in dressing the patients’ wounds. Now, if the infective poison of pyaemia habitually reached the blood through the lungs, protective means applied to open wounds, whilst the patient was constantly breathing the same infected air, would not prove thus effective in preventing it. Symptoms of Inflammation. The ordinary symptoms which characterize the condition of inflammation are mainly included under the cardinal signs recorded by Celsus: redness and