MINOR SURGERY. 480 Oakum was introduced as a cheap substitute for other more expensive sur- gical dressings, during the late American war, *by Prof. L. A. Sayre,1 of New York, and since then it has been very generally employed both in private and hospital practice throughout the civilized world. It is highly probable, however, that this substance has been often used for surgical purposes on board ship. In Pepys’s diary, mention is made of a marine who had just returned from a severe naval engagement fought off the North Foreland, June 1-4, 1666, with “his right eye stopped with oakum.” Oakum is believed to have antiseptic properties by virtue of the tar with which the pieces of old rope from which it is made are impregnated. Formerly this material was applied directly to the surface of wounds, but on account of the stiffness and coarseness of its fibres it has been found too irritating for this purpose. It is admirably adapted for use as an outer and protective dressing, and as padding for surgical apparatus. Cotton, freed from its oleaginous principle by being boiled with alkalies or otherwise treated, is rapidly coming into favor as a surgical dressing. Pre- pared in this way, it quickly soaks up the secretions from a wound, and is preferred in many instances to oakum or marine lint as an outside absorbent dressing. It may be medicated with any of the popular antiseptics, such as carbolic, boracic, or salicylic acid, thymol, etc. Gynaecologists, in their prac- tice, find it a useful means of making applications to the female genital organs. Paper-Lint.—This dressing was first used for surgical purposes by Dr. Studdiford, of Lambertville, N. J. It is made from old rags that have been specially prepared and rolled in sheets of the requisite form and size. Dr. "VV". W. Iveen, of Philadelphia, has suggested the incorporation of cotton or linen threads with paper-pulp, before it is rolled, in order that the lint may be rendered more tenacious. As an application to the unbroken surface of the body, and as an absorbent, external dressing, this variety of lint is quite as useful as patent or domestic lint; but, in consequence of its not possessing the softness and the pliability so characteristic of linen, it is not, as a rule, a good substitute for this material in the dressing of wounds. Its cheapness in comparison with the high cost of patent lint recommends it for hospital and dispensary use. Jute.—This substance, of which gunny bags are made, is the fibre of an Indian annual, the Corchorus capsularis. In consequence of the peculiar character of its fibres, it is well adapted for the absorption and the retention of the various antiseptics ; this property, and its cheapness in comparison with gauze and surgical cotton, have recommended its use as an antiseptic medium, to many of the advocates of Listerism. Jute may be employed with advantage as an absorbent dressing in all cases in which oakum or cotton is used; rolled loosely in small masses, it is considered in hospital and military practice a good substitute for sponges by those surgeons who believe that the use of these may result in the infection of wounds. To meet a great variety of indications in the treatment of wounds, sur- geons are accustomed to make the following forms of dressing from the sub- stances already described. Compresses are usually made by folding pieces of lint, flannel, paper-lint, or muslin, upon themselves, so as to form firm masses of varying size ; these 1 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. lxvii. p. 84.