AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER. 643 or seven ligatures are usually required in a primary, and sometimes as many as fifteen or even more, in a secondary amputation in this locality. The possible occurrence of a high division of the brachial artery must always be , borne in mind. Oval Method.—This, which is sometimes known as Guthrie’s method, is particularly adapted for amputations in the upper part of the arm—above the insertion of the deltoid muscle. The point of the oval {en raquette) is placed upon the outer side of the arm (Fig. 176), beginning about two inches below the acromion process of the scapula; the lateral branches are slightly curved, with their convexity outwards and downwards, and the posterior branch is usually made first; the base of the oval, which is placed on the inner side of the arm, and in forming which the main artery is divided trans- versely, maybe cut either by transfixion or without inwards, according to the preference of the operator. This operation is easily executed, and affords an admirable stump. Flap Methods.—Sabatier employed a single, square, external flap; Ver- male, double lateral flaps ; and Langenbeck and Klein, double antero-posterior flaps. Sedillot employs his favorite “ mixed method,” making superficial lateral flaps by transfixion, and dividing the muscles circularly. Teale’s and Lister’s methods are also perfectly applicable in this situation. The chief precaution to be observed in amputating by any of the flap methods, is to make sure that the musculo-spiral nerve is completely divided before apply- ing the saw. Provided that enough tissue has been preserved to make a good covering for the bone, the surgeon can hardly fail to obtain a satisfactory stump, by whatever method he may employ. The mortality after amputation through the arm, as shown by the Table on page 630, is 28.4 per cent., or about two in seven. Special attention was directed by the late l)r. Otis1 to the exceptional gravity of amputations in the lower third of the arm, in which situation he found the death-rate of the operation to be 35.2 per cent., as compared with one of 22.6 per cent, for the upper third, and one of only 19.6 per cent, for the middle third, of the limb. This remarkable difference, for which no adequate explanation has yet been suggested, is still more observable in Gorman’s statistics, derived from civil practice,2 in which the respective death-rates were 22.7 per cent, for the upper, 21.4- per cent, for the middle, and no less than 45.4 per cent, for the lower third of the arm. Amputation at the Shoulder. This operation was described by the ancients, but does not appear to have been actually put in practice until the early part of the eighteenth century, unless we recognize as a shoulder-joint amputation the famous case of gan- grene, recorded by the Abbe de la Roque,3 in which, when about to saw through the humerus, the surgeon found the bone loose, and pulled it out of its socket. It is uncertain to whom the credit of first having intentionally performed a shoulder-joint amputation actually belongs, the younger Le Dran4 and the younger Morand5 having both claimed it for their respective fathers. 1 Medical and Surgical History, etc., Part Second, Surgical volume, pp. 739, 806, 823. 2 Medical and Surgical Reports of the Boston City Hospital, Second series, 1877, pp. 292-237. 3 Journal de Medecine, 1686 ; Velpeau, op. cit., t. ii. p. 448. 4 Traite des Operations de Cliirurgie, p. 571. Paris, 1742. 5 Opuscules de Chirurgie, t. ii. p. 212. Paris, 1768.