TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 139 to illustrate the great and growing value of one of the forms of the preventive treatment of inflammation. Next in order, and second only to prevention in importance, is the detection and removal of the causes which have provoked inflammation and are keeping it up; and here is a source of the great interest which attaches to the study of these causes. As examples of the importance of this indication for treat- ment, we may refer to the prompt improvement that follows the removal of a splinter which is keeping up a festering sore, of a foreign body in contact with the conjunctiva, of a stone from the bladder, of a nail from its inflamed matrix (as in onychia), or of a sequestrum of bone which has been keeping up the discharge from a sinus. Air. Simon, who has so ably discussed this subject, remarks with great justice that “ it is amongst the highest prob- lems of pathology to discover new groups of cases capable of being treated like the above by the simple removal of their respective causes. With the various dyscrasial inflammations, for instance, which are now treated exclu- sively from an empirical basis, and consequently often without success, how great an achievement it would be, if their immediate causes could be made as palpable as the mechanical causes just spoken of, and could, like them, be distinctly aimed at and destroyed 1” A third indication of paramount importance in the treatment of inflamma- tion, is to secure favorable conditions for the inception and progress of construc- tive inflammation, or repair. From this form of the inflammatory condition, which is absolutely necessary for the healing of wounds and injuries, every- thing is to be hoped. Its management requires all possible means for its pro- tection from interference, and for the promotion of its objective purpose— which is a termination by resolution, or cicatrization, coincident with healthy repair of the injury by which it has been provoked. Of these means the most important are: rest, as nearly perfect as possible, for the whole body, and especially for the injured part; quiescence for the mind, as far as it is attain- able; freedom from sources of external irritation—including protection of an external wound from the air; the best position for the injured part that can be secured—-to promote relief from pain and equable local circulation; an equa- ble temperature and purity of air, with an adequate supply thereof. These and other means useful for the same end will be considered more at length hereafter. The proper temperature for an injured part is between 68° and 72° Fahren- heit. Frequent changes above or below these limits are incompatible with equability. For a healthy granulating wound, even a higher local tempera- ture is not undesirable. Embryonic development takes place normally, within the natural body, at blood heat. It may be inferred that cell germination and the development of granulation tissue, which are identical processes, would be favored by a similar temperature. In any event, sudden chilling of a gra- nulating surface should be scrupulously avoided. It has been known to pro- duce a fatal invasion of traumatic tetanus.1 Addison tells us that in the arti- ficial incubation of the chick, the process is interrupted if the temperature falls below the normal standard of the female bird, which is higher than the human standard, namely 106° Fahr., and the vitality of the chick is endangered. This is not the place to enforce the necessity of an adequate supply of oxy- gen to secure the favorable progress of all processes involving unusual demands upon the powers of the organism, but the importance of" this condition for successful treatment of surgical injuries is constantly liable to be undervalued. 1 Agnew, ut supra.