385 CAUSES OF TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM. accident had not happened. Sir J. Fayrer, indeed, relates one case in which the patient was almost frightened to death, but recovered rapidly on its being found that the snake which had bitten him was not poisonous. The bites and stings of certain venomous spiders and insects, not being so overpowering as those of serpents, might possibly give rise to delirium. A sort of delirium is described as following the bite of the tarantula; but there is reason to believe that much, if not all, that is related about this creature is fabulous. Death sometimes follows the stings of bees, wasps, or hornets. In such cases, there is nothing more likely than that delirium should arise, both from the pain and from the extent of surface affected. There is a con- dition produced analogous to erysipelas, and, if extensive enough, high febrile excitement with consequent delirium might occur. The furious stage in hydrophobia is one that might be classed with delirium, from its temporary character, and yet during the paroxysm, when phrensy appears to possess the brain, there is a mental clearness inconsistent with the idea of delirium. The derangement expresses itself in acts rather than words; incongruous thought is not a part of it, for the patient seems fully aware of what is going on, though he has no power of will to control his deeds. A low and true delirium, indicative of exhaustion, may come on as death ap- proaches. In tetanus, there is no delirium. Even during the most violent spasms, the mind remains perfectly clear. The excito-motor and sensitive tracts of the cord, both direct and reflex, are strained to their utmost, whilst the cortex, unhappily maintaining its integrity, does its full part here in the development of suffering. In chorea, there is no delirium even when the subjects of it have received most severe injuries, or have undergone operations. I have reported a case1 of fracture in such a patient, who actually died from the exhaustion of his incessant movements and the consequent irritation of the broken fragments of bone. His brain was a perfect one. "What morbid force kept up the involuntary motor excitement, I do not know; but it was certainly not expended on the cells of the cortex. Sometimes traumatic delirium comes on shortly after capital surgical opera- tions have been performed on account of severe injuries. This is much more apt to be the case with children than with adults, and it is also more likely to follow operations for recent, than those for old, injuries, or than those for disease. The symptom is a very bad one. After eliminating any cause which might exist for a short time, such as fright, the effects of the antesthetic, etc., if the delirium should continue and increase in severity, a fatal prognosis would be justified. Delirium in disease is a very common symptom with children, the slightest fever being sufficient to cause it in some instances. Being creatures of perception rather than judgment, the brain balance is in them readily disturbed; and if such a trivial cause as a little rise in temperature is able to do this, how great must be the disturbance which may follow a serious injury, combined with a serious operation. I can give no better illustration of this than the annexed chart (Fig. 28) of the history of a case of compound luxation of the elbow-joint requiring excision. One may see at a glance how temperature, pulse, and respiration, moved nearly pari passu until the tenth day; then, exhaustion following the intense excitement; there was great recession, with chill, after which, new force being gathered, the delirium became more violent, and only ceased with the collapse of death. Surgical or traumatic fever is very apt to be accompanied with delirium. By this term I mean that fever which is almost a necessary consequence of 1 Pennsylvania Hospital Reports, 1869. VOL. I.—25