411 PHYSIOLOGY OP ANAESTHESIA. the condition of the cortical portion of the brain. Or disturbing causes may be originated in the cerebral centres themselves. Groups of cells which have acquired an excessive or morbid irritability, may still continue to perform a certain amount of functional work as a consequence of previous impressions that have not yet been effaced, and this work will produce results in the field of consciousness. But, through lack of a simultaneous production in consciousness, of that vast complex of associated perceptions and conceptions which is occasioned by the coordinated activity of all parts of the brain during the waking state, this isolated cell-work excites only imperfect trains of thought, which must necessarily progress after a very imperfectly ordered fashion. Such processes constitute what is called a dream. When the special function of the cortical cells is rapidly, uniformly, and completely arrested, sleep is profound and dreamless. The development of this condition is accompanied by a comparatively anaemic condition of the cerebral substance. This comparative anaemia is the result, rather than the cause, of sleep. It is effected by the intervention of the nerves which regulate the supply of blood for every organ, in strict accordance with the degree of its functional activity. Quite unlike the advent of natural sleep is the stormy introduction to the sleep of artificial anaesthesia. This is due to the fact that the anaesthetic sleep is produced by the action of a foreign substance of a paralyzing nature, to which the tissues are wholly unadjusted. The initial effects of contact with such a substance, are contraction of irritable protoplasm, liberation of motion, phenomena of excitement. This produces an increased circulation of blood, and all the functions of the nervous system are momentarily exalted by the combined action of increased blood-supply and local irritation of nervous matter. But the conspicuous and characteristic phenomena of anaesthesia are caused by the paralyzing energy of the anaesthetic. At first the vascular Avails contract, as a consequence of their local irritation by the medicated blood. But, almost immediately, they begin to relax under the paralyzing, influence of the drug, and an increased supply of blood reaches the muscular and nervous substance of the heart. This organ contracts more vigorously, and propels through the dilating bloodvessels a larger amount of blood, to stimulate the brain, the spinal cord, and every portion of the body. A gene- ral though temporary increase of function ife the result. Muscular movement and reflex action are exaggerated. The sensory apparatus is in like manner rendered more efficient. Painful sensations. may thus be briefly intensified by the means that are employed for their abolition. But this stage of ex- citement is soon passed. Transported by the blood, the anaesthetic soon per- A'ades the higher nervous ganglia, and depresses their activity. The action of the heart is thus retarded, and the pulse recedes. In like manner the movements of respiration are again brought down to the normal rate, or even below it. The circle of the intellectual functions is progressively narrowed by the progressive paralysis of the cortical cells, and the connection of ideas is disturbed by the increasing disconnection of the centres in which they arise. Complete paralysis of these organs is followed by loss of consciousness and anaesthesia. If, now, an equilibrium be established betAveen the’intro- duction and the elimination of the stupefying ATapor, the anaesthetic process may be continuously sustained. But if its introduction be urged beyond the poAver of the tissues to free themselves, they become supersaturated, and systemic death is the final result. Reasoning from analogy, it has been suggested that anaesthetic substances modify nervous tissue by a sort of coagulation of its protoplasm. But coagu- lation is incompatible with life. Keeping in mind the fact that the effect of anaesthetic substances is temporary, it seems more probable that they operate by inhibition of those chemical processes which are associated Avith the libe-