641 AMPUTATION AT THE ELBOW. Flap Methods.—Two varieties of flap operation are practised in this situa- tion : the anterior flap method of Brasdor, Dupuytren, and Sedillot, and the external flap method of Alphonse Guerin. Of the two, the latter (Fig. 175) Fig. 175. Amputation at right elbow by external flap method. seems to me the best, but either is, I think, less desirable than the opera- tions already described. In performing Guerin’s opeiation, the limb is held In a semi-prone position, and the surgeon, introducing the point of his knife in the middle line of the forearm, about an inch below the bend of the elbow, cuts downward for a short distance and then transfixes the limb, graz- ing the radius on the outer side as he does so, with the blade of his instru- ment. An external flap, from two to two and a half inches in length, is then cut with a sawing motion, and the tissues on the inner side of the limb next divided by a curved incision, convex downwards. Disarticulation is effected by opening the joint from its outer side. The stump which results from amputation at the elbow-joint is an admira- ble one, and the operation should, I think, always be preferred to removal of the limb at a higher point. It is Somewhat difficult to estimate the death-rate of this operation; it does not appear to have been often resorted to in civil practice—I have myself done it but once—and Malgaigne’s and Trelat’s com- bined statistics, as quoted by Legouest, give but nine cases with three deaths. Mr. Bryant speaks of six successful cases in his own practice. Legouest reports -41 cases from the French army in the Crimean war, with 21 deaths, but Chenu (as quoted by Otis)1 gives the figures for the same service as 79 cases with 52 deaths. The same writer tabulates, in all, 133 elbow amputa- tions for gunshot injury with 101 deaths—a frightful mortality of nearly 76 per cent. But, on the other hand, 39 terminated cases in the late war in this country, gave but 3 deaths, or less than 8 per cent • Medical and Surgical History, etc., Part Second, Surgical volume, p. 910 (Note). VOL. I. 41