SIMULTANEOUS OR SYNCHRONOUS AMPUTATIONS. 591 eleven sueli cases, under my own care, have given seven deaths and but four recoveries. In one of these, the right thigh and left leg were simultaneously removed for railway injury by my friend and assistant, Dr. II. R. Wharton; the patient, who was an adult, recovered without a single unfavorable symp- tom. Another case, which has furnished the subject of the accompanying plate (Plate III.), is worthy of being narrated in more detail:— George , aged fifteen, was admitted to my ward in the University Hospital, while I happened to be in the building, on the afternoon of June 4, 1879, having a short time before fallen from and been run over by a train on the Philadelphia, Wil- mington and Baltimore Railroad, which passes not far from the hospital. The right limb had been absolutely torn off above the knee, the femur being badly shattered and the skin and fascia completely separated as far up as the groin. The left leg was also crushed in its lower third, both bones broken obliquely, and the soft parts greatly lace- rated. Slow but steady bleeding was going on from the left leg, while on the right side it was only restrained by digital compression of the iliac artery, which had been promptly instituted by Dr. Palmer, the house surgeon, with the aid of two or three senior students who were in the ward when the patient was brought in. Notwithstanding the lad’s apparently desperate injuries, I found him in a condition which, while far from pro- mising, did not absolutely forbid an operation, and—surgical instinct forbidding non- interference while hemorrhage was actually present—I determined, with the skilful assistance of Dr. R. A. Cleemann, who was visiting the hospital with me, to amputate. Bleeding being temporarily controlled by a pair of Esmarch’s tubes, rolled one around the left leg and the other around the stump of the right thigh, the patient was carefully etherized, and then, having adjusted a Lister’s aortic compressor so as to command both iliac arteries, I amputated at the right hip-joint, cutting antero-posterior flaps from without inwards, as in Guthrie’s method, making the posterior flap first, and being obliged to include, in the anterior, a good deal of the skin which had been torn up and separated in the original injury. The vessels having been secured, a fold of oiled lint was temporarily placed between the flaps, and then, finding that the patient’s pulse per- mitted it, I turned to the left leg, which I immediately amputated at its middle by the modified circular method. Both the elastic tube and the tourniquet were used on this limb, in the way described on page 570. All bleeding vessels having been tied, both wounds were closed with silver wire sutures, and simply dressed with lint soaked in olive oil (not carbolized), covered with oiled silk, and kept in place with adhesive strips and roller bandages. During the operations, I had an assistant give repeated hypodermic injections of ether—a syringe-full at a time—and I find by my notes that it was estimated that a fluidounce of ether was consumed in this way. After the patient was put to bed—for I had operated while he lay on the stretcher on which he had been carried to the hos- pital—the ether injections were continued until he had rallied enough to be able to swallow, and then five grains of carbonate of ammonium were given by the mouth every half hour until thorough reaction had occurred. This was further promoted by the use of external heat, and, though the patient seemed almost moribund when the operations were completed, his condition rapidly improved, and his convalescence from that time proceeded without an unfavorable symptom. An alcoholic dressing was sub- stituted for the oiled lint after the first forty-eight hours; the last ligature came from the leg-stump on the eighth, and the femoral ligature from the hip-wound on the twelfth day. The patient was kept in hospital until January, 1880, his wounds having then been entirely healed for about four months. As far as my reading goes—and I am confirmed by the opinion of my valued friend the late Dr. G. A. Otis, Surgeon U. S. Army, whose familiarity with the literature of liip-joint amputation was probably greater than that of any man now living—this is the only case recorded in which a successful primary amputation at the hip-joint has been performed synchronously with another major amputation. Among my unsuccessful double amputations, I count two cases in which the right arm was removed at the shoulder-joint, in one, in connection with amputation in the lower third of the left leg, and in