181 SYMPTOMS OP ERYSIPELAS. the temperature takes a sudden and striking rise, which either accompa- nies or announces a new extension of the erysipelas. The relapse, however, does not generally last as long as the original fever, indeed for only one or two days usually, hut it may recur several times, especially in the erratic forms of erysipelas ; nor does the fever finally subside until the eruption per- manently disappears. When such relapses succeed one another, the fever de- clines with each one more and more, until with a very slight eruption it may become imperceptible. In fatal cases, death generally occurs with a high temperature (Wunderlich). The exacerbations and remissions now referred to appear to be in some manner inherent in the disease, or, at least, their ex- citing causes elude observation ; but often the former can be traced to some imprudence in eating, some exposure to cold, or even to undue mental excite- ment. The accompanying diagram (Fig. 8) exhibits the changes of tempera- ture in a mild case of facial erysipelas following lupus of long standing. As the fever subsides, the hardness and tension grow less, and the skin pits more or less under pressure ; the elevated ridge which abruptly bounded the inflammation, subsides, the redness becoming less vivid, and shading oft* gradu- ally into the color of the sound skin. As the tissues shrink more and more towards their normal dimensions, the over-stretched epidermis becomes loos- ened, and is apt to be detached in large flakes, leaving the inflamed skin with a new cuticle, and with more or less of a red color, which it retains in some degree for many weeks. When repeated renewals of erysipelas occur in the same part, they may induce a thickening of the skin, and in the lower ex- tremities are apt to occasion also a permanently bluish tint and an cedematous condition of the limbs. The tendency of erysipelas in its simple form to recur again and again, and not only in attacks directly succeeding one another, but after an interval of months or years, presents one of the strongest contrasts between it and the eruptive fevers, with which in other respects its analogies are very close indeed. It is true, however, that the nature of most of these recurrent cases is open to question, and that not a few of them seem to have been instances of erythema rather than of erysipelas, or, as they have been called by Daude, erysipeloids. Further remarks upon this point will be found in the section on Diagnosis. The description which has now been given relates chiefly to erysipelas as it is observed in and confined to the skin; but when the inflammation ex- tends to subjacent parts, the phenomena are different, and depend partly upon the nature and partly upon the extent of the process. In general, its extent is determined by its nature; that is to say, the more sthenic the in- flammation, the more apt it is to be limited in extent; the more asthenic, the greater is the tendency of the inflammation to extend indefinitely. In the former case, the system is capable of establishing barriers of lymph, which circumscribe the inflammatory process ; in the latter, this goes on unresisted, and may spread far and wide beneath the skin. Yet the very intensity of the local inflammation may destroy the vitality of the skin in a limited area, as has already been stated in regard to the- eyelids and the organs of genera- tion. In these cases, and generally at the height of the attack, spots of a darker red appear on the erysipelatous skin, which gradually grow livid and black, and ultimately separate as eschars. Or suppuration may occur be- neath the skin, in consequence of the imperfect supply of blood in the part, as not uncommonly happens in erysipelas following wounds of the scalp. The abscesses referred to may be conjectured to take their rise in an inflam- mation and obstruction of the lymphatics leading from the primary seat of the erysipelas; they are seldom large, and do not materially affect the course