45 TRANSVERSELY STRIPED MUSCULAR FIBRES. If we look at the freshly excised (living) muscle from the extremity of a Hydrophilus piceus, we can observe transformations which correspond to the picture just drawn. The muscle of the aforesaid insect still makes very active movements under the covering glass of a slide. The mass of the muscle undulates to and fro, as it were, and the details therefore cannot be readily perceived. When it has become somewhat quieter, we can see so-called con- tractile waves proceed along single fibres; a knot, a protuberance, apparently passes along the muscular fibre. If the muscular fibres have remained any length of time on the slide, very peculiar phenomena make their appearance, which are probably pathological, because they are the forerunners of death. Some of the muscular fibres suddenly become converted into bundles of fibril- lte; suddenly the fibrillar structure disappears, and the broad ribbon-like character returns in its stead. Then, again, we see variations in the breadth of the ribbons, and in their distances from each other. In addition, the in- ternal structure of the broad bands changes. At times, such a band is bright in the middle and dark at the lateral zones; at times the condition is re- versed. The dark zones appear granular and irregularly bordered at one time, and at another homogeneous. Suddenly the transverse striation disap- pears in a fibre, and it assumes a fibrillar structure. Then the fibrillse are suddenly lost to sight, and the muscular fibre looks like a homogeneous mass provided with granules. A renewed undulation and we have again the ribbon-like appearance. As long ago as the year 1870,1 I gave a similar description in my Manual of Histology. The more modern histological school, however, has scarcely taken any notice of this description. A number of distinguished histologists, then as well as since, have described certain of the variable phenomena as the structure of the muscle, and in this state of affairs it is comprehensible that very different views should prevail. One of my pupils (Heppner) has ac- counted for some of the variable phenomena on the ground of optical illusions. But I must now acknowledge that I myself was deceived in this respect. There are no optical illusions in question here. What Hensen, Krause, En- gelman, Merkl, and other histologists have described in the muscle, is really based on fact, but the fact itself is not constant. The muscles of the trunk of the frog, and also those of mammalia, are not as changeable as the muscles of insects. In the former instance the condition is really one of stability as long as the tissue is normal; but as soon as the muscle of the frog has an inflammatory stimulus applied to it, the stability ceases. True, no such movements arise as in the Hydrophilus muscle. There is a slow displace- ment—a displacement such as I have called internal flowing motion in the case of the white blood-corpuscle. Moreover, when a muscle is about to suppurate, the internal changes become more striking. The muscle loses its transverse striation, the nuclei increase in number, and finally the transversely striped muscular fibre is converted into a mass of young cells or pus-corpuscles. Such changes, and others which are analogous, have been repeatedly seen since the time of Bardeleben (1842), in inflammatory and non-inflammatory new formations in muscle. Otto Weber, Waldeyer, Tchanisky, and C. Weil (the two latter under my direction), and many other authors, have given ac- counts of such processes. More recently, the inflammatory processes have been again very accurately studied by Spina, who has found that not only pus-corpuscles, but also blood-corpuscles, can be developed from the trans- versely striped muscular fibre.2 1 Strieker’s Manual, American edition, pages 1086, 1087. 2 A similar discovery in the case of carcinomatous degeneration of the muscles of the tongue tiad previously been made by C. Weil.