261 ANATOMICAL CHARACTERS OF RACHITIS. Society, reported in the Lancet,' it was stated that in seventeen rachitic chil- dren, with an average age of 4.72 years, the average circumference of the head was 21.22 inches, while in the same number who were non-rachitic, and with an average age of 6.05 years, the average circumference was 19.95 inches. The retarded ossification is manifested not only in the open sutures, but also in the large size and patency of the fontanelles, which are not closed till long after the usual time. The anterior fontanelle should be closed between the fifteenth and twentieth months, but, in the rachitic, it remains membra- nous till after the second year, even into the third or fourth year. Since ex- amination of the anterior fontanelle is important in determining whether or not rachitis be present, it should be borne in mind that, in the normal state, this space increases in size till the seventh month, when it is at its maximum, and that after the ninth month it becomes progressively smaller. The shape of the rachitic head varies. In general, instead of its normal rounded form, it approaches a square shape. Another type is sometimes ob- served in which there is no marked angularity, but in which the antero-pos- terior diameter is enlarged. In the square head, the forehead projects, and both the frontal and parietal protuberances are unusually prominent. The sutures are depressed to a certain extent, as has already been mentioned, and the anterior, lateral, superior, and posterior surfaces of the cranium are more flattened than in health. The lambdoidal suture, which should close by the fourth month, and the sagittal, which should close by the end of the first year, have made little progress towards union when the second year begins. The undue prominence of the frontal and parietal bosses takes its origin from the exaggerated proliferation of the periosteal or fibrous covering of the bones. Craniotabes.—Thinning of the cranial bones in places, so that the brain lacks proper protection, has long been noticed in the examination of rachitic heads, but the injury that results to the infant was overlooked till pointed out by Dr. Elsasser. Craniotabes occurs for the most part in patients under the age of one year, and a large proportion are under eight months. Its occurrence in the foetus, as shown by a case published in the Xew York Ob- stetrical Journal in 1870, and by Heitzmann’s case, has already been alluded to. The factors in producing this thinning are rachitic softening of the bones and pressure; pressure of the brain from within and of the pillow from without.?. Consequently, the portions of the cranial arch in which the thinning occurs are the posterior and lateral, the occipital bone and the posterior half of the parietal. If the infant lie chiefly on one side, in its crib, on this side the craniotabes occurs, while those portions of the cranium which are not pressed upon, as the frontal bone, exhibit no thinning. The soft spots are yielding when pressed upon, and in the cadaver they are seen to be translucent when held to the light. The amount of absorption varies greatly according to the degree of rachitic softening, and the amount and continuance of" the pressure. There may be in some instances simple depressions, like erosions in the bone, with a continuous but thin bony layer remaining, but in other cases, such as have been particularly examined and studied by physicians, the bone absorption is complete over areas of greater or less extent, so that the pericranium and dura mater are in contact. In examining a child for cranio- tabes, it should be borne in mind that the margins of the bones, even when there is no thinning, but thickening from the cartilaginous proliferation, are flexible in the rachitic. The pressure must be made in a direction away from the sutures, to ascertain whether craniotabes has occurred. The pressure 1 Lancet, 1880, vol. ii. p. 1017.