21 CONSEQUENCES OF IIYPERJEMIA. Seibert and Kraft) permits me to recognize a continual inner movement in the white blood-corpuscles of man, even if they are externally at rest. Im- mediately after the specimen of blood is taken from the finger, the white globules look like little lumps; their external contour does not change. But though the external contours remain unchanged, the new lens teaches me that there is a continual displacement of the mass in the interior. On a brighter background we see an irregular dark picture, with contours which are at times clear, at times ill-defined; and this picture changes uninterrupt- edly. The whole makes an impression similar to that of the transformation of light and shade in a cloud. I shall call this motion an internal flowing motion. Only at a later period (perhaps under the influence of stimuli to which the blood-corpuscle is exposed on the slide), does it commence its amoeboid movements, does it change its external form and its position. Much more striking are the internal movements which the lens X (Seibert and Kraft) shows in the salivary corpuscles. It was known long ago that granules which had a swinging motion existed in the salivary corpuscles. A Xo. 8 lens of Hartnack permits one to see these distinctly. These movements were called molecular—because they are similar to those observed with high powers in the case of finely divided granules1 suspended in water. The Xo. X lens has -taught me, however, that in the salivary corpuscles there are no granules at all. The salivary corpuscle is traversed by a sharply defined net- work, which is in continuous, undulating motion, single trabeculae of this network are seen, as though in transverse section, and thus simulate granules. If we watch a salivary corpuscle until it bursts, we find that, the moment it bursts, the undulating motion of the net ceases. But all the salivary cor- puscles do not burst; in some, the undulation gradually becomes feebler without their rupturing, and just these moments of enfeeblement are suited to demonstrating, with the greatest precision, the existence of the undulating net. I shall call this motion the internal undulating motion. Experiments of Recklinghausen have already made known the fact, that by the addition of water to a lymph corpuscle we can produce a body resem- bling the salivary-corpuscle. The salivary-corpuscle, on the other hand, again becomes an amoeboid body, by the addition of a solution of salt from a half to one per cent, in strength. Xow I have lately discovered that, by the addi- tion of water2 to the white blood-corpuscles, an undulating net appears, just like the one present in salivary-corpuscles—a net whose undulation ceases with the rupture of the corpuscles. Accordingly, the externally quiescent salivary-corpuscle differs from the externally quiescent white blood-corpuscle only in the character of the internal motion. One kind (the flowing) can be converted into the other (the undulating). If the white blood-corpuscle has been converted into a body similar to a salivary-corpuscle, by means of care- fully diluting its medium with water, then the internal flowing displacements of the mass cease, and in their stead we have the undulating movements. The undulating net forms standing waves, as it were. The network remains constantly, beams remain beams, meshes remain meshes, even though the whole sways to and fro. If, on the other hand, the salivary-corpuscle becomes an amoeboid cell, then the undulating motion ceases, and the slow internal flowing begins. As long as only fhe motion of these apparent granules was known, the question was discussed, whether it was a vital motion. On the ground of his electrical experiments,’Briicke3 argued in favor of their vital 1 Wrongly called molecules by the older biologists. 2 Tiie water must be added very carefully. Still better than water is a very dilute solution of salt—say about T'7 per cent. 3 Wiener Sitzungsber., 1862.