THE VASO-MOTOR NERVES. 15 abdomen. In cases, therefore, where the abdominal viscera are normal and where there is no damage likely to be caused by vigorous kneading; where, furthermore, everything depends on a speedy, even though passing, assist- ance ; in such cases, I say, the introduction of even small quantities of blood, which are under all circumstances present in the abdominal veins, may be of considerable value. There are instances of hemorrhage in which the indi- viduals can recover of themselves by the substitution of lymph, if we only ward off the momentary danger of death immediately after the hemor- rhage. I have already remarked that, when the extirpation of the spinal cord proceeds beyond the upper dorsal vertebrae, the pressure falls to zero and the heart-beats cease. But this only holds good for adult animals. I have extir- pated the entire spinal cord of young dogs (about two months old), and yet the circulation continued (during uninterrupted artificial respiration), so that I was enabled to note the pressure, although it was exceedingly low (about 10-15 mm. mercury). The hypersemia of the abdominal viscera which is produced by paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves is an active one. Now I have already said that an active hypersemia involves an acceleration of the blood-current in tlie hyper- temic district. But we must consider here that the hypersemia is of vast extent, involving as it does all the abdominal viscera. The moment this great reservoir becomes widened, the blood must flow in more rapidly, else how is it possible for the tension in the aorta to suddenly decrease ? But, when the reservoir is filled, the heart beconies poor in blood. The right ventricle is inadequately supplied; little blood fiows into the left ventricle; only a small amount of blood is forced into the aorta. Consequently the rapidity of the arterial blood-current in general must be decreased, and it may sink to zero. For, if the heart forces no blood at all into the aorta, the circulation stops. I call the active hypersemia which is produced by paralysis of the vaso- constrictors a hypercemia of paralysis, in contradistinction to the hypersemia caused by irritation of the vaso-dilators, which I have termed hypercemia of irritation. The hypersemia of irritation and the vaso-dilators, respectively, were discovered by Claude Bernard in 1858. Claude Bernard1 has shown that the submaxillary gland of the dog acquires a bright-red color by an irritation of its nerves, and that, at the same time, the blood which flows from the incised vein of the gland is of a brighter red, and more abundant, than it was before the irritation. At a later period, Eckliard2 found similar vaso-motor nerves supplying the corpora cavernosa of the dog’s penis; and, still later, Goltz3 discovered them in the sciatic nerve of the dog. But in this nerve they lie adjacent to their antagonists, the vaso-constrictors. Ac- cordingly, when we irritate the sciatic artificially, both kinds are acted upon, and the effect is, as a rule, insignificant, or altogether fails to appear. Special circumstances are required by means of which one of the antagonists—in this instance the constrictors—may be made ineffective.4 This is the case if we first divide the sciatic and make the chief experiment several days later. If, several days after the division, we draw the peripheral stump out of the wound and irritate it, we learn that the irritation excites only the vaso-dilators ; the corresponding paw immediately becomes warmer, and cools off again as soon as the stimulus ceases. But I must observe that this experiment, performed on dogs other- 1 Le?ons, Syst^me nerveux, 1858. 2 Beitrage zur Anatomie und Physiologie, Bd. III. 1863. 3 Pfliiger’s Archiv, 1874, Bd. 8. 4 These circumstances have been ascertained by OstroumofF, a pupil of Heidenhain (Pfliiger's Archiv, Bd. 12), and by myself.