PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 16 ■wise healthy, is not very convincing. For, if we divide the sciatic, the corresponding paw becomes actively hyperaemic (on account of the paralysis of the constrictors). But this hyperaemia of paralysis lasts a long time, because all the constrictors for the paw are already united in the sciatic. It is even questionable whether such a hyper- emia is recovered from at all in older animals. At all events, the hyperemia is still very marked on the third and fourth days after the division of the sciatic. Accord- ingly, irritation of the dilators accomplishes but little if the vessels are already very wide. But if we wait several weeks before irritating, the nerve in the mean time completely degenerates. I, therefore, make the experiment as follows : I chloroform a young dog, and then divide his spinal cord in the region of the last dorsal vertebra. Both hind- paws are now hyperaemic ; but this hyperaemia improves in a few days, because the hind-legs and the sciatics respectively receive also vaso-constrictors from the dorsal portion of the cord, through the sympathetic. I have designated this recovery as '•'••recovery by collateral innervation using the term u collateralbecause the condition is analogous to a collateral circu- lation. If in any region the main channel of the blood is ligatured, a lateral channel, which is sufficient for the nutrition of the entire region, is gradually formed by the dilatation of small lateral branches. These small branches must, therefore, adapt themselves to their new function by increased growth. How we see a similar condition of things in the case of the nerves. In the region of the last dorsal vertebra, the spinal cord contains the main mass of the vaso-constrictors for the paw. These are now divided, and the remaining branches, which leave the main mass above the site of incision, do not at first suffice to maintain the tone of the bloodvessels. But these higher branches increase in strength in the course of a few days, and thus the hyperaemia disappears. I have advanced the follow- ing proof for this interpretation : After the hyperamia of the paw has disappeared, I again anaesthetize the dog, and then again divide the spinal cord, but higher up, in the neighborhood of about the fourth and fifth dorsal vertebrae. Thereby the hind-paws once more become hyperaemic. But if an incision through the dorsal portion can now still cause hyperaemia of the hind-paws, then the tone of their bloodvessels, after the first healing, must absolutely have depended upon nerves divided by the knife in this (higher) region; upon nerves which left the spinal cord above the site of the lower (original) incision. I now return once more to the argument regarding the vaso-dilators of the sciatic. I have divided the spinal cord in the region of the last dorsal vertebra, and have waited until the hyperaemia of the hind-paws has disappeared again. I now divide the sciatic ; this can be done without anaesthesia, because the hind-legs of the animal are insensi- tive. Just after the division, however, the corresponding paw becomes warm again, because now also those constrictors are divided which caused recovery by collateral innervation. But even this hyperaemia improves, especially in winter, if the animal is kept in an unheated room.1 If, now, I provide the paw in question with a suitable thermometer,2 and wait until the mercury stops rising, open the wound on the thigh, draw out the peripheral stump of the sciatic, and apply an electric stimulus (by means of moderately strong induction-currents), the column of mercury soon begins to rise. In such cases I have observed rises of temperature from 20° to 37° Celsius [68° to 98°.6 Falir.] ; and, indeed, the rise begins a few seconds after commencement of the irritation, and, if the latter be sufficiently strong, reaches its maximum in a few minutes. Several minutes after stoppage of the irritation, the mercury begins to fall. 1 I do not know the cause of this improvement. At all events, I must mention that I per- formed these experiments on quite young animals, in which, as already remarked (page 15), a certain tone of the bloodvessels is maintained, with or without any innervation. Since the recovery indicated in the text does not take place in animals whose spinal cord is intact, I suspect that in animals sick in consequence of division of the spinal cord, the blood-pressure is below the normal, and that the vessels can thus acquire their tone again more readily. But this explanation is neither sufficient nor satisfactory. 2 Short, cylindrical, mercurial thermometers are introduced between the toes.