PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 10 its \valls must become thicker. But no folds are to be recognized in the narrowed tube. For this reason, therefore, it is already probable that a narrowing of the capillaries is accompanied by a thickening of their walls. Accordingly we must imagine that the narrowing of the capillaries is brought about like that of a passively distended elastic tube. This interpretation, however, does not yet give us a clear insight into the phenomenon. We cannot in all respects compare capillaries in a condition of dilatation with a distended elastic tube. The capillary tube can remain distended even when the blood-pressure (the power which distends the tube) is very small. Furthermore, the capillary tube dilates of itself when the stimulus which has made it contract ceases to act; it also dilates altogether without the participation of the blood-pressure, as, for example, in the membrana nictitans of the frog. It is probable, too, that under certain circumstances the dilatation is an active one; that the capillary tube aspirates fluid during dilatation. “Attraction of the blood,” the Ancients called it, and imagined that Avails of vessels had the pOAver of attracting the blood. We are not aware of the existence of such a force, but know that the bloodvessels can actively dilate. In consequence of experiments made with regard to this question by H. Weber,1 and then by By nek2 on the web of the frog, and by Yulpian3 on the blastodermic membrane of the chick, it has become probable that the blood is really aspirated by the dilatation of the vessels. Further researches, which Avill be discussed in the next section, ha\Te also made us acquainted with the nerves which excite such a dilatation. We are therefore not allowed to compare (as regards the forces) the contrac- tion of a capillary with that of a passively dilated elastic tube. But what are the forces and arrangements on which depend the active contraction and the active dilatation ? More recent researches which Spina and I4 have made on the cells of glands are suited to make us comprehend the processes in the capillaries. These observations concern the glandular vesicles. In the skin of the frog there are glandular vesicles of the simplest construction. Each gland consists of a single acinus with an excretory duct, as is indicated in Fig. 4. The acinus is lined by a layer of cells, a a. Bow I liaATe already described two condi- tions of these cells in my Manual of Histology.5 These cells are at times so large that they nearly fill up the lumen of the acinus, and at others, again, so small that (as in Fig. 4) they merely form an epithelial lining for the relatively large lumen. But now Spina and I have discovered6 that these glandular cells become so much enlarged under certain stimuli as to fill up the lumen of the acinus (as in Fig. 5), and that they become smaller again after the stimulus has ceased to act upon them. Since this observation is of general importance, I shall here briefly de- scribe bow it may be made. You must cut out the membrana nictitans of a living frog and spread it out in the aqueous humor on the stage of a micro- scope arranged for conducting electric stimuli.7 How cut off with scissors 1 Muller’s Arcliiv, 1852, Bd. I. 2 Rynek, Untersucliungen aus dem Inst, fur Physiologie in Graz. Leipzig, 1870, S. 104. 8 Vulpian, Le9ons sur l’appareil vaso-moteur, t. i. Quatrifeme le?on. 4 AViener mediz. Jahrb. 1880. 6 American edition, pages 40 and 41. 6 Mediz. Jahrbucher,'1. c. ’ See Manual of Histology, American edition, page 15.