2 T6ratologie. Paris, 1836. LESIONS REMEDIABLE BY PLASTIC SURGERY. ^33 balle), Serres, Roux, Denuce and Verneuil; in Belgium, Burggraeve and Ver- haege; in Germany, Zeiss, Von Ammon, Hotfacher, Baumgarten, Langenbeek and Sehuh; in England, Liston, Pollock and Spencer Wells; and in the United States, J. M. Warren, Pancoast, Mutter, Gurdon Buck and others, both by their writings and practice have made themselves deservedly emi- nent, and, occupying a high position, have placed both the profession and the public under obligation. In reviewing, however, the copious bibliography of plastic surgery, 1 deem it not unfair to give a well-earned prominence to American Surgeons, whose ingenious and felicitous operations and practical treatises and contributions to science have established the reputation of their authors upon an enviable and enduring basis. Lesions Remediable by Plastic Surgery. The term Plastic Surgery, says Verneuil, “ signifies, then,1 in surgical lan- guage, the repair or restoration of an organ changed in form, by the aid of a loan effected in the patient himself, and made at the expense of neighboring or distant healthful parts.” “ It remedies deformities of deficiency or excess by operations of anaplasty by autoplasty, which term ought to be restricted to cases characterized by a deficiency of substance as a lesion, and by an organic borrowing from the same subject as an operation. And this double character serves (1) to establish ditferences between the method in question and the other anaplastic methods, and (2) to distinguish autoplasty, properly so called, from heteroplasty, which borrows substance from a stranger organism, and from prothesis, which replaces lost parts with artificial ones made out of inorganic materials.” It is evident that the occasion for the operations of plastic surgery must arise from congenital defects or deficiencies, from atrophy or wasting after birth, or from actual losses of substance, whether by di; ease or traumatism. And it is equally obvious that different causes may bring about the same result—deformity—as in the cases of excision of a bone and its congenital absence; the loss by mutilation of part of an organ, as a muscle, and its atrophy from lesion of its tutelary nerve; and the total loss of substance pro- duced as in the cutaneous structures, by traumatism upon the one hand, and by disease upon the other. It is unfortunate that in many deformities, such as arrests of development and total deficiencies of parts, the condition is irre- mediable ; in some, however, plastic surgery alone may make amends; whereas in others this reparative art needs the aid of artificial appliances or substitutes which enlightened surgery must perforce employ. And here, before going further, I would call attention to the absolute necessity for accurate diagnosis; for the positive recognition and determination of the nature of the cause or lesion, and of the actual condition of the part or organ. Whatever be, in general, the need for precision in matters surgical, anticipat- ing operative procedure, there is no department of the art in which a correct appreciation of the causes and consequences of deformity, or lesion, leads to better courses and results in practice. Plastic surgery deals,then, with deformities congenital or acquired. Among the former are to be ranged atrophies, arrests of development, and intra-uterine mutilations, which latter sometimes involve a part or the totality of a mem- ber; and, further, to quote Verneuil, who himself cites Geoffroy Saint Hilaire,2 as saying that congenital deformities are more frequently met with at the 1 Verneuil, Art. Autoplastie. Diet. Encyc. des Sciences Medicates. Paris.