586 AMPUTATIONS. 1 Op. cit., tome i. p. 331. length of at least half the diameter of the limh, is then turned back and entrusted to an assistant, while the surgeon re-enters his knife at the point of original puncture (this time passing on the other side of the bone), brings it out as before, and cuts the second Hap, which in shape and size should be as closely symmetrical as possible to that first formed. (Fig. 150.) The retractor is next adjusted; any remaining fibres divided by a few touches of the knife; and the bone sawn as in the circular operation. Fig. 150. If the flaps are made antero-posteriorly, the anterior flap is usually formed first; if lateral flaps are preferred, the outer should be made before the inner. The general rule is that that flap should be last cut which contains the prin- cipal artery. (3) Sedillot’s method, which that author describes as a “ mixed procedure,”1 differs from Yermale’s, in that the surgeon, instead of making his knife “ hug” the bone, keeps the instrument away from it in transfixing the limb, so as to include but a small portion of muscular tissue in each flap; the remaining muscles, together with the great vessels, are then divided by a cir- cular incision, and the rest of the amputation completed as in the ordinary circular method. The flaps are somewhat shorter, as well as thinner, than those of Yermale’s operation, which is certainly an advantage if the limb be a very large one. I have, in amputating the thigh, sometimes varied Sedil- lot’s procedure by cutting superficial flaps from without inwards, as in Lan- genbeck’s method, and then completing the operation by a circular sweep of the knife, in the ordinary way. The stump which results from Sedillot’s plan of operating, closely resembles that obtained by the modified circular method, over which it does not appear to me to present any marked supe- riority. Some surgeons, having regard to the gradual atrophy of muscular tissue which always occurs in a stump, attempt to save, as they think, time and trouble, by making their flaps from skin only ; but not only is there consid- erable risk of the flaps sloughing, under these circumstances, but the stump thus obtained is less serviceable than when the flaps contain muscle also; for