22 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. nature, and now there can no longer be any doubt regarding the correctness of this view. We already deduce from these observations, that the contractile bodies can alter their physical condition very cpiickly. If now we also remember that contractile cells alter their consistence with increasing age ; if finally, I repeat once more (reserving the proof until later), the more resistant cells of older animals return to tlieir youthful condition in the inflammatory process, it becomes comprehensible with what variable structures we have to deal here. ' In the case of the isolated cell, in the pus- lymph- salivary-corpuscle, the rapid temporary change is produced by influences in the surrounding medium. In the cells of glands, similar changes are excited by nervous influence. As soon as the cell in the gland begins to enlarge under the influence of either direct or nervous stimuli, its internal mass begins an active flowing motion. Ac- cordingly, if we say that the capillaries are contractile, we must not conclude that they always retain the same physical properties. We have rather cause for supposing that under the nervous influence not only the thickness of the wall and the lumen of the tube, but also the physical structure of the wall, becomes changed. The striped muscular fibres, moreover, give us evident proof of this. In a condition of contraction the muscle is hard; in a condi- tion of relaxation it is soft and doughy. ISTow, inasmuch as hypersemia is accompanied in many if not in all instances by a change of innervation, it is clear that from this standpoint, already, an alteration of the wall of the vessel can arise in its train. But alterations of the walls of vessels are of influence on the mutual relation of blood and tissue. The capillaries are the main channel for the nutritive current, and the dimensions of this current certainly depend, cceteris paribus, on the physical properties of the vascular wall. But apart from the. innervation, we must consider the influence of the coarser mechanical effects on the wall of the vessel. During dilatation, the walls of the capillaries must become thinner and better adapted to filtering than normally. Coincidently with the dilata- tion of the capillaries, the blood-pressure also doubtless rises in them,1 and it is self-evident that filtration is promoted by the increased pressure. As long as the vessels are normal, these mechanical influences are perhaps of minor importance. But in the case of prolonged hyper;emias, these prolonged, though slight, influences also gradually produce changes in the vascular walls. Finally, in hypersemia, we must consider the influence which the changed composition of the blood exerts on the vascular wall; namely, the pronounced venous character of the blood in hypersemia of stagnation and in venous reflux, and, again, the abnormally arterial character of the capillary blood in active hypersemia. In this respect it is worthy of mention that hypersemias of stagnation are never or only seldom followed by inflammation (at least not directly), but by oedema, hemorrhages, and (in the case of circumscribed stasis especially) migration. There is no better means of demonstrating migration than by producing stasis in a small vascular district. If after a short time the stasis disappears, the wall of the vessel looks as if strewn with blood-corpuscles, many on the point of passing through. Above and below, to the right and to the left, they are suspended, and we can easily observe all phases of their passage. This circumstance also led me to the discovery of diapedesis in 1865. For at that time I covered the tails of curarized tad- poles with thin covering-glass; and the pressure of the covering-glass is 1 Only in the capillaries and veins, not in the large arteries. Here the pressure can fall, for example, from 100 to 50 mm. mercury, whilst in the capillaries it may rise from 10 to 30 mm. mercury.