331 PHOSPHATURIA. less serious, but fractures unite with great difficulty. Diabetic phlegmon and gangrene sometimes progress slowly and without provoking any very violent or grave general symptoms, but they none the less terminate in death, in the majority of cases, especially in old persons whose internal organs are in a bad condition, and when suitable treatment has not been employed in time. Traumatism affecting the region of the medulla oblongata, either directly or indirectly, may, as is well known, produce glycosuria which is usually of short duration, and which undergoes spontaneous cure. Wounds affecting a diabetic subject generally aggravate his condition. The sugar, which had disappeared, shows itself again, or becomes more abund- ant. This is especially observed in operations upon those who have been previously recognized as diabetic, and in whom the sugar has been made to disappear from the urine. This return of glycosuria may be temporary, but it may also hasten the development and natural termination of the disease. Wounded diabetics may recover, but they may die in several ways; in the first place, from inflammatory or septic complications which have started in the wound ; then of complications on the part of the brain, heart, or lungs; and Anally they may rapidly die in a sort of adynamic condition which we cannot attribute to any well-defined local or general complications. The gravity of the prognosis is greater as the wound or operation is more serious, as the quantity of sugar is larger, and as the diabetes is accompanied with more advanced visceral lesions. The distinction established by modern writers between glycosuria and dia- betes is admissible to a certain extent, but we must not trust to it too much, and regard as benign those wounds which occur in individuals who pass but little sugar. It is equally incorrect to regard as favorable the substitution of albumen for sugar in certain diabetics. Except in urgent cases, we should never operate upon a diabetic patient, until we have made the sugar disap- pear as much as possible from the urine. Alcohol-diabetes.—Although it has not yet been referred to, the associa- tion of alcoholism and diabetes cannot be very rare, if we take into account, on the one hand, the polydypsia natural to diabetics, and, on the other, the advice given these patients to take stimulating drinks. As poisoning by alco- hol and poisoning by sugar both give rise to quite similar complications in the traumatic centre—diffuse inflammation, erysipelas, gangrene—it is not sur- prising to find that in the subjects of alcohol-diabetes, wounds, which were at first slight, are followed by serious and rapid complications. Thus, I have seen a. puncture or contusion cause very extensive sloughing, and catheteriza- tion give rise to double, rapidly fatal nephritis. While an autopsy often gives negative results in cases ot simple diabetes, in those cases of alcohol-diabetes which I have seen, grave visceral lesions have been noted—cirrhosis, old peri- nephritis, double nephritis—which were very probably the results of the alco- holism, and which would by themselves have given rise to the fatal termina- tion without the concurrence of the diabetes. More numerous observations will permit further study of this interesting variety of hybrid disease. Piiosphaturia. Glycosuria is not the only form of diabetes; in the same rank must be placed simple polyuria, or diabetes insipidus; phosphaturia, or phosphatic diabetes; azoturia, and finally uric diabetes, which alternates so frequently with diabetes mellitus. TV ho knows indeed whether the list will not become more extensive, and whether it will not be necessary, at some future period,