CAUSES OF DELIRIUM TREMENS. 395 plirenitis, and delirium tremens, tlie latter having for its production a specific cause, and a pathological anatomy entirely distinct from that of the former. From the earliest times, excess in drink has been a habit among men, and it seems scarcely credible that the effects of this habit in producing a pecu- liar disease of the brain and its membranes, should for so long a time have escaped attention. Was it because everybody drank, and was drinking considered so innocent a pastime that it was not thought of as a cause of disease ? This also is incredible, for the evils of drink, as well as its pleasures, are dilated upon by the authors of all ages and countries. It is probable therefore that drink was known to be a cause of disease, but that the effects were misinterpreted, and were considered to be evidences of active inflamma- tion. This was no doubt so, for the treatment of these cases was antiphlogis- tic to an extreme degree, and the mortality was frightful. A great advance, then, was made when it was recognized, both by the effects of treatment and by the results of post-mortem examinations, that a true inflammation did not exist in this disease. Dr. Sutton was at first on the plirenitis side. He naively says: “ The one party, with myself, considering the disorder to be active inflammation of the brain or its investing membranes, conducted the treatment according to this supposition ; the other, without pretending to any precise notions of this affection, in so far as the contents of the cranium might be concerned, were in the habit of using opium in large and repeated doses. I very soon perceived that the latter practice carried with it all the suc- cess.” The post-mortem appearances, as far as the contents of the cranium are con- cerned, are peculiar in this, that they show no sign of active inflammation, nor of any of its products. Instead of adhering membranes, thickenings, opa- cities, and pus, there is a condition, so characteristic in uncomplicated cases, that it has been named “ wet brain.” Passive congestion and serosity, the latter both subarachnoid, in and under the pia mater, and filling the ventricles and following the convolutions, are what are met with. The brain substance proper is not necessarily the seat of changes ; and what happens to it in fatal cases must be secondary, and not essential to the disease, else how could it he possible for so many to recover entirely from this affection, and, provided that there he no return to former habits, to pass their lives without showing any defect in mind or body ? In fact, what was said about traumatic delirium and delirium in general, is equally applicable here. A sound cortex, capable of being impressed by adverse influences, is in the best state to develop de- lirium. Repeated drafts upon this soundness, by renewed attacks, will finally affect it, and the victim will then too often lapse into imbecility or dementia. Causes of Delirium Tremens.—Delirium tremens then, as far as its pro- duction is concerned, does not differ from other forms of delirium. The dif- ference lies in the peculiar effects arising from the cause. The great interest of medical men in this disease is due to its frequency, through the universal prevalence of drinking habits. There is no disease or injury upon which it may not make its imprint, and give a serious turn to what would otherwise be favorable. In many cases, both medical and surgical, all else has to be abandoned in treatment until the delirium is subdued. Thus delirium tre- mens is not only a torment in itself, but, when it complicates other affections^ it is an unbounded torment to all concerned. The cause is nearly always the excessive use of alcoholic drinks. The habitual use of other articles is said to produce it: opium, belladonna, stra- monium, tobacco, cannabis indica, certain fungi, and even tea and coffee are all capable of causing delirium. Of these, it is said that veritable delirium