471 CONDITIONS DETERMINING THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. tions of the family or friends of the patient. Every precaution must be taken to insure cleanliness in the widest sense of the term; a proper bed and bed- ding ought to be provided, and rubber cloths to prevent soiling by the dis- charges ; all unnecessary hangings and draperies should he taken down as possible receptacles of dust, and of organic poisonous matters and emanations. The bed should be so placed as to be out of the way of draughts of air from doors and windows, and of direct currents of heat from hot-air flues, ivliile at the same time convenient arrangements must be adopted to insure satisfactory ventilation, the temperature of the room being regulated by a thermometer. All excreta ought to be removed at once, and every means adopted to keep the room tidy, and the patient in as clean and comfortable a condition as pos- sible. Disinfectants should be freely used, not only in the room, but about the patient, whose person, where no objection exists, should everyday he care- fully sponged and dried without uncovering him unduly. The hygiene of hospitals has of late years been made the subject of elabo- rate study, and is daily attracting more attention. In all well-ordered hos- pitals, the diet sheets are usually sufficient and well arranged, and the personal cares rendered by the attendants are properly watched. The great danger in all large hospitals is, however, that of overcrowding; of bringing too many patients under one roof. Hot only ought this to be guarded against, hut care should be exercised to see that the wards are not too large; from twenty-five to thirty beds is a quite sufficient capacity for any one ward. The amount of air space usually regarded as sufficient for surgical cases, is from fifteen hundred to two thousand cubic feet, with a floor area of from one hundred to one hundred and thirty or forty square feet for each patient. These figures are all very well as far as they go, but it is ivell to see that, even with full averages, the height of the ceiling is sufficient, not less than fifteen or six- teen feet. Different systems have been devised for bringing in fresh air, and getting rid of the foul air, by means of upward and downward currents, and by the use of steam fans. Such ingenious methods have doubtless gone far to purify hospital wards; at the same time there is reason to believe that the best system of obtaining ventilation and insuring perfect change of air is that which may be called the natural one, namely, by doors, windows, and open fireplaces. Ventilation and change of air during the night are strongly to be insisted upon, and the persistent efforts of hospital attendants to close up their wards tightly during the hours of sleep, ought to be watchfully anticipated and restrained. The population of large wards ought also to be vigilantly scrutinized, and too many suppurating cases should not be placed in one room. Patients with bad sloughing sores and putrid emanations had best be isolated when practicable, in order to prevent ward contamination, and every ward should from time to time be emptied and thoroughly cleansed and disinfected. In other words, no effort should be spared to preserve the purity of a ward, and to permit at all times the free access of fresh air, in itself the most thorough of all disinfectants. The importance of good hospital drainage must never he forgotten, and, in effecting this, proper measures ought to be taken to prevent the backing of sewer gas, which not unfrequently occurs from defective trapping. Such emanations are of the most deadly character, and are fearfully potent in giving rise to various forms of blood-poisoning. Mr. Erichsen, in his truthful and forcible remarks on the overcrowding of hospitals, has pertinently pointed out the baneful influences of deficient sani- tary regulations, and has shown how cruel such a system is to patients, and how unjust to hospital surgeons ; inflicting on the former an unnecessarily high rate of mortality, and on the latter an undue burden of anxiety and respon- sibility. The subject of civil and military hospital construction and organization is.