268 RACHITIS. rachitic bend of this hone in an adult, years after rachitis had ceased, and when the bone had become consolidated by the new deposition of lime salts. The curvature of the tibia and fibula varies. In those under the age of one year, it is apt to be outward, so that the knees are separated from each other. In those old enough to stand, the weight of the body usually determines a forward bending of these bones. In one case in my practice, an anterior cur- vature so abrupt that an angle of about 70° was formed, existed about four inches above each ankle. This patient, though old enough to walk, almost constantly sat during the day with the feet extended beyond the sofa, so that the edge of the latter corresponded with the concavity of the legs. It seemed to me that the weight of the feet must have been a factor in causing these curvatures, especially as the case was one of very marked rachitic softening of different bones. Still, tibial and fibular bending at this point has been noticed by different observers, who have attributed it to the Fig. 19. Fig. 20. weight of the body in walking. Various other cur- vatures, besides those mentioned, occur in the bones of the lower extremities, the direction in which the limbs bend being determined by the particular cir- cumstances of the case. I In mild cases of rickets, most of the deformities described above are lacking, but in typical cases cer- tain of them stand out prominently, so as to be read- ily detected by one familiar with the disease. In all such cases the diagnosis is easy beyond that of most other maladies, for the changes which occur are not only conspicuous, but pathognomonic. Rachitis produces another important effect on the skeleton. Its growth is stunted, not only during the rachitic period, but subsequently, so that those who have been rachitic in childhood, unless very mildly, have less than the average stature in adult life. The stunted growth is apparent, though ample allowance be made for curvatures. The arrest of development is greater in some bones than in others. It is greatest in the bones of the face, pelvis, and lower extremi- ties. Stunted growth of the pelvic bones of the fe- male infant conjoined with the deformities alluded to above, may seriously affect her subsequent life, and a rachitic pelvis in the female, exhibiting both stunted growth and deformity, constitutes a valid reason for avoiding marriage. As a rule, the older the child is when rachitis begins, the less is the skeleton affected, and the less conse- quently is the deformity. Rachitic deformities of the fe- mur, tibia, and fibula. (Wood Mu- seum.) Effect of Rachitis on Dentition.—As might be expected from the nature of rachitis, dentition suffers severely. If the disease show itself before any tooth has appeared, the first teeth, to wit, the lower central incisors, will probably not appear before the ninth or tenth month, or even later. Sir Wm. Jenner considers the non-appearance of a tooth by the ninth month, with few exceptions, a sign of rachitis. Teeth which appear during the rachitic state are frail, deficient in enamel, and crumble readily. They become carious, rot, and break before the usual time. If certain teeth have ap- peared when rachitis begins, several months elapse before others cut the gum. It is even said that a child who has rachitis severely may never have a tooth;