MINOR SURGERY. 486 finger or thumb of the disengaged hand is put on the body of the bandage to keep it securely in place on the limb, while the reverse, is being made; then the hand holding the roller is carried a little towards the limb, to slacken the unwound portion, and, by changing the position of this hand from extreme supination to pronation, the reverse is made. (Fig. 46.) A reverse must be completed before the bandage is continued round the limb; for if traction be made while the reverses are being formed, the bandage will be twisted and corded, and will consequently become a source of annoyance, if not of positive ' suffering, to the patient. For a bandage to present a neat and finished ap- pearance, its reverses should be in line with one another. Reverses ought never to be made over a salient portion of the skeleton if it can be avoided. Spiral Bandages.—The Spiral Reversed of the Upper Extremity.—A roller bandage 6f centimetres (2f inches) wide and 6§ metres (7 yards) long. First fix the initial extremity at the wrist by two circular turns; then carry the roller obliquely across the back of the hand to the second joints of the fingers, and surround them by a circular turn; ascend the hand as far as the thumb by one or two spiral turns; on reaching the thumb, cover its base and the wrist by two figure-of-eight turns carried above and below the thumb, and then continue up the forearm to the elbow by spiral reversed turns, made on the anterior aspect of the forearm. The elbow may be covered by spiral, spiral reversed, or figure-of-eight turns (passing above and below the joint, and named from their appearance), according to circumstances. When it is Fig. 47. Spiral reversed bandage of the upper extremity. desirable to permit motion at this joint, the latter form of bandage is em- ployed, and is applied with the joint somewhat flexed. To complete this roller it is conducted up the arm by spiral reversed turns to the margin of the axilla, where its terminal end is secured by a pin. (Fig. 47.) The Spiral of a Finger.—A roller 2 centimetres (f of an inch) wide and If metres (If yards) long. After securing the initial end by two circular turns at the wrist, conduct the bandage obliquely over the dorsum of the hand to the base of the finger that is to be covered ; thence to its distal extremity by oblique turns; ascend the finger by spiral turns, and, on reaching its proximal end, carry the bandage obliquely across the back of the hand, and terminate it by a couple of turns around the wrist; either pin the extremity of the roller, or divide it in two tails and tie them around the joint. (Fig. 48.) The Spiral of the Hand, or the Demi-Gauntlet.—A roller 2|- centimetres (1 inch) wide and 2|- metres (3 yards) long. The initial extremity is first secured by two circular turns around the wrist, after which the roller is carried from one side of the wrist to the opposite side of the hand obliquely across either the dorsum or the palm, the direction being determined by that surface of the hand which is to be covered ; from this point the bandage is wound around