( 403 ) ANESTHETICS AND ANESTHESIA. BY HENRY M. LYMAN, A.M., M.D., PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY AND OF DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM IN THE RUSH MEDICAL COLLEGE, CHICAGO. The term Anaesthesia, derived from a privative, and sensation, is employed to signify a condition of the nervous system', resulting either from disease or from the administration of certain substances, by which the indi- vidual is rendered incapable of perceiving external impressions. History of Anaesthesia. From the earliest ages attempts have been made to relieve pain by the induction of insensibility. Homer records the use of cataplasms, which doubtless owed a portion of their anodyne efficacy to the products of fermen- tation which they contained. The Egyptians were acquainted with the soothing effects of nepenthe, a drug probably identical either with Indian hemp or with opium. Herodotus refers to a practice among the Scythians of inhaling the vapors of hemp for the purpose of intoxication. The Chinese were also accustomed, as early as the third century, to produce insensibility during surgical operations, by the use of Indian hemp. There is a tradition to the effect that, among the ancient Assyrians, the pain of circumcision was prevented by compression of the veins in the neck, during the time of opera- tion. Pliny and Dioscorides relate that the Egyptians possessed a species of rock, brought from Memphis, which they were accustomed to apply in the form of a powder, moistened with sour wine, to painful wounds. This was probably a primitive method of producing local anaesthesia with carbonic acid gas. The most potent anaesthetic known to the ancients was the drug mandragora. Its infusion in wine was known to the Greeks by the name of 'morion. Apuleius states that half an ounce of this preparation would render one insensible even to the pain of an amputation. The sleep thus produced might continue for several hours; hence, no doubt, the origin of the story of the sleep of Juliet, as recorded by Shakespeare. The Jewish women were accustomed to give this anaesthetic wine to the victims of crucifixion; hence the record of the “wine mingled with myrrh,” in the gospel of St. Mark. The practice of inducing anaesthesia by inhalation, may be traced from the Scythians of the age of Herodotus, through the middle ages. While Dante was writing the Inferno, Theodoric, a surgeon of Bologna, taught the art of producing insensibility by inhalation of the vapor yielded by a medicated sponge that had been steeped in a decoction of opium, belladonna, liyos- cyamus, mandragora, hemlock, ivy, and lettuce. It is probable that the