CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 69 those of the third class—the injurious micro-organisms—have only recently been brought under the cognizance of the pathologist as the immediate de- termining causes of the more destructive phases of the inflammatory process. There is promise of great benefit to humanity and of equal credit to surgery in the fact that its pathology has been enriched, though the philosophic acu- men and admirably patient research of one of its own devoted students, by the demonstration of this still novel cause of inflammation; and the gain to hu- manity and to surgery has been incalculably magnified by the correlative discoverv of eft'ective remedial measures, actual and preventive, for the various forms of destructive inflammation thus traced to their source. John K. Mitchell, of Philadelphia, before 1849, expressed a strong belief in the cryptogamic origin of the poisons generally known as miasmata, and ably defended the theory that most malignant fevers were due to this source.1 Pasteur, in 1865, discovered the cryptogamic micro-organism which caused the epidemic silkworm disease in France, and demonstrated its direct agency in perpetuating the disease. The next year, Lister, assuming by induction that a similar source of poisonous infection might be capable of preventing the normal process of repair of wounds, inaugurated a course of experimental research which has, in the opinion of many, amply demonstrated the propo- sition. As this interesting subject will be discussed in a separate article, it is not necessary to pursue it here beyond the recognition of poisonous germs as a pregnant cause of inflammation in its worst forms. Following the general classification which has been laid down, we shall study, with concurrent details, some of the typical causes which clinical observation has shown to be capable of exciting inflammation, seeking, in each, for indications as to the means by which, ultimately, this condition may be prevented or controlled. In the first place, however, it will be necessary to notice certain general considerations which necessarily form part of a study of the causes of inflammation ; and, also, to define the mean- ing of certain terms commonly used in treating of this subject. Most systematic writers speak of inflammation as traumatic, or idiopathic, in accordance with its origin from obvious injury, or the reverse—and, when there is no discoverable cause for its occurrence, it is assumed to arise spon- taneously. The terms idiopathic and spontaneous, as applied to inflammation, are con- venient, but they are of doubtful accuracy. It is not certain that either of them is in any case correct, in a scientific sense. It is exceedingly improb- able that the series of textural changes of which the inflammatory process is believed to consist can be set in action without a provoking cause. These terms have come to be habitually used under the assumption that inflamma- tion is a disease. In fact, they are only admissible as signifying that the source of origin of the inflammatory condition is not, at the moment, demon- strable. Again, the terms internal and external inflammation, as applied to the con- dition when it occurs in the interior of the body, or upon its surface, are employed, somewhat vaguely, as synonymous with medical and surgical, in accordance with French nomenclature, which designates medical pathology as internal, and surgical pathology as external. This use of words perpetuates the idea that there is a radical difference between medical and surgical pathology; an idea which is no longer tenable. There has been a time when the surgeon was content to leave the examination of internal organs to the physician, before as well as after death, but, since the functions of the surgeon and physician have become so inseparably blended as they are at the present 1 On the Cryptogamous Origin of Malarious and Epidemic Fevers. Philadelphia, 1849.