305 CURATIVE TREATMENT. indicated, as well as beer and wine. Derblich1 records liis belief that the tinc- ture of cantharides exercises almost specific effects in the treatment of scurvy. In meeting complications, appropriate remedies will be found for the scor- butic stomatitis in the mineral and vegetable astringents, washes containing carbolic acid, and solutions of chlorinated lime or permanganate of potassium ; a solution of nitrate of silver also yields good results. These various reme- dies will afford relief, but no permanent improvement will ensue without the consentaneous adoption of vegetable food. The alterations in the skin demand no particular treatment, unless ulceration has occurred, when the use of sooth- ing applications, and protection from sources of external irritation, will be indicated; while at the same time the parts must be kept perfectly clean and free from offensive odor by the use of chlorinated or carbolated washes. In the hemorrhagic complications, the same treatment will be indicated as in simi- lar conditions unaccompanied by scurvy. Epistaxis may be checked by cold applications to the head, and by making the patient snuff astringent powders, such as tannin, powdered rhatany, etc. In serious cases, plugging of the nares must be promptly adopted. Hemorrhage from the stomach or bowels is to be checked by the external use of cold cloths, or ice, to the abdomen, and by the internal administration of ergot, tincture of the chloride of iron, gallic acid, acetate of lead and opium, or other agents of the haemostatic class. Effusions of blood or sero-sanguinolent fluid into the pericardium or pleura, if not excessive, will generally recede as the general condition improves under the treatment already indicated. Should the quantity, however, increase to such a degree as to embarrass the circulation and respiration, there is no alternative left but paracentesis, which at most affords slender chances for recovery. In the management of this disease, an important indication is to have the patient so watched that he may not be permitted to perform any movement likely to throw an additional burthen upon an already overtaxed heart; it has happened, time and again, that assuming the erect posture suddenly, or ascending a few steps, has resulted in immediate death. The strength must be taxed neither by active catharsis nor by bloodletting; should the bowels need moving, the gentlest laxatives will suffice to secure the desired effect. All preparations of mercury should be avoided, as they exercise the most pernicious effects, especially when carried to the extent of salivation. The evil results of these remedies were lamentably shown in the wholesale slaughter of four hundred men as reported by Kramer. 1 Wiener medizinisclie Wochenscrift, 1861, S. 827. VOL. I.—20