553 HISTORY OF AMPUTATION. supplying the limb should he tied or sewed as a preliminary measure, or that, in some cases, a fillet should he applied around the limb as a whole;1 when the operation was terminated, this band was to be removed, and a hot iron applied if there was much bleeding. Ileliodorus, who practised at Rome about the same time as Archigenes, advised that an incision should first be made on the side of the limb which was least muscular; that the bone should be sawn through next; and that the section of the thickest part of the limb should be kept until the last.2 3 Paulus kEgineta, who is supposed to have lived during the seventh century of our era, also recommended, on the authority of Leonides, that the section of the part containing the principal vessels should not be made until after the division of the bone, and added that the soft parts should be protected from contact of the saw by means of a linen rag {retractor)} Turning to the Arabian writers on surgery, we find that Avicenna or Ibn- sina (A. D. 980-1037) mentions the operation of amputation in connection with the general subject of sawing bones, but gives no special directions as to its performance.4 Rhases, or Razes, who flourished about a century earlier, refers to the use of a retractor, and in the fifteenth hook of Ids Liber Continens, or Comprehensive Book (a kind of common-place book treating of all subjects relating to medicine), recommends extraction of the whole bone in cases of caries or “ spina ventosa.5 Haly Abbas (Alee-Ibnool-Abbas), who died at the end of the tenth century, also recommends the use of a retractor, and gives advice as to the mode of making the incision for amputation, almost identical with that of Paulus vEgineta.6 Albucasis (Aboo-l-Kasim), who lived about a century later than Avicenna, gives similar directions, but adds nothing new to the subject.7 The surgical writers of the Middle Ages, such as Tlieodoric, Bishop of Cervia8 (died A. D. 1298), Gui de Chauliac, who was the papal physician between 1340 and 1370,9 and Leonardus Bertapalia, who appears to have flourished in the early part of the fourteenth century,10 commonly contented themselves with copying or paraphrasing the teachings of their predecessors. I may conclude this brief sketch of the ancient doc- trines of amputation by quoting from a sixteenth century translation of Gio- vanni di Vigo, who lived about A. D. 1510, the following description of the operation in cases of gangrene: it will be observed that while he mentions the cloth to cover the soft parts, he does not speak of using it as a retractor. The passage is also interesting as containing one of the early references to the induction of anaesthesia by inhalation. “ The manner to cut the corrupt member is this : First, ye must prove with a provet [probe] howe the mortification ot' the member goetli, and afterwarde yee must cut the member circle wise, in the tiesliie and musculous part, and ye must dissever somewhat the flesh from the bone in the over part of the member. And afterward cutte the rotten flesh from the bone by peece meale, and cover the borders with warm cloutes, that they bee not hurt by the ayre. Then ye must compasse about the over parte with your handes, and reduce the flesh circle wise, and sawe the bone as liighe as yee canne, 1 Archigenis de amputandis partibus, apud Oribasii lib. de luxat. ; Graecorum chirurgici libri, etc. e collect. Nicetae, cura Ant. Coccliii, Florent., 1754, p. 154. 2 Heliodori de extremis membris abscindendis. Ibid. p. 156. 3 Pauli iEginetae Medici Optimi lib. vi. cap. lxxxiv. Edit, princeps. Venetiis, in sedibus Aldi, etc., 1528, fol. 95. 4 Canonis lib. iv. fen 4, tract. 4, cap. 12. Edit. Cortsei et al. t. ii. p. 172. Venetiis, apud Juntas, 1595. 5 Haller, Bibiliotlieca cliirurgica, t. ii. p. 130. 6 Haly Filius Abbas. Liber totius medicine necessaria continens, etc., Pract. lib. ix. cap. lxv. Lugdun., 1523, fol. 283. 7 De chirurgia, lib. ii. sect, lxxxvii. Edit. cur. J. Cbanning, Oxon, 1778, t. ii. p. 419. 8 Chirurgia, lib. iii. cap. x. 9 Chirurgia, tract, vi. doct. i. cap. viii. 10 Tract, de ossibus, cap. ii.