238 SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. can be rendered thus with ease tuberculous, while others—the cat, for in- stance—resist the infection, and escape unharmed. The lessons taught by these experiments are, that tubercle may be artificially induced; that any lesion which will produce a cold abscess, or, better still, caseation, may be the agent by which tuberculosis may be induced; that there is nothing specific, therefore, in the infective material; but that, since certain animals are easily infected, while other animals as easily resist the infection, a certain predispo- sition to tubercle is probably essential. The characters of artificial tubercu- losis lend great weight to the theory of the inflammatory nature of the dis- ease, for all its processes are apparently closely associated with inflammation. The bearing which these experiments have on human tuberculosis can scarcely be over-estimated, and yet it may be very differently rendered. If tubercle can be produced in animals by the introduction into them of caseous material, whether tuberculous or not, why should not tubercle in man be in some such manner also closely connected with the presence of caseous matter in his body ? Long before the institution of these experiments on animals, Buhl1 had noticed the exceeding frequency with which caseous masses occurred in subjects who were tuberculous, and had been led on this, and other ac- counts, to regard tubercle as the product of infection. He came, indeed, to regard all tubercle, whether acute or chronic, wdiether general or local, as due to the absorption of infective material from caseous centres. How, although this view cannot be maintained in the complete form in which it was advo- cated by Buhl, it is, nevertheless, with some slight modification, the view most commonly adopted at the present day. The infective or absorption theory of tubercle assumes that all tubercle is produced by the absorption of infective matter, but not necessarily of caseous matter, although caseous matter is one of the most powerful infective agents. But there are certain difficulties which prevent it from being universally accepted. For example, the centre of infection cannot always be discovered, even by the most careful seeking—a difficulty which may be explained by assuming that it has disap- peared, either by absorption, or, it may be, by suppuration. Again, if caseous matter be so powerful an infecting agent, how can those cases be explained— and they are not few-—in which caseous masses exist, or have existed, in the body for a lengthened period, and yet in which no tubercle is produced? In reply to this question, it is suggested that a certain predisposition or tendency to the formation of tubercle is necessary, and, as an illustration of this law, the marked difference which exists between certain groups of ani- mals in their relation to tubercle is cited—an illustration which, by the way, loses something of its point from the fact that the law, which in animals is applied to whole races or species, is in man applied only to individuals. And as the insufficiency of this answer has been plainly felt, it has further been suggested by Xiemeyer,2 that the masses of caseous matter, to infect, must be in a certain stage or condition, and must not be surrounded by a capsule; and yet one more reason is assigned for the infecting capabilities of certain caseous masses, for the infectious nature of certain sputa—that they contain micro- organisms-—according to Kicks,3 a form of coccus (the Monas tuberculosum), according to Buhl,4 bacteria. Pathology of Tubercle.—These, then, are among the problems which now perplex pathologists in the nature and processes of tubercle. It we are com- pelled to hold fixed views on any of them, those which suggest themselves as 1 Lungenentziindung, Tuberkulose und Schwindsuclit. 2 Text-book of Practical Medicine, translated by Humphreys and llacklev. * Handbuch der pathologisclien Anatomie. 4 Op. cit.