CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. perturbations of the nerve force which also attend them. There is a remark- able tendency to pus formation developed in exceptional instances, postpartum, which affects the joints by preference, and of which there is no satisfactory explanation. Habit of body, etc.—It was formerly a common belief that stout and full- blooded persons were especially liable to inflammation; that they were in a “ state of plethora”—a condition of morbid fulness of the bloodvessels, indi- cating necessity for depletion. But, unless habitually over-fed, there is no foundation for this opinion. Moderate polysarcia is a constitutional pecu- liarity of many persons who enjoy good health. The habitually ill-fed, and those who from any cause are below their normal weight, are more likely to do badly after a serious injury or a surgical operation, through the superven- tion of some of the unhealthy complications of constructive inflammation. Parts which have been already the seat of inflammation are more likely to fall into that condition subsequently, from slight provocation, than tissues whose vessels have never been subjected to previous over-distension. In com- mon phrase, “their vitality has been weakened.” This is also true of parts which have been exposed to prolonged or extreme cold, or which have been frozen. The habitual congestion, the itching, and the proneness to vesication and ulceration so commonly observed in chilblains, illustrate this predisposing cause of inflammation. It is probable that in addition to impairment in quality of the vascular tissues in parts thus “weakened,” their nerves have also suffered in a similar way. Every organ whilst in active use receives more blood, and is, for the time, hypersemic. Habitual functional hyperazmia, especially when associated with fatigue from prolonged or excessive use of an organ, is a not uncommon pre- disposing cause of inflammation. Thus, reading all night is liable to be fol- lowed by suppurative inflammation of one or more of the Meibomian follicles —the ordinary hordeolum, or sty ; and if this excess be frequently repeated, the tissues of the eyeball itself are pretty certain to suffer from inflammation in some form, if exposed to an exciting cause. A young gentleman fatigued and heated by active ball play seated himself to rest by an open window where he was exposed to a draught of cool air. The next morning the muscles of the shoulder and arm were the seat of excessive pain on the slightest motion, in consequence of the development of a condition of “ subacute inflammation” of the muscular tissues. In regard to the influence of climate, and of meteorological phenomena, in predisposing the organism to inflammation, certain facts have been observed. In tropical regions, inflammations of the eyes of a serious character are very common and prevalent. So, also, is dysentery ; and abscess of the liver is a frequent occurrence. The latter affection is very rare in cold, or even in tem- perate climates. In the latitude of Hew York, the summer heats predispose to inflammations of the intestinal canal, especially in children, tending to culminate in ileo-colitis. In cold weather, the air passages are more prone to inflammatory affections, of which the most common is bronchitis. March winds, as was pointed out over two thousand years ago by Hippocrates, were, in the Morea, as they are with us, the frequent causes of acute phlegmasite— of tonsillitis, bronchitis, and conjunctivitis; evidently because they favor sud- den chilling, and give rise to irritation by producing clouds of dust. In our climate, the seasons of the year which have been found most favor- able for surgical operations, as regards freedom from inflammatory complica- tions, are the midsummer and autumnal months. This is explained by the