SKIN GRAFTING. 539 discovery of the phenomena of germination of anatomical particles when transplanted, was reserved for very modern times, although glimpses of the real significance of the process of healing of wounds and ulcers had been enjoyed in early ages. Perhaps Prof. Frank II. Hamilton, of Xew York, may he regarded as the first who attempted to generalize upon the experience of the past, when, in his clinique at the Dispensary of the Geneva Medical College, in January, 1847, he proposed to a boy of fifteen years a plastic operation, with the view of planting upon the centre of an ulcer a piece of new and perfectly healthy skin, taken from the calf of the other leg, and not intending to cover over the whole sore, but, perhaps, two or three square inches, which he believed would be enough to secure the closure of the wound in a short time.1 And the reporter affirms that this proposition had been made to the lad two years before. Dr. Hamilton’s earliest operation of the kind was not done, however, until January 21, 1854, upon Horace Driscoll, in the Buffalo Hospital of the Sisters of Charity. An account of this operation, contained in a paper enti- tled “Old Ulcers treated by Anaplasty,” read before the Buffalo Medical Association, June 27,1854, was published in the New York Journal of Medicine in September of that year. In the summary, the following remarkable sen- tence forms the fourth of six propositions: “If [thegraft be] smaller than the chasm which it is intended to fill, the graft will grow, or project from itself new skin to supply the deficiency.” The fifth proposition refers to a probable expansion of the graft, and the sixth asserts that “ in consequence of one or both of these two latter circumstances, it will not be necessary to make the graft so large as the deficmtcy it is intended to supply.” In this we observe the declaration of a principle, not new in fact, but original in its direct suggest- iveness, implying a knowledge of the strength of border growth of new skin in an ulcer, of the weakness of the middle part, and also of the means likely to repair, or capable of remedying, the deficiency. The fact was known long before, and is still familiar in the text-books of surgery, as we find Erichsen saying, “Indeed, if the ulcer be large, there may not be enough [new skin] for the cicatrization of the centre.” What Hamilton accomplished, and no doubt intended, if his words mean anything, was the establishment of a new basis of skin-formation where it was most needed, and his credit does not rest upon the performance of a simple anaplasty. The generalization of the idea which guided Hamilton was made by Dr. J. L. Reverdin, interne laureat of the Hospitals of Paris, in 1869, for on the 8th of December of that year he presented2 before the Society of Surgery a patient who belonged to the service of his “excellent master,” Dr. Guyon, and on whom he had practised a new experiment, for which he proposed the name of epidermic grafting. It consisted, to use his own words, “ in transporting to a granulating wound little bits formed out of the superficial parts of the in- tegument.” “ This experiment had been suggested to me,” he says, in an admirable article pub- lished a few years later,3 “ by having observed little epidermic islands which formed spontaneously in certain wounds ; I asked myself if, by a graft, we might not obtain the formation of similar little islands of cicatrization, and thus hasten the cure ; therein was a double interest, physiological and practical. The result was such as I dared hardly hope ; not only did the little morsels continue adherent to the granulations, but presently they began to extend and form an island of cicatrization.” And then the author, surveying the field likely to be covered by skin grafting, reproduces a part 1 Buffalo Med. and Surg. Journal, Feb. 1847, p. 508. 2 Bulletin de la Society de Cliirurgie, 1869 ; Gazette des Hopitaux, Janvier, 1870; British Med. Journal, Dec. 10, 1870. 3 Archives Gen6rales de M6decine, 1872, t. i. pp. 276, 555, 703.