466 OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. other organ. In health, the kidney would seem to exercise less influence upon life than the heart or liver; yet after traumatism, the recovery of the patient often depends upon the manner in which the kidneys are acting. The function of these organs is essentially one of elimination and blood purifica- tion, and upon their perfect working, the excretion from the blood of noxious elements to a large extent depends. An impaired kidney, which has under- gone certain pathological changes, and which may be secreting urine contain- ing albumen or sugar, or failing to excrete the usual amount of normal uri- nary products, may suffice for a while for the support of life, provided that no extra strain be put upon it. It is, however, an organ of a delicate and sympathizing nature, and is peculiarly susceptible to the shock of operation— indeed marvellously so, when the genito-urinary organs are concerned. The slightest disturbance often serves to modify and arrest its secretion, to such an extent as to give rise to fatal consecpiences. A careful examination of the urine should therefore invariably be made before any operation of magnitude is attempted, and, if necessary, this examination should be repeated at inter- vals. The steady presence of albumen, not dependent on febrile causes or mechanical impediment, especially if accompanied by renal casts, reveals the story of a kidney organically changed. Here all operation must be refrained from if possible, or, if imperatively demanded, the increased attendant dan- gers must be looked steadily in the face. The clinical import of albuminuria is familiar to every one, as indicating a tendency to the development of in- flammations of the serous membranes, and of some of the viscera. Two difficulties are met with in forming a diagnosis of renal affections. The first of these is the existence of disease in the bladder, attended by the formation of pus and albumen, and their collateral products. The second is the occurrence of chronic disease in the ureter, leading to its closure by thickening of its walls, or by the choking of its canal dependent upon the inspissation or hardening of inflammatory products. In each of these condi- tions the functions of the kidney are deranged, its secretion is interfered with, and a corresponding extra amount of work is imposed upon its fellow. When cystitis is present, it is absolutely impossible to form any idea of the man- ner in which the duties of the kidneys are being discharged. When ordinary desquamative nephritis—Bright’s disease—is developed, it is always attended by oedema, dropsies, and other familiar symptoms. The contracting kidney is marked by intermittent albuminuria, and by the presence of renal casts. It is, however, an affection which progresses slowly, and its symptoms are at times obscure. Clinically speaking, the dangers of operations in this form of kidney are greater than in the ordinary form of Bright’s disease. Renal congestion, accompanied by alteration or suppression of secretion, not unfrequently follows the simplest surgical procedures, such as catheterism, or the dilatation of a stricture. Its occurrence portends new and alarming danger for the patient, and it is therefore not improbable, as has been suggested by Mr. Reginald Harrison, that this is just the state so often productive of surgical calamities, the causes of which are puzzling, and apparently difficult of explanation. Pyelitis, or suppurating kidney, often spoken of as the “surgical kidney,” is frequently observed by the surgeon. In this disease the renal pelvis and calyces are inflamed and suppurating. The inflammatory action may extend into the secreting portion of the kidney, and, when pus is formed in quantity, we not unfrequently find after death that the ureter has been largely involved, sometimes presenting sacculi of considerable size, filled with purulent fluid. Viewing the very decided post-mortem appearances, it might be supposed that this condition could always be detected during life. Unfortunately its existence is often, perhaps most often, coincident with chronic vesical or pro- static disease, and the symptoms of its occurrence are therefore to some