193 TREATMENT OF ERYSIPELAS. severity, and whether of the medical or the surgical form, it is imperative that the patient should, as far as possible, he isolated; that he shoukl have no more attendants than are absolutely necessary; that his chamber should be well ventilated, but without exposing him to draughts of air or to dampness; that perfect cleanliness should be maintained about the wound, if there be one; and that when the bed- and body-clothing are washed, they should be thoroughly scalded before being handled. The inflamed part should be placed in as comfortable a position as possible, and the face, when affected, should not be exposed to a strong light; the skin should be kept dusted with lycopodium, or finely powdered starch, or wheat or rye flour, and covered with carded cotton; and in cases attended with much burning and tension, a smaller or larger proportion of oxide of zinc should be mixed with the flour, or the part may be kept anointed with vaseline, a far better protective than glycerine which has been much used for this purpose. Vaseline is also greatly superior to ointments, for unlike them it is not apt to become rancid, and it may serve as an excipient for oxide of zinc or lead, or any anodyne extract which may seem appropriate. The white of egg alone, or mixed with finely powdered alum, may also be used. Mucilages should never be employed. The mucilage of slippery elm, and still more of flaxseed, and poultices made of these substances, have to answer for a great deal of discom- fort during their application, and the production of a vesicular or pustular eruption which is unsightly, painful, and sometimes difficult to heal. At a time when every inflammation and fever was recognized as an almost infallible indication for blood-letting, it was naturally and extensively employed in the treatment of erysipelas, and its use was justified by names of unques- tionable authority. Even the candid and clear-sighted Sydenham advised copious depletion. But the weight of judgment is on the opposite side. According to one, it is of “fatal tendency;” others “always found it hurt- ful,” or “ rarely admissible,” or “ destructive.” “ It makes bad worse,” said Heberden ; “ it renders the disease more obstinate and severe,” said Desault; and Will an declared that “ in the low forms it is manifestly improper, and in the phlegmonous not always necessary.” According to Copland, “ large depletions should be employed with much circumspection, for however high the temperature, or hard and bounding the pulse, there is always a dispo- sition to asthenic vascular action and a deficiency of vital power;” and Bally is of opinion that “ it tends to aggravate the symptoms, bring on and intensify delirium, and prolong the attack.” Yet, even half a century ago, there were found eminent surgeons to say, like Sir W. Lawrence, that, “as this affection resembles other inflammations, it must be treated upon the same principles. Venesection, local bleeding, purging, and low diet are the first measures, to which saline and diaphoretic medicines may be afterwards added. Vigorous treatment in the beginning will often cut the attack short.” It is true that he qualified the rigor of this method by stating numerous exceptional cases in which it would be mis- chievous, and especially those of patients weakened by old age or previous disease, and he recognized its inappropriateness after the first stage of the attack. Since his time, depletion having gone out of fashion, even in the treatment of sthenic, inflammatory diseases, it has naturally come to be regarded as pernicious in those which, like erysipelas, tend so readily to a typhoid state. The judgments against depletion in this disease are therefore quoted, not because at the present time any one would probably be tempted to adopt it as a mode of treatment, but to serve as an argument in favor of the opposite method which is advocated in this article. "The objections are measurably applicable to local as well as to general depletion. Indeed in the former, if less injury is risked by the loss of blood, much more danger is VOL. i.—13