ERYSIPELAS. 196 dressing with wet compresses or poultices, or with dry astringent powders, or with salves. The same applications are suitable when superficial sloughs occur. As such sloughs often form upon parts the integument of which is delicate, as upon the eyelids, the ears, and the genital organs, if this accident appears to he due to the tension of the part more than to the deli- cacy of the skin, it is generally prudent to diminish the pressure by punc- tures or incisions that will give issue to the subjacent licpiid. When phlegmonous inflammation of the connective tissue takes place, it is the usual practice, if not always necessary, to make openings through which the products of inflammation can escape. This may sometimes be effected by punctures, or more thoroughly by free incisions (Copland Hutchison), at the most convenient, depending point of the swelling; but not unless the tension of the part, its painfulness, the tendency of the suppuration to advance, or the threatening of gangrene, furnishes the indication for interference. Punctures were highly recommended more than half a century ago by Dobson, who employed them in all cases, in number from ten to fifty, and varying in depth from two to four-tenths of an inch, repeating them from two to four times in the twenty-four hours, and on the scalp, face, trunk, or extremities, as occasion required. lie contended that not only were the in- teguments better preserved by making several small openings than by one large incision, but that the effused matter was quite as well evacuated.1 It may be objected to this method that it involves a very unnecessary suffering in all forms of erysipelas, except the phlegmonous, since they spontaneously tend to recovery; and at the time of its original proposal, it was said not to be adapted to the phlegmonous form. It was, however, a mild procedure in comparison with that of Lawrence, for which it was proposed as a substitute, and which consisted in “ making incisions through the inflamed skin and the subjacent adipose and cellular textures,” which were sometimes of appalling length. In one case, it is said, “ an incision was made from the ham to the heel,” and in another, involving the forearm, the cuts “ extended nearly the length of the limb.” The method by punctures, and that by short incisions, seem to be quite sufficient for all the exigencies of this disease. The former is said to be adapted to its early stages; but, as already suggested, the neces- sity of the procedure is so far from apparent, that it would seem to be called for only in exceptional circumstances. In the brawny stage of the inflam- mation, it is recommended that “ incisions from one to two inches long, and two or three inches apart, should be made over the inflamed surface, in the general direction of the subjacent muscular fibres ” (Ashliurst), and on alter- nate lines, thus | j , “ the greatest relief from tension being thus ob- tained with the least destruction of tissue.” “ At a later stage, when braw- niness has given place to bogginess, showing that'sloughing of the subcuta- neous tissues has already occurred, free and deep incisions, three or four inches long, may be required, in order to prevent gangrene of the skin, and to afford exit for sloughs, the separation of which may be hastened by the forceps and scissors. Warm fomentations should be constantly applied, and antiseptics may be freely used, not only in the dressings, but injected among the tissues by syringing. When the suppuration is very profuse, the fomentation may be omitted, the part being simply covered with lint and eliarpie, tow, oakum, or carded cotton, and supported by the gentle pres- sure of a bandage ” (Ashliurst). When there is, as is most apt to be the case in traumatic erysipelas, even less tendency to circumscription of the disease, Medico-Cliirurgical Review, August, 1828, p. 383.