ERYSIPELAS. 200 and healthy persons of a sanguine temperament, and that it was most efficient when the patients were of a delicate, feeble, lymphatic constitution, or had been exhausted by previous disease, when the local inflammation was oedema- tous rather than phlegmonous, the pulse soft rather than tense, and the tem- perature not very high. It appeared to be most useful in the milder and more superficial forms of traumatic erysipelas, in the chronic and wandering forms, in a word, in all that involved debility of the system. It would seem, also, to have been successfully used as a prophylactic for persons about to be operated upon in surgical wards where erysipelas prevailed.1 As late as 1880, the utility of tincture of chloride of iron in this disease was still recognized in Edinburgh, for it is stated by Miller that in the Royal Infirmary in that city the ordinary treatment of erysipelas consisted of a purge, milk diet, and the iron tincture, with a dressing of flour and cotton- wadding. Its effect on the milder cases was manifested in a few hours inva- riably. With these statements the experience of the writer substantially agrees, and while the measure of the medicine’s utility is not always the same, it appears to him none the less prompt and decided, although most unequivo- cally so in the less sthenic forms of the disease. The impression he has re- ceived from his experience is that this preparation lias a double mode of action ; that it acts by constringing the bloodvessels, and thereby limiting the inflam- matory process, and that while it tends to maintain the normal constitution of the blood, it also counteracts the noxious operation of the poison in the system. It is proper, however, to state that a less favorable judgment has been pro- nounced by some clinical observers. Long ago, Todd, prepossessed, no doubt, in favor of his own stimulant method, considered that the iron might be use- ful in otherwise benign cases, partly and chiefly because it excluded depress- ing treatment. “But,” he added, “ I would as soon think of trusting to it in the treatment of grave cases, as I would to the billionth of a grain of aconite, or of arnica, or sulphur, or any other homoeopathic absurdity ;”2 but five years later he softened this contemptuous judgment by the advice not to trust to the medicine alone, “ but merely to use it as an adjunct to the stimulant regi- men.”3 Reft el was not very happy in declaring that the medicine “ ought to be entirely discarded from the treatment of erysipelas, for, like all the pre- parations of iron it increases the temperature, and is therefore injurious in febrile diseases.”4 The question is not whether iron raises the temperature, but whether this preparation of it tends to cure erysipelas. Estlander pro- nounced it to be of no real utility ;5 and Dr. R. J. Lee concluded that cases treated with it were of longer duration than usual.6 But the weight of tes- timony upon the subject is altogether against these objectors. It would be easy to enumerate many other medicines than the few which have been mentioned, and which have been set forth as possessing a really modifying and curative influence in this disease, but as a type of them may be given the following conclusion respecting one of them, by a writer upon the subject: “ It is difficult to decide which is the best treatment, but experi- ence seems to point to bicarbonate of soda, largely diluted with water, to be drunk warm.”7 Such conclusions indicate how great is the incompetency of some observers to judge of the operation of medicines. 1 Bulletin de Thirapeutique, t. liii. p. 12. 2 Medical Times and Gazette, July, 1855, p. 30. 3 Clinical Lectures, 1860, p. 216. 4 Medical Record, vol. iv. p. 78. 5 Medical Times and Gazette, December, 1871, p. 716. 6 Practitioner, vol. viii. p. 158. i Braithwaite’s Retrospect, Quarterly Epitome, 1880, p. 171.