PYMIA AND ALLIED CONDITIONS. BY FRANCIS DEL AFIELD, M.D., ADJUNCT PROFESSOR OF PATHOLOGY AND PRACTICAL MEDICINE IN THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS, MEDICAL DEPARTMENT OF COLUMBIA COLLEGE, NEW YORK. Nomenclature. It has long been known that a certain number of patients, who have re- ceived wounds by accident, or by the hands of the surgeon, may suffer from general constitutional symptoms of greater or less severity. To designate the condition of these patients, the terms pyaemia, septicaemia, septico-pyaemia, ichorrhaemia, inflammatory fever, surgical fever, traumatic fever, suppurative fever, purulent infection, etc., have been used. These terms, however, are used in different ways by different authors. At first the tendency was to group all these conditions together. Since 1848, however, pyaemia and septi- caemia have been distinguished as different conditions. At the present time many different views prevail. Billroth defines septicaemia to be “a constitutional,generally acute disease,' which is due to the absorption of various putrid substances into the blood, and,” he adds, “ it is thought that these act as ferments in the blood, and spoil it so that it cannot fulfil its physiological functions.” Pyaemia is “a disease which we suppose to be due to the absorption of pus or its constituents into the blood.” Hueter says “ septicaemic fever is produced by the entrance of products of putrefaction into the blood. It is possible that the products of putrefaction are of different kinds, and that consequently there are different varieties of septicaemia.” He defines pyaemia as follows: “Pyaemie fevers are developed by the introduction into the blood of the components of pus, either the serum or the pus globules. The pus may enter directly into the blood- vessels or lymphatics, or it may first form parts of thrombi in the veins, and then enter the circulation, carried in the fragments detached from these thrombi.” He distinguishes simple pyaemia from metastatic pyaemia, and he also admits of a combination of pyaemia and septicaemia, which he calls sep- tico-pyaemia. Burdon Sanderson says: “ What I mean by septicaemia is a constitutional disorder of limited duration, produced by the entrance into the blood stream of a certain quantity of septic material. It must, there- fore, be regarded, not so much as a disease as a complication, differing from pyaemia, not only in the fact that it has no necessary connection with any local process, either primary or secondary, but also in the important particu- lar that it has no development. Pyaemia is a malignant process, which goes on and on to its fatal end; but in the case of septicaemia, inasmuch as the poison which produces it lias no tendency to multiply in the organism, there is no reason why the morbid process should not come to an end of itself, un- less either the original dose is fatal, or a second infection takes place from the ( 208 )