( 277 ) SCURVY. BY PHILIP S. WALES M.D. SURGEON-GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES NAVY. Synonyms. Latin, Scorbutus; French, Scorbut; Spanish, Escorbuto; Italian, Scorbuto; German, Scharbock. These appellations are derived from the old Saxon word Scarbock (ulcer of the mouth), or from the Sclavonic word Scarb (disease). We may define scurvy as an acquired, constitutional disease, determined by the use of improper diet, and almost wholly by abstention from succulent vegetable food. It is characterized by certain alterations in the vital, physical, and chemical properties of the blood, and by disturbances of the textural integrity of nearly all the constituent tissues and organs of the body. The perverted nutrition is manifested by lassitude, weariness, debility, breathlessness, loss of muscular power, depression of spirits, and hemorrhagic extravasations, par- ticularly into the skin of the lower extremities; the cutaneous blotches (pete- c/iice, vibices, ecchymoses) are of varying size, color, and form. The skin occasionally is the seat of bleeding, inveterate, and sloughing ulcerations. Ecchymotic discoloration occurs also in the mucous membranes; the gums become spongy, and bleed easily, and the sanious discharges from them infect the breath with a foul odor. Blood is sometimes poured out into the visceral cavities and canals, giving rise to the various forms of local hemorrhage. The serous membranes display alterations of varying aspect, caused by effu- sive or inflammatory action. It may happen that exudative products occur in the substance of the viscera and organs, in which case they are exceedingly apt to light up inflammatory disturbances. History of Scurvy. There is no reliable evidence to he found in ancient medical literature that this disease was known as an independent and distinct pathological entity. Certain scorbutic phenomena were recognized, hut always as allied and linked with those of other and diverse morbid conditions, as ergotism, typhus, diphtheritic stomatitis, malarial cachexia, splenic disorders, and icterus. There can be no doubt, however, that the conditions for its development were in early times frequently supplied by the prevailing and wide-spread igno- rance and neglect of the plainest facts of sanitary prevision, by the frequent famines from failure of crops or other national calamities, by the movements