NATURE OF TUBERCLE. 237 Nature of Tubercle.—The uncertainty which prevailed regarding the nature of tubercle, and the resemblance of some of its processes to those of the malignant tumors, led Virchow,1 many years ago, to regard it as a malig- nant tumor-formation. Its structure, apparent incurability, and the manner of its extension, were the chief among the conditions which led Virchow to adopt this view. Certainly it is an attractive theory, and may yet, perhaps, be proved to be correct for some of the bodies which are included under the name tubercle. But against its universal application, several arguments may be advanced. First, the almost constant association of the disease with inflammation—an association so constant that tubercle is regarded by most authors as the product of inflammatory changes. Next, the absence of ves- sels within the tubercle, and the wondrous frequency of caseation, are both unlike the characters of a malignant growth. Caseation does indeed often occur in carcinoma and sarcoma, hut not as if it were an almost necessary transformation of their tissues, or so largely as to produce great masses of caseous material. There are some peculiarities, too, in the manner of infec- tion of the primary disease, in which tubercle differs from the malignant new-formations; in the manner, for example, in which it is often scattered over wide tracts of membrane. And lastly, we can do with tubercle what we have not yet succeeded in effecting with any of the malignant growths: we can produce it at will. Not in the human subject, hut in certain of the lower animals, a body closely resembling tubercle in its essential attributes, may be produced by the introduction of certain substances within the body of the animal. This artificial tuberculosis may he produced most readily in the guinea-pig and dog. If we insert beneath the integument of either of these animals, a small portion of degenerated (caseous) tubercle, the animal falls sick and dies within a few weeks. Section discovers tuberculous inflammation of various organs, notably of the lungs. Or if we inject into the pleural cavity a fluid contain- ing caseous particles from a tuberculous lymphatic gland, the infective mate- rial first spreads itself over the surface of the serous membrane, producing at numerous points nodules of induration (tubercles); thence is conveyed along the lymphatic channels to the nearest glands, in which similar nodules are produced; and by the veins is disseminated through the body. The indurated nodules thus produced consist for the most part of masses of adenoid tissue, and do not exhibit the structure of the typical tubercle from which we started, although in the lungs epithelioid cells enter largely into their compo- sition. These artificial tubercles, too, are subject to much more rapid and extensive caseation than are the tubercles of acute human tuberculosis. And, lastly, it is singular that, in the artificial tuberculosis of animals, the brain, so often the seat of the disease in man, is never attacked. These are the chief differences between the natural and the artificial, acute tuberculosis; but they are not sufficient to counterbalance the evidence in favor of the view that the artificially produced disease is in truth tubercu- losis. The story of the induction of tuberculosis does not, however, end here. The experiments of Sanderson and Fox2 have made it clear that a mere injury inflicted in a certain manner, may produce tubercle as surely as the inocula- tion or injection of degenerated tubercle. For if a seton be introduced into a guinea-pig or dog, or non-tuberculous material he inserted, each of these inju- ries is equally followed by the formation, locally, of a cold abscess, and, later, by tubercles similarly distributed to those which follow the employment of a tuberculous agent. Moreover, it has been found that only certain animals 1 Krankhaften Geschwiilste, Vorles. xxi. * Recent Researches on Artificial Tuberculosis. Edinburgh, 1869.