257 ANATOMICAL CHARACTERS OF RACHITIS. is the use of a diet that is deficient in calcareous salts, and we have seen that in the interesting experiments of Dr. Heitzmann, the administration of cal- careous food to the animals was restricted. Still, as Niemeyer has well said, deprivation or restricted use of the chalky salts cannot possibly cause the most important histological change in rachitis, namely, the proliferation of the epiphyseal cartilages and periosteum, and we must look for some other factor in the causation. Pathology furnishes many examples of chronic disease attended by pro- liferation of tissue, the causes of which are not uniform. Cirrhosis, with its proliferation of hepatic connective tissue, which, as we shall see, presents a similitude in some respects to rachitis, is sometimes undoubtedly produced by the irritating action of a chemical agent, to wit, alcohol; but all physi- cians know that there are many cirrhotic patients who refrain entirely from the use of alcohol in any form. In like manner, it seems to me that, if we admit, as we must in the light of experiments, that certain chemical agents, notably phosphorus and lactic acid, introduced into the system or produced in it, cause rachitis by their irritating action, there are other typical cases in • which there is no reason to suspect the operation of such agents. We must, therefore, remain in the belief that rachitis, like many other pathological processes, does not result from a fixed and uniform cause, but from conditions which vary to a certain extent in different patients. Anatomical Characters of Rachitis. For convenience of description, the course of rachitis is divided into three periods: (1) That of proliferation and altered nutrition of cartilage and peri- osteum ; (2) That of curvature and deformity; (3) That of reconstruction. Anatomical Characters in the Stage of Proliferation and Altered Nutrition.—Ossification of a long bone occurs from the epiphyseal cartilages, and from the periosteal or fibrous membrane which surrounds, nourishes, and protects the bone. Growth in length is from the former, in thickness from the latter. As regards the flat bone, while growth in thickness occurs from the periosteum, that in breadth is from the cartilage of its border, which cor- responds with the epiphyseal cartilage of the long bone. Cartilaginous Changes.—If we examine the epiphyseal cartilage of a long bone during normal ossification, we observe, first beginning at the distal end, a white zone, consisting of the hyaline matrix, in which are the usual carti- lage cells. This constitutes most of the cartilage. Underneath this, and nearer the bone, is the zone of proliferation, the cartilage in which is- softer and more yielding than that of the distal zone, in consequence of cell forma- tion, and absorption of the matrix to make way for cell-groups. Each car- tilage cell in the proliferating zone has divided into two cells, and each of these cells into two other cells, and the division has been repeated so that eight cells instead of one are observed, surrounded by a common capsule. The capsule becomes distended by the cell multiplication, and by the swelling of each cell, the size of which is considerably greater than that of the parent cell. Near the bone, namely, along the extremity of the cliaphysis, the cell- groups, inclosed in their capsules, nearly touch each other, the matrix having, for the most part, been absorbed. The end of the diaphysis is covered with a layer of these cell-groups, about to undergo ossification, with almost no’ intervening matrix. The proliferating zone has very little depth. It appears VOL. i.—17