CONNECTION OF EPIDEMIC ERYSIPELAS WITH PUERPERAL FEVER. 175 one another by numerous examples, domestic and foreign. He maintained that there were cases in which the same cause seemed to engender both diseases, which differed from one another only in their subordinate characters, but were identical in their nature; as appears when, under the same general conditions, erysipelas ravages surgical wards, and puerperal fever lying-in hospitals or wards. If the conjunction were rare, it might be viewed as a simple coinci- dence, but its frequent repetition, if not uniform occurrence, and that not in one country alone, but in Europe and America alike, leaves no rational doubt that an intimate relationship exists between the two diseases. Of the two, the primary affection is sometimes erysipelas and sometimes puerperal fever, and each has the power of generating the other. A very striking illustra- tion of the less usual of these reciprocal influences is related by this author:— A fatal epidemic of puerperal fever occurred in the lying-in ward of a general hospi- tal. After a time, the remaining and incoming women who were about to be confined, were transferred to a remote ward, which, until then, had been used for patients with diseases of the skin, while the latter were moved into the late obstetrical ward, after it had been thoroughly cleansed. Thenceforth the puerperal fever ceased, but a grave epidemic of erysipelas broke out among the new tenants of the obstetrical ward, attack- ing them without regard to the nature of their cutaneous disease, their constitution, or their general health. An analogous illustration is furnished by Trousseau.1 An epidemic of puerperal fever desolated the Maternity Hospital, and, when the authorities felt compelled to re- move the pregnant women to other hospitals to be confined, erysipelas there broke out in a severe form in a great many of the surgical services, among those who had wounds. It is worthy of remark that in certain epidemics of erysipelas, and notably in that of Paris in 1861, to which reference has just been made, a morbid change in the blood was manifested by certain prevalent disorders. Gangrene frequently occurred, which was apparently not produced by, or proportionate to, the tension of the erysipelatous skin ; and, in like manner, boils and car- buncles formed, which were not at all confined to the seats of erysipelas, and which, therefore, must have originated in a special condition of the blood. A further and still more curious fact in this relation, is that many persons suffered from such affections who had not erysipelas, although they frequently occupied the same house or lodging with those who were laboring under that disease. It is of especial interest, also, that during this epidemic not only did puerperal fever prevail, but that in not a few cases pus formed in the articulations and in the serous cavities of the trunk.2 Retzius has given the history of puerperal fever as it occurred in the Lying- in Hospital of Stockholm. It began in 1858, and grew more severe in 1859 and 1860, so that the hospital became crowded, and, “ as a consequence,” it is stated, “ erysipelatous inflammations soon manifested themselves, although no analogous disease existed in the town, and nothing in the condition of the individual patients afforded any explanation of their being attacked.”3 The following instance illustrates the dependence of erysipelas and puerpe- ral fever upon the same essential cause :— Dr. Cox states that a physician having bled an erysipelatous patient, soon afterwards used the same lancet to bleed a man who had been hurt by a fall, and also a woman in labor. The man was attacked with phlebitis and the woman with puerperal fever.4 To pass over a period during which the instructive nature of these and many analogous instances, seems to have been forgotten or neglected, only one 1 Lectures on Clinical Medicine, vol. ii. 2 Dechambre, Gazette Hebdomadaire, Juillet, 1861, p. 476. 3 Medical Times and Gazette, April, 1862, p. 383. 4 American Medical Times, April, 1863, p. 198.