236 SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. Once formed, tubercles are not prone to disappear or to be resolved, although Lehert1 states emphatically that tuberculosis at all ages, in all situations, and in all places of its development, is capable of cure. Far more commonly they are associated with inflammatory changes, the tendency of which is through- out destructive. Suppuration in and about lymphatic glands; disintegration and protrusion of the testis through an opening in the scrotumulceration of mucous surfaces and of the skin; these are the conditions of which tuber- cles are too often the precursors. These conditions are probably all more or less closely connected with the caseation or molecular disintegration to which tubercles are so frequently subject. Infection of Tubercle.—But there is another cause, more potent than even these, which tends to hinder or prevent the cure of tubercle, or, to speak more justly, of tuberculosis. A tubercle once formed seems to possess the power of generating its kind. A tuberculous tissue or organ is not only a source of danger in itself, but a source whence new tubercles may be acquired. The spread of the disease is not always in the same direction, or to the same ex- tent. Sometimes it remains limited to a single organ, which may be com- pletely filled with tubercles. An example of this may be found in the testis of the patient in Case II., in which, however, it must not too hastily be assumed that the condition was due to the spread of the disease, for there is no distinct evidence to show that all the tubercles may not have been formed at the same moment. Sometimes tubercle invades a group of organs, spreading slowly from the first affected to the others. Such an extension of tuberculous dis- ease may fairly be supposed to have occurred in Case I., where one lymphatic gland had been diseased for many years, and subsequently each gland of the whole chain of glandulce concatenate had become enlarged, and (if we may judge by the examination of the smaller gland removed) probably tuber- culous. The infective material may probably be conveyed by various channels. It may be carried by the small arteries from near the root or hilum of an organ to its deeper parts. Or it may pass through the lymphatics to the neighbor- ing lymphatic glands, a method of extension so frequent that primary tuber- culosis of certain parts, the tongue and pharynx for example, is invariably associated (provided that the primary disease has been of sufficiently long duration) with tuberculous affection of the neighboring glands. Or it may travel through the veins, and reach the lungs from distant parts, and from the lungs again be disseminated through the body. Examples of this are numerous, but it will be sufficient to cite Case IV., in which the primary disease was, it may be believed, of the urinary mucous membrane, and in which, shortly before the patient’s death, the lungs, the liver, and the spleen became diseased. Or, lastly, and this is one of the most common methods of extension, the disease may spread over the surface of a membrane first attacked, or the infective material be carried to distant parts of long tracts of membrane, and there produce new tubercles. Illustrations of these condi- tions may be found in Cases III. and IV. In the former, the affection spread, as if by continuity, along the surface of the tongue to the pharynx and the larynx, and thence probably was conveyed by the air-passages, but without infecting them, to the lungs. In the latter, the disease attacked the genito- urinary tract, and, while it spread over the surface of the bladder, and through the substance of the kidneys and the testes, and was perhaps conveyed from one of these organs to the others, there were still wide tracts of normal or nearly normal intervening membrane. 1 Traite clinique et pratique de la phtliisie pulmonaire, etc. Paris, 1879.