211 TREATMENT OF FYiEMIA. small coagula. The thrombi look like fibrine which has been coagulated some time, of a coarse, granular texture, whitish, reddish, or mottled ; or they are partly softened into a reddish, sticky fluid; or they are softened into a yellowish, puriform fluid mixed with micrococci; or they putrefy with the growth of bacteria and the evolution of gases. Weigert has described small thrombi, adherent to the walls of the veins, composed of bacteria alone. There are usually inflammatory changes in the Avail of the vein which con- tains the thrombus, especially if the thrombus degenerates and softens. Portions of the softened thrombi may become detached, be carried into the circulation, and finally become lodged in some artery or capillary. After becoming lodged in this Avay, such portions of thrombi may act only mechani- cally, by obstructing the circulation of the blood; or may also act as local irritants, setting up a zone of inflammation about them. It is the softened, puriform, bacteritic thrombi from which such in fectious emboli are derived. The mechanical emboli produce the so-called infarctions, especially in the lungs the spleen, and the kidneys. These infarctions are small, wedge-shaped por- tions of the affected viscus, usually situated near the surface, with the large end of the wedge outwards. They are of a dark red color, or decolorized at the centre, or white, or softened and broken down. The red infarctions are produced by a congestion of the bloodvessels, and an infiltration of blood into the tissue. This congestion and infiltration are due to a regurgitation of venous blood, and a change in the walls of the vessels (Cohnheim); or to a supply of blood from collateral vessels which is not carried off by the A’eins (Litten). The Avliite infarctions are portions of tissue which are undergoing sIoav, necrotic changes as a result of their loss of blood supply (Litten). The infectious emboli produce abscesses of various sizes. Such abscesses are found most frequently in the lungs and liver, but they may also occur in the brain, heart, and other viscera. The abscesses are of irregular, globular shape, and may be situated in any part of a viscus. The portions of thrombi in the veins, which become detached, must of course pass into the right heart, and from thence into the lungs. It has always been a question Iioav such fragments of thrombi can find their Avay into the aortic system of arteries, especially in those cases in which no infarctions or abscesses are found in the lungs. The ordinary explanation is that some of the portions of thrombi are small enough to pass through the vessels of the lungs, and so find their way into the left heart; and that in other cases secondary thrombi are formed in the lungs, from which fragments are de- tached and pass into the left heart. It is also possible that small aggrega- tions of bacteria may find their way from the veins, through the lungs, into the left heart. It is the rule that abscesses in different parts of the body are found in those cases in which no thrombi can be demonstrated in the veins, and that infarc- tions in the lungs alone, are found in those cases in which thrombi can be demonstrated in the veins. Bacteria and micrococci are usually present in the wound, in the puriform thrombi, and in the abscesses. In the blood, during life, they seem to be sometimes present, sometimes absent. Treatment of Pyaemia. There seems to be no question that the only successful plan of treating these cases of pytemia is a preventive one. When the symptoms are once fairly developed, treatment is of no avail. It is indeed possible for patients to recover from the disease, but this seems to be due to their natural poAvers of resistance, rather than to any treatment.