GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL DIAGNOSIS. 388 hours’ delay will often clear away all obscurity, and render perfectly plain problems which were before insoluble. Difficulties in Surgical Diagnosis. The difficulties which environ the investigation of disease, arise from several sources. Among these may be mentioned the reluctance with which many consent to communicate any information calculated to affect unfavorably the social or physical standing of themselves or those who may be related to them by consanguinity. This difficulty can be overcome only by the personal tact of the surgeon. In this matter there exist very great differences among practitioners. Some men, either from constitution or education, are unfor- tunate in never being able to secure the entire confidence of a patient, while others, more favored, by a kind, sympathetic manner, an insinuating address, and other amenities which impart a loadstone attraction to character, will, in a few minutes, obtain such a mastery over the will and the affections of the patient, that nothing will be withheld. There are also constitutional pecu- liarities and idiosyncrasies, which impart to the phenomena excited by morbid impressions unusual characteristics, altogether dissimilar to those developed in most persons under the operation of like causes. The similarity of the morbid phenomena, which may result from diseases altogether unlike, con- stitutes another source of embarrassment, as do also the wide range of sym- pathy which prevails in the human body, and the rellex impressions which tend to disguise their original source, thus diverting the attention from the real to the unreal. The interrogation of a patient, like that of an unwilling witness in a court of justice, requires considerable skill. Sometimes it is desirable to allow the patient to narrate the history of his own case, provided that he adheres strictly to the subject of inquiry, and does not wander off into useless digres- sions, or matters altogether non-essential. A license of this kind will often disclose peculiarities of character which will prove of value in the general estimation of the case. Questions should be put in plain words, free from all ambiguity and from technical terms. The answers of the patient should be as brief and concise as possible, or as may be consistent with furnishing the desired information. In order to secure exactness and brevity of statement, no leading or sugges- tive questions should be asked. Undue lev.ity of manner, either in interroga- tion, or as excited by the language used by the patient, is to be deprecated. Such a manner is calculated to wound the sensibilities of the sufferer, and lays the profession open to the charge of being unfeeling. It is not to be expected, that the uneducated should describe their sensations in grammati- cally constructed sentences, or in the most fitting words. When it becomes necessary to question women on matters of a private nature, the inquiries should be framed in the most delicate language, and should never be pressed beyond the strict bounds of propriety, or from motives of curiosity. With young women, much embarrassment is avoided by addressing the questions, and obtaining the answers, through a mother or elderly friend, rather than directly to and from the patient. The influence of disease in changing the morale of the sick must never be forgotten. Under morbid influences, the most amiable character may be transformed into one which is fretful, irascible, or morose; and hence the necessity on the part of the surgeon of making due allowance for deportment which, under other circumstances, would be regarded as uncivil and inexcus- able.