EPITHELIUM AND ENDOTHELIUM. 55 already described of the white blood-corpuscle into a body resembling a sali- vary corpuscle, teaches us how rapidly such metamorphoses take place within the living matter. I must observe here that Heitzmann was the first to describe the net-like structure of the living matter, and to represent it schema- tically.1 In principle Heitzmann is right, but practically I consider it unjusti- fiable, now as then, to conclude from the aspect of a network in certain spots of the stained basis-substance that this network was there in the living state. I also do not consider it admissible to conclude that because I can recognize a network in a living cell, all cells must have just such networks. I must moreover mention here that Kassowitz was the first to regard the basis-sub- stance of the cartilage in its entirety as living matter,2 altogether without reference to the recognition of a reticulated structure. Epithelium and Endothelium. Only two types of tissue still remain to be spoken of: Endothelium and Epithelium. The lining cells of serous membranes we call endothelium ; that is, the lining cells of the peritoneum, of the pleura, and of the pericardium. We may also include here the intima of vessels. In all of these endothelial cells (as has already been described in detail), we can make the boundaries of certain nucleated fields apparent as brown lines, by using solutions of silver. These brown lines are called cement-substances (Kittsubstanzen) and cement- lines (Kittstreifen). As I have likewise already remarked, we may place the cement-substance on a par with the basis-substances. We know but little of the normal function of the endothelial cells. We know that the surface of serous membranes is moist, and we suspect that the endothelium plays a part here. Furthermore, on the basis of experiments by E. Briieke,3 we suspect that the endothelium of the vessels assists in keeping the blood fluid. On the other hand, on the basis of experiments which Durante4 ha-s performed under my direction, I suspect that in consequence of disease of the endothelium of vessels after ligation, the coagulation of the blood in the neighborhood of the ligature is promoted. It has furthermore been supposed that the endothe- lium of the serous membranes served the purpose of absorption. However, we know now that the stomata discovered by Recklinghausen in the serous membranes, lead directly into the lymphatics by means of canals, and bring about absorption. Endothelium has been most accurately investigated by E. Klein,5 who has shown that single groups of endothelial cells proliferate even in the normal condition, besides doing so in a state of inflammation. As a result of inflam- matory irritation, the endothelial cells of the bloodvessels as well as of the serous membranes return to their embryonic condition; they become softer again and more permeable; they swell, and their nuclei multiply. In this way suppuration of the endothelium takes place in serous membranes. The serous membrane is deprived of its endothelium. The pus-corpuscles fall into the serous sac, and appear there in the so-called exudation as pus-cor- puscles. Whether and how capillaries suppurate, I know not. But there is not the slightest doubt that the intima of arteries and veins can suppurate. In chronic inflammations, the endothelial cells grow; they are prolonged so as to form cords, which resemble cords of connective tissue. The cords of tissue produced from the endothelium, form the so-called false membranes. i Wiener Sitzungsberichte, 1873, Bd. 67 ; 3te Abtli. 2 Wiener mediz. Jahrb. 1879-1880. 8 Virchow’s Archiv, N. F., Bd. xii. 4 Med. Jalirbiicher, 1872, S. 143. 6 Anatomy of the Lymphatic System. London, 1875.