547 SKIN GRAFTING. sion of the grafts, or “ success” as M. Martin calls it, he declares that “ longevity is in- versely as the mass.” Of course, the conditions of the persistence of the life of the graft receive careful attention, and temperature, hygrometrical state, and volume, are referred to as the agents which chiefly influence its duration. Cold, says M. Ollier, favors the success of transplantation ; and “elevation of temperature,” in the language of Bert, “ is one cause of a shorter duration of vitality.” Moisture hurries decomposi- tion ; and smaller masses live longer than the larger. And, finally, the bit of living tissue to be preserved must be maintained at a low temperature, and in a vessel her- metically closed. Among the conclusions reached by M. Martin, we may give promi- nence to the following, which bears upon large and small grafting alike; “ a separated part preserves its vitality for several days, during which it is apt to contract adherence.” “The surgeon, therefore, will always be called in time to replace an organ ; besides, he may employ for the reconstruction of a separated organ a bit of tissue some time re- moved.” So that, in preparation for a plastic operation, “ tissues may be collected in an amphitheatre immediately or soon after death.” It is almost needless to add that the condition of the part receiving the graft, as well as that of the graft itself, must be suitable; for, in order to procure adhesion, the mutual concurrence of the plasmatic cells of the piece transported, and of the breach, is indispensable. From the foregoing experiments we are led to believe that parts separated from the body retain their vitality for a very considerable time; and, grant- ing that the experiments conld be repeated, the surgeon need find no diffi- culty in appropriating, as has been done, flaps from amputated members, or even borrowing particles or bits of tissue from the cadaver. As we have already remarked, skin grafting speedily had its claims ac- knowledged in America; indeed Bernutti1 refers to the statement of Spanti- gati as to the communications of Reverdin and of Frank Hamilton, of Hew York, having been sent in December, 1869, to the Societe de Chirurgie, of Paris, but adds that there is in the Bulletins of that Society for 1869, no record of Hamilton, whom Spantigati makes co-author with Reverdin. One of the earliest notices of skin grafting by a writer on this continent, was con- tained in a paper, published Dec. 12, 1870, by Sr. D. Luis Munoz, of Mexico,2 in which the subject was carefully presented; and this was followed by an- other, accompanied with four cases, by J. M. Bandera, which appeared the following year, in the same Journal. In the same year, 1871, Prof. J. T. Idodgen contributed to the St. Louis Medical and Surgical Journal3 articles upon “Cell or Skin Grafting,” giving cases, and explaining the methods of procuring grafts employed by himself. These were three in number: (1) By snipping off bits of human skin and epithelial layer; (2) by scratching off scales of epithelium; and (3) by removing sheets of detached portions of epithelium. And he grafted also from parts stained with India ink, and from moles. Hodgen was successful in his grafting; but it is remarkable that he obtained results with pigmentary grafting quite at variance with those of Reverdin, Coste, and others in France, although he found them in corre- spondence with those of Bryant, already referred to in this article. The American author says that when cells of the deep layer of the epithelium are used, the pigment also grows with the growth of the graft, but that when old dry scales are grafted, no pigmentary deposit takes place. It is curious to contrast with the experience of Ilodgen that of Maxwell,4 who, to fill a gap produced in the face by a gunshot wound, resorted to an anaplastic operation, engrafting the skin of a white man upon a negro patient, with 1 Giorn. della Reale Accad. di Medicina di Torino, t. xxxvii. pp. 35-55, 1S74. * Gaceta Med. Mejico, 1870. 3 St. Louis Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. viii. N. S., p. 289, 1871. 4 Pliila. Med. Times, vol. iv. p. 37, 1873.