ANAESTHETICS AND ANAESTHESIA. 412 ration and diffusion of motion throughout the system. Among the proto- plasmic molecules, the substance acts the part of a screen, like a cloud between the sun and the earth, hindering the energies of one from acting upon the susceptible matter of the other. Too frequent repetition of this action, how- ever, eventuates in the production of certain permanent modifications in the constitution of living matter. These are best illustrated by reference to the permanent alterations of nervous tissue which are produced by the immode- rate use of alcoholic anaesthetics. Mode of Administering Anaesthetics. The patient should occupy a recumbent position in order to facilitate the circulation of blood between the heart and the brain. Clothing should be adjusted in a way to permit the freest respiratory movements. The anaes- thetic substance may ordinarily be inhaled as it evaporates from a napkin placed over the mouth and nostrils. Innumerable forms of more or less com- plicated apparatus have been contrived for' the administration of graduated quantities of anaesthetic vapor; but the majority of these inhalers are dirty, cumbrous, disappointing, and unsafe. For ordinary use nothing has yet been found better than the simple napkin or its equivalent. For the administra- tion of nitrous oxide gas, a special form of inhaling apparatus is necessary, since it is important that all air be excluded during the act of inhalation. (Figs. 37, 38.) A very ingenious and useful inhaler has been contrived by Mr. Clover, an English surgeon of large experience with anaesthetics, for either the successive or the simultaneous inhalation of nitrous oxide gas and ether vapor. (Fig. 39.) With these exceptions, the simplest means of introducing the anaesthetic vapor into the lungs are always the best. During the whole time of inhalation, the condition of the patient should be continually observed by an experienced physician, and the earliest symptoms of danger should be immediately noted and opposed by vigorous treatment.1 Accidents of Anaesthesia. In certain rare cases, death may occur suddenly during the act of tranquil inhalation. The movements of the heart and of the respiratory organs seem to be almost instantaneously arrested; this accident seldom occurs unless the patient has been greatly enfeebled by previous disease or by hemorrhage. Death by asphyxia may occur during the act of inhalation. This accident might be occasioned by the use of a badly-adjusted inhaling apparatus, or by suffocation with numerous wet napkins crowded upon the tace; but this must be an exceedingly unusual event. It is when the trachea has been mechani- cally obstructed by the entrance of blood from a wound, or by the intrusion of fragments vomited from the stomach, that asphyxia is beyond doubt the cause of death. Asphyxia may occasionally be produced by the induction of tonic convulsion of the respiratory muscles, as a reflex consequence, of the local irritant action of chloroform vapor when brought in contact with the laryngeal mucous surfaces. Ordinarily, however, the consequences of such local irritation are confined to the production of a tumultuous cough. More frequently the intervention of danger manifests itself by prolongation of the stage of excitement. The muscles may finally pass into a condition of rigid- 1 [Further remarks upon the administration of special anaesthetics will be found under the head of the different agents employed. See pp. 424 et seq.]