SHOCK. 374 it possesses over both the vasomotor and the respiratory centres in the me- dulla oblongata and spinal cord; hut actually, in the only case in which I am aware that it has been tried, the result was not satisfactory. Belladonna,1 too, in very small, repeated doses, acting as a stimulant to the vasomotor sys- tem, is perhaps worthy of a trial. With regard to the employment of an anaesthetic when an operation is required in a case of shock, and still more with regard to the choice of the par- ticular substance to be used, there is very great diversity of opinion. On the whole, it may he said that the balance is at present decidedly in favor of the administration of these agents, and of ether rather than of chloroform. It is true, as Fischer has remarked, that patients seldom feel to any extent, and that sometimes, when no anaesthetic is administered, the pulse improves even during the operation; hut the former statement is not worth much as an argument; and the latter is of no avail against the employment of ether. Indeed, the only objection that can he urged against the latter, is that in the ordinary methods of administering it, the supply of oxygen to the patient is too much interfered with. Chloroform, which is used, perhaps, less than it was, but is still preferred by some experienced administrators in these cases, is undoubtedly, when pressed at all tar, an exceedingly dangerous agent; a minimum quantity is required to anaesthetize the patient, and only a drop or two occasionally to maintain the influence of the drug; anything over this, quite abolishing the action of the cerebral hemispheres, will he probably dis- astrous. For, as Brunton2 has pointed out, the violent irritation of a sensory nerve affects the heart reflexly, but compensates itself by causing the small vessels to contract, and so raise the blood-pressure; if the quantity given is sufficient to do away with sensation completely, the compensating action is lost, and there is danger; if the chloroform is pushed further still, the reflex centre in the medulla inhibiting the heart becomes affected equally with the cerebral hemispheres, and the danger is past; and Brunton cites Syme as always having used chloroform with a free hand. But in shock there is cer- tainly no need to proceed as far as this. A great deal has been said about the choice of the time for performing an operation; whether to operate at once, wait till reaction is commencing, or until it has fully set in? FTo doubt each case must be judged on its merits, but still some general rules may be laid down. The main guide, of course, is the severity of the shock sustained, as evidenced by the patient's pulse and general condition. If it is not severe, it need scarcely be regarded; if so grave that it is questionable whether reac- tion can set in, every means should be tried to bring the patient around before operation is attempted; in all other cases, it is probable that Guthrie’s advice will be admitted by most at the present day to be the most reasonable: wait, two, four, or six hours if need be, till the pulse is beginning to regain some of its strength, and till the patient is recovering sufficiently to become conscious of pain. [Some information may be gained by observing the temperature. If this be below 96° F. (35°.5 C., Bedard), no operation should, as a rule, be performed.] Fatty Embolism. In discussing the symptoms of shock, it was mentioned that many of the fatal cases hitherto ascribed to its influence must be referred to some other cause—especially when after an injury or operation the patient continues to present a perfectly satisfactory condition for some hours or even days, and then, more or less suddenly, is seized with symptoms indicative of some great 1 Gasquet, Practitioner, May, 1879. 8 British Medical Journal, December, 1875.