PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 4 0 These observations, now, force me to hold the following view: The mus- cular fibre is a contractile mass surrounded by a tube (saroolemma), a contrac- tile mass which, at the time of a normal discharge of function, has the peculiar appearance of transverse striation, or more correctly, of possessing transverse bands. But it is only a certain arrangement of the contractile substance which gives it this appearance; an arrangement consisting, perhaps, only of a varying density1 of the mass. This arrangement can vary according to the order to which the animal belongs, and according to the function of the muscle. It can lead to all the changing appearances which have been de- scribed by histologists. In the fresh (living) specimen, the muscle can resolve itself into fibrilltc, and it is probable that the fibrillae which are to be seen in specimens preserved in alcohol, made their appearance just previous to death. The best proof of the fibrillar change of the living muscles is offered by pathological processes, especially by inflammation, as has been shown in a most exhaustive way by Friedreich.2 The fibrillar change in disease can also be regarded as a fibrillar degeneration, as a destruction of the muscle. Be- sides, wTe know still another form of destruction of the muscular structure. The muscle may lose its peculiar, transversely-striated appearance, and become a homogeneous, granular mass. Such an appearance of the muscles has in- duced those pathologists who always examine only lifeless tissues, to believe that the homogeneous appearance is a sign of the death of the fibre. But the muscular fibre can continue to live as a homogeneous mass. Its nuclei can multiply; it can suppurate; it can become converted into blood-corpuscles; it can produce fat-granules. Various circumstances even seem to indicate that it may regain its normal state after a loss of the transverse striation. After this explanation, I return once more to the question of the nature of the fibrillse. Is the living muscle fibrillar ? Does the muscular fibre consist of a bundle of fibrillse ? We can now scarcely answer this question affirma- tively. And yet we must admit that there must he something contained in the muscle to permit of its changing into fibrillse under the influence of certain stimuli. If we stain the living muscular fibre with chloride of gold, we recognize a fibrillar structure in the specimen; indeed, here the fibrillse or little bundles of fibrillse seem united by an intermediate substance of a deep violet color. This arrangement has been the subject of numerous dis- cussions. Gerlach3 has asserted that these deep violet tracings between the fibrillse are the continuations of the nerves. But Gerlach’s assertion has been denied in various quarters. I must confirm the fact that there is a continuity between the threads of the terminal nervous apparatus (which are likewise stained a deep violet color) and the afore-mentioned violet intermediate sub- stance. But that wTe have here really to deal with the continuations of the nerve, I do not dare to assert. There is a stage in the course of the inflam- matory process in which the entire mass of the muscle has already changed its appearance. The transverse stripes have already disappeared ; the approach to suppuration is already declared; nothing more is to be seen of the violet tracings, but the terminal nervous expansion of Kfihne4 is still to be seen distinctly, and almost unchanged. Considering this, I must now admit that in the muscular fibre, alongside of the main mass (the contractile substance), there is distributed still another substance which stains of a deep violet color —a substance which perhaps favors the separation into fibril be. The question 1 The beautiful color phenomena seen with polarized light (Briicfee) are well calculated to support this view. 2 Ueber progressive Muskelatrophie. Berlin, 1873. 3 Max Schultze’s Arcliiv, Band xiii. 4 This is the terminal nervous expansion situated between sarcolemma and the contractile substance, and was discovered by Kiihne. [Note of the Translator.]