406 ANJESTHETICS AND ANAESTHESIA. anaesthetic agents, but the majority of them are either too dangerous or too costly to admit of general use. Phenomena of Anaesthesia. Certain minor peculiarities characterize the anaesthetic effects produced by inhalation of the different anaesthetic gases and vapors. The principal phe- nomena, however, are common to all. A description of the symptoms occa- sioned by the inhalation of the vapor of ether or of chloroform, will convey a sufficiently accurate idea of the manner in which artificial anesthesia ordi- narily supervenes. The first effect of the inhalation of an ethereal vapor is a local excitement of the nervous apparatus of the respiratory passages. The senses of taste and smell, and the naso-pharyngeal branches of the fifth pair of nerves, are powerfully excited. The activity of the salivary glands is aroused, and acts of deglutition are stimulated. Sometimes a disagreeable tickling is experienced in the larynx, and the patient coughs. A sense of suffocation may be expe- rienced, and the patient assumes an attitude of resistance, struggling to free himself from the inhaler. Animals, confined in a retentive apparatus, often endeavor to prevent the entrance of the anaesthetic vapor by restricting their movements of respiration within the narrowest possible limits. These first effects of local contact are soon succeeded by the more extensive results of general saturation of the tissues with the stupefying agent. The vapor rapidly passes into the blood, and is conveyed to every living element of the body. The initial effect is disturbance of function; the subsequent effect is paralysis of function. Disturbance usually assumes the form of ex- altation ; it is also always marked by perversion of the normal intensity of physiological sequences. The special senses give evidence of this agitation. There is a humming sound in the ears, and subjective impressions of light flash in varying forms across the visual field. The pulsation of the heart can be felt, and the vermicular movements of the intestines can sometimes be perceived. The arteries throb, the brain seethes, waves of heat flush the sur- face of the body, perspiration appears upon the face, and may become gene- ral. the pulse rises, respiration is accelerated, the pupils contract, the eyes close, reflex irritability is exalted, and in his general appearance the patient resembles a person in the earlier stages of alcoholic intoxication. To this period of excitement succeeds the stage of diminishing function. The cuta- neous sensibility grows less, the temperature falls, the pulse recedes towards the normal standard, the blood pressure diminishes, the respiratory move- ments become deep and full, like those in profound sleep, voluntary move- ments cease, consciousness gradually fails, reflex movements are abolished, and the patient becomes utterly insensible. If the act of inhalation be urged beyond this point, syncope may occur, and a cessation of respiration and cir- culation may terminate the life of the patient. During the act of inhalation the eyes are generally closed. The eyelids often move as if winking. At first, the pupils are variable in their diameter. When anaesthesia is fully declared, the pupils are contracted; but if the con- dition of stupefaction is carried to an extreme, dilatation takes place, and persists till death. During the period of complete insensibility, the eyeballs are frequently turned upwards and inwards, sometimes assuming the position of conjugated deviation. General sensibility is disturbed at a very early stage of the anaesthetic process. After the brief period of initial exaltation, cuta- neous sensibility diminishes at a rapid rate. This diminution is first, mani- fested upon the least sensible portions of the surface. Sensibility persists