OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. 458 commonly much suppuration and burrowing of matter, and a tendency to sloughing. These conditions all predispose to exhaustion, and to intercurrent diseases of a low type. The state of plethora which is marked in those who are usually spoken of as “full blooded,” is also one which requires careful consideration from the sur- geon. If this condition is confined simply to the external surface, and is not accompanied by internal congestions, or derangement of the viscera, and has not been produced by free living, there is no reason why the surgeon should refrain from operating. He must simply be on his guard against the devel- opment of intercurrent affections of an inflammatory type, to which such per- sons may possibly be naturally disposed. Leanness is not a bar to operation, unless it result from non-nutrition, de- fective assimilation, or excessive excretion, in which case it will probably be found to depend upon some perverted function or organic disturbance. When loss of flesh has occurred from overwork, or too great mental or bodily strain, the surgeon should be careful, and, except in urgent cases, should defer ope- ration, if possible, until the patient has by proper therapeutic and dietetic measures been brought to a better grade of health. In short, it may be re- peated, as already stated, that when the deflections from the standard of health have been produced by impaired nutrition, or organic disease, the patient is not, and will not be, in a suitable state for operation until the exciting cause has been remedied or removed to the greatest degree possible. Habits of Patient.—Habits, bad habits, play an important part in render- ing a patient unfit for operation. The evil effects of the excessive use of stimulus; opium eating; the taking of chloral or other pernicious agents of this kind, are so well known as scarcely to demand more than a passing mention. Drunkenness, too, in its varied forms, is one of the most familiar examples of the contra-indications to operation. But here there is a differ- ence of degree. The quiet drinker, who “soaks” over night, and, while rarely quite drunk, seldom goes to bed really sober, is, perhaps, one of the worst subjects for an operation. In bis case there is in all probability more or less organic hepatic trouble, or, if this condition is not yet fully established, there is a tendency in that direction. In him the powers of life are lowered, and there is a lack of that vital resistance necessary to carry him through the perils of an operation. In such cases, too, there is always more or less ten- dency to the development of delirium tremens, and, when this occurs, the prognosis always becomes grave. In confirmed, steady drinkers, the outlook after surgical interference is bad, and more so after accidents which demand amputation. Even here, however, poor as the chances are, the probability is that primary amputations are less dangerous than secondary—the latter when of the severer kind not unfrequently ending fatally. There is another class of intemperates upon whom the effects of operation are not so disastrous as in the group already referred to. These persons indulge occasionally in fits or bouts of drinking, the duration of the debauch usually lasting from two to six days. These periods of carouse are succeeded by weeks or months of sobriety, during which time the individual attends to his business actively and industriously. Operations performed during these intervals of abstinence, are not necessarily attended by any very great amount of increased risk to life; nevertheless the surgeon must watch care- fully against the advent of untoward symptoms. It must also be remarked that, in these unfortunates, the craving for drink is apt to be developed at times until it assumes almost the form of mania. To the practised eye the approach of these drinking periods is unmistakable, the patient’s manner being marked at times by fits of irresolution, and at times by a general state