148 INFLAMMATION. testicle by strapping, was at one time largely in vogue, but it lias fallen greatly into disuse. The bad consequences which so often follow tight bandaging belong, also, to the category of ill effects which injudicious com- pression may cause. It is in the later phases of inflammation, that compression may be em- ployed with the greatest advantage. To aid resolution by increased support to the walls-of vessels which have been over-distended, and are now tending to recontract; to favor the absorption of liquid and solid materials which" have accumulated in the peri-vascular connective tissue by exudation; and in this way to prevent, under many circumstances, the formation of pus by ex- pediting a return of the parts to a normal condition, are the results which may be accomplished by judicious compression. To keep healthy granulat- ing surfaces in contact so as to secure their adhesion ; to support and gently press together the walls of abscesses after evacuation, in view of a similar result; and to restrain serous exudation in parts weakened by inflammation, are additional illustrations of its utility. But it is in chronic inflammation, and in facilitating the absorption of its products in the way of induration and accumulated neoplastic formation, that the employment of compression is, perhaps, most useful. An example of the benefit to be derived from systematic compression is afforded by the treat- ment of an indolent ulcer by strapping—after the method known as Bayn- ton’s, at one time in great repute—by which the surrounding embankment of induration is effaced by absorption, and its obstructed circulation restored. Another is seen in the shrinking of glandular swellings which have resulted from chronic inflammation. The mechanism of the cure in these cases is explained, in part, by the restored action of the lymphatics effected by the removal of the pressure caused by the obstructive new formation. It may be remarked that the power of iodine applied locally over glandular swellings, in promoting absorption, although highly sanctioned, is probably exagge- rated, and notably inferior to that exercised by skilfully applied pressure. The remarkable effect of this drug in dissipating the gummatous swellings of syphilis has acquired for it more reputation than it deserves, as regards swellings of a different nature. Compression, as employed in the treatment of inflammation, may be effected by different methods, each of which has its advantages. The ordinary roller bandage of undressed cotton-cloth is very useful in skilful hands, and applicable, extemporaneously, under many circumstances. By availing him- self of the elasticity of cotton-wool, and placing two or more layers of ordi- nary cotton-batting upon the part to be compressed, the surgeon may apply a bandage tightly over the cotton without fear of causing any irregular con- striction ; and he will also secure by this device the additional advantage of keeping the part at an uniform temperature. These are points of decided value, for an even soft elastic pressure, with warmth unvarying in degree, are most useful conditions in the treatment of inflammation. This method of dressing, with cotton, constitutes the “ appareil ouate ” of Alphonse Guerin, who has employed it largely at the Hotel Dieu, at Paris, claiming for it, when applied over recently closed wounds, absolute antiseptic properties. It is well known that air is deprived of all dust, and, therefore, of possible aerial germs, by being filtered through cotton-wool. Tyndall has shown that the most readily putrescible fluid in a test-tube, the mouth of which is plugged by cotton-wool, will remain free from putrefactive change indefinitely. This quality in cotton gives it additional value as a material for surgical dressings. Apart from our present purpose, the dressing of cot- ton wadding is a most useful resource in the treatment of fractures, where it aids in securing pressure enough to effect immobility without danger; and in