OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. 444 procedures, the first step should he to win the confidence of the patient, and to impress him by gentleness rather than by force. In the early days of ether, various complicated forms of apparatus and mouth-pieces were con- structed to assist the inhalation. In America these have given way to methods of greater simplicity—the employment of the folded towel or the sponge. Perhaps the simplest plan is the use of a towel folded and pinned in the shape of a cone ; the sides of the cone may be stiffened by placing within the folds of the towel a layer or two of newspaper. A chamber is thus formed for the retention of the ether vapor, the base of the cone being sufficiently large to thoroughly cover the mouth and nostrils, and to include the lower jaw. The eyes of the patient should be covered with a light nap- kin or handkerchief at the beginning of the inhalation. This precaution shuts out the observation of external circumstances, and has a very marked effect in hastening the period of insensibility. It is well also to divert the attention of the patient by directing him to count slowly “one, two, three,” and so on, following the lead of the administrator. The expiratory effort thus induced is followed by a corresponding inspiration, and full inhalation of the ether is thus greatly favored. Few persons can count as high as twenty-five or thirty without feeling the effect of the agent, and scarcely any can reach sixty or seventy without becoming unconscious. The best test of the proper period for operation having arrived is insensibility of the eyeball and general muscular relaxation. The ether can then be withheld or pushed, as the cir- cumstances of the case may indicate. The unconscious occupation of the mind by the counting method will be found preferable to the usual coaxing attempts, or the futile advice to the patient that he should try and go to sleep, which is commonly under the circumstances very difficult for him to accomplish. Ether can also be administered from the folds of a towel with- out the formation of the cone described. This is not so perfect a method, lacking, as it does, the formation of a true ether atmosphere, and is accom- panied by more resistance and struggling of the patient; nor does it seem to possess any of the advantages of the method already described. When the patient is inclined to resist, or takes ether badly, the resistance can usually be overcome, if the exhibition of the vapor be begun slowly, and if the cone, towel, or other vehicle, be gradually brought nearer to the face, as he becomes accustomed to the ether odor. The patient should always be placed in the recumbent posture before etherization is commenced; it is a mistake, not unaccompanied by risk, to attempt anaesthesia in the sitting or semi-re- cumbent posture. Of course, all constraint of clothing should be removed from the neck and waist, and false teeth should be taken out, as they are lia- ble to become displaced; and instances have occurred in which they have been swallowed during insensibility. If any operation is to be attempted within the mouth, involving the separation or holding apart of the jaAvs by corks or like substances, the latter should be controlled externally by strings. An in- stance occurred not many years since in Philadelphia, in which a cork used as a gag was drawn into the larynx by violent inspiration, producing an im- mediately fatal result. In using ether it is Avell to watch the pulse carefully as well as the breath- ing. If the pulse is good, the patient is doing well. If it becomes feeble or infrequent, the ether should be withdrawn and the access of air permitted. So also if the lividity of the face increases, or if laryngeal spasm occurs, more air must be given. When mucus collects in the mouth and fauces, and there is usually a good deal, it must be removed; and if from any cause the breath- ing seems to be interfered with, or deficient, access of air must be allowed by opening the mouth or drawing the cheek out, and seeing that the tongue is not retracted. Vomiting when it occurs should be met by turning the head