PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 34 the first place, we could inject the lifeless cornea with the aid of a hypodermic syringe, when the injected mass became disseminated through the tissue. In the second place, we were wont to see real spaces, with shrivelled cells lying in them, in sections of hardened (contracted) corner. Thirdly, there seemed to be no doubt that amoeboid cells could wander through the cornea. Finally, the assumption of the existence of spaces in the tissue seemed indis- pensable on account of the occurrence of oedema. Where could the fluid of oedema collect, if there were no spaces ? I therefore said that the cells must lie in the spaces as the finger does in a tight-fitting glove. In these spaces the fluid of oedema could collect and compress the cells. But, after experi- ence had taught me that cell and basis-substance could displace their respective borders, I came into conflict with this hypothesis. If a garden bordered on a street; if various reasons made me believe that there must be a ditch between the garden and the street; if, finally, I learned that the owner frequently displaced the garden-fence—now moving it out towards the street in order to narrow the latter, now moving it back again in order to widen the street—if I learned this, I should be compelled to say “ I do not understand how there can be a ditch there. This shoving to and fro of the garden-fence, this nar- rowing and widening of the street is incompatible with the assumption of a ditch.” It is just so with the assumption that the cells lie in a hollow, and that there is a space, no matter how small, between the cell and basis- substance. Further researches, as well as more careful reflection, have also taught me that the grounds which have led to the assumption of a system of canals in the cornea, are altogether deceptive. We are taught in general that the tissue can become cedematous; but physicians know that not all tissues are thus affected. The conjunctiva can become highly cedematous. As far as I know, an oedema of the cornea never occurs. I have likewise never seen an oedema of the sub- stance of cartilage. Marked oedema only arises in those tissues in which, while fresh, we can recognize bundles and meshes of tissue under the micro- scope, as in the subcutaneous and submucous tissues. Pronounced meshes are also found in the so-called interstitial tissue, between the bundles of mus- cular fibres,1 and between the tendinous bundles. Here, accordingly, the result of microscopical examination is in accord with clinical experience, in accord moreover with the fundamental idea “oedema,” since “oedema” means a con- dition such as is caused by the presence of fluid in the spaces of the tissue ; of fluid that can be removed mechanically by pressure. Such an oedema does not occur in the cornea, which agrees too with the microscopic picture. For the most powerful microscopes which I now have at command do not enable one to recognize in the fresh cornea even a trace of fissure or cracks. But if the (excised) cornea lies for any length of time on the slide, then, it is true, fissures are formed which are readily recognized, and it is therefore compre- hensible that we can see spaces in the shrivelled cornea, that we can forcibly inject the lifeless cornea, and finally, that this can be penetrated by wandering cells. The Apparent Migration of Cells in the midst of Tissue, and the Vital Processes in the Basis-Substance. In the normal cornea of the dog and in that of the cat, I have never met with an isolated cell, that is, a cell isolated from the net of cells, in spots 1 Do not confound bundles of muscular fibres with primitive fibrillse. Subsequent explana- tions will clear up this matter.