TERMINATIONS OF INFLAMMATION. 187 is reproduced by the process of constructive inflammation. Surgical expe- rience furnishes evidence, in restoration of function, of the fact of reproduc- tion ; but of the mechanism by which it is brought about in the more com- plex tissues, the nerves for example, we are not yet fully informed. The most common example of tissue production, for obvious reasons, takes the form of connective tissue; and this occurs primarily, replacing the more complex tissues, as in the case of bone, muscle, and nerve substance, until more perfect reproduction, requiring additional time, can be elaborated. When this latter result is not attainable, parts are permanently replaced by connective tissue, as in most instances in which muscular fibres have been cut across in a wound, and in fibrous anchylosis of a joint. Where obstacles exist by which reparative tissue production is hindered, the nutritive materials furnished for new growth are wasted, as pus; the main end or purpose of the constructive inflammation being held in abeyance, awaiting, as it would seem, a more favorable opportunity. But suppuration, occurring under the circumstances just described, or, in fact, under any circumstances, is in no sense a termination of inflammation; it is simply an incident—in many cases an accident—of the process, as we have shown already. In the same sense ulceration is incidental to the sup- purative process, and not correctly called a termination of inflammation. It is an incident analogous to the absorption of the walls of the vascular canals in bone, acting solely in furtherance of the general process. When inflammation, having been acute, subsides into a subacute or chronic stage, it is obviously not proper to speak of it as having terminated in chronic inflammation. The inflammation, in fact, has not terminated ; it has merely lapsed into another phase, in which, in most instances, it is awaiting the final achievement of a purpose which has been obstructed and delayed. In this view it is also obvious that the accumulation of nutritive material in the form of induration cannot be admitted as a termination of inflammation. The hyperplastic formation is simply nutritive material diverted from its original purpose. Gangrene, as a termination of inflammation, depends essentially upon the amount and nature of the injury, and especially upon the degree in which the capillary and larger nutrient vessels are unfitted for carrying on the local circulation. When the vitality of the vessels is seriously impaired, stasis and thrombosis may occur, and the capillaries may be prevented from carry- ing on their functions as they do under circumstances of less grave injury ; consequently, local death becomes imminent. If actual death takes place in a limited area by this mechanism, the presence of the dead tissue, offering an additional obstacle to the local circulation, and additional provocation to afflux for its elimination, tends to favor the extension of the area of dying and dead tissues, and in this way spreading gangrene is explained. Thus the afflux of blood to repair injury becomes, by its obstructive influence upon the damaged vessels, in reality an additional cause of textural death; and in this sense parts may be said to be killed by gangrene. This premature termina- tion of the reparative effort in local death, as in gangrene from other causes than inflammation, is due, therefore, to an obviously material cause, namely, an inadequate blood-supply. The local action of poisons upon the tissues, especially upon the capillaries, may impair their vitality in a remarkable degree. This is illustrated by the well-known experiment of Ryneck, who injected the bloodvessels of a frog with a solution of chromic acid, destroying their power of reacting under ordinary stimuli. The singularly rapid serous exudation that follows in