PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 28 see redness and feel hardness; we learn that the hard spots in the centre soften (resolve or melt, as the old physicians called it). These phenomena were left unexplained by the one theory as well as by the other. But the condition of affairs has now changed. In the year 1874,1 began to study keratitis in mammalia, and here obtained results which explained the clinical phenomena satisfactorily. Starting from this point, I examined all kinds of tissue, and the results obtained were of such a nature that I also can now clothe the doctrine of inflammation in a simple form. Metamorphosis of tissue; return to the embryonic condition; division into amoeboid cells of the masses which have become movable; hence the destruction and, the suppuration; this is briefly the outline of my new doctrine. On the other hand, all the details of my further researches were very favorable for my theory. It appeared that this theory was in harmony with the results of researches in the domain of comparative histology and histogenesis. It appeared that in the pathological destruction of tissue by suppuration, not only the cells, hut also the entire tissue, returned to the embryonic condition. The machine was, as it were, separated into its parts again. In regard to the pathological tissue, therefore, I was about in the position of the mechanic, who takes apart the machine and finds that which its builders have asserted to he present. It appeared, furthermore, that the return of the tissue to the embryonic state at the same time included the conditions requisite for a healing of the tissue. In every phase of the inflammation the destruction can cease, and a regeneration or a cicatrization can be started. And this new formation is throughout similar to the embryonic new formation. In consequence of such observations, my conviction of the correctness of my theory of inflammation has been so much strengthened that I believe that I may now venture to publish it together with all its deductions. But I must Anally remark that the opposition to this theory lias only been heard in modest tones during the past few years. The migration-theory has proved to be fruitless. It lias made no progress since 1867, and, in regard to the doctrine of inflammation, it cannot make any progress; for it denies the active processes. But the doctrine of tissue-metamorphosis has made con- stant advances, and every new step which I have taken in the course of the last decade has proved to be an argument against the migration-theory. Suppurative Keratitis. I have obtained a better insight into the processes in the cornea by a method which has turned out to be very rich in results. At first, I apply an inflammatory stimulus to the centre of the cornea of a young cat by cauterizing with caustic potassa, or by the introduction of a foreign body— the most suitable being a thread which is passed through the centre of the cornea and the bulb with the aid of a needle, and is then tied into a knot for the sake of fixing it. "When the inflammation has reached a certain height, that is, after about twenty-four hours,11 narcotize the animal and paint the cornea with lunar caustic until it becomes very turbid throughout. Kow the animal is killed; the cornea is cut out and preserved in water slightly acidulated with acetic acid. On the following day I remove the cornea from the acidulated water and split it into lamellae. This procedure is very easily accomplished in the case of corn ere thus treated. By the influence of the 1 Such experiments are most successful in spring. In the beginning of winter, the results are, as a rule, very bad. In our climate (Vienna), I would recommend the months from April to October for such experiments.