CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 89 These results, demonstrating the agency of bacteria as the source of septic poisoning, to which, in searching for causes competent to excite the phe- nomena of destructive inflammation, we must give due consideration, have certainly much weight as evidence in favor of the antiseptic method of treat- ing wounds. They are in accord with previous advances in the same direc- tion. The connection of the bacillus anthracis with malignant pustule, and of the spirilla with relapsing fever, in man, established on the evidence of reliable observers, is generally received. It is a matter of recent history that the theory on which Lister based his antiseptic method, first promulgated in 1866-67, encountered, at first, very general scepticism. It has been followed by results, even in the hands of many who tried the method in practice with- out accepting the theory on which it was based, which, by their apparent confirmation of the theory, have led to a wider acceptance of its scientific truth. The results of the experiments on animals just quoted are of a nature to strengthen this belief. It may seem out of place in this connection to speak of the practical re- sults of antiseptic surgery, but, in the present attitude of this important question, the most available evidence as to the truth of the theory is furnished by the very considerable degree of success which has been attained by the antiseptic method of treatment. In striving to reach a correct estimate of micro-organisms as exciting causes of destructive inflammation, it is proper, therefore, to recognize that clinical experience tends to prove that the means which have been found hostile to the development of these organisms, are also growing steadily in reputation as remedies for the destructive phases of in- flammation. Beyond these exciting causes of destructive inflammation, what others offer themselves as worthy of serious consideration ? Amongst the causes hereto- fore examined, the most worthy of notice in this connection are persistent local irritation from mechanical causes, and constant motion of an injured part, or the absence of the degree of quiescence necessary for the successful accomplishment of constructive repair. Hospital patients have been known to apply irritating powders—as of cantharides—to their ulcers, with the purpose of preventing their healing, and of delaying the time of their dis- charge from what they found comfortable quarters. But hindrances to heal- ing of this character cease to act as such as soon as they are withdrawn, unless the predispositions of the patient are exceptionally unfavorable. Surgical pathologists have heretofore sought for an explanation of wound diseases and wound infection in poisons generated under the circumstances of disturbed nutritive effort incident to every wound, and their formation has been ascribed to the decomposition and recomposition taking place, under these circumstances, in the unstable albuminous compounds forming the fluids of a wound. Robin has asserted that poisons of great virulence may he thus generated without the intervention of micro-organisms, basing the opinion upon the purely chemico-vital origin of the potent serpent venom.1 In ac- cordance with this view, Billroth of Vienna formed his hypothesis of the generation in the fluids of a recent wound of a “ phlogistic zymoid”—a something capable of causing destructive inflammation, which acts like a ferment; and Verneuil, of Paris, suggested the theory of the formation of a “ traumatic virus,” by which deviations from the healthy process of repair of wounds is to be explained. Lister, of London, adopting Pasteur’s views as to the agency of micro-organisms, finds a phlogistic zymoid in the conse- 1 According to Mitchell the pure rattlesnake venom when freshly ejected contained no figured elements whatever. (Ut supra.)