INFLAMMATION. 102 eight, or even, in extreme cases, ten degrees Fahrenheit. With the certain knowledge that the organism possesses a self-regulating power as regards its temperature, which, under all the varying circumstances of climate, preserves the blood at or about the same degree of heat—99° Fahr.; when, shortly after the infliction upon the body of a physical injury, this temperature is observed to rise, as indicated by an instrument of precision, a certain number of degrees, and to retain its abnormal elevation for some hours, this phenom- enon, alone, justifies the observer in the conclusion that fever is present. All the other features of the state of fever arrange themselves around this central phenomenon, which is pathognomonic. The injured person may not be con- scious of this increase of heat. He may, in fact, and generally does, at first, feel distinctly chilly. What is technically called a chill, or rigor, that so commonly occurs at the onset of fever, coincides with a rise, more or less sudden and rapid, in the temperature, as indicated by a thermometer placed beneath the tongue of the patient. He may be shivering with cold, and yet the thermometer may indicate a rise of three or four degrees. This shows that the subjective sensations of the patient cannot be trusted. His skin may be biting hot to the hand of the surgeon, and yet he may he shivering. At a later period he becomes unpleasantly conscious of the increased heat of his body; but even now chilly sensations may alternate with the consciousness of intense heat. These phenomena accompany the invasion of most of the graver forms of surgical fever. Indeed there is a certain significance of gravity always con- veyed by the occurrence of a chill in a surgical case; and the intensity and duration of a chill is properly regarded as an indication of the degree of dan- ger present. But, as a rule, in the milder forms of traumatic fever the chill is slight, and often entirely absent. Coincidently with the increased temperature of the blood in fever, there are other evidences of derangement in the heat-producing machinery of the body, besides the somewhat illusory sensations of the patient himself. There are evidences that tissues are undergoing premature destruction by combustion, which, in the ordinary balance of nutrition, escape in consequence of the daily provision of an adequate supply of material for keeping up heat, by food. In fever, appetite is wanting, digestion and assimilation are reduced to a mini- mum, and yet heat production is kept up to the standard of health. Hence the excretion of urea is almost if not quite tripled, as a residt of the combus- tion of albuminous materials, e.g., blood plasma, blood corpuscles, the sarcous element of muscular tissue, etc. Hence the increase of potassium salts in the urine, the doubled excretion of carbonic acid, the absorption of adipose tissue, and the consequent emaciation which always accompanies fever. In the dogs, so carefully watched by Weber in his valuable experiments undertaken to elucidate the nature of fever, emaciation took place more rapidly in dogs with fever, eating as much as they could be made to eat, than in dogs, under simi- lar circumstances, but without fever, who were deprived of all food. In other words, emaciation took place more rapidly from fever, than from inanition. Clinical observation affords confirmation of this statement. It is thus evident that heat production in the human body, during fever, is, so to speak, an expensive process. Although the heat in fever does not transcend the aggregate of health, it is kept up by the forced consumption of substances in the body too valuable to be consumed for the purposes of fuel— the supply of heat-producing food from without, through the ordinary chan- nels, being cut off We are forced to conclude, therefore, that fever, like in- flammation, is essentially a disorder of nutrition.1 This position, based on the 1 The following quotation contains the conclusions as to the nature of fever reached by Prof. Wood from his recent experimental researches, which constitute the latest as well as the best evi-