CONNECTION OF EPIDEMIC ERYSIPELAS WITH PUERPERAL FEVER. 173 6 Monthly Journal of Medical Science, March, 1850, p. 299. brane, viz., the specific poison of the disease. Later, the morbid process takes on that peculiar form of inflammation which is known as erysipelatous; but it is important to bear in mind that the local phenomena, and especially the primary ones, are not necessarily proportioned to the general symptoms. A severe, and even a fatal erysipelas may follow infection through a trifling wound in the skin, or a short exposure to an erysipelatous atmosphere, just as a confluent variola may result from a like exposure to the contagion of smallpox. The specific virulence of the poison is, indeed, one element of its power, but the gravity of its effects also depends in no small degree upon the greater or less susceptibility and power of resistance of the patient. Connection of Epidemic Erysipelas with Puerperal Fever. The prevalence of erysipelas and puerperal fever at the same time, and in the same places, could hardly have failed to attract the attention of observant physicians at all times, yet the intimate relations between the two affections appear to be of comparatively recent discovery. Perhaps, even now, they are either quite unknown to many, or else their significance is misappre- hended. It is very desirable, if these diseases stand related to each other as cause and effect, or, again, as common effects of the same cause, that it should be universally known both for the sake of removing the causes which are common to both of them, and for guiding the treatment demanded by the analogy, if not identity, of their nature. The earliest opinion affirming a relationship between the two diseases, is ascribed to Pouteau, who in 1750 expressed his opinion that the puerperal fever which then prevailed in Paris was an erysipelas of the peritoneum.1 From that time until the fourth decade of the present century, the subject does not appear to have attracted much attention; but in 1842, Air. Storrs, of Leeds, England, reported that having attended a case of gangrenous erysip- elas of the foot and leg, in which several abscesses formed, which he opened, he delivered several women in succession, all of whom were attacked with puerperal fever and died.2 In the following year, Dr. 0. W. Holmes related the history of a local epidemic of puerperal fever, which had its origin in the autopsy of a case which appears to have been one of gangrenous erysip- elas of the leg. Several cases of erysipelas occurred in the house where this person died; the nurse who laid out the body of one of the puerperal patients died of sore throat and erysipelas of the skin; and another nurse met with a similar fate, without presenting, however, any sign of cutaneous erysipelas.3 About the same time puerperal fever and erysipelas prevailed epidemically in Cincinnati, Ohio, and Dr. Afinor of that city distinctly traced the propa- gation of each disease by the other, and from one patient to another by direct communication, including the production of erysipelas in the infants of mothers who had been attacked by puerperal fever.4 * In Alissouri, the same coincidence and transmission of the diseases were frequently remarked, by Dr. G. W. Sickles among others.® In 1850, a narrative was furnished by Hill6 which illustrates the subject further:— 1 Ranking’s Half-yearly Abstract, 1859, p. 84. 2 Provincial Medical and Surgical Journal, April, 1842. 3 New England Quarterly Journal of Medicine and Surgery, April, 1843. 4 Erysipelas and Childbed Fever, 1847. 6 St. Louis Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. viii. p. 1.