195 TREATMENT OP ERYSIPELAS. stration of its good and evil results was not difficult. Subsequently, blisters were applied around limbs affected with erysipelas, not upon the inflamed portion, but upon the sound skin at a little distance from the latter, and were believed to prevent the extension of the disease in that direction; but expe- rience has shown that this belief was delusive, and that erysipelas pays no respect to any such barriers in its path. Almost identical with fly-blisters in its mode of operation in this disease is a strong solution of nitrate of silver, for which a claim was long ago made, and more recently renewed by its proposer, Dr. Higginbottom, that it absolutely arrested the progress of the disease. The total loss of faith in this vaunted remedy, which was not only painful but inefficacious, is another fact among the many which prove that erysipelas is as little to be cured as smallpox by remedies applied to the skin.' Of agents belonging to this class, iodine is one of the best. It lias, of course, an array of “ cures” in its favor; but it is certainly a valuable palliative of the pain and swelling in some cases of erysipelas, especially of the face. The compound solution, or the compound tincture, should be painted on the inflamed part. It is unnecessary to discuss the value of the actual cautery, or the moxci, which have been vaunted by certain surgeons in this disease; they are as cruel as they are useless. As a substitutive and protective agent, the liniment of turpentine, or Kentish's ointment, is a very convenient palliative of the local symptoms in cases of superficial erysipelas, and has long been used for that purpose. More recently (1869), Luecke1 conceived that it had a specific power of destroying the hypothetical virus of erysipelas. Another medicine whose mode of action was conceived to be similar, is hyposulphite of sodium, and its curative powers were attested by several physicians and surgeons of established reputation. But as the success of the medicine was said to be just as great whether it was employed internally or topically, we may fairly conclude that its virtues were more apparent than real, an inference which is quite confirmed by the complete neglect into which it has fallen since its first introduction, about 1860. A like estimate which has been made of iodide of calcium, probably calls for a similar criticism. Among the topical applica- tions used in this disease, camphor may be mentioned, which is anodyne, and when used in alcoholic solution and allowed to evaporate, is also somewhat cooling. At one time mercurial ointment was held by some authorities to be almost certain to arrest the inflammation and extension of erysipelas; but such effects were soon found to be uncertain, if not unreal, while the frequent occurrence of salivation after the mercurial inunction led to its general dis- use. That it cures cases of the disease which would not get well spontane- ously, cannot be admitted. Finally, it may be mentioned that bromine has been used in watery solution, as a lotion. As far as it is useful in superficial erysipelas, it may be supposed to act as a local stimulant and anodyne. In phlegmonous erysipelas, when an opening exists, and especially when slough- ing of the cellular tissue takes place, a solution of bromine may be used as a stimulant and disinfectant. Surgical Treatment.—The surgical treatment proper of erysipelas, relates mainly to the management of those cases of the phlegmonous form of the disease in which openings must be made through the skin, to give exit to dead connective tissue and the liquid products of inflammation; but it also relates to that of the wound which is the starting-point of the attack. But often the inflammation forms bullse, or abscesses, which are of limited extent, and dp not require any other treatment than would be appropriate in the ab- sence of erysipelas, viz., the evacuation of the blebs and abscesses, and their 1 Bulletin de Therapeutique, t. lxxvi. p. 422.