584 AMPUTATIONS. curved cicatrix on the side of the vessels, thus making an excellent, non-ad- herent covering for the hone. Oval Operation.—The oval operation, or that of Scoutetten, may he regard- ed as a modification of the circular method, the skin cuff being slit upon one side, and the corners trimmed off. Occasionally practised in the latter part of the last and at the beginning of this century, by Lassus, Larrey, Guthrie, and other surgeons, this mode of ampu- tating was first reduced to a system by Scoutetten, of Lille, in 1827.1 We may recognize two sub- varieties of this operation (Fig. 149):— (1) Method of Scoutetten.—In this (Fig. 149, A), an incision is begun on the outer side of the limb, and carried obliquely downwards for a distance about equal to its diameter; then continued trans- versely across the inner side of the limb (or that which contains the great vessels), and obliquely up- wards again to meet the first incision at an acute angle. Or the same object may be accomplished by making first two oblique incisions, resembling an inverted _.y, and joining them below by a transverse cut. (2) Method of Malgaigne.—This (Fig. 149, B), which is called by French writers the operation en raquette, from the “ racket-shaped” form of the wound, is preferable as affording a better cov- ering for the bone at the upper part of the incision. Malgaigne particularly recommended this operation for ampu- tation of the thumb, but it is equally applicable to other parts; it consists in making a longitudinal incision on the outer side of the limb, extending a short distance above and twice as far below the point at which it is intended to amputate; the lateral branches of the oval incision are made to start from the junction of the middle and lower third of the longitudinal incision. In both of these varieties of the oval method, the wound is brought together in a longitudinal direction, the operation herein differing widely from the elliptical method described above, in which the resulting cicatrix is a transverse one. Single Flap Operation.—This was the original method of Lowdham, and, as improved by Verduin and Garengeot, may still be occasionally resorted to with advantage. In most cases, no doubt, either the double flap or the cir- cular operation, or one of the modifications of the latter which have already been referred to, will enable the surgeon to obtain sufficient covering for the bone while dividing it at a lower point than could be done were the flap to be taken altogether from one side; but it may well happen, in a case of com- pound fracture or laceration, from violence by railway or machinery, or in a case of incurable ulcer from burn, frost-bite, etc., that the tissues on one side of a limb may be so injured or diseased that they must be inevitably sacri- ficed, while those on the other side are perfectly healthy, and ample in extent to furnish a good covering after amputation; under such circumstances, the 1 Velpeau, op. cit., tome ii. p. 364. According to Lisfranc (op. cit., tome i. p. 744), who always liked to differ from Velpeau, the oval operation originated with Le Dran ; hut I can find no ac- count of it in my copy of the latter author’s work (Paris, 1742). Fig. 149. method. A, method of Scoutetten ; B, method of Malgaigne (en raquette).