41 THEORY OF FIBRILLFE AND OF CONNECTIVE SUBSTANCE. arrangement of this kind is represented by the subarachnoid tissue. This consists only of single bundles which float in the space tilled with fluid. All of these tissues provided with interstitial meshes, were still called cellular tissue during the tirst ten or twenty years of our century. “Cellular” does not signify that cells are present, in the acceptation of the term as intro- duced into modern histology by Schwann, hut that cell-like, honeycomb-like spaces are present. Job. Muller has introduced the expression '•'•connective tissue,” for this tissue. If we neglect the varying width of the meshes, and even the very existence of the meshes, we in fact see a columnar (strangfor- mige) formation prevailing in tendon, the-tendinous membranes, the cutis, the mucous membranes, and subcutaneous and submucous tissues; in the mesen- tery and in other serous membranes. This columnar formation is peculiar, therefore, to connective tissue, even where it does not produce a cellular tissue. In place of columnar formation, I shall henceforth employ the more usual term of connective-tissue bundle. Accordingly, connective tissue consists of bundles that are united in various ways. But every bundle consists of cells and basis- substance. Every bundle, whether large or small, therefore, forms a compact mass similar to cornea and cartilage. Every such bundle can suppurate, and that, too, in the same manner as described for the cornea. Theory of Fibrillar and of Connective Substance. Every bundle such as can be made to appear in tendon, cutis, subcutaneous tissue, subarachnoid tissue, and others, may also be designated fibrillar bundle. How the question of the occurrence and genesis of the fibrillfe, constitutes one of the most important chapters of normal and pathological histology. I might almost say it constitutes one of the most important chapters of all pathology. For that frightful host of diseases which are designated as cicatrizations, con- tractions, scleroses, and (in order to make special mention of only a single series), those severe forms of disease of the central nervous system known as tabes dorsalis, lateral sclerosis, and multiple sclerosis, which, though probably only chronic inflammations yet lead to the destruction of life in spite of all remedies, all consist essentially in the formation of such fibrillfe, or, still better, of a transformation of the nerve tissue into fibrillar tissue. Histologists had recognized the fibrillfe by the examination of tissues that were dried or altered (contracted) by reagents. If we soften in water a dried cornea or a dried tendon, and tease it, we will see under the microscope very fine fibrilli'e, which are arranged at times in large bundles, at others in small ones, or which traverse the field of view singly and in an irregular manner; in short we receive the impression that the entire tissue consists of such fibrilhe, but that they have been thrown into confusion by the teasing. On the ground of these observations, it was said: Cornea, tendon, and cutis consist of fibrillar tissue. On similar grounds we can go further, and say in general: The connective tissue cords consist of fibrillfe, they are bundles of fibril he. More recently the basis-substance of macerated cartilage and bone has also been recognized to he fibrillar. And thus we see another analogy between connective tissue, on the one hand, and bone, cartilage, and cornea, on the other. They all consist of cells and basis-substance; in the dried or mace- rated state they all disclose a fibrillar structure. In the year 1845, Reichert classified all these tissues, and a series of others which I will mention hereafter, under the common name of connective sub- stance: Reichert in effect denied the existence of fihrillge in a series of tissues. It was not the fibrillfe, but a peculiar substance, which was characteristic of all these tissues. Thus the term connective substance indicates, as it were, a