AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. 655 2 Loc. cit. 1 Op. cit., p. 205. with the lion-jawed forceps, and twisted from side to Fig* 188. side, while its separation is completed by disarticulat- ing it from the astragalus, and dividing the tendo Achillis and remaining attachments of the bone. If the flaps are not of ample dimensions, the head of the astragalus should be removed with a small saw, a step which Hancock recommends in all cases. This opera- tion atfords a most admirable stump, which lias the advantage over those produced by Syme’s and Pirogoff’s methods that it retains the motions of the ankle-joint, and thus allows an elasticity of gait in walking, which would otherwise be absent. The appearance of the stump resulting from this operation is shown in Fig. 188, from a patient under my care, a year or two since, at the University Hospital. Mr. Plancock1 refers to 22 cases of this operation (in- cluding one of his own), at least 20 of which terminated successfully. Larger2 tabulates 21 cases, of which 5 proved fatal, only three of these, however, as the result of the operation. Both of my own cases resulted in recovery. Hancock’s Amputation.—This, which may be re- ?arded as a combination of the sub-astragaloid with ’Logoff's method (to be presently described), consists in sawing through the os calcis as in that operation, and bringing the sawn surface in contact with a trans- verse section of the astragalus. This is certainly a very ingenious procedure, and in the case in which Mr. Hancock employed it, the result was all that could be wished. I confess, however, that it does not seem to me to present any ad- vantage over the ordinary subastragaloid operation, which has the advantage of greater simplicity. Stump from sub-astragaloid amputation. Tripier’s Amputation.—-This operation, which has been suggested by M. Tripier, of Lyons, may also be looked upon as a modification of the sub- astragaloid method. The external incisions are made as in Chopart’s medio- tarsal operation, and, the anterior part of the foot having been removed, the calcaneum is sawn through on a level with the sustentaculum tali, and on a plane at right angles to the axis of the leg. Other Amputatons of the Foot.—Mr. Hancock’s suggestion that, instead of amputating at the medio-tarsal joint, the scaphoid should be left with the posterior portion of the cuboid, has already been referred to. The same sur- geon, reviving the teaching of Mayor, of Lausanne, advises that the foot should, for operative purposes, be looked upon as a whole, and that, after the formation of suitable flaps, the tarsus should be sawn through at whatever point may be found necessary, without regard to its articulations. Acting upon this suggestion, I, in one case, sawed through the scaphoid bone, the posterior part of which was healthy, and removed the anterior diseased sur- surface of the os calcis; the patient made an excellent recovery. The results of amputations of the toes and partial amputations of the foot are usually satisfactory. I have met with no fatal cases in my own experi-