INFLAMMATION. 152 integument which would otherwise be destroyed by the spontaneous forma- tion of gangrenous patches—a result which, without this remedy, is almost inevitable. In this way, indeed, both the necessity and the great value of early, free, and hold incision is demonstrated. In acute abscess, also, incisions should be made both early and freely. In an abscess of any size, the incision should be always made large enough to admit the forefinger for exploration. There is nothing more unsurgical than an insufficient puncture for the evacuation of pus. An opening in a position which is not fully and entirely depending, unless such a position cannot be secured, is equally reprehensible. Both of these common errors interfere with the promptly curative effect of a good remedy; they invite a continu- ance of the inflammatory condition, and the formation of a sinus. A clean incision through the skin is easily and certainly repaired, and cannot cause untoward bleeding unless the patient be a victim of the hemorrhagic diathesis, which can be ascertained beforehand by inquiry as to previous experiences, and then a twisted suture may be required. The extreme probability that, in acute abscess, there is absolute necessity for the evacuation of something of the nature of a quasi foreign body by which the collection has been pro- voked, renders delay in opening unwise after fluctuation has become recog- nizable ; under these circumstances, delay involves a further continuance of the process of destructive inflammation, and is rarely justifiable. On the other hand, in chronic and cold abscess, incision may he very prop- erly delayed, or substituted by aspiration, or by a valvular puncture with a trocar, which may be promptly closed. Drainage.—In dressing an open wound'of any size for primary union, it is the surgeon’s duty to provide a readily available outlet for any fluids that may collect within it. Otherwise these would separate the opposed surfaces as they accumulate, and surely defeat the object of the dressing. The materials liable to collect in a closed wound are: (1) excess of thin liquid exudation, containing more or less blood clot in solution, giving the fluid a certain resemblance to blood; (2) blood, which, in most cases, coagu- lates; (3) oil, when fatty tissue has been divided to any extent; (4) after an interval, and some fever, pus. These obstacles to prompt union by the constructive process may all be ob- viated with a good deal of certainty by the judicious emplo}Tment of drains as a part of the dressing of the wound. In their absence, symptoms of de- structive inflammation will almost inevitably follow, e. g., pain, throbbing, heat, tension, and swelling, with more or less extensive surface redness. With these, there is constitutional disturbance and fever, and, sooner or later, ab- scess. Drainage is, therefore, entitled to a place amongst the remedies in inflammation; and, if employed with tact and'judgment, it will prove in most cases a most valuable resource both as a curative and as a preventive measure. The proper mode of effecting the drainage of a wound is to place within it certain materials, such as caoutchouc tubing with lateral openings, strands of horsehair, of hempen thread, or silk—preferably waxed—or any other unir- ritating material capable of carrying off fluids by capillary conduction. These materials for draining should be thoroughly cleansed by immersion in a solu- tion of carbolic acid or some other disinfecting preparation, before being placed in a wound; and they should be disposed,as regards size and number, according to its shape and extent, as detailed in other articles. The selection of a proper position for a depending outlet in opening an ab- scess, or in securing a direct avenue for the escape of pus wherever it tends to accumulate—by incision or puncture, and the introduction of a drainage tube —and such alteration in the position of the part as may be required to insure