320 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. period. As for the rest, there is complete uncertainty as to the period at which the diathesis will disturb the curative process. This disturbance, in fact, may occur immediately after the injury, a few days afterwards, or even some weeks or months subsequently. It is common to find that the wound at first follows a normal course, then remains stationary, and finally assumes a syphilitic aspect. Syphilis seldom attacks wounds during the first months of its existence; it affects them more readily when it is of older date; when it has, as it were, impregnated the economy more intimately. However, we can formulate no distinct rule in this respect, since, in a very large number of cases, wounds have been found to undergo the specific metamorphosis in patients who have been free from all syphilitic manifestations for ten, fifteen, or twenty years, or even longer. The chances of the occurrence of this metamorphosis appear moreover to be the greatest when the injury aftects tissues already changed, even though from other than syphilitic causes. Furthermore, other examples equally prove the predilection with which syphilis takes hold of places of least resistance which have become such a longer or shorter period before its invasion. Thus it has more than once been found to select as the site of its local manifestations some old seat of traumatism which had become entirely extinct, and the cure of which would otherwise have remained permanent. If the quality of the wounded tissues establishes an evident predisposition ; if the quality of the poison is alsq probably a factor in the determination of the mild, moderate, or grave forms of the disease; surely we are permitted to believe a priori that the character of the constitution, that is to say the ante- rior constitutional condition of the wounded syphilitic, will react upon the injury, aid in modifying its course and termination, and recall, in certain cases, the diathetic manifestation. But we must remember that, however probable this may be, it has not been demonstrated. In syphilitics who are in a con- dition of cachexia, or who suffer from grave visceral lesions of the liver, lungs, kidneys, or nerve-centres, the reparative process goes on no better than in other subjects whose health is ruined, and may be complicated by disorders common to all cachexise, such as gangrene, hemorrhage, diffuse inflammations, etc. In these disorders, the part played by syphilis, properly speaking, is relatively small, or at least very indirect. Let us now speak of the reciprocal action. It is absent much more fre- quently than it is present; we will here consider only those cases in which it is manifest. Of course, an injury cannot produce syphilis; but it may introduce it into the economy, attract it to the wounded point, aggravate it, and make it pass from the latent to the active stage. In the immense majority of cases, the infection is produced through the medium of an injury, though very slight and almost microscopical. We have already said that old wounds_are some- times attacked by syphilitic complications in preference to healthy tissues, but the most common cases are those in which the injury affects syphilitics who have been infected for a longer or shorter period. At this point two facts appear: either evident syphilitic manifestations are present, or the dis- ease is entirely latent. In the first event, the lesions receive a more or less active impetus, and become more or less grave; in the second, they appear to originate full-blown, and to attack organs or regions which had previously escaped. They occur under the form of secondary or tertiary complications, according to the stage to which the intoxication has advanced. in the wounded subject. The tertiary stage predominates when the syphilis dates back some years, even when it has never produced any secondary symptoms. These complications appear at the point of injury in the centre of trauma- tism, or in its neighborhood: they are local manifestations excited by the