227 TREATMENT OF GLANDERS. eruption of glanders is liard and pustular, and resembles that of smallpox. Virchow thus describess the development of the eruption. There appear at first some reddish spots, which are very small, and resemble flea-bites, and which soon acquire a papular elevation, ultimately rising above the level of the surface like small shot, and assuming a yellow color. These shot-like knots are either flat or round, they do not lie in a bladder-like elevation of the epidermis, but in a kind of hole in the corium, as if this had been punched out; they are not always solitary, but often arranged in groups. The parts around are somewhat injected, and under the epidermis there is found a seemingly consistent puriform and yellow fluid, which is chiefly formed from softening of the knots. These are composed of a homogeneous yellowish substance, which is pretty firm and somewhat brittle, and which has great resemblance to tubercle. Microscopically examined, the knots present an amorphous granular appearance, and are mixed with cell elements and cell growths, and with numerous fat globules. The tubercles may be developed in the subcutaneous tissue, producing hard and painful swellings, which are oval and well defined.. These break down and give rise to excessive sloughing of the parts. The tubercles often appear throughout the mucous membrane of the respiratory apparatus. The kid- neys, the pancreas, the testicles, and the liver may be similarly affected in the latter stage of the disease. In the acute form, the disease is usually fatal in a few days, but in the chronic form, it may last for weeks and even months. Mr. Travers gives the history of a case which, at the end of two years and six months, was still running its course. The acute form of glanders may be accompanied with acute farcy, in which there is generally diffused suppuration in the entire limb. In chronic farcy, the tubercles often degenerate into foul ulcers, and sometimes terminate in an attack of acute glanders. Diagnosis of Glanders.—In regard to the diagnosis, the early general symptoms do not differ from those of other forms of animal poisoning, while in the early period the eruption has the shotty feel of smallpox; but the history of the case will almost always point to the true nature of the attack, it being generally found, on inquiry, that the patient has handled a glandered horse, or nursed another person affected with the disease. Prognosis.—The prognosis in this disease is always grave. The acute form nearly always ends fatally, fifteen cases collected by Payer having given only one recovery. The chronic form of the disease is, however, not so fatal, ten cases referred to by Payer having given seven recoveries and but three deaths. Youatt declares that glanders does not now produce one-tenth part of the ravages among horses that it caused thirty or forty years ago, and that generally speaking the disease is at present only met with as a common affection where neglect, filth, and want of ventilation are found. Treatment of Glanders.—In the treatment of this disease, supporting measures must be employed; Quinine, tincture of the chloride of iron, and brandy, are among the most useful remedies; morphia should be used to con- trol the pain. The patient’s apartments should be constantly well ventilated, and the utmost attention paid to cleanliness; abscesses should be promptly evacuated, and the parts washed out with a weak solution of chloral or of carbolic acid, and then wrapped up with cloths saturated with one or the other of these fluids.