ACCIDENTS OP ANESTHESIA. 415 condition unfavorable to the employment of anaesthetics. Gunshot wounds seem to form an exception to this rule, probably because of the great nervous exaltation which usually precedes their infliction. All forms of pulmonary and intrathoracic disease add to the risks of artificial anaesthesia, not through any increased liability to asphyxia, but by reason of the greater probability of the occurrence of syncope. For the same reason, organic diseases of the heart or the larger bloodvessels, overloading of the heart with fat, and fatty degeneration of its muscular structure, should preclude the use of anaesthetics. A slow, irregular, and feeble pulse, associated with precordial pain, difficult respiration, general lassitude, and evidences of degeneration in tissues accessi- ble to observation, should excite suspicion of this form of morbid change. The violent palpitations of anaemia should exclude the more potent anaes- thetics. A condition of excitement and terror, preceding the act of inhalation, may increase the risks to which the individual is subjected. A certain amount of encouragement and reassurance of the timid patient, together with repeated stimulant doses of alcohol, should always precede the exhibition of the anaes- thetic in such neurasthenic cases. The risk of accident varies greatly in accordance with the nature of the substance selected for the production of insensibility. It should, however, always be remembered that no anaesthetic agent is absolutely free from risk. Every patient should, therefore, be made an object of special study before the commencement of inhalation, and all possible contra-indications should be fully considered. Treatment of the Accidents of Anesthesia.—Irritation of the respira- tory passages caused by inhalation of anaesthetic vapor, soon subsides after the occurrence of complete anaesthesia, or after removal of the cause. If it per- sists, the purity of the substance should be determined. Vomiting not un- frequently occurs, especially if food has been recently taken. It is, therefore, expedient to defer inhalation for three or four hours after a meal. The sen- sation of suffocation which often oppresses the patient during the earlier stages of inhalation, may be relieved by larger dilution of the vapor with air. If the anaesthetic is given upon a napkin, the cloth should be raised from the face for a few seconds. Tolerance of the vapor will soon be established, and inhalation may then be rapidly conducted. The principal dangers during inhalation are the arrest of respiration, and the cessation of cardiac movement. As a general thing, if respiration can be sustained the heart will continue to act. It is, therefore, important, whenever alarming symptoms appear, to guard the breathing—even to the extent of producing artificial respiration. This may be effected, preferably, by the methods of Sylvester or of Howard. The tongue may be drawn forward, not because the glottis can be thus opened, but for the sake of the reflex actions of respiration which may be excited. Faradaic stimulation of the thoracic surface may also be attempted. A powerful current should, how- ever, be avoided; and the application should be restricted to the right side of the body, in order to escape the risk of arresting the movement of the heart by the passage of electricity through the enfeebled organ. For the use of electricity, the best method consists in placing one electrode over the track of the right phrenic nerve, in the neck, while the other electrode is applied to the wall of the thorax over the sixth intercostal space on the right side of the body. Electrical stimulation should be associated with the attempt to pro- duce artificial respiration by Howard’s method—the electrical circuit being completed during the elevation of the ribs, and interrupted during the time of their descent. Insufflation has been recommended as a means of filling the