178 ERYSIPELAS. healthy persons. The fever, however, usually presents a daily morning remission. The tongue becomes rapidly covered with a yellowish, thick, and pasty coating. Even yet the place of entrance of the poison into the system may betray no sign of its passage, while the lymphatic ganglia through which it has passed grow tender, swTollen, and it may be red. In other cases, however, but in a relatively small number, the ganglionic inflamma- tion appears later than the local evidences of erysipelas. It is important to observe that not only does the lymphatic tenderness and swelling, as a rule,1, precede the inflammation of the skin, but that it may even do so for several hours or even days. Indeed, an interval of three or even of six days has been observed between the two events. This familiar clinical fact disposes readily of the notion that erysipelas is merely a dermatitis, and that the constitutional symptoms are due to that inflammation and proportioned to its severity. They rather bear to the local affection a relation analogous to that between smallpox and inoculation, or between vaccinia and vacci- nation. In the part about to be invaded by erysipelas, a sense of tightness is first perceived, accompanied with itching and burning heat, and followed by a steady pain which grows worse at night and when the skin is touched. At the same time, or soon after the pain is felt, usually in from one to three days after the occurrence of the initial symptoms, a blush appears upon the skin, and gradually deepens from a rose to a deep crimson color, or, in cases of a low type, to a still darker shade, while it extends in every direction around the point of origin; and in the same degree the skin swells, grows tense, smooth, and shining, and the redness and swelling, whether presenting a curved or an angular outline, are hounded by an abrupt elevation or ridge which can be both seen and felt as they tend to invade more and more of the sound skin. In persons of fair complexion, the contrast between the inflamed and the adjacent sound skin is very striking, and the former gives to the finger an impression of roughness which is due to the distended papillre of the derm, and to the minute vesicles which form upon its surface. The erysipelatous swelling is greatest where the subcutaneous connective tissue is most abundant, and, when it affects the face, the eyelids cannot be opened, the nostrils are obstructed, and even the jaws can be but slightly separated from one another. In no other disease, except smallpox, are the natural features so completely deformed. When a limb is involved, it is so heavy, stiff, and painful on motion, that it is instinctively kept at rest. The SAvollen part does not usually pit on pressure, but is tense and hard; but in certain sluggish forms of the disease the skin does not resist pressure, and has a boggy feel. Besides the face, the parts most liable to extreme swelling are the genital organs in either sex. The tendency of the inflammation is to extend, not always steadily and uniformly, but by fits and starts, and each new extension is accompanied with an increase of the fever. Eor does it usually spread equally in all directions from the place of starting, but gene- rally tends from points on the extremities towards the trunk, and from the face towards the scalp; it may also pursue a linear path, or break out freshly at one or more remote points (Wandering Erysipelas). This is more common in surgical than in medical cases. In the latter, there is a very singular peculiarity relating to the point at which the inflammation com- mences. In the vast majority of cases, the eruption first appears at the root of the nose, and next in order upon the cheek or the ear. In old persons, especially such as have varicose veins, it is apt to attack the legs, but with- out presenting, as a rule, very acute phenomena. It has been remarked that the chin is very rarely involved, even in cases of erysipelas in which the eruption occupies the rest of the face and the scalp.