421 HYPNOTISM. hypodermically, before the inhalation of sulphuric ether, the period of excite- ment is prolonged and rendered more tempestuous, and the subsequent head- ache and nausea are greatly aggravated. A similar association of chloral hydrate and sulphuric ether gives a less unpleasant result. Insensibility endures for a longer time than when ether alone is employed. Vomiting, however, is very common, and the subsequent prostration and headache are considerably aggravated. Hypnotism.—Certain persons are physically constituted in a manner which leaves their nervous system extraordinarily liable to disturbance of tlie co-or- dinating and connective portions of the apparatus. Accidentally observed at intervals during all ages of the world, this fact has been made the basis of numerous forms of superstition. Brought into notoriety by Mesmer, the phenomena of hypnotism were carefully investigated by Dr. James Braid, of Manchester, between tbe years 1843 and 1852. Recently his experiments have been repeated by the German physiologists, Heidenhain and Weinhold. By causing a susceptible person to gaze intently for several minutes upon any bright object placed before the eyes, within the limits of distinct vision, a condition of somnambulism, or even of catalepsy, may be induced. In this condition the body becomes insensible to painful impressions, and the volun- tary functions of the brain may be completely inhibited. The patient becomes reduced to the condition of an automaton, evolving reflex actions in obedience to the will of the operator. Aot all individuals are thus susceptible. Some experimenters have concluded that .one person in five was capable of hyp- notism. Heidenhain, who experimented only upon males, found that one in twelve could be thus influenced. It is not necessary to address the brain through the eye alone. Gentle friction of the finger tips, or similar stroking of the scalp, or passes of the hand near the surface of the patient, will pro- duce the desired result. A monotonous and continuous sound may also induce this peculiar state. In certain cases a cataleptic state may be set up by simply rubbing or pinching the limb which is to be affected. The patient may retain, in certain cases, the faculty of speech and the power of motion, and yet be insensible to every painful impression. It is while in this con- dition that surgical operations may be endured without any experience of pain. The susceptibility of the patient to the influence of the operator usually increases with practice, until, at length, a touch with the finger upon some particular portion of the body, or even a glance of the eye, may suffice to reproduce the hypnotic phenomena. This degree of susceptibility is so frequently associated with ill health, that indulgence in hypnotic sleep has been generally considered injurious to the patient; but the observations of Heidenhain indicate that this is not necessarily the case. The nervous susceptibility may coexist with vigorous health. The duration of the hypnotic paroxysm is quite under the control of the operator. A smart tap upon the shoulder, friction in a direction op- posite to the original course, a puff of air in the face, are sufficient to restore the conscious sensibility of the patient. Perrin relates a case in which the patient, from whom a cancerous breast had been removed during the hypnotic trance, was permitted to sleep for forty-eight hours before she was awakened. She had given no evidence of pain at the time of operation, and retained no recollection of anything that had occurred. But, though it is certain that the anaesthesia which forms one of the phenomena of the hypnotic state is sufficient to admit of painless surgery, it is also a fact that the comparatively limited number of individuals who are susceptible must always preclude, the general employment of hypnotic anaesthesia as a surgical resource.