PLASTIC SURGERY. 534 periphery of the body. “Surgeons may make the same remark.” “Arrest of development, atrophy, or mutilation of central parts, compromise life much more certainly than the same lesions affecting the members, the tegumentary folds, the nose, lips, penis, ear, etc.” The further remarks of Verneuil upon deformities, considered with a view to their relief by plastic surgery, deserve notice in this place, as also his classification of the lesions to which this branch of the art of surgery “ has been most happily applied.” “ Deformities by deficiency, compatible with life, may be arranged in three categories, reference being had to their radical cure. “(1) The absolutely incurable. For example, the total or partial absence of a member, bone, or muscle; marked atrophy in an extreme degree; loss of substance, too deep or too superficial, but very extensive, are cases in which autoplasty can do nothing. “ (2) Cases in which autoplasty can only mask, palliate, or mitigate the deformity without being able to restore both form and function ; in which, whatever loss is sus- tained, absence of the part cannot be compensated for by borrowed tissue. “ (3) The last category comprises those cases in which the loss of substance is of small extent, and affects membranous organs only. Nevertheless, even in these cases, the deformity may be repaired without recourse being had to autoplasty ; for example, a vesico-vaginal fistula of the bas-fond of the bladder, in which the margins may be simply united But things are very different if the loss of sub- stance be great, if the skin be naturally adherent to the subjacent parts, if it have lost its flexibility, its mobility, its extensibility in consequence of disease. Here autoplasty becomes a necessity.” And in this place a general view should be presented of the lesions in which plastic surgery has been more or less happily called upon; hut finding the enumeration of Verneuil so apposite, we do not hesitate again to draw mate- rial from his admirable article quoted above. “ (1) Perforations and fistula, which establish a communication between a cavity, a reservoir, or a mucous canal, either with a neighboring mucous organ or with the exterior of the body. “ (2) Mutilations, total or partial, of projecting appendices, cutaneous folds, or mem- branous curtains, which circumscribe the natural apertures. “ (3) Superficial losses of substance, not penetrating into cavities, having destroyed a more or less considerable extent of skin or mucous membrane, in a single region, or at the commissures.” And again, the state or condition of the deformities under consideration demands their division into the following categories:— “ (1) Those without tendency to natural repair. “ (2) Those met with or created before natural repair (wounds, the extirpation of tumors). “ (3) Such as present themselves after nature’s efforts at repair.” It is evident that in the wide field of action vaguely defined in the pre- ceding pages, surgery has offered to it a great variety of disablements and disfigurements, produced under many conditions, but which may he referred to congenital vices, arrests or absence of development, traumatism in utero, or the result of infelicitous use of instruments; to injuries of all kinds; to burns; or to the external manifestations of diseases, and their vicious sponta- neous healing with loss of substance, or repair by distorting cicatrices; to gangrene, and to losses produced or provoked by wounds, however inflicted. It, is equally apparent that, in dealing with these departures from the nor- mal, the resources of plastic surgery must he taxed, and the aid of artificial substitutes or supports invoked. And not only are these arts exercised upon parts in which disease has drone its work, but, as in the rebellious ulcers left