283 HISTORY OF SCURVY. than twice that number were rendered unfit for service. Though the course of this century was marked by these lamentable occurrences on land and at sea, yet slow but steady hygienic improvements were discernible. The most eminent example of intelligent appreciation of their importance was that of Captain Cook, in a voyage of circumnavigation in 1772-75, which was accom- plished with the loss of but a single man. This result was obtained by minute attention to the dryness, cleanliness, and ventilation of the ship, and by the use of suitable food. This example was not lost, for although the anti-scor- butic influence of fresh vegetables and fruits had long been a familiar fact, yet it was not until 1795 that the use of lemon-juice was made an integral portion of the ration of the British Navy by official order. The hygienic condition of that service lias gradually improved since this period, so that scurvy has been well-nigh banished. These ameliorations have been chiefly due to the labors and writings of James Lind and Sir Gilbert Blane, the observations of the former having been printed in 1749, and those of the latter in 1785, and both having gone through several editions. The nineteenth century has been marked by notable progress in hygienic * knowledge, and scurvy has become restricted to narrower limits and to excep- tional occurrences. At the siege of Alexandria, in 1801, which was com- menced in May and ended in August, and which furnished, according to Larrey, the conditions for an outbreak of the disease, viz., cold, dampness, and bad food, 3500 cases were admitted into the military hospitals of the city, and many died. The disease was finally controlled by the issue of vine- gar, dates, coffee, and syrup. The officers, who were well rationed, did not suffer. In 1809, the United States troops encamped in the Lower Mississippi, lost over 600 men from the disease. The army of Ibraheem Pasha, in Arabia, was so sorely beset by scurvy, that out of an army of over 100,000 men few returned to their homes, on account of insufficient food, harassing marches, and fatigue. The English troops in the war in Siam and Ava, supplied a large quota of cases of scurvy, and of scorbutic dysentery and ague; and in 1837, in the Caffir war, they were severely afflicted, for, although they were abundantly supplied with good fresh meat, they had long been without fresh vegetables and fruits. A similar experience occurred in the Punjaub, in 1848-49. Scurvy had been seldom or never seen in Great Britain from the end of the last century up to 1847, except in jails and penitentiaries, as at Millbanke in 1823 ; but in the early months of 1847 and 1848, it made its appearance in many places, owing chiefly to the potato blight which destroyed the usual food supply. At this time the most terrific devastation from scurvy was reported in several of the Russian provinces. The total number of cases was estimated at 260,444 of which 67,958 proved fatal. Dr. Gale1 reported the sufferings of the American troops in 1820, in their march to Council Bluffs, which place was reached in October after weeks of the greatest hardships in navigating the boats up the Missouri River, during which time the men were exposed to the midday sun, evening dews and chilly nights, with food consisting chiefly of salted or smoke-dried meats, without vegetables or groceries of any sort. In the following January, scorbutic cases began to show themselves, but the disease proved fatal to few until February, when nearly the whole regiment sank beneath its influence, and it continued unabated until April when wild vegetables appeared. The strength of this post and of that at St. Peter’s, was 1016 ; the number of cases 506 ; and the number of deaths 168. But one officer was affected, and the hunters who lived in the woods and subsisted on game were in no instance unhealthy. The 1 Forry, American Journal of the Medical Sciences, N. S., vol. iii. p. 77.