174 ERYSIPELAS. A carpenter wounded his hand while making a coffin, and, on placing the corpse in it, some fluid from the body came in contact with the wound. He had a severe attack of erysipelas, which he communicated to his wife. Meanwhile, their daughter, seven months pregnant, who had come home to be confined, was seized with fever. The phy- sician, after visiting this woman, went to attend another in labor. The following day the carpenter’s daughter gave birth to a dead child, and died of puerperal fever. The physician did not return to the other lying-in patient, who, however, suffered an attack of puerperal fever, but recovered. In the practice of the same physician, a girl suffer- ing from erysipelas of the face was attended by her mother then about to be confined. The child was born with erysipelas and died. The midwife immediately afterwards attended a healthy girl in labor, who also had a mild attack of puerperal fever, but her father, who waited on her assiduously, was affected witli erysipelas of the throat of which he died on the ninth day. Four other persons who assisted in nursing some of these patients were attacked with erysipelas, but recovered. During a local outbreak of erysipelas in Platte County, Missouri, Dr. Rid- ley reports1 that while attending cases of this disease, he acted as accoucheur to three ladies within the space of one week, all of whom were attacked with puerperal fever and died. These were the only cases in the locality. In 1852, an epidemic of malignant erysipelas occurred in Yew Castle, Pa. While attending one of the cases, Dr. Leasure delivered a healthy woman of her seventh child after a natural labor. She died on the fourth day of typhoid metro-peritonitis, and, after a like interval, her infant died of erysipe- las. A second case occurred under identical circumstances, with like results for both mother and child, and the nurse also suffered from erysipelas, and barely escaped with her life. A third puerperal case of the same physician presented a similar history, as did two other cases under the care of another practitioner who had also been treating erysipelas. Both physicians then abstained from attending any more lying-in women, and no further cases of puerperal fever occurred. Dr. Leasure concludes his narrative with these words: “ My cases of childbed fever were neither more nor less than cases of malignant erysipelas, fatally modified by the condition of the patients, and the manner of introducing the morbid poison.2 About the same time, Dr. Todd, in England, said of puerperal peritonitis, it is “ a disease which I be- lieve is really of an erysipelatous nature.”3 Dr. Dutcher related several cases illustrative of this subject, of which the following is very significant:—4 A physician while attending a case of phlegmonous erysipelas was called to a case of confinement. The patient died of puerperal fever. In the course of four weeks he attended seven cases of labor, and in every instance the mother died of puerperal fever, while the children perished with general cutaneous erysipelas. Finally, the physician was himself attacked with erysipelas of the hand, which nearly proved fatal. In Philadelphia the case is well remembered of a physician in extensive practice who had ninety-five cases of puerperal fever in rapid succession, while none were occurring in the practice of the neighboring practitioners ; and of the children born in these cases no less than fifteen died of erysipelas. In 1857, Dr. Duncan, of York, Pa., related the case of a lady in whom an attack of puerperal fever occurred simultaneously with erysipelas of the face, while her infant suffered from erysipelas of the umbilicus.5 In 1862, a memoir upon this subject was published in Paris by Pihan- Dufeillay,6 who clearly demonstrated the relations of the two diseases to 1 New York Journal of Medicine, vol. x. p. 41, 1853. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1856, p. 45. 3 Medical Times and Gazette, July, 1855, p. 28. 4 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1856, p. 99. £ North American Medico-Chirurgical Review, vol. i. p. 31. 6 L’Union MSdicale, and American Medical Times, vol. v. p. 60.