604 AMPUTATIONS. This is one of the few cases in which acupressure seems to me to possess greater advantages than the ligature, and I would urgently recommend it as the best means of controlling hemorrhage under these circumstances; the pin can he introduced without the necessity of etherizing the patient, and the operation, when the patient is already very much weakened by bleeding, is altogether a much less formidable one than cutting down and searching for the artery. Ligation of the main artery at a distance from the wound, though recommended by Liston, is now generally regarded—and I think justly—as a bad operation, particularly in the lower extremity; it adds a serious complication in itself, exposes to considerable risk of gangrene, and is moreover often ineffectual in permanently arresting the hemorrhage; in the upper extremity, it may be sometimes resorted to with advantage, but when the lower limbs are concerned a better plan is to acupress the vessel in the way already described, and, if necessary, re-amputate when the patient has rallied enough to bear a second operation. Aneurismcd enlargement of the arteries of a stump has already been alluded to as being an occasional cause of hemorrhage. Mr. Erichsen, in his “ Science and Art of Surgery,” describes and figures a remarkable case of aneurismal varix occurring after amputation at the ankle. %Neuromata, or painful nerve-tumors, are often met with in stumps. The bulbous..enlargements of the cut ends of the nerves occur, indeed, as already pointed out, in all stumps, but the term neuroma is not ordinarily employed, unless these enlargements are painful. The pain, which in these cases is sometimes very distressing, is due, according to Weir Mitchell, to the exist- ence of a true neuritis, or of a state of sclerosis which results from inflam- matory changes. The treatment is unfortunately not very satisfactory; if the pain were evidently connected with any distinct tumor, resection of the growth, and of two or three inches of the nerve with which it was connected, would be indicated; under other circumstances, it would be proper to cut down and forcibly stretch the nerve which supplied the painful region, or, if this failed, to excise a couple of inches from the continuity of the nerve and turn its distal end downwards, so as to prevent reunion ; or, if the whole face of the stump seemed to be neuralgic, a re-amputation might be properly re- sorted to. These various operations, however, though perfectly justifiable under the circumstances supposed, by no means insure complete relief from suffering. The late Dr. Nott placed on record a remarkable case in which the patient submitted to no less than three re-amputations of a neuralgic stump, and three nerve-excisions, and yet was not cured at the end of this persevering treatment. As palliative measures, where an operation is not con- sidered necessary, the application of leeches, ice, and counter-irritants, may be of service, as may the topical use of the strong tincture of aconite root, or hypodermic injections of morphia. Relief was obtained, in a case recorded by Girard, by the repeated employment of electro-puncture. Periostitis, osteitis, or osteomyelitis, or all of these affections simultaneously, may attack the bone of a stump, and in some cases may lead to very serious consequences. Subperiosteal suppuration, unless the pus he promptly evacuated by a free incision, is apt to lead to extensive necrosis,1 and sometimes, by im- plicating the epiphyseal junction,2 or even secondarily the neighboring joint, 1 Subperiosteal suppuration sometimes receives the name of acute necrosis, but the necrosis is a consequence of the disease rather than the disease itself. 2 The sequence of events is usually the other way, epiphysitis preceding subperiosteal suppura- tion. (See Macnamara, Lectures on Diseases of Bones and Joints, pp. 69, 75. Second edition. Lon- don, 1881.5