124 INFLAMMATION. microscope, as yet, nor by the strictest chemical analj’sis, from pus of ordi- nary quality. The virulence of pus thus contaminated belongs neither to its corpuscles, nor to bacteria, but to certain unknown substances soluble in its serum, analogous to those which exist in the blood in syphilis, in the nasal mucus of glanders, or in the saliva of hydrophobia.1 Pus Involves Waste of Tissue.—It lias been rendered sufficiently obvious by the preceding considerations that pus production involves destruction of tissue. As Strieker asserts, “ where pus is formed in the midst of the tissues, the tissues must be disintegrated; it is the tissue itself which is transformed into pus-corpuscles.” In addition, adjacent parts are damaged by interrup- tion of their function, and by pressure; and local death is produced by ulcera- tion. Pus production, in the case of wounds, therefore, involves not only delay as to healing, but positive destruction and waste of material in the consummation of the healing process; and suppuration is properly regarded as a symptom of the destructive phase of inflammation. These conclusions will become more obvious if we examine a little more closely into the uses of pus. Uses of Pus.—-For what purpose is this secretion furnished by the blood at the expense of the tissues? What are really its uses? These questions are readily answered. Many and different uses have been assigned to pus, some of which are entirely fanciful. James, of Exeter, who wrote in 1832, embodies the general sense, at that date, in the opinion that the secretion of pus is a necessary auxiliary to the process of granulation, for “the newly-formed parts have no protection to defend them against the injurious impressions of exter- nal agents;” this “appears to be its legitimate use.” James judiciously remarks, concerning pus, that “ if we can sufficiently protect the w’ound from the irritation of external agents it will heal without it;” referring to “ scab- bing,” in proof. At an earlier date, the flow of pus was supposed to exercise a depnrative influence both upon the wTound and upon the system at large. It was thought to cleanse a wound, and to prepare it for healing; and means were commonly employed to promote its flow. The popular mind still attaches importance to the idea that suppuration purges the body of something injurious; and the term “corruption” is still applied to pus, and a certain satisfaction excited by its free discharge. Hence one of the sources of confidence in the remedial power of setons and issues. But at the present day, the conviction has gradu- ally come to prevail that these uses of pus are imaginary. They certainly have not been confirmed by the increasing accuracy of our knowledge, and the opinion of Robin is now generally received. This writer asserts, broadly, that “ it cannot be demonstrated that under any circumstances suppuration does good, or that it exerts any salutary influence by depuration.’2 We may safely regard suppuration as simply an exuberant overflow of plastic material. The leucocytes which are washed away from the surface of a wound are evidently not necessary for the success of the constructive pro- cess. They are in excess of the demand. Their fellows, which remain behind, develop into tissue—they subserve a useful purpose; but those which are washed away as pus-corpuscles are wasted—they are abortions. The truth of this view is confirmed by what happens when healthy granulating surfaces are brought in contact and kept carefully in apposition. We know by daily experience that they unite at once and grow together. The question was asked in connection with this mode of adhesion of granulations, or secondary Robin, op. cit., p. 414. 2 Op. cit., p. 384.