( 379 ) TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM AND DELIRIUM TREMENS. BY WILLIAM HUNT, M.D., SENIOR SURGEON TO THE PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Traumatic Delirium. The word Delirium lias rather a curious derivation from de (from), and lira (a ridge between two furrows). The Latin verb deliro is defined as “ to make a balk in plowing.” A free translation, therefore, would be to deviate or wander from a prescribed line. Hence the word “wandering,” that is often used to express the presence of delirium in disease. Those who coined the word did better than they knew, if our present knowledge of the brain and its func- tions is taken into account. As knowledge of the localization of nerve centres and their conducting fibres becomes more and more developed, we can readily understand how the furrows and ridges and folds of nerve matter may be disturbed by a balk of the driver (external impression), or by a stump in the furrow (internal disease). A temporary derangement of the intellectual and perceptive faculties, manifested through the speech and actions of the patient, is the necessary characteristic of delirium. The wandering need not be by speech alone, for a deaf mute, or an aphasiac, may become as delirious as any one else, and delirium is unquestionably experienced by, and may be produced in, animals. Continuous or chronic delirium necessarily becomes insanity, and techni- cally should be considered under that head. The case may be a fatal one, as far as the individual patient is concerned, and the delirium, in a more or less acute form, may be continuous until his death ; but should he survive, and the delirium persist indefinitely, his place would be among the insane. This temporary character of true delirium varies in its expression to a remarkable degree. Sometimes it shows itself as a mere passing fancy, and is difficult to detect; again, the patient may be perfectly himself as long as his attention is directed by another, or to some special object, but, these conditions ceasing, he relapses into his absurd utterances or actions. Then moments, and sometimes extended periods, of normal consciousness follow, during which he will be more or less aware of what has passed, and will own to himself, or to his attendants, that he has been “making a fool of himself,” and will declare that he will not do it again. Soon, however, there is a recurrence of the wander- ing and the nonsense, and, should the disease get the upper hand, these may continue in a more aggravated form and without intermission until death. The actions of the patient also vary very much, and range from trivial devia- tions from the normal standard, such as it would require an expert to detect, to the most violent efforts, threatening injury to himself and to his caretakers.