324 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. Morphinism. In regard to morphinism, we possess but few records, and those unaccom- panied with many details. Opium administered continuously, and in moderate doses, is rather favorable to the cure of wounds, and more than one surgeon has extolled its use in severe injuries. But, as in the case of alcohol, there is a great difference between use and abuse, and in the same way that there is an acute and a chronic alcoholism, there are also acute and chronic forms of poisoning by opium. The latter variety, which was formerly known only in the Orient, has in its turn invaded the Western world since the extensive employment of narcotics by subcutaneous injection. Chronic morphinism is the only variety with the effects of which upon the course of injuries we are somewhat acquainted. Thus at the locality of hypodermic injections have been noticed phlegmons, abscesses, and spots of gangrene; at the site of operative wounds, erysipelas, bronzed inflammation, orange-colored suppura- tion; in a word, complications which are very analogous to those observed in alcoholics, and in diabetic and albuminuric patients. While waiting for carefully made autopsies to show the nature of the histological lesions produced by slow morphia poisoning, experimentation and clinical study enable us to compare morphinism to the constitutional conditions described above. In fact, by injecting toxic doses of morphia in animals, we produce albuminuria, glycosuria, and ocular lesions which are comparable to those caused by these two diseases; and furthermore, examina- tion after death reveals intense congestion of the nerve centres, and of the liver and kidneys. Moreover, this albuminuria and this glycosuria have been already noticed in morphiomaniacs. Charcot, for his part, has observed the development of furious delirium in morphiomaniacs, and in a case of pneumonia this latter affection terminated in gangrene. It is easy to under- stand that opium-eaters should present at the seat of injury complications with which they might be affected at any point whatever, without its direct implication, and simply in consequence of the poisoning itself or of the visceral lesions which it produces. We know nothing of the reciprocal influence which traumatism may exercise upon morphinism. We will merely mention as a fact which is interesting to surgeons, that the use of chloroform demands special precau- tions in individuals who habitually make excessive use of morphia. Though relaxation is usually produced in them with readiness, the narcosis may be prolonged for an extremely long time, and may be accompanied by a depres- sion of temperature which, in some cases, has awakened well-founded appre- hensions. As a sequel to these remarks on morphinism, we should no doubt speak of the more or less, analogous intoxications caused by belladonna, tobacco, haschish, and some other narcotic substances. But, unfortunately, we must for the present, in absence of the necessary information, leave blank a space which the future will certainly fill. Saturnism or Lead-Poisoning. Animal and vegetable matters do not alone possess the baleful privilege of poisoning the organism, and of giving rise, like general diseases, to permanent constitutional conditions; the metalloids and metals also have the same property. We are in the possession of valuable knowledge with regard to this class of poisonings, several of which have even received special names.