402 TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM AND DELIRIUM TREMENS. At times the case is so urgent that these have to he resorted to at once, in order to procure sleep, and other indications may he met afterwards. It is in this state that the surgeon most frequently finds his delirium-tremens patients. Time often will not permit him to take risks. Then hypodermic injections of morphia should he given at once. In cases of fracture, the limb must he so guarded and bound up that it will move as one mass, and not he held by extending hands, or other means, to fixed places. Soft splints padded with cotton should be applied, and then the part may he hound up in a pillow. A suspension apparatus may also be useful. One has to be regardless of the accurate apposition of the fragments; that is to be attended to after quiet and sense have been restored. Where it is absolutely necessary, restraint by strapping the uninjured parts to the bed may have to be resorted to. Under all circumstances the patient must he most careful ly watched, for in some way or other he will manage to disturb his dressings or to injure himself, if this be not done. When sleep comes on, everything to encourage its continuance should be ob- served. When the patient wakes he is always much better, and often perfectly sane. How is the time to push the nourishment, for it is the true reliance to bring about a permanent cure. The anodynes and stimulants are a weak prop, if food does not go with them. They may be gradually withdrawn, and may he again resorted to in full measure should relapse be threatened. It is not my intention in this article to discuss the relative therapeutic value of the different remedies for delirium tremens. The treatment must be based on the general principle that the disease is one of depression. nourishment, withdrawal from exciting surroundings, and sleep, are what are wanting. Much may be done to ward oft’ an attack if the surgeon is forewarned as to habits. Early measures to secure rest and sleep, under these circumstances, will often be entirely successful.