460 OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. wounds, than of simple operations. Another important feature in the favor of children, as subjects of operation, is the readiness and comparative comfort with which they hear continement. Easily satisfied and amused, they soon accustom themselves to their new condition, and pass through a long period of confinement to bed, possibly subject in the mean while to exhausting dis- charges, in a manner unknown to those of more mature age. The tendency of children to suffer from the exanthemata must always be remembered, and no operation should be attempted on them when exposed to these affections. There is also in children, as has been pointed out by Sir James Paget, a special liability to the occurrence of scarlatina after operation. Why this should be so, is not clear, but it seems probable that the shock of operation upon children carries with it a predisposition to the development of this disease, especially if it is epidemic at the time. The same writer also states that the type of the disease, occurring under these circumstances, is somewhat modified, and the period of incubation shortened. In some chil- dren the disease appears on the whole surface at once; in others, more deci- dedly upon the limbs; sore throat and desquamation are observed in some, and not in others. The development of this affection necessarily adds to the hazard of operations in childhood. The performance of certain operations upon children is at times difficult, and demands a high degree of anatomical knowledge, in consequence of the contracted space in which procedures, often of a delicate and complicated nature, must be practised. Yet, as a rule, the average child may be regarded as a good subject for operation, and in this respect contrasts strongly with persons of advanced age. In the latter, the powers of life are already weak- ened, and it requires but little to disturb the vital equilibrium. The chances of the existence of organic disease in one or more of the great viscera, and, in men particularly, in the genito-urinary organs, must be considered. jSTo surgeon would deliberately select a very old man as the subject for operation, and yet in many instances such patients will recover from operations wonderfully well. Still, this cannot be anticipated, and must be looked upon as an ex- ceptional circumstance. Age cannot always be measured by years alone ; a good deal depends upon the constitution, and upon pre-existent habits, and they have the best chances of recovery who are in the best general condition of health. When operations are called for upon the aged, every effort should he made to prevent hemorrhage and shock, and such patients should not be kept in bed longer than is absolutely necessary. All depleting measures should be carefully avoided, and the diet should be of the most nourishing, and, if necessary, stimulating kind. Sex.—As far as sex is concerned, there does not seem to be a great deal of difference as to the capacity of men and women to sustain operations. The latter are undoubtedly more patient, more accustomed to endure suffering, and more tolerant of confinement to house and bed. At the same time, there are certain physiological conditions of womanhood which must be borne in mind in the selection of the time of operation. Thus the menstrual period should be avoided. The woman is then in a state of nervous irritability, and often of positive pain. Her mental and physical functions are in a degree perverted, and her judgment and self-control disturbed. In fact, she is not then in a state to be 'exposed to any increased or unnecessary irritation. The best period for operation in women is probably from five to eight days after the cessation of the menstrual flow. After operation, it frequently happens that the menses will make their appearance too soon, and in anticipation of the proper period; and the nearer to the latter that the operation is periormed, the more apt is this anticipation to occur.