186 ERYSIPELAS. 2 Medical Communications, vol. ii. p. 22. A quite unusual seat of the eruption presented itself in a case of Steiner’s.1 In a child two years of age, without known cause, the disease attacked simultaneously both thighs, and then extended to the feet. After it declined there a relapse occurred, the eruption appeared upon the trunk, and the child died. Bilious Erysipelas.—The bilious phenomena above alluded to have such a predominance in certain instances, that to cases presenting them has been applied the title bilious erysipelas. The cases now alluded to occur in localities and at seasons in which a malarial influence prevails, and they are marked by bilious eructation and vomiting, bitterness of the mouth, a yellow tongue, epigastric uneasiness and tenderness, great thirst, sometimes constipation, or, again, bilious diarrhoea, scanty and yellow urine, and yellow- ness of the skin or conjunctivse. Metastatic Erysipelas.—Erysipelas is said to he metastatic, when it dis- appears abruptly from one place to reappear as suddenly in some other part. Thus it may pass from the face to the external genital organs, from the ear to the limbs, from the skin to some internal part, etc. This trans- lation is sometimes produced by cold air, or by the application of cold or astringent lotions. Such phenomena illustrate the doctrine that erysipelas is not a local inflammation, but a disease involving the whole system, just as analogous metastases show a similar nature in gout and rheumatism. The change of seat, moreover, does not always take place abruptly; an internal organ may be attacked after the complete resolution of the original inflam- mation, presenting, in fact, the characters of a relapse in which the seat of the secondary is quite different in its character from that of the primary affection. Eor example:— A young and healthy man experienced an attack of erysipelas of the face and scalp, which ran the usual, and a favorable course, even to desquamation. After six days of apparent convalescence, the patient was attacked with pain in the right side of the chest, cough, fever, sore throat, redness of the fauces, and crepitant rales at the base of the right lung. Death occurred in four days, when the pharynx was found of a bright red color which ceased abruptly at the oesophagus, but extended into the larynx, trachea, and right bronchus, even to its smallest subdivisions, though it did not atfect the left. The alveoli of the right lung were distended with leucocytes, but there were no bronchial casts, nor did any hepatization exist. The nature of the exudation was characteristic of erysipelatous, but not of “ croupous” or fibrinous inflammation. The disease, in this case, appears to have made two separate and independent attacks ; but whether the poison that occasioned the second was the same that produced the first, and afterwards remained quiescent in the system, or whether the relapse was due to a fresh infection, may remain in doubt, the former view, however, seeming to be the more probable. Erysipelas of Uew-born Infants.—Erysipelas in new-born children, at least in its epidemic form, is, as was long ago observed, almost entirely confined to lying-in hospitals. It was doubted by Underwood whether it ever affected those who were more than a month old, but, unless those cases alone are regarded which originate in section of the umbilical cord, this opinion is too exclusive. The disease sometimes prevails among children of one or two years, confined in hospitals. On the other hand, it is known to have occurred during intra-uterine life, as in Bromfield’s2 case, in which the child was born with erysipelas of the face and legs, and in which, although sloughs existed on the latter at birth, recovery followed. In nearly all cases of this form, 1 Prager Vierteljahrschrift, Bd. lxxxix. Anal. S. 67.