340 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL DIAGNOSIS. and ovarian functions; while after the climacteric has been passed, woman often becomes the prey of those horrid fibroid and carcinomatous neoplasms which attack the uterus and the mammary glands. Men, on the contrary, enjoy a singular exemption from hysteroidal attacks, as they also do from carcinoma. If a man complains of uneasiness or pain in a joint, it is gene- rally real—rheumatic, gouty, or symptomatic of some other form of inflam- mation—and not a mimicry of disease; if a limb suddenly loses its power, the paralysis is real, and not a simulation; if an irritable bladder is developed, there is a reasonable certainty that there is a true physical basis for the dis- turbance, such as stone, cystitis, or an enlarged prostate. Should he become the subject of cancer, the disease will most likely prove to be of the epithelial variety, and will probably be seated on the lip or in the rectum; and if he is seized by a convulsion, epileptic or otherwise, the idea of central or cerebro- spinal lesion will be naturally entertained. Both sexes furnish examples of cardiac derangement. In the male, they are not often present unless some structural change has taken place in the heart and bloodvessels, such as valvular disease, atheroma, or aneurism; while in the female, they are quite as frequently the result of reflex irritation. Hernia is met with in both sexes ; but while inguinal hernia largely outnum- bers all other varieties in the male, in the female sex, the femoral variety is very common. While, however, in the main, the portrait which has been drawn is a true one, yet the surgeon must never assume, without a most critical and exhaustive investigation having first been made, that, because the patient is a woman, certain symptoms have no real or substantial basis. Indifference to this caution has cost many women their lives, the disease having been unrecognized until too late to admit of a remedy. Occupation is not only a fruitful cause of disease, but determines in many instances the nature of the morbid process. The worker in a manufactory of lucifer matches, provided that a defective tooth exists in the jaw, is prone to suffer from phosphor-necrosis of the maxilla. The painter becomes the subject of lead colic; the chimney-sweep, of soot-cancer of the scrotum. Persons who are employed in the manufacture of chemicals, who are constantly^ exposed to contact with irrespirable gases, or who are habitually engaged in sand-paper and glue establishments, not infrequently fall victims to serious disease of the air passages and lungs. The house-maid, some of whose duties require her to be much in the kneeling posture, is liable to have an enlarge- ment of the patellar bursa. Plumbers and other persons whose occupations call them to labor in damp or wet localities, such as ditches, drains, etc., are peculiarly predisposed to rheumatism. A particular occupation or trade may produce such alterations in the form or symmetry of the body as, if not understood, would be apt to create much unnecessary apprehension in the mind of the surgeon. Thus, the shoemaker or the tailor, toiling day after day over the lap-stone or the lap-board, becomes round-shouldered, and finally gets a curved spine, or changes the form of his breast; while the boy who is constantly engaged at the lathe, destroys, by the habitual use of the same foot, the bilateral symmetry of the lower extremities. Habits.—The influence of habit not only constitutes a powerful element in the production of many of the affections of the body which become the sub- jects of medical or surgical attention, but, when recognized, materially modi- fies prognosis, and explains phenomena which otherwise would be exceedingly obscure. Thus we have defects of vision which are induced by the excessive use of tobacco; except for the knowledge of the existence of this practice, the appearances of the eye would excite serious apprehension for its future. The