INFLAMMATION. 140 An ample air supply is a condition indispensable for health, and it is there- fore a duty incumbent upon those who have charge of the sick, to secure for them their still more urgent rights in this respect. The minimum supply for each patient in the ward of a hospital is two thousand cubic feet. The mor- tality in typhus fever has reached its lowest figure, even in the uncertain win- ter climate of this latitude, in patients treated under canvass, and in temporary wooden houses. The fourth and final indication for the treatment of inflammation includes all the means at our command for the mitigation and control of its manifesta- tions when excessive, or when threatening to become destructive; and for their arrest when actually destructive. These comprise remedies competent to antagonize excessive manifestations, to repress their intensity, and to restrain them, if possible, within the limits of the constructive process. The means at our command for meeting the requirements of the third and fourth indications will be discussed under the following titles: rest and immobility; position; cold; heat and moisture; compression; blood-letting; drainage; revulsion; drugs; diet and nursing. Prevention.—But foremost in order comes prevention. We are to under- stand by the preventive treatment of inflammation, the employment of meas- ures which tend to favor the process of repair-—that phase of the inflamma- tory process which we have called, after Samuels, constructive; and, also, the means at our command to avert any excess, or to remedy any defect, of vascular action, which, besides defeating the reparative object of the process, would produce waste and destruction of tissue—constituting the phase of inflammation we have called destructive. The former is to be promoted; the latter to be avoided, and, if possible, prevented. Happily, in the great majority of cases, both of these ends are to be attained by the same means. When we have secured complete primary adhesion in a recent wound, as a rule, all danger from inflammation is at an end. Keeping always in view the fact that inflammation is nothing more than an exaggerated, sometimes a perverted, effort on the part of the local nutri- tive apparatus to meet some emergency in which the integrity of the organ- ism is threatened, our first duty is to favor in every way the healthy per- formance of the all-important nutritive function. This is to be accomplished by providing pure air to breathe, plenty of sunlight, good food to eat, with proper attention to the conditions and surroundings by which the normal performance of all the functions is promoted. The constitutional peculiarities and acquired habits of life of an individual who has sustained a surgical injury should always be made the subject of careful inquiry; and the patient’s habitual food and drink, and his hours of eating and of attending to the calls of nature, should be imitated as closely as circumstances will permit. He is to be regarded as a machine, and placed in all respects in the position, as to surroundings, in which the machinery will work to the best advantage. At the same time, the influence of the mind upon the healthy performance of the physical functions is to be kept in view; fear and anxiety are as far as possible to be dispelled; and hope and confidence are to be in- spired. As Claude Bernard has shown, fear and apprehension of danger tend to depress the normal temperature of the body, which is kept up by the proper working of the nutritive machinery; whilst hope and happy antici- pations have a healthy stimulating effect. The next duty of the surgeon in preventing undue inflammation, is the avoidance, as far as circumstances will permit, of all possible causes of inter- ference with the process of normal repair, and especially of the causes liable