INFLAMMATION. 72 formation of a slough. In a ease in which the ganglion of Gasser was subse- quently found bathed in pus, the whole eye shrank and collapsed. An erup- tion of herpes about the lips after a paroxysm of malarial fever, or as conse- quence of functional gastric disturbance, is a very common occurrence. The formation of abscess in the vicinity of a focus of inflammation, as of a diseased joint, when not the result of a secondary or infectious process, has been attri- buted to reflex nervous irritation. Hypersemic congestion, with local evidences of altered nutrition, has been observed in parts of which the nerves have been wounded or divided. The rapidity with which bed-sores form on the sacrum after exhausting fevers and surgical lesions of the spinal cord causing paraplegia, is well known; and the occurrence of cystitis in such cases is a constant result. Bed-sores begin by intense hyperaemia of the integument, followed by vesicular eruption, or pustulation, so that the lesion is at first distinctly inflammatory; but it is usually complicated by local death of tissue. The period, of life has less influence than has usually been ascribed to it as a predisposing cause of inflammation. Examples are frequently cited in favor of this cause, which are not, in reality, inflammatory atfections. The effects of malnutrition in infants, or of the senile atrophy or degeneration of tissue incident to age, have been attributed to inflammation. In childhood, the pro- cess of nutrition is in its period of greatest activity, and the condition of acute hyperaemia—the first step towards the inflammatory condition—occurs promptly from any exciting cause. Any interruption of nutrition is followed by exaggerated results in derangement of healthy condition. Fever occurs readily, and from slight causes of provocation. It is not rare to see a wreak, puny infant with a tendency to pus formation from the most trifling causes ; this is usually traceable to a defect in the quality of the blood, the result of inadequate nourishment, or to the effect of poisonous influences upon the tender organism, by which it is more likely to be affected than in after life. But when positive inflammation is provoked in early life, if its processes are rapid in their evolution, they are more likely to be limited to the constructive stage ; and there is in the infantile organism a fund of vital energy available to resist and to repair injury which is very remarkable. Evidence of this is to be seen in the results of very early operations for hare-lip, and in opera- tions for imperforate anus; and in the striking cures effected in infantile syphilis by the judicious use of mercury. On the other hand, in the aged, affections peculiar to this period of life, often referred to as inflammatory, are really of a different nature: neither prostatic disease nor senile gangrene is due to inflammation. The former, like the uterine tumors of the other sex, is, for the most part, due to fibroid over- growth, and the latter is a result of degeneration of the arterial coats. The catarrhal affections of age, such as cystitis and conjunctivitis, are truly inflam- matory, and tend to pus production. They arise from weakness in worn-out tissues by which the power of resistance to exciting causes of inflammation is impaired. It is to be remarked that the power of repair, although some- what slower in its manifestations, rarely fails through age alone. This is noticeable in the constancy with which a good immediate result is obtained after the removal of epitheliomatous cancers so common at this period of life. In middle life, the greater degree of exposure to traumatism, to the influence of poisons, and to the consequences of excess, explains the greater frequency of inflammatory affections at this period. Here, also, are encountered the contingencies attending pregnancy and lactation, which so often tend to inflam- matory phenomena, whether by traumatism, the poisons to which the puer- peral state exposes the patient, or the peculiar and rapid changes to which the blood is liable in these conditions. It would be wrong to omit the curious