290 SCURVY. waste of sulphur is calculated to he about 20 grains, and that of potassa and soda 80 grains in an adult of 150 lbs. (10 stone) weight. The quantity of cereals that would supply the waste of other elements of the body during a single day, can supply only 17 grains of sulphur and 43 grains of the alkalies; and a similar amount of leguminous material would give only 11 grains of sulphur and 55 of the alkalies. Succulent vegetables, on the other hand, while deficient in nitrogen and the other elements, contain mineral matter in abundance. The potato contains both organic and inorganic principles in just proportion to compensate for the necessary waste. Dr. Garrod,1 of Edin- burgh, upon the strength of one inconclusive blood analysis, declared that scurvy was caused by the use of food deficient in the potassium salts, the essen- tial change in the blood in that disease being brought about by the insufficient supply of these salts. Neither of these views, though ingenious and plausible, has received the confirmation of scientific research. Some of the old writers, Sennertus,2 Oharleton,3 and Hoffmann,4 from observ- ing the wide-spread character of the disease, its destructive effects and exten- sion in communities and aggregations of individuals, and its seizure of nursing infants, adopted the idea that it was contagious, or of a miasmatic character, depending upon a specific poison, just as syphilis, smallpox, or malarial diseases. M. Villemin,5 in August, 1874, presented to the Academy of Medi- cine at Paris, a memoir in which he endeavored to sustain the theory that scurvy was “line maladie endemo-epidemique, contagieuse, analogue au typhus, a la peste, et resultant d’un miasme particulier. Rottwil6 has also expressed similar views. Morbid Anatomy of Scurvy. After death, the body of a patient dead of scurvy presents slight evidence of rigor mortis, and is generally emaciated, especially when little food has been attainable, or when from the condition of the gums and teeth it could not be masticated and swallowed. Under reverse circumstances the body may retain its rotundity and fulness. It is prone to rapid decomposition, and the skin is of a dirty-yellowish or clay color, dry and parchment-like, more or less scaly and rough, and marked by bluish or livid spots of the most varying size and figure. The small and round spots located at the roots of the hair, from one to two lines in diameter, are caused by blood extravasated from the vascular network around the hair follicles, beneath the cuticle. The larger and more irregular discolorations are located in the deeper layers of the cutis. The subcutaneous connective tissue is more or less oedematous and infiltrated with blood, or fibrinous material tinged with blood. The bloody extravasations form swellings of a doughy feel, without well-defined limita- tions, unless circumscribed by resisting fasciae; the fibrinous effusions, on the other hand, present themselves as layers from one to two lines in thickness, at first gelatinous and of a pale yellow color, but subsequently assuming a higher organization, becoming vascular, of a bright yellowisli-red color, firm and even elastic to the feel, and with clearly defined outlines. The material be- comes so intimately blended with the connective tissue as to destroy all appearance of its fibrillary structure. These appearances also occur in the connective tissue of the muscles, and beneath the fascia! forming their sheaths, lacerating their fibres or softening them to such a degree that they easily 1 Monthly Journal of Med. Science, 1848. * Med. pract., lib. iii. pars v. sec. ii. cap. iii. ? De scorbuto, 1672. 4 Medicina rationalis systematica, 1739. 6 Archives Gen. de Medecine, t. ii. 1874. 6 Nassauisclien Jalirbiiclier, Bd. xvi. s. 749.