AMPUTATIONS. 570 vaso-motor nerves of the part affected, and, as a consequence, dilatation of all the vessels; the normal contraction and retraction of these does not take place, and, when the tube is removed, profuse bleeding occurs and continues until the vessels regain their natural tone. Kow, except in cases of necrosis, etc., in which the bleeding can be restrained by firmly stuffing the wound with lint before the removal of the tube, it is evident that, in order to pre- vent hemorrhage, the arterial circulation should still he controlled after the tube has been taken oft‘, and while the vessels are recovering themselves. This may be conveniently and effectively done by combining the use of the tube with that of the ordinary tourniquet. My plan is to place a tourniquet in position, but not screwed down, over the main artery of the limb, and then to apply the Esmarch tube a few inches above the point at which I intend to amputate. As soon as the principal vessels have been secured— and these should be readily recognized through a knowledge of their ana- tomical relations—the tourniquet plate is screwed down and the tube removed. Ko bleeding follows, because the circulation is still thoroughly controlled by the tourniquet, and by the time that the remaining arteries requiring liga- tures have been tied, the vessels will have regained their tone, and the tour- niquet can be withdrawn without any risk of bleeding following. In amputations for injury, where there is much laceration of the tissues, I commonly apply the Esmarch tube without the elastic bandage;. in amputa- tions for disease, however, or where there is not much laceration, and, gene- rally, in operations other than amputation, both should be employed. Apart from the very great convenience to the surgeon, in many cases, of having the field of operation free from blood during his manipulations, I am well con- vinced that the judicious use of Esmarch’s method will enable a certain number of lives to be saved by operation, which would otherwise inevitably be lost. Various ingenious modifications of Esmarch’s apparatus have been sug- gested by Foulis, H. L. Browne, C. B. ISTancrecle, and other surgeons; hut I have no personal experience of any of these devices, of the practical value of which I confess to have some doubts. M. Houze de l’Aulnoit employs a simple band of caoutchouc, applied while the limb is held in a vertical posi- tion, and dispenses with the preliminary bandage. Amputating Knives.—The knife formerly used for the circular operation had but one edge and a very heavy back, being shaped somewhat like a sickle (Fig. 115); and a very good knife it was, cutting through the soft tissues Fig. 115. Old knife for circular amputations. almost by its own weight, and doing its work in a very satisfactory man- ner. The modern amputating knives, however, which are intended for use in either the circular or the flap operation, have a sharp point and are usually double-edged for an inch or more at the extremity (Figs. 116, 117). The length of the knife should be about one and a half times the diameter of the limb to be removed, and its breadth from three-eighths to three-fourths of an inch. Thus a knife with a cutting edge of eight or nine inches will be sufficiently long for most amputations of the thigh, while one with an edge of six or seven inches will be ample for smaller limbs. Double-edged catlins (Fig. 118) are used principally for the forearm and leg, and are con-