TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 157 of these symptoms partake of the inflammatory character, the reputation of mercury as an antiphlogistic, because it removes them so readily, is explained. The visible melting away under the mercurial influence of the solid exuda- tion often present in iritis, is constantly referred to as demonstrating the power of mercury to control inflammation. But iritis was not recognized as a consequence of syphilis until 1801, when it was pointed out by Beer; and, at present, its non-traumatic occurrence under any other influence than that of syphilis is regarded as exceedingly rare. We have no evidence that mer- cury will prevent, or cause the absorption of, the inflammatory exudation in pleurisy and peritonitis. In the latter, although no combination of drugs ever enjoyed more general confidence, opium, alone, has noticeably replaced the calomel and opium of the last generation. There is apparently valid evi- dence of the power of mercury to arrest acute bronchitis and acute cystitis, the symptoms yielding, as is asserted, as soon as the specific action of the mercury becomes manifest in the mouth; but in the cases which serve as a basis for this opinion, opium has also been administered in combination with the mercury. As local applications, the lotions and ointments containing mercury are deservedly held in estimation as possessing salutary qualities beside their stimulating action. These qualities are habitually described by the rather vague term alterative. “ Yellow wash,” “ black wash,” mercurial ointment, and the cerates of “ red” and “ white precipitate” are universally employed for local medication, especially in unhealthy and chronic surface inflammations. The preparations of lead are much prized in surgery for their sedative and astringent properties. The emplastru/n plumb/ as an unirritating retentive agent is simply invaluable. “ Goulard’s lotion,” a dilute solution of the sub- acetate, is justly popular. The nitrate is more astringent, and also effective as a deodorizer; it has been used as a lotion in open cancerous ulcerations. The acetate, given internally in combination with opium, has a certain value as a sedative and haemostatic. The soluble preparations of lead are all deodorizers in consequence of the readiness with which they decompose hydrosulphuric acid gas ; and, for the same reason, dressings containing lead are liable to blackish discoloration from contact of this gas, which is always produced by decomposing pus. The astringency and unirritating properties of the oxide and sulphate of zinc give them also great value as local applications in surface inflammations in the form of cerates and lotions. The oxide, mingled with pulverized starch, is used to dust over raw surfaces to promote their scabbing; the benzoated ointment of the oxide of zinc has replaced the old “ calamine” salve in popularity; and solutions of the sulphate are widely used as lotions and injections in inflammatory conditions of mucous membranes. The depleting and depressing effects of saline laxatives were formerly held in much esteem in inflammatory affections; but the fact that their action is secured at the expense of direct irritation of the blood-making intestinal surface, constitutes an objection to their use, save in the exceptional cases which by the suddenness of their invasion, or the violence of the inflam- matory action, in a robust subject, justify this somewhat expensive mode of depletion and counter-irritation. Apart from its depleting and disturbing influence upon the digestive sur- faces, a mild but effectual cathartic is usually required in the beginning of a surgical case, and not unfrequently during its progress, to remove possible fecal accumulations in the large bowel. In surgical cases requiring rest in bed— as where bones are fractured—this measure is to be kept in view as necessary to favor healthy constructive inflammation. All possible disturbance of the patient is to be avoided by selecting an unirritating aperient, and by aiding its