631 AMPUTATIONS OF THE FINGERS. SPECIAL AMPUTATION'S OF TIIE UPPER EXTREMITY. Amputations of the Fingers. The surgeon is frequently called upon to amputate a part or the whole of a finger, or even several fingers, in cases of injury by gunshot wound or ma- chinery, neglected felon, destruction of the interphalangeal joints by syphilitic disease, etc. As no artificial substitute can possibly replace even fora moder- ate degree of usefulness, the natural finger, it should be the surgeon’s aim to save every portion that can possibly be preserved; hence, if part of a phalanx can be left, this should be done, rather than amputate at the joint above. The only exception to this rule is in the case of the proximal phalanges of the middle and ring fingers; as there is no special flexor tendon for these parts, they are apt, if preserved, to project stiffly, and to rather hinder than assist the usefulness of the rest; hence when, in these fingers, it is necessary to remove all except the proximal phalanges, it is proper to take these away also, and amputate at the phalangeo-metacarpal joint. In the case of the forefinger, however, even part of a phalanx is of value, as affording a point of opposition to the thumb, while in the little finger, the proximal phalanx may be kept in order to give greater symmetry to the hand than it would otherwise possess. Amputation through a Phalanx may be most conveniently done by the flap method; either by the old plan of Ileliodorus (generalized by Ravaton), of making a circular incision down to the bone, and then forming two square flaps by adding longitudinal incisions on either side- or by shaping antero- posterior, semicircular flaps from without inwards. The bone may be divided either with a small saw or with cutting pliers, and the wound accurately closed with three or four points of the metallic suture. Two vessels usually bleed—the digital arteries on either side—and these can commonly be con- trolled by passing the stitches through their mouths, without the use of ligatures. The whole hand and forearm should be placed upon a well-padded splint, and thus kept at rest for about a week after the operation. Amputation through either of the Interphalangeal Joints may be readily effected by the single (palmar) flap, or by the double flap method. The circular operation has also been em- ployed in disarticulations of the phalanges, but seems to me to be less advantageous than the flap method in this locality. The most important point to be borne in mind, in these operations, is that the joint is always found below the prominence of the knuckle, which is caused by the projection of the upper bone, as shown in the accom- panying illustration (Fig. 166), suggested by a cut in M. Fort’s excellent work on Opera- tive Surgery; in the case of the last or distal phalanx^ the line of the joint is one line (-jV Fig. 166. Skeleton of a finger, showing the relation of the knuckles to the joints.