329 LOCOMOTOR ATAXIA AND VARIOUS NEUROSES. in the composition of the hloocl, and that this modification may in certain cases act upon the reparative process. Cardism.—Even severe disturbances of the central circulation do not derange the course of the reparative process, if they are temporary. On the contrary, valvular lesions and degenerations of the muscular tissue of the heart may, by changing the static and dynamic conditions of the entire circulation, modify the chemical composition of the blood, cause impairment of important viscera like the liver or lungs, alter the connective tissue which is so necessary to cicatrization, and, in a word, create, locally as well as throughout the entire economy, conditions which are very unfavorable tq the proper evolution of the process of cicatrization. Thus passive hemorrhages, either prolonged primary, or early or late secondary bleedings—difficult to check in all cases—have been observed in patients thus affected, together with considerable oedema of the wounded region, and, at the site of the swelling, patches of erythema, of erysipelas, and even of gangrene, such as are met with in all infiltrated tissues, whatever be the cause of the infiltra- tion ; and, finally, a local atony which readily metamorphoses the wound into an ulcer, and indefinitely delays cicatrization. The reaction of the injury upon pre-existing cardiopathies, is still more serious, without reference to the grave, even fatal, attacks of syncope which may follow immediately upon the injury. It is very frequently found, in cases of fatty degeneration of the heart, that the circulation and respiration become embarrassed, and that the wounded person rapidly succumbs, without anything having foretold this termination, and when everything has appeared to be doing well. The catastrophe has been more than once attributed to the effect of chloroform, or to shock, though simply due to the sudden or slow stoppage of an already affected heart. In less severe cases, the traumatism merely reveals cardiopathies which had been hitherto misinterpreted or even ignored by the patients; intensifies the symptoms, especially the anasarca and serous suffusions; and increases the phenomena of oppression, of dyspnoea, by aggravating the secondary disturbances on the part of the lungs. We possess but little information in regard to wounds in individuals suf- fering from aneurisms of the aorta. I nevertheless know of the rupture of an aneurismal sac (the existence of the blood-tumor not having been previously suspected) in consequence of the simple puncture of a hydrocele. Operations are often performed upon limbs affected by arterial atheroma, and it is said that secondary hemorrhage is to be apprehended in such cases. This assertion does not appear to be well demonstrated, and there is much more reason to fear gangrene, in cases of contused wound, or complete or partial sloughing of the flaps of an amputation. There is also danger of a complication which is perhaps even more grave; starting from the injured point, the vessels become inflamed, and an acute endarteritis descends towards the periphery and mounts to the endocardium, producing all those consequences which can readily be foreseen. Locomotor Ataxia and Various Neuroses. This disease, which affects the nutrition of certain tissues, chiefly the bones, predisposes on this account to fractures and to those peculiar atrophies of the epiphyses, the point of departure of which is sometimes found in external violence. Some facts also tend to prove that cicatrization progresses slowly or imperfectly in the wounds of ataxic patients. The reciprocal influence of traumatism upon ataxia is better established.