393 DIAGNOSIS OF TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM. hectic are local in their origin, and are not due to antecedent blood contami- nations. It also helps to sustain the view that other febrile conditions, as the septicaemias, must have peculiar causes to originate them, these generally arising from without in the shape of organic germs, or animal poisons. It is in cases of this latter kind that we do have delirium, and their num- ber is probably greater than that of any other class in medicine and surgery. It is certainly so during wars and pestilence. Badly ventilated and crowded tenements; poorly constructed hospitals ; abodes of any kind presenting errors in drainage, in sewerage, in location (as of camps); wherever, in fact, masses of men are brought together, under unfavorable, and sometimes in apparently favorable, conditions, there, wounds or disease arising, the “ pure brain, by the idle comments that it makes,” too often “ foretells the ending of mortality,” for “the life of all the blood is touched corruptibly.” Immense advance has been made of late in checking the rise and progress of these “ preventible diseases.” It is too much to believe that they will eventually disappear, for the conditions for their production are constantly arising anew, or are being reproduced in places where it was thought that they had been abated or stamped out. Pyaemia, phlebitis, low forms of erysipelas, gangrene, malignant pustule, phagedeena, carbuncle, any, indeed, of the diseases which from their very nature generate certain blood poisons, and produce febrile states analogous to those called typhoid or typhus, come under this head. They are truly classified as blood poisons, or septicaemias, and when developed to any extent, they one and all give rise to delirium. This delirium is sometimes active, but is mostly of a passive character. When active, the brain membranes are probably the seat of local inflammations, which may arise early in the disease, and which are of very serious significance. The high excitement may be continuous until col- lapse and death occur. I have seen cases of this kind, but they are rare. Mostly, days elapse before delirium becomes a prominent symptom. It will appear during the febrile paroxysms, and pass away with them. If the case goes on from bad to worse, it will become continuous, and express itself in vague mutterings as long as the patient is left to himself. He will, however, answer questions correctly, and take food without resistance, and sometimes with avidity. He soon lapses, loses his sense of locality, and “ wants to go home;” then he becomes altogether unconscious, apparently more from exhaus- tion than from deep coma, for he babbles and mutters almost until he dies. Given the conditions, there is scarcely a form of surgical affection, in itself mild or severe, that may not take on the above characters. This is especially true as to all eases in which there are open or abraded surfaces, either simple or complicated, and this fact goes far to sustain the germ theory, however unp roved it may be. In such a disease as cancer, we find that there is no delirium in its progress, that is, none belonging to it because of the cancer; and yet what is more professionally and popularly thought to be a peculiarly infecting disease than this ? As in the case of hectic, there is enough to produce delirium, but I do not remember to have seen a cancerous patient thus affected. We call the disease malignant, and so it is; but it rarely appears to express its malignancy on the gray cells of the cortex. Diagnosis of Traumatic Delirium.—Delirium declares itself, and hence there is nothing very profound to be said as to its diagnosis. It is the kind that requires discrimination, for restraint may have to be used, or else there must be great watchfulness on the part of the attendants. Ordinary delirium should be cai*efully distinguished from delirium tremens—a matter which will be discussed on a subsequent page. Sometimes delirium may be assumed. He would be a consummate malingerer who could keep up the deception for