VARIETIES OF PUS. 125 adhesion—“ "What, in this event, becomes of the pus ?” The answer is obvious: It ceases to be produced the moment that the granulating surfaces are success- fully brought together. The immediate demand for development into tissue, in the new attitude of the wound, affords ample scope for both the force and the material hitherto wasted ; and the overflow, as pus, is at an end. It is by this same mechanism that an abscess heals, after its contents have been discharged. The walls of the cavity, lined by granulations which have formed around the central cause of irritation by which the abscess was pro- voked, tend to come into contact as its contents are voided. The force that brings them together is the contractility of the tissues which form the walls of the cavity. If this tendency is intelligently favored, prompt adhesion fol- lows, and the discharge of pus .ceases. Just in proportion as this natural termination of the constructive inflammation is in any way prevented, the abscess is liable to result in a sinus. There is available evidence that suppu- ration is not only useless and wasteful, as shown by these examples, but that it is, in other ways, positively injurious. And yet it may be remarked that, as far as the eliminative theory as to the causes of abscess formation is true, pus is to be credited as an adjuvant in floating out foreign substances lodged in the body, and noxious materials be- gotten within it. A flow of pus has also a certain usefulness in floating away foreign and dead matter from a foul surface, as, for example, from that of a contused wound, taking a helping part in what the older surgeons called “ digestion” of the wound. To this extent, therefore, it may be regarded as as eliminating agent; and in the lower animals, after granulation has fairly begun, pus aids in forming a crust by which cicatrization is favored. Mean- while it is to be observed that, when it cannot be cut short by promoting the adhesion of granulating surfaces—a possibility which the surgeon should always keep in view—the normal termination of suppuration is reached through the repressive influence of cicatrization. Varieties of Pus. The constitution of pus, as heretofore remarked, is subject to constant variety, not only in different individuals and forms of disease, but in different conditions of the same individual, and in different localities of the body. Under the influence of an attack of indigestion, for example, the character of the pus from a healthy granulating wound will give evidence of tempo- rary change; and after a chill, as of pyaemia, it usually hecomes scanty, thin, and watery. The sudden disappearance of the purulent discharge from a wound, simultaneously with the chill by which grave symptoms were ushered in, naturally suggested to the surgeons of the last generation that the serious change in the patient’s condition was caused by “absorption of pus,” and the abscesses in the internal organs which followed, seemed to lend support to this idea. But these facts are now explained differently. In chronic and cold abscesses the pus-corpuscles have often a pallid, drop- sical appearance, and sometimes their nuclei cannot be made apparent by adding acetic acid ; these corpuscles have long since ceased to live, and are, in fact, beginning to undergo solution. The serum of this variety of pus is, consequently, rarely transparent; it is generally turbid. With these water- soaked pus-cells, others are found in a condition of fatty infiltration. In pus from abscess of the female breast, during lactation, milk-globules may be found, and in these, as well as in abscesses of the lymphatic glands, cells of pavement epithelium from the ducts, and also glandular cells, are often pre- sent. If we knew more of the subtle processes of organic chemistry carried