HYDROPHOBIA—GLANDERS—MALIGNANT PUSTULE. 226 merits, which become closely adherent to the jaw-bone. The mucous membrane of the nose becomes of a dark purplish hue, or almost of a leaden color; never the faint pink blush of health, or the intense and vivid red of usual inflammation. Spots of ulcera- tion will probably appear on the membrane covering the cartilage of the nose ; these ulcers are of a circular form, deep, and with abrupt and prominent edges, and become larger and more numerous, obstructing the nasal passages, and causing a grating or choking noise in breathing. The disease extends upwards into the frontal sinuses, and the integument of the forehead becomes thickened and swollen, causing peculiar ten- derness. The absorbents about the face and neck now become implicated, constituting farcy; these enlarge and soon ulcerate. The absorbents on the inside of the thigh, and then the deep absorbents of both hind legs, are next involved, causing these parts to swell to a great size, and to become stiff, hot, and tender. The constitutional symptoms are loss of flesh, impaired appetite, failing strength, and more or less urgent cough ; the belly is tucked up; the coat is unthrifty and readily comes off. The animal soon presents one mass of putrefaction, and dies exhausted. Farcy as met with in the horse is, according to Mr. Youatt, but a different type of the same disease. Farcy is an affection of the absorbents and their glands, usually attacking the ex- tremities. It begins in a kind of glanderous chancre, or ulcer, and, as the virus passes along the absorbent vessels, these suffer from its acrimonious quality; hence the corded veins, as they are called by the farrier, or more properly the thickened and inflamed absorbents following the course of the veins. At certain distances in the course of the absorbents are valves, and these belly out, and impede or arrest the progress of the matter towards the chest. The virus at these places causes swellings, which are very hard, more or less tender, and with perceptible heat about them. They are observed about the lips, nose, neck, axillary spaces, and thighs. Suppuration and ulceration next ensue. The ulcers are rounded, with elevated edges and pale surface; and dis- charge a virus as infectious and as dangerous as the matter of glanders. While they remain in their hard aud prominent state, they are called buttons or farcy-buds, and they are connected together by the inflamed and corded absorbents. The constitutional symptoms are drooping, impaired appetite, loss of flesh, and a staring or prominent coat. The horse may then rally and appear to be restored to health, but by degrees the affection becomes general; the millions of capillary absorbents that penetrate every part become inflamed and enlarged, and cease to discharge their functions; hence arise the enlargements of the substance of various parts, swellings of the legs, chest, and head ; these are sudden, painful, and enormous, and are distinguished by a heat and tenderness which do not accompany other enlargements. Symptoms in Man.—The symptoms of glanders in man, as in the horse, may lie divided into constitutional and local. Soon after inoculation, the constitu- tional symptoms commence with febrile excitement, loss of sleep, and impair- ment of appetite; the patient suffers from chilly sensations, alternating with flushes of heat; the articulations feel stiff and sore; the hack and limbs ache ; and swellings frequently appear in the groin, axilla, and neck. The fever soon takes on a more inflammatory character; rigors ensue; diarrhoea often occurs; and a decidedly typhoid condition is established. The pulse becomes quick and tumultuous (108 to 120 beats in the minute); the temperature rises to 102° or 104° Fahr.; the tongue becomes brown and dry; and delirium sets in. Accompanying these symptoms are inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nose, with pain in the region of the frontal sinuses and soreness in the throat and larynx; the nose and the whole face become hot, tumid, and pur- ple; the discharge from the nostrils is sanguineo-purulent, copious, acrid, and excessively offensive. In five or ten days, the second stage, or that of eruption, begins, and the specific character of the disease is at once developed; when the eruption is delayed for some wTeeks, the disease is said to be in a chronic form. The