USE OF THE SPHYGMOGRAPH. 529 surface temperature of a part, it is essential that the temperature of the cor- responding part of the opposite side, and the general temperature of the body, should he taken at the same time. Use of tiie Sphygmograph. By means of the sphygmograph, the pulsations of an artery may he auto- matically registered. Although the idea of making an artery record its own pulsations is not a recent one, yet the practical realization of this conception of Galileo dates from the invention of the sphygmograph by Yierordt and Marey. Two forms of this instrument are in use at the present time: M. Marey’s, modified by Dr. Mahomed, and Dr. E. A. Pond’s; the former in England and on the continent of Europe ; the latter principally in America. Marey’s sphygmograph consists of a brass framework to which are attached an arrangement of levers designed to be acted upon by the pulsating artery, and a clockwork which propels a slide carrying a piece of paper or mica on which the pulsations are registered. To regulate and measure the amount of pres- sure made on the artery by the mainspring, Dr. Mahomed has had attached to the side of the framework an eccentric wheel, which acts upon the main- spring, and is worked by a thumb-screw. The degree of pressure exerted upon the mainspring by the eccentric is indicated on a dial-plate. The pressure is measured in troy ounces, from one to eighteen; the amount of pressure employed in taking a tracing should always be recorded on the slip with the latter. Preparatory to taking a tracing, the forearm of the patient is laid, with the palmar surface upwards, on a splint or some other convenient support, as on a double-inclined pad with an angle of about 135°, with the hand bent slightly backwards. The sphygmograph is placed on the forearm with the ivory pad at the free extremity of the mainspring, directly on that portion of the radial artery which lies to the inner side of the styloid process of the radius. AYhen the instrument is properly adjusted, it is secured by straps buckled around the limb. In order that a satisfactory tracing may be obtained, the hand must not be too much extended, nor, on the other hand, should it be tightly closed. In the former position, the pulsations of the artery are liable to be interfered with by the vessel being stretched over the surface of the bone; in the latter, the tendons adjacent to the artery are made tense, and rise above its level, thus preventing the pad from coming in contact with the vessel. With the instrument properly adjusted, it is neces- sary to determine the amount of compression that must be made by the pad on the artery, in order to give the greatest range of movement of the record- ing lever; this may be done by means of the graduated thumb-screw. The paper on which the tracing is to be made should be enamelled on both sides, and smoked on one. It may be smoked by holding it over the flame of a small piece of burning camphor, or over a little mass of ignited cotton saturated with olive oil, or over a smoking paraffine lamp. Slips of mica may be smoked in the same way. A slip thus prepared is placed on the travelling slide, with the point of the recording lever in contact with the blackened surface. By touching a button connected with the clockwork, the latter is set in motion, and the slide carrying the slip is steadily moved along!:. The sphygmograph invented by Dr. E. A. Pond, of Vermont, has many advantages which recommend it as superior to all other forms of the instru- ment. It is compact in size and very easily adjusted to the principal arterial vol. i.—34