SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. 232 painful, nor inflamed. There was no history of tubercle in the family; and, with the exception of the tumor in her neck, the child had always enjoyed good health. The large gland and one or two of those which lay nearest to it were removed, and the wound healed as kindly as could be desired. No tubercles could be distinguished in the excised growths by the naked eye. They presented the appearance merely of hypertrophied lymphatic glands. Each was in- closed in a thin capsule. The consistence of each was a little less firm than that of a normal gland ; the color a little less dark. The surface of a section was finely granular, or homogeneous, not traversed by fibrous bands ; and nowhere was there pus or caseous material, or obvious degenerative change. Had it not been for Oskar Schiippel’s1 treatise, it could scarcely have been suspected that these glands were tuberculous. But the microscope discovered in every section numerous bodies of round or oval shape, each consisting of a central giant-cell surrounded by lymphoid and epithelioid cells, inclosed in a delicate reticulum, and the whole body often surrounded by a kind of fibrous capsule. These tiny bodies lay sometimes close together, but more often sepa- rated by lymphatic tissue. In no one of them could vessels be distinguished. Their microscopical characters corresponded so closely with those ascribed to tubercle, that the glands were regarded as tuberculous ; but in the future consideration of this case, it must be borne in mind that the diagnosis rested solely on the microscopical exami- nation. Case II.—F. S. , a young man, tall and thin, with brown hair and blue eyes, and with full-colored cheeks, was without any sign of general ill-health except a slight debility, apparently due to a restricted diet and rapid growth, for he was six feet high and had scarcely yet attained his majority. At the beginning of May, 1880, after jumping down from a height, he noticed that his left testis was enlarged and very slightly painful. It rapidly increased in size, but the pain subsided. He had never suffered from venereal disease. His father and his father’s brother were said to have died of consumption. The left testis formed a smooth, oval tumor, about four inches long, bulging somewhat at both ends, but presenting no indication of a furrow between the epididymis and body of the organ, which parts seemed blended or fused together. The tumor was free from pain or tenderness. The scrotum was not reddened, but was a little puckered and adherent at the upper part. The cord was slightly thickened, but no enlargement of the glands could be distinguished. On the 16th of June, the tumor was removed. The tunica vaginalis was everywhere adherent; the epididymis was hardly distinguishable until a section was made, when it was discovered to be but little altered, save that the globus major contained a mass of caseous material. Almost the whole tumor was caseous, but moist and firm, not friable. Towards the front was a little juicy material of a pale gray tint, which had not yet degenerated. No nodules or rounded bodies were visible to the naked eye. But microscopical examination revealed the presence of many bodies resembling those found in the glands in the last case. The giant-cell, surrounded by smaller cells in a deli- cate reticulum, w'as easily discernible, but the smaller cells were rather lymphoid than epithelioid, and very few of the tubercles were inclosed within a layer of fibrous tissue. There was a similar absence of vessels in the tubercles. The caseous material no longer formed a continuous and homogeneous mass, but was for the most part broken up into rounded bodies, often of small size and close together. From the microscopical exami- nation chiefly, but also from the general appearance of the testis, the diagnosis of tubercle was made. Case III A young gas fitter, aged 19 years, was admitted into the hospital in May, 1879. His mouth had been sore for about two years, but during the last three months his tongue had become ulcerated. Six weeks before admission an abscess had formed upon his face. His health had always been indifferent, but there was no family history of tubercular disease. While he was in the hospital, his cousin was an inmate of the same ward, convalescent from empyema, and suffering from chronic inflammation of the carpus. The patient was an ill-nourished, anaemic youth, with dark hair and eyes, 1 Untersucliungen iiber Lymph-driisen : Tuberculose. Tubingen, 1871.