INFLAMMATION. 156 change. Experiments upon animals have a more fixed and reliable value, but it is restricted within narrow limits. Amongst the articles of the Materia medica which have been found useful in the treatment of inflammation, opium has the first place. Its great virtues in lessening pain and securing quietude of mind and body have been already under consideration. Chloroform and sulphuric ether are invaluable in sur- gery, and they exercise a certain controlling influence over the inflammatory condition, mainly as preventives, which is generally recognized, but very dif- ficult to define. It is apparently due to their wonderful power of temporarily abolishing physical pain and mental consciousness, and, possibly, textural sen- sibility to harmful influences, and of preventing vital exhaustion—as we wit- ness it in the shock of injury—by economizing the nerve force. Secondarily, anaesthetics tend to avert inflammation by facilitating the manipulations of the surgeon in operations, and in the dressing of wounds. Shortly after their first introduction, anaesthetics were unjustly blamed for some of the bad re- sultsof surgical injuries and operations; in the reaction of professional opinion, after nearly half a century of experience in their use, they are credited, more justly, amongst the great advantages which they have conferred upon man- kind, with the power of diminishing, in a certain degree, the sensibility of the organism under injury, and the tendency to excessive inflammatory re- action. Quinine is a most valuable medicine. After opium, there is none more con- stantly employed in the practice of surgery. As a tonic it occupies the first rank, promoting the failing appetite, aiding the digestion, and serving, like food, to directly increase the generation of nerve force. As an antidote to the poison which causes ague, and the fevers we call malarial, it is pre-eminent. If this poison is cryptogamic, as is more than probable, quinine is to be ranked high amongst the antiseptics. In the third place, quinine has the singular power of reducing the temperature of the blood in fever, and in the possession of this quality it is almost alone. It is not surprising that, possessing quali- ties which meet so many and such important indications, quinine should be so constantly prescribed in surgical practice. Naturally there is a disposition to carry the use of so valuable a remedy to excess, both in administering it in a vague and perfunctory way without any distinctly recognized indication for its use—simply because quinine usually does good-—and also, by giving it in extravagant and excessive doses. Quinine in very large doses—twenty grains, and over—undoubtedly produces effects which cannot be otherwise secured, but it is required in this way only in exceptional cases, and for a short time; and these effects are generally due to its quality—through its sustaining influ- ence upon the nervous centres—of preventing poisonous influences from raising the temperature of the blood. There is probably no poison against which quinine acts as an antidote in a curative way except the poison of ague. It was quite positively asserted not long since, by Helmholtz, to be an antidote to the poison which causes “hay fever;” but evidence as to any benefit from its use in this affection is wanting. "What shall be said of mercury, the drug which has been styled the Samson of the materia medica? Is it proper to speak of this most useful remedy as an antiphlogistic? Does it possess any curative influence over the inflamma- tory condition—excepting always its qualities as an efficient and manageable cathartic, and its revulsive action upon the intestinal canal—beyond its su- preme power in favorably modifying the manifestations of syphilis? The weight of prevalent opinion tends to answer these questions negatively. The prestige enjoyed by this drug is mainly due to the remedial effects, which it produces with almost invariable certainty, in all the multiform symptoms which are caused by the presence in the blood of the syphilitic virus. As most