650 AMPUTATIONS. Amputation op all the Toes Simultaneously may be effected by the 'plantar flap method of Lisfranc, or by the somewhat more complicated pro- cedure of Dubrueil. In the former, the surgeon applies the thumb and index finger of his left hand so as to mark the metatarso-phalangeal articulations of the fifth and great toes, and then with a narrow-bladed knife makes a curved incision, somewhat convex downwards, beginning (for the right foot) over the posterior part of the first phalanx of the fifth, and for the left foot over the corresponding part of the great toe. This flap being slightly dis- sected upwards, each toe is separately disarticulated, by dividing its extensor tendon and articular ligament, and the surgeon then, slipping the knife below the toes, which are raised for the purpose, cuts a plantar flap of sufficient size from within outwards. It is usually advised that the plantar flap should have been first marked out by a deep incision corresponding to the groove at the roots of the toes. Dubrueil’s operation resembles Lisfranc’s as regards the mode of obtaining a covering for the metatarsal bones of the four smaller toes, but he supple- ments the plantar flap by taking an internal lateral flap from the side of the great toe, thus insuring an ample covering for its metatarsal. For my own part, I would advise, as in the case of the fingers, that the surgeon should sacrifice brilliancy, and amputate each toe separately, by either the lateral flap or oval method as may seem best in each particular instance. Amputations of the Foot. Amputation of the Fifth Toe with part or all of its Metatarsal Bone is best effected by the oval (en raquette) method, the point of the oval being placed upon the dorsum of Fig-183. the foot, but, in order to give more room for separa- tion of the bone, curved outwards as shown in Fig. 183. If part of the meta- tarsal only is to be re- moved, the bone may be divided with a narrow- bladed or chain saw, or with strong cutting pliers; if complete disarticulation is to be effected, the bone must be first separated from its attachment to the cu- boid, and then from that to the fourth metatarsal, and in doing this the direction of the articulation (oblique, inwards and backwards) must be remembered. This amputation may also be done by the external flap method, but the operation is not to be commended, as the flap is long, narrow, and ill-nourished, and is apt to slough. Amputation of fifth toe and metatarsal by oval method. Amputation of the Great Toe, with part or all of its Metatarsal Bone, may also be performed by the oval (en raquette) method., the extremity of the oval being in this instance curved inwards, from the dorsum of the foot