INFLAMMATION. 142 has a popular reputation due to the same cause. Alcohol was a favorite dressing for wounds with Nekton, and it has had enthusiastic advocates. It is claimed that it coagulates albuminoid substances and renders them impu- trescible, and at the same time “ closes the smaller bloodvessels and arrests their power of absorption.” It enjoys a large popularity in the form of Cologne water and its substitutes, and of “ Pond’s Extract.” Spirit of cam- phor was the favorite lotion of the late Valentine Mott; and the eau sedative of Raspail, consisting mainly of camphor and common salt dissolved in alcohol, is a universal panacea in France. Greasy applications exclude the air, and, when impregnated with an anti- septic balsam, form the bases of most ointments and salves used as dressings for wounds. The Peruvian ointment of the New York Hospital is one drachm of balsam of Peru to one ounce of simple cerate. Vaseline, which is antiseptic and entirely unalterable as regards rancidity, is gradually replacing other greasy applications. It is noticeable as a feature of antiseptic dressings of all kinds, that they are associated with infrequency of wound dressing, mainly, it is to be pre- sumed, on account of lack of evidence as to the necessity for frequent inter- ference. This circumstance alone, as conducing to quietude and equability of temperature, favors rapid and healthy healing; and, other things being equal, that form of dressing which requires least frequent renewal is always to be preferred as a preventive of ill behavior of wounds through unhealthy inflammation. Addison quotes the case of a boy who fell into a caldron of boiling pitch. In removing his clothing, the sleeves adhered so closely that they were necessarily left on his arms. The boy ultimately recovered ; but the attendant expressed surprise that his arms had cicatrized more rapidly and perfectly than the other parts of the body which had enjoyed the benefit of his daily dressing. Apart from the question of antiseptics, there is abundant clinical evidence that the exclusion of air favors kindly healing and tends to avert suppuration in surface lesions of the body, such as abrasions, and especially burns. On a small scale, the popular use of court plaster is in point; and the prompt application of an impermeable dressing of gum, with the addition of a little molasses to give it toughness, so long in use at the New York Hospital as a dressing for burns and scalds, has proved of great value. A mixture of col- lodion and castor oil is said to be employed in the same way at King’s Col- lege Hospital, in London. Rest and Immobility.—The great advantages to an injured part of perfect rest and freedom from disturbance by movement of every kind, have already been enumerated in the remarks on motion as one of the mechanical exciting causes of inflammation. Their paramount importance in the treatment of inflammation, both preventive and curative, cannot be too strongly enforced, for the reason especially that it is being constantly undervalued, profession- ally as well as popularly. The directions often given to a patient, in a per- functory way, to keep an injured part quiet, should in most cases be enforced by surgical appliances by which its motions are rendered impossible. A patient, however intelligent and docile, can rarely keep a part quiet unless its movements are physically restrained, or unless he is reminded to do so by the recurrence of pain on motion, and this always involves additional injury; in view of this fact, the surgeon should not only advise, but enforce his advice. The lesson taught us by the ill behavior of trifling lesions of parts subjected to constant mobility, as, for example, the festering of an abrasion upon a knuckle, is entirely applicable to lesions of a graver character.