449 MODE OF CONDUCTING AN OPERATION. condition of mind which every operator must have felt towards the close of a serious operation, that his words deserve to be indelibly imprinted on the mind of the surgeon. He says:— “ Be quite clear about carrying out carefully the last stages of all operations. I sus- pect that everybody in operating, when he has passed through the sort of mental tension in which he performs the most difficult part of what he has to do, when his attention has been completely occupied in some difficult task to be achieved, next feels his mind relaxed, his attention less keen, less ready for exercise than it was before. Be sure that these are times of danger to your patient; as soon as the attention ceases to be as keen as possible, you are in risk of doing some mischief.” Few operations can be performed by the surgeon alone. In most cases he requires professional aid, and this should be rendered by trained assistants, accustomed to operations, and, if possible, in the habit of assisting the indi- vidual operator. These gentlemen should be efficient but not officious. Their duties should be assigned to them by the surgeon himself, and should be per- formed by them in perfect quiet, and in a manner calculated to assist and not to embarrass the operator. An able assistant is of the greatest use, while an inefficient one is only a source of annoyance to his principal. The time most suitable for operation is near the middle of the day, as the light is then at its best. Care should be taken that the patient’s breakfast has been a simple one, and that his stomach is not overloaded when the period for operation has arrived. For most operations the patient should he in the recumbent posture, as loss of blood is then more readily borne, anaesthesia can be best effected, and there is much less chance of syncope. He should be placed on a table of proper height, and one can usually be formed by utilizing articles of room furniture, such as two small tables, or a table and washstand, and then covering them with blankets. The improvised table can then be brought near to a window, and in full light. Attention to the matter of the operating table is of more consequence than is usually supposed; for it enables the surgeon to discharge his duties in comfort to himself, and without that strain and weariness in the back which is invariably felt when the operator is obliged to bend down in a constrained position over a low bed. Attention at the same time must be paid to the patient’s comfort, or rather to his well-being, while on the table and under the amesthetic. He ought not to be unnecessarily exposed to the air, but should be kept warm. The trunk and the lower extremities must be carefully covered, since there is always, during an operation, a tendency to a decrease in the temperature of the body. In operations upon the urinary and genital organs, when the lower part of the body must be uncovered to a certain extent, the legs of a pair of drawers, divided in the crotch, can he drawn over the lower limbs. If laxity be permitted in this respect, and the temperature of the body be allowed to fall unduly, an additional element of shock is created. Too much precaution cannot be exerted in this matter, particularly in the case of delicate persons, women, and children. The immediate dangers of operation are hemorrhage and shock. The former must be prevented by every possible means, as the loss of an extra ounce or so of blood is often the turning point in a case. In children particularly it should be guarded against, since they bear bleeding very badly. Fortunately, in Esmarch’s elastic bandage we have a means of practising many serious ope- rations without the loss of blood. A new department of surgery has thus been created—bloodless surgery—which is applicable not only to amputations, but indeed to all operations upon the extremities. It is scarcely necessary to describe the apparatus here. As is well known, it consists of two elastic ban- dages, one of which is wound around the limb from its distal extremity to vol. i.—29