593 DRESSING THE STUMP. were divided between two focuses of suffering, he would feel less pain from either, than if the operations were performed consecutively; whatever may have been the advantages of such a procedure in former times, there is no occasion for such a course now, and the operations will be certainly more apt to he done well if only one is done at a time. Dressing the Stump. We have carried the description of an amputation as far as the closing of the wound with sutures; this is, at the present day, almost universally done before the patient recovers from the influence of the anaesthetic that has been administered, and, provided that ample drainage is secured either by means of the ligature ends or by the use of a tube, the plan is a good one, as avoid- ing the infliction of pain at the time when the patient is least able to bear it. There was merit, however, in the custom of our ancestors of allowing a wound to “ glaze,” as they called it—-that is, to become smooth and sticky from the presence of lymph—before it was closed; and if there be any reason to fear consecutive hemorrhage, it is a good plan to simply introduce the stitches, without tightening them, and to lay a piece of oiled lint in the wound (as advised by Mr. Butcher, of Dublin), so as to prevent prema- ture adhesion. This may readily be removed, and the wound finally closed, after reaction has occurred, without giving the patient any additional pain. If the stump be a light one (as in the forearm), it is not desirable to employ any means of approximation other than the sutures, though a short strip of plaster may be laid transversely over the ends of the ligatures, to keep them from being caught in the dressings and perhaps pulled upon before they have become loose. If, however, there be heavy flaps, it will be well to give additional support by applying a few narrow adhesive strips between the sutures, and in a longitudinal direction. Under nc circumstances should a transverse strip be carried completely around the stump; any such source of circular compression will probably cause oedema, and may even lead to gan- grene, or possibly, as in a case recorded by Sir James Paget,1 to death. Another mistake, which should be most scrupulously avoided, is the closing of the wound so tightly as to hermetically seed it; there is inevitably a con- siderable flow of sero-sanguineous fluid after an amputation, and if this be confined within the wound, instead of being allowed to escape, painful dis- tension results, and interference with primary union, not to speak of the danger of septicaemia from decomposition. Various modes of dressing stumps have found favor with modern sur- geons; with perhaps one or two exceptions, all are better than the old plan, which still prevailed within my recollection, of applying a large piece of lint smeared with some unctuous substance (often cut in the form of a Maltese cross, and folded closely around the stump), then a thick nest of charpie, and finally a rather tight bandage. I shall describe briefly several of the stump dressings which have obtained most favor in recent years, concluding with that which, in common with many other surgeons, I am myself in the habit of employing, and which I would venture to designate as the “simple dressing for amputations.” Cold-water Dressing.—Introduced into British surgery by Liston, this is still a favorite mode of dressing amputation wounds in military practice, and 1 Clinical Lectures and Essays, p. 63. Second Edition. London, 1879. VOL. I.—38