171 HISTORIES OF EPIDEMICS OF ERYSIPELAS. erysipelas made its first appearance, now on the face, and now in the throat, subse- quently spreading from the one to the other part. He drew attention to the erysipelas of the throat which takes its origin in the wound of tracheotomy. Indeed, in not less than sixty per cent, of the cases of idiopathic erysipelas of the face observed by this surgeon, a diffused inflammation of the fauces occurred as a precursor; while in trau- matic cases this local manifestation was rarely present. He very rationally suggested the reason of this difference in the following question: “ Is it that the miasm in being inhaled into the lungs makes a direct impression on the throat, while in its entrance into the circulation by means of a wound this mode of contact is avoided ?” In 1859 and 1860, Dr. Todd again1 noted the passage of erysipelas between the fauces and the face, in certain cases the nearly simultaneous affection of both localities, and the tendency of the disease to cause oedema of the larynx. He also related a case of surgical erysipelas of the thigh, which was in process of improvement when the patient was attacked with severe dyspnoea with bronchial rales, and died asphyxiated. On examination, the lungs were found greatly congested and oedematous, and the bronchia choked with mucus. In 1861, Dechambre, describing the epidemic at Paris in the spring and summer of that year,2 illustrated on a large scale the tendency of the disease to occupy the mu- cous membranes as well as the skin. Affecting the face, it caused an enormous swelling of the subcutaneous tissues, with phlyctenae, abscesses, and tumefaction of the lymphatic glands. Often the neck grew so thick and hard that the veins were compressed, and the mucous membrane of the mouth and fauces acquired a dull, purple color; the tongue was dry and rough ; deglutition was very difficult; and delirium, violent at first, grew more tranquil as it passed into coma vigil, or absolute stupor, often ceasing entirely twelve or twenty-four hours before death. In a certain case the inflammation began in the throat and extended through both Eustachian tubes, producing the characteristic pains of internal otitis; then appeared in the ears and spread upon the neck and face, advancing from both sides and meeting at the median line. In another case, the erysipelas started from the fauces, passed through the nostrils, and diffused itself upon the face. In 1863, a writer3 pointed out the distinctive marks of erysipelatous pharyngitis as follows : A crimson color, with oedematous swelling extending rapidly from the uvula and tonsils to the mouth, posterior fauces, and pharynx, causing so much swelling of the latter as to impede or prevent deglutition, and of the opening of the larynx as to hinder respiration and to alter the voice or occasion aphonia. In 1865, Dr. John Ashhurst, Jr.,4 published the case of a man who entered the hospital for a simple fracture of the metacarpal bones. A fortnight later he was about to quit the hospital, when he was attacked with acute febrile symptoms and consider- able swelling of the fauces, which were mottled with yellowish shreds. On the follow- ing day erysipelas appeared upon the face, the parotid and submaxillary glands were enlarged and indurated, and the patient, falling into a typhoid state, died on the ninth day. On examination, it was found that the erysipelas extended through the larynx and trachea into the bronchia, and at the lower part of the trachea was a small ulcer. The heart contained large fibrinous clots, but elsewhere the blood was exceedingly black, and of about the consistence of molasses. In the following instance, the progress of the disease was the reverse of that de- scribed in the last case. In 1864, Simon published5 an account of a girl affected with erysipelas of the scalp, face, and neck ; she then became unable to open her mouth, swallowed with difficulty, and grew aphonic. On the tenth day she died comatose. On examination, the mouth was pale, but the fauces were of a deep purple color, the follicles enlarged, and the mucous membrane softened. The same dark hue prevailed throughout the air passages which were dry and free from exudation. The lungs were greatly engorged, as were also the membranes of the brain. In 1866 Dr. W. J. Wilson6 described a case which began as sore throat, with pain- 1 Clinical Lectures. 2 Gazette Hebdomadaire, Juillet, 1861. 3 American Medical Times, April, 1863, p. 196. 4 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1865, p. 103. 5 Bulletins et Memoires de la SociSte Medicale des Hopitaux de Paris, 2e s6rie t. i. p. 199. 6 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1866, p. 275.