234 SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. Analysis of the above Cases.—Since each one of these cases would he described by some noted pathologists as a case of tubercle, I shall venture to regard all of them as tuberculous, and to use them for the purpose of analysis. But if they be compared together, it will at once be seen that they do not accord in many of their prominent features. For example, the dura- tion of the disease was in one case twelve years, and the patient is still alive and well; while in another case it was scarcely more than a year before it proved fatal. The lesions were in the first case limited (during many years at least) to the lymphatic glands, and even to a certain group of glands; in the third case they extended over a wide area of the respiratory tract, while in the last case they were distributed over many organs and tissues. The general appearances of the lesions differed conspicuously, for the disease of the lymphatic gland in Case I. bore the characters of simple hypertrophy; that of the testis in Case II., those of inflammation with general caseous de- generation; and that of the affected organs in Cases III. and IV., the charac- ters commonly described as tuberculous. The patients themselves presented no common points of resemblance, in feature, in color of hair and eyes, in com- plexion, or in general configuration, while their ages varied from 15 to 52 years. Clinically, there appear then to be no characters which are common to them all; no characters which we can describe as pathognomonic of tuber- culous disease. But, pathologically, we discover in every case, in some of the organs or tissues, small bodies, generally of spherical or spheroidal shape, but apt to lose their shape as they increase in size or become confluent. The larger of these bodies are plainly discernible with the naked eye; indeed some of them are as large as peas or even larger. The smallest can only be discerned with the aid of low powers of the microscope, when they present a similar rounded or spheroidal shape. Morbid Anatomy of Tubercle.—Here then we seem to be in possession of the key to all tuberculous affections—the presence in the affected tissues of small bodies of rounded or spheroidal shape, which we call tubercles. But in truth, at this point the first difficulties arise, and the earliest departure from apparent uniformity occurs. It is impossible to rest content with a definition of tubercle so loose as this. We must dissect tubercle, must analyze it with the microscope and describe its minute structure with accu- racy. We must know, too, in what tissues it is found; what is its nature; what are the causes which tend to produce it; and the conditions in which it occurs. On all these questions there exists diversity of opinion; on some of them a diversity of opinion so considerable, that it seems now as if the conflicting views could never be reconciled. Take, for example, the question of the minute structure of tubercle. Some- times it appears to consist solely of retiform tissue—of leucocytes, or cells resembling leucocytes, in the meshes of a delicate reticulum. Such, accord- ing to Ziegler,1 is the structure of those bodies which, ■with marked constitu- tional symptoms, attack almost simultaneously many tissues and organs. Sometimes tubercle is composed of endothelial elements, while some tubercles again consist of both these forms of cells. In the centre of some tubercles, a giant-cell is found, irregular in shape, furnished with many nuclei, and by certain pathologists regarded as an essential element of tubercle. Even the grouping of the nuclei, when they leave the centre free and approach the circumference of the cell, is thought to be characteristic of the giant-cell of tubercle. Some tubercles are caseous; others are composed in part of fibrous 1 Ueber Tuberculose und Schwindsuclit. Sammlung klinischer Vortrage (Volkmann’s), No. 151, 1S78.