274 RACHITIS. usually proportionate to the degree of recession of the ribs during inspiration. With these exceptions, and with that of risk to the married female who has deformity and stunted growth of the pelvic bones, the rachitic are not liable to any ulterior serious consequences. Minor deformities, in mild cases, not infrequently disappear in the subsequent growth of the skeleton. The older the child is when rachitis begins, the milder is ordinarily the form of the disease, and the more speedy, consequently, the recovery, and the less the deformity. In the gravest cases, the disease will almost always be found to have begun under the age of one year. Treatment of Rachitis. The correct treatment of rachitis is evident when we consider its character and the nature of its causes. The obvious indication is to restore healthy nutrition. This requires both hygienic and therapeutic measures. The apartment in which the child resides should be dry, airy, and plentifully supplied with light. lie should be taken daily into the open air, in order to invigorate his system, but in such a way as not to increase his suffering, on account of his general tenderness. Residence in the country is far preferable to that in the city, because of the better hygienic conditions which it pro- cures. The purer air, the better diet, and consequently the more robust de- velopment gained by rural life, are important advantages, to obtain which is abundantly worth pecuniary sacrifice when the children of a family are rachitic. The diet in rachitis should receive particular attention, since indigestion and gastro-intestinal derangement sustain a causative relation to so many eases. Good breast milk ought if possible to be obtained until the child has reached the age of ten months, and, if the mother’s condition be such that she cannot furnish it, a wet-nurse should, if practicable, be employed. But after the age of six months additional nutriment is required. As a rule, the infant should be weaned at the age of twelve months, but longer nursing may be best under certain conditions, as the presence of hot weather, an abundant supply of good breast milk, and, on the part of the infant, feeble digestion and easily deranged digestive organs. In case breast-milk cannot be obtained, cow’s milk, properly diluted, according to the age, with water, or with a solution of one of the foods for infants which the shops contain, is probably the best substitute. I have stated that rachitis seldom appears before the age of three or four months. For an infant of four months, cow’s milk should be diluted with about one-fourth part of water, but after the age of six months no dilu- tion is required. I prefer to sweeten the milk not with cane sugar, but with Liebig’s infant’s food, prepared by Hawley, Horlick, or Mellen. Condensed milk is now much used in the cities, and is prepared by American companies as well as by the Anglo-Swiss company, but it possesses no advantages over ordinary milk, if the latter can be obtained fresh and sufficiently often. It possesses only the advantage that it can be longer preserved without fermen- tative change. Infants over the age of five or six months require the admix- ture of farinaceous food with the milk, at first in small quantity, but in greater proportion as the age increases. Barley flour, oatmeal, stale bread crumbled fine, Ridge’s food, imperial granum, etc., of the shops, form suita- ble additions to the milk diet. For infants of the age of nearly one year, considerable variety may be allowed in the diet: a potato, baked and mashed like flour, the juice of beef, stale bread and butter, soda cracker and butter, etc., may be allowed. I have elsewhere stated that in one of the institutions of Hew York, rachitis from being common was made to disappear almost