ANAESTHETICS AND ANAESTHESIA. 426 may be obtained by the distillation of benzoic acid with calcic hydrate at a dull red heat, but on the large scale it is prepared from the portion of coal- tar oil which boils below 100° C. (212° F.). As an anaesthetic it may be used to produce insensibility when inhaled, but it produces disagreeable sensations, muscular twitching, and even convulsions. Haloid Derivatives of the Hydrocarbons.—Monochloromethane, CH3C1, Methylic chloride. Sp. gr. of gas, 1.736. Boiling point, —22° C. (—7°.6 F.). A colorless gas, prepared by passing hydrochloric acid into a boiling solution of zincic chloride in twice its weight of methylic alcohol. A solution of this gas in ordinary ether has been employed experimentally as an anaesthetic. It is an agreeable but not very efficient substance. Dichlorometiiane, CH„C12, Methylenic chloride, Methylene bichloride. Sp. gr. 1.36. Boiling point, 40°-42° C. (104°-107°.6 F.). A colorless liquid, with an odor resembling that of chloroform. Prepared by acting upon monochloromethane with chlorine in bright sunshine, or by treating di-iodo- methane, CII2I2, with chlorine. Its effects are very similar to those of chloroform inhalation. Owing to the low boiling point of the liquid, it can- not be economically employed during very warm weather. Its effects are for the same reason very evanescent. Four cubic centimetres are sufficient to produce insensibility. Ho unpleasant sensations ordinarily accompany the return to consciousness. Vomiting is less frequent than after chloroform or ether. This anaesthetic has been extensively employed by Spencer Wells, in England, but other surgeons have been less enthusiastic, and numerous deaths caused by its administration have been reported in the English medical journals. It is, probably, little less dangerous than chloroform. Trichlorometiiane, CHCIj, Chloroform. Sp. gr. 1.497. Boiling point 61° C. (142° F.). A colorless, volatile liquid, with high refracting power, an agree- able, ethereal odor, and a sweet, penetrating taste. Very sparingly soluble in water, it dissolves in every proportion in alcohol or in ether. Set on fire with difficulty, it burns with a greenish, smoky flame. Pure chloroform should communicate no color to sulphuric acid when agitated with it. The liquid should be colorless, and destitute of any chlorous odor. When evapo- rated from the hand, no unpleasant odor should remain. Chloroform is an excellent solvent for sulphur, phosphorus, iodine, fats, and resinous bodies. It is the most perfect solvent for caoutchouc. Chloroform is manufactured by acting upon dilute alcohol 'with chloride of lime. Wood spirit, acetone, oil • of turpentine, and many essential oils, likewise yield it when treated with bleaching powder. It may be administered internally in the liquid form, largely diluted, in doses not ex-ceeding four cubic centimetres. Administered by inhalation, it may be evaporated drop by drop from a napkin placed be- fore the face. The vapor must be largely diluted with air. More than five per cent, of the vapor in the air of respiration is liable to produce alarming symptoms. The agreeable odor of chloroform, its pleasing effects upon the brain, the energy and rapidity of its action, and the concentration of the liquid, have rendered it the favorite anaesthetic. The high rate of mortality which accompanies its use has rapidly depressed its value in the estimation of an increasing number of surgeons, and has greatly stimulated the search for a safer anaesthetic which shall still possess the admirable qualities of chlo- roform. Tetrachloromethane, CC14, Carbonic tetrachloride. Sp. gr. 1.599. Boiling point 78° C. (172°.4 F.). A colorless liquid, obtained from wood spirit ana chloroform by the action of chlorine in bright sunshine. It is insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol and in ether. Employed as an anaesthetic, its action is less rapid and more persistent than the action of chloroform. Its sensible effects are less agreeable, and its effect upon the heart is more energetic