INFLAMMATION. 150 winter lias led to the general use of the hot air furnace, the highly heated air containing, almost inevitably, more or less of the subtle carbonic oxide gas which finds its way through the cast-iron fire-box of the furnace. This gas, according to Bernard, acts directly upon the red corpuscles of the blood, destroying them fatally by simple contact, and producing, when habitually respired, an anaemic aspect.1 It is not impossible that more red globules are destroyed, in the aggregate, in this way, than by the frequent blood-lettings practised by our ancestors. Red blood corpuscles are reproduced in the or- ganism with wonderful rapidity, and this explains the strange tolerance of so serious a measure as the abstraction of large quantities of blood; but these reproductions must involve an expenditure of life-force which it would be better to economize. The circumstances of the rapid growth of cities, and of the diminishing tendency to out-door life, through desire to avoid exposure to extreme heat or cold, are not without their influence in depriving our population of their supply of oxygen. At the present time, in our country, general bleeding is rarely employed. The aggregate sense of the profession, influenced, possibly, by considerations similar to those just advanced, seems to be adverse to its use as a remedy. The surgeon stands ready to bleed ad deliquium to prevent impending suffo- cation from hemorrhage in a wound of the lung, resorting to the remedy as a haemostatic; but he would not bleed, subsequently, to prevent or control inflammation of the lung, because experience in military surgery has taught him that this rarely transcends the constructive stage, and that the greater danger in wounds of this organ is threatened from suppuration of the pleura, which no amount of depletion would prevent. Bleeding from the arm, by promptly lowering the action of the heart, might be of service in acute trau- matic cerebro-meningitis, in view of the great danger of intra-cranial pus formation, and the soft texture and great vascularity of the encephalon ; but in surgical fevers with a high temperature from blood-poisoning, this measure has proved of no avail. On the other hand, the local abstraction of blood by means of leeches, cups, and other devices, is of great service in moderating vascular action, and in warding off destructive inflammatory symptoms. This effect is noticeable in inflammation of the eye after the remedy has been applied on the temple. In chronic inflammation of the knee-joint, cupping relieves pain and spas- modic twitching of the muscles; hut its action is only temporary. After a recent wound or injury of the knee-joint threatening disorganization, a gen- erous application of leeches in conjunction with immobility, the leeches being repeated promptly and heroically as often as the pain returns, is competent to restrain the inflammation within the bounds of repair, and thus, possibly, to save the articulation. The power of local bleeding to relieve hypersemia is well seen in the prompt cessation of the intolerable pain of epididymitis in the condition known as strangulation, by the application of leeches over the cord. Here the over-distended veins of the cord are obstructed by the un- yielding edges of the external abdominal ring, with consequent stagnation of circulation, and pressure upon the nerves going to the testicle. These examples will serve to show the advantages which may be gained from local depletion. Repetition of the remedy is likely to be required to 1 Describing the blood of a person wlio lias been poisoned by carbonic oxide, as by the fumes of burning charcoal, he says: “ If examined, it will be found to have lost its power of absorbing oxygen. It is the red blood globule especially which is altered ; its function as an oxygen carrier is abolished. Once exposed to the contact of the carbonic oxide, a chemical change instantaneously takes place in its substance, and in consequence of this change it is thenceforward inditferent to oxygen. It becomes at once an inert body, a simple mineral atom, a grain of sand. Chemically, the oxide of carbon has driven out the oxygen from its combination with the liaemoglobuline of the red globule, and takes its place, volume for volume.” (Lemons sur la chaleur animate, p. 19t>.)