561 CONDITIONS CALLING FOR AMPUTATION. have their arms caught in portions of the machinery, and drawn between rollers revolving in opposite directions; in many of these cases, provided that there be no fracture, expectant measures may undoubtedly suffice, and I have frequently saved limbs thus injured by the use of irrigation, with cool or tepid water, according to the season of the year. In some instances, how- ever, the destruction of the integument and muscles is so extensive that the inevitable sloughing would render the limb, even if it should be preserved, a mere useless appendage, and, under such circumstances, amputation should be resorted to, as not only greatly shortening the duration of the treatment, but as delivering the patient from many of the secondary risks of wounds to which he would otherwise be liable. The same may be said in regard to cer- tain injuries caused by railway trains or heavily loaded wagons; a foot and ankle from the greater part of which all the soft tissues have been stripped, or bruised into an indistinguishable pulp, can never be anything but a source of suffering and discomfort to its possessor, and under most circumstances should be removed as promptly as possible. In this category, too, may be placed the frightful lacerations sometimes caused by the teeth and claws of wild animals ; these are, of course, more common in countries of which such animals are natives, than in our own; but they are occasionally met with among the attendants or visitors at menageries, and I have myself had occa- sion to see wounds inflicted by a Polar bear, a lion, and a Royal Bengal tiger. The last-mentioned case occurred during my student days, and the victim, a young woman, was admitted to the Pennsylvania Hospital, where she came under the care of the late Dr. Edward Peace. The injury, inflicted by a blow from the claws of. the animal, was a very severe laceration of the arm, involving the brachial artery. Primary amputation at the shoulder-joint was resorted to, and the patient made an excellent recovery. The case of bear-wound occurred in a man who was, a few years since, under my care in the University Hospital; there was a tolerably severe and painful laceration of the arm and shoulder, but not such as to require operative interference, and the wound healed readily under simple dressings. The case of lion-wound was the only one of the three .which terminated fatally. This occurred in a man aged 25, a professional “ lion-tamer,” who, in the course of his daily rehearsal, placed his head in the lion’s mouth, when the animal unexpectedly closed his jaws. The by-standers rushed to the rescue, and with clubs and iron bars forced the wild beast to relax his hold, but, unfortunately, his victim did not make his escape with sufficient promptness, and the lion again attacked him, throwing him down, and this time seizing him by the fleshy part of the thigh. I did not see the patient until the next day, when he was not in a condition to admit of any operation. The injured thigh was already the seat of traumatic gangrene, which had set in within eighteen hours after the reception of the injury; the limb was enormously swollen, emphysematous and crackling from the gaseous products of decomposition, and discharg- ing from its numerous wounds, some of which were two or more inches in length, a bloody, sanious, and very offensive fluid. The pulse was running at the rate of 172 beats in the minute, and it was quite evident that a fatal issue was impending. Death occurred shortly after the gangrene reached the trunk, the whole duration of the case having been just forty-eight hours. Had amputation at the hip-joint been per- formed before or immediately upon the occurrence of gangrene, there might have been some slight hope of the patient’s surviving. This case was under my care at the Epis- copal Hospital in April, 1872. Gunshot Injuries often call for amputation. The increased power of de- struction possessed by modern implements of warfare, to a great extent counterbalances the improvements which have been made in the treatment of wounds ; so that though, by the introduction of the operations of excision vol. i.—36