376 SHOCK. The nature of the accident or disease in which this complication arises, renders it still more clear: it is always one in which the rupture of fat-cells may reasonably be supposed to occur; and the greater the chance of this, the more extensive the embolism. This is probably the reason—joined to the fact that the veins are torn and cannot close—that it has been observed with such frequency after fractures ; so frequently, indeed, that it has been said to be a normal occurrence. Thus it is always proportionate, in simple fractures, to the amount of injury inflicted on the medulla, and to the number and size of the bones that are broken; bearing out thoroughly the experiments of Vulpian,1 who showed that in animals, while in simple fracture embolism was sometimes hard to find, yet, when a foreign body was introduced into the medulla, there never was any difficulty in tracing the fat through its whole course; while, if the foreign body was a tent, the lungs were simply gorged. But though most commonly met with after simple fractures, and perhaps in them of greatest clinical interest as offering an explanation for deaths that under ordinary conditions seem utterly unintelligible, fatty embolism is by no means confined to them. Many of Wagner’s instances occurred in cases of compound fracture, and especially after secondary ampu- tation, or were found after acute periostitis (when metastatic abscesses were nearly always present); while the lesion has been noticed after simple suppu- ration in the connective tissue; after crushing injuries of only the fleshy parts of the body, especially if they contained much adipose tissue; after rupture of fatty liver; in chronic inflammation connected with bone; as the result of fatty degeneration of thrombi; in icterus gravis, and in diabetes. Indeed, so common is it, that Flournoy,2 examining all the bodies brought into the Pathological Institute at Strasbourg, found it in no less than ten per cent. Quite a number of obseiwers have seen, in compound fractures, oil-drops flowing out with blood from the medullary cavity, and have afterwards found similar ones in the veins leading from the limbs; but till recently it was believed that this was the only channel by which the fat was taken up; it is, however, clear, from fresh experiments,3 that fatty embolism of the lungs may follow within a few hours if any oil gain access to a serous surface, and even, though at a much later date and to a much more limited extent, when it is set free in the connective-tissue spaces. The delay and the diminution may probably be accounted for by the fat having to pass through lymphatic glands on its way, and probably becoming emulsified in them. _ It is not easy in all cases to account for the force which is necessary to cause the oil-drops to enter the veins; sometimes, perhaps, the nature of the accident itself will give a reason for it; in other cases, it has been suggested that the liquid fat from the broken-down cells stagnating in a wound, is sud- denly caught up when the state of syncope passes ©ft' and the heart recovers; or it may be, as Vulpian’s experiments suggest, that from the commencement of inflammation there is a sudden increase of pressure and local tension. In studying the effect of fatty embolism, it is necessary to distinguish clearly between the results of clinical observation and the data furnished by experiment; for while in the latter every precaution can be taken to exclude other influences, there can be no question that, in the former, other things besides fat can gain access to the circulation. The most recent and careful experiments that have been conducted for the purpose of ascertaining the cause of death, are detailed by Scriba4 in a monograph on this subject. By injecting carefully purified oil into the veins, into the medulla of bones, and 1 Deprine, Progres Medical, 1879. a Egli-Sinclair, Corresp.-Bl. f. Schweizerische Aerzte, No. vi., 1879. * Wiener Arcliiv f. exper- Path., Bd. xi. 4 Untersuchungen uber die Fettembolie.