G8 INFLAMMATION. The present account of inflammation will include its causes, symptoms, varie- ties, consequences, and complications—viewed especially in reference to its man- agement in the practice of surgery. Causes of Inflammation. The causes of inflammation determine, in a great degree, the attitude to be assumed by the surgeon in its judicious treatment, for they exercise a direct influence upon its constructive, or destructive, tendency; there is, therefore, no department of the subject more worthy of careful study. Irritation and Injury.—In accordance with doctrines which were long dominant in medicine, “ irritation,” acting upon any of the tissues or organs of the body, was held to he the immediate exciting cause of inflammation; and the development of irritation in any locality was supposed to invite the flow of blood towards it—the first step in the inflammatory process. Hence the apothegm “ Ubi irritatio, ibi affluxus.” The term “ irritant,” habitually employed as synonymous with “an inflammation-producing agent,” has in more recent times given place to “ injury.” The latter has become a technical term in surgical pathology, signifying that which is capable of impairing the vital quality of the tissues. It is used in this sense in a form of definition of inflammation, which has become classical: “the series of changes that follow injury, provided the injury has not been so severe as to cause the death of the part” (Burdon Sanderson). An “injury,” then, may be regarded as compe- tent to inaugurate the “ series of changes” that constitute inflammation. It is worthy of notice, as illustrating the purposive tendency of inflamma- tion, that, at its inception, if not in its later phases, it is mainly, if not entirely, constructive. It can hardly be doubted that the “series of changes” following a lesion which has not absolutely destroyed textural life, have for their object the repair of the lesion; this is apparently demonstrated by the result, which, if the inflammation does not transcend certain limits, is almost invariably curative. There is a limited analogy, as to their immediate consequences, between the influence of a surgical “injury,” and the fertilizing of an ovum; both stand in the relation of cause and effect to a sequence of changes which lead directly to cell proliferation and tissue formation. Rindfleisch tells us, in fact, that he prefers to study the process of embryonic cell development, under the microscope, in inflamed tissues. Classification of Causes.—As employed in connection with the causes of inflammation, the term injury includes the endless variety of wounds, hurts, and lesions, of every possible nature, to which our organisms are exposed. The manifold sources of injury are advantageously arranged in three classes— (1) Those arising from physical force or mechanical violence—as cuts, stabs, fractures of bone, dislocations of joints, and laceration, bruising, or crushing of limbs, or of internal organs. (2) Those arising from irritating or destructive chemical action—as from heat iii any form, such as burns and scalds from strong acids, or caustic alka- lies, from the action of cold, etc. (3) Those arising from poisonous infection, as from the venom of insects and serpents, from a virus, as of glanders, or syphilis, from the miasm due to the infinite diffusion of poisonous microscopic organisms, or their germs. Many of the individual injuries thus classified have been recognized in all times as determining causes of inflammation. Others, again, and mainly