497 HANDKERCHIEF BANDAGES. the neck, the chin, or other parts of the body. To make a .sling, or four- tailed bandage, take a piece of broad bandage, long enough to encircle the part to which it is to be applied and to overlap a little, and split both ends to- wards the centre. The central portion of the piece thus treated is called the body ; the extremities the tails. To apply the four-tailed bandage to the nape of the neck, place the body directly over the dressing which it is designed to retain, and carry the upper tails around the forehead and the lower tails around the neck, where they may be secured by pins. A similar bandage may be used as a temporary support in cases of fracture of the lower jaw. The body of the bandage is placed beneath the chin, and the upper tails are directed backward below the ears, towards the occiput; before securing these, the lower tails are carried up the sides of the face, crossed on the vertex and se- cured by pins where they terminate. The lower tails are then crossed below the occipital protuberance, and brought above the ears towards the forehead, where they are pinned together. The Many-tailed Bandage, or the Bandage of Scultetus, is a convenient dress- ing in some cases of compound fracture or severe wounds; for, after it has been once applied, it can be renewed without disturbing the affected part. It is made by cutting a roller bandage into the requisite number of pieces, each long enough to go around the part and overlap 5-71 centi- metres (2-3 inches). These pieces are disposed in such a. way, under the part, that the first piece shall be over- lapped by the second, the second by the third, and so on,from below upwards; the extremities of the last piece are secured by pins. (Fig. 69.) Whenever it is necessary to change strips that have become soiled, it can be readily done, without raising the limb, by pinning fresh pieces of bandage to those which are soiled, when, as the latter are pulled out, the former are drawn beneath the limb. This bandage is sometimes made by sewing a longitudinal piece to the middle of the several strips; this arrange- ment, however, is objectionable, as it prevents single strips from being removed when they have become soiled. Handkerchief Bandages.—Handkerchiefs or square pieces of muslin may be resorted to with advantage, in many cases, as provisional, or even as perma- nent dressings. M. Mayor, a Swiss surgeon, reduced the application of hand- kerchief dressings to a system, nearly fifty years ago, whence these bandages are generally called “ Mayor’s handkerchiefs.” The various handkerchief bandages are all modifications of the simple handkerchief, or square piece of muslin. The different forms that the handkerchief is made to assume are (1) The Oblong, made by simply folding the square once on itself; (2) the i Triangle, made by bringing together the diagonal angles of a square, the parts of the triangle being the base, the apex or summit, and the angles; (3) the Cravat, formed by folding a triangle from its summit towards its base; and (4) the Cord, a cravat twisted, the parts of the cravat and the cord being the body and the extremities. This system of provisional dressings has an elaborate nomenclature founded vol. i.—32 Fig. 69. Bandage of Scultetus.