SCURVY. 317 to the reciprocal relations of tuberculosis and traumatism. It must be re- marked, however, that as the mere presence of tubercles in any organ what- ever indicates at once a serious condition of the economy—a dangerous form of scrofula—we must expect to find the reparative process hindered, and recovery retarded or indefinitely delayed, in wounded persons who are tuber- culous. This fact has been amply demonstrated. The observations are numerous in which amputations, in tuberculous patients, have been followed by acute atrophy of the flaps, by inflammation, by conicity of the stump, etc. This influence of tuberculosis upon the course and termination of operations has been known for a long time; for we find the question discussed in old hooks whether it is wise or not to amputate in phthisical cases, or even to operate upon simple anal fistulse. The advocates of abstention find no diffi- culty in making evident, in the large majority of cases, not only the dangers but also the uselessness of surgical procedures which merely substitute for one chronic lesion another almost identical in character. Other authors, indeed, furnish facts which are favorable to intervention. The affirmative and nega- tive conclusions of our predecessors are much too general, and do not reflect sufficiently the extreme diversity of cases presented in practice. In fact, the unfavorable chances are singularly increased or diminished according as the tubercles are deep or superficial; abundant, generalized and large, or rare, discrete and small; as they are in course of genesis or rapid evolution, or stationary and in course of fatty or calcareous degeneration; or, finally, as they have more or less disorganized the organ which they occupy. Writers, again, have had too exclusively in view pulmonary tuberculosis, and have left out of sight tuberculization of the brain, mesentery, genital organs, bones, glands, etc. Even in respect to pulmonary phthisis itself, in considering the indications and contra-indications for operation, the surgeon should have regard to its extent, its degree, its forms, its origin, and its causes. Finally, we must not accept or reject indiscriminately all operations, but consider each one separately. Thus, if resections must be avoided in tuber- culous individuals, we may sometimes, if only for the purpose of prolonging life and rendering it more comfortable, perform amputation, and, generally speaking, may employ the whole series of urgent, and a certain number of palliative operations. Scurvy. Essentially characterized by a change in the blood, by friability of the vascular walls, and by fatty degeneration of the tissues and especially of the liver, scurvy offers all the conditions necessary for the production of various complications at the seat of injury. The most important is naturally hemor- rhage, so easily provoked by the least violence exercised upon the vessels and tissues, that it is almost always of traumatic origin, even when appearing to be spontaneous. The discharge of blood occurs at all parts: externally, into the cavities, into the interstices of the tissues; and gives rise not only to hemorrhage properly so called, hut to all the possible varieties of blood- extravasation—extensive ecchymoses, suffusions, infiltrations, effusions, blood- tumors, etc. To this first cause of delay in the local reparative process, must be added the more or less complete absence of the neoplastic function; definitive histological regenerations are especially defective. Hence atonic, obstinate ulcerations of bad appearance; interminable suppuration; delay in the con- solidation of fractures; or production of permanent pseuclarthrosis. The callus already formed may soften a longer or shorter time after the fracture; cases are even cited in winch callus, that had been solid for several years, softened in consequence of an attack of scurvy.