AMPUTATIONS. 576 and similar experiments have heen since repeated by Sir J. Y. Simpson and by Dr. B. Howard, of Yew York. While both animal and metallic ligatures have been employed in operations upon the human subject with sufficient frequency to leave no doubt as to their safety and efficiency, I have seen no evidence to make me think them in any way better than the hempen or silken ligatures which are more generally employed. Indeed silk (which, however, is itself an animal substance) seems to me, upon the whole, the best material from which a ligature can be made. It can be carbolized, if the surgeon wish, and in this form was at one time used by Prof. Lister, and was preferred to catgut by the late Mr. Maunder. Silk is now prepared for the surgeon’s use by plaiting the strands instead of tiuisting them, and the plaited ligature has the advantage of much greater strength as well as of greater readiness in application. Silk ligatures should be about eighteen inches in length, the ordinary skein of silk which contains about six yards thus suf- ficing for twelve ligatures. Before using the silk, it should be well •waxed, that the ligatures may not become entangled with each other, and that they may not slip in the surgeon’s hands. In applying a ligature, the bleeding vessel is caught and drawn a little forwai'd with either the artery forceps or the tenaculum, and an assistant then throws the thread around it and secures it with a double knot. The ligature should be tightened by a firm and steady pull, without any jerking movement; the first knot should be made with suf- ficient force to divide the inner and middle coats of the artery, and the second knot adjusted so as to prevent the first from slipping; if catgut or horsehair be employed, a third knot is desirable. The best form of knot is that known by sailors as the “reef-knot” (Fig. 138); it is much to be preferred to either the “ granny” (Fig. 140) or the “ surgeon’s knot” (Fig. 139). Fig. 138. Fig. 139. Fig. 140. The “reef” or “sailor’s” knot. The “ surgeon’s” knot. The “granny” knot. It is customary, when many ligatures are applied, to cut off one end of each and bring the other end out at any convenient part—usually one angle— of the wound. For purposes of distinction, both ends of the ligature which surrounds the main artery may be left and knotted together. It has been proposed to bring each ligature out separately by an independent opening through the covering of the stump, so as to allow the edges of the wound to come in contact throughout their whole extent, without interruption; but apart from the inconvenience and delay which would be caused by such a mode of procedure, the ligature ends themselves, being brought out in one or two groups, serve a useful purpose by affording an excellent means of drainage. Short-cut ligatures—that is, with both ends cut short—were much employed by Hennen and a few other surgeons in the early part of this cen- tury, and have been revived in connection with the “ antiseptic method” by Prof. Lister and his followers. If short-cut ligatures are used, a perforated, India-rubber drainage tube must be employed to allow the escape of the