405 HISTORY OF ANAESTHESIA. gas before a popular audience, in the city of Hartford, Connecticut. The dentist, Horace Wells, who was present, observed that the person to whom the gas had been administered seemed quite insensible to the pain of the bruises which he had sustained by reason of a fall while under the influence of the gas. He at once imagined that a tooth might be extracted without pain from a person whose sensibilities were thus temporarily obtunded. The very next day he performed the experiment upon himself, inhaling a quantity of the gas, which had been prepared by Dr. Colton. The success of this attempt was complete, and in a few weeks he had in like manner removed teeth from the mouths of a dozen ditferent patients. Visiting Boston for the purpose of introducing his method in that city, he undertook to extract a tooth from a patient to whom the gas had been administered before the students of the Harvard Medical School. The experiment was unsatisfactory, as the patient uttered a cry at the moment of extraction, though he afterwards asserted that he had felt no pain. So great was his chagrin at this failure, that Dr. Wells ceased to interest himself in the subject of anaesthesia, and his death occurred not long afterwards (Jan. 14, 1848). Before this event, how- ever, one of his former pupils, a young dentist in the city of Boston, William T. G. Morton by name, had made known the anaesthetic properties of the vapor of sulphuric ether. At the suggestion of a noted chemist, Dr. Charles T. Jackson, lie had experimented with ether, inhaling its vapor until insensi- bility had been induced. This event occurred during the evening of Septem- ber 80, 1846. On awaking from an artificial sleep which had endured for eight minutes, Dr. Morton resolved to administer the anaesthetic vapor to the first patient who would submit to its use. A man named Eben Frost pre- sently applied for relief from an aching tooth, and was successfully kept under the influence of ether during the whole time of the extraction. It was at once perceived that this discovery might find a wider range of utility than could be afforded by the practice of dentistry, and on the 16th of October, 1846, Morton was invited to etherize a patient from whom Dr. J. C. Warren was about to remove a vascular tumor of the neck, at the Massachusetts General Hospital. The experiment was attended with such a degree of success that it was again and again repeated, until a number of capital operations had been thus performed with the most satisfactory results. Intelligence of the great discovery reached England, December 17, 1846, and was speedily diffused throughout the civilized world. During the fol- lowing year, the celebrated physiologist, Flourens, described the effects of chloroform upon the lower animals. A medical student in London, Furnell by name, about the same time accidentally discovered its anaesthetic proper- ties by inhalation of its vapor, and at his suggestion it was several times employed in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital by Sir William Lawrence and Mr. Holmes Coote. In the mean time a hint regarding this substance had reached Dr. J. Y. Simpson, of Edinburgh, and after testing the drug in his own per- son he administered it with the greatest freedom. On the 10th of November, 1847, he published the details of not less than fifty cases in which he had used chloroform with perfect success. The agreeable qualities of the new anaesthetic led to its speedy adoption in preference to ether. The occasional occurrence of death from its effects has caused much debate regarding the comparative dangers from the use of different anaesthetic agents, and the superior safety of ether has in England and in the United States produced a very important reaction in favor of the original agent introduced by Morton. Germany and the greater portion of France still prefer chloroform, a sub- stance which by its energy, its concentration, and its agreeable effects, will always commend itself to those who are inclined to place vigor and precision before safety. Many other substances have been experimentally tested as