PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 50 solid amoeboid cells. On the other hand, we know that in every amoeboid cell vacuoles can appear and disappear. From researches which have been made under my direction on the genesis of nerve-tissue,1 we know moreover that embryonal cells, while building up the nerve-tissue, while being trans- formed into tissue of the central nervous system, produce numerous small vacuoles within their body, and thus are directly converted into a network. Only subsequently is the medullary substance produced within the network. Accordingly, the entire tissue is subdivided during the process of suppuration into components analogous to those from which it was constructed. Suppuration of the spinal cord is one of the rarest occurrences, unless as the result of injury. The chronic forms of inflammation, however, are less rare. Chronic inflammation of the spinal cord is characterized in most in- stances by the growth of the network of connective substance. The growth represents itself as an increase in mass of the various trabeculae of the net- work, and this increase in mass occurs at the expense of the neighboring tissue, at the expense of the adjoining nerves. In the thickened trabeculae of the network of connective substance, we also still see vestiges of the axis- cylinders; vestiges of varying distinctness, according to the degree of meta- morphosis which they have already undergone. Such a condition is found in tabes dorsalis, in the scleroses of the lateral columns, in ordinary chronic myelitis, in syphilis, in the myelitis of drunkards,2 and in other chronic forms of disease. In the severe and progressive forms, however, the change does not cease with this thickening of the connective substance. The thickened network of connective substance, and the inclosed nerve-fibres, break down into fibrillae, as was first shown under my supervision by Dr. Hath. Weiss, in a case of tabes dorsalis. The destruction takes place principally in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the spinal cord. In such places we find the white matter of the cord replaced by a fibrillated tissue. Here and there the bun- dles of fibrilhe still bave the same arrangement as in the normal tissue. In a transverse section we still recognize the arrangement of axis-cylinders and network; but they already consist of fibrillte which appear (in transverse sec- tion) as small granules, but which can be followed deeper down (in the longi- tudinal direction) by the aid of the fine adjustment, and are thus recognized as sections of fibres. On one side, these spots border on a tissue with no indication of a fibrillar degeneration, in which we can recognize the swollen network of connective substance and the medullated nerves, and on the other side on a felt of fibrilhe, from which every trace of the former tissue has dis- appeared. Here we accordingly see again (just as in the case of the muscle) a final result of the chronic process which in its consequences as regards the function of the part, is similar to an acute suppurative inflammation. In the one case, as in the other, the nerve-tissue, as such, is destroyed, and the func- tion of the corresponding nerve territory is lost for ever. But from a clinical point of view, the two processes vary in the extent of the destruction. An acute process is, as a rule, limited. In this respect let us consider a cutaneous abscess as typical. Such an abscess, in any particu- lar instance, never spreads beyond its original site. The infiltration limits itself, breaks down in the centre, and therewith the height of the process is reached. If no new abscess is formed in the neighborhood, we may look for- ward with some certainty to the termination of the process. The circum- stances are similar in regard to all abscesses, though the importance of the 1 See my Lectures, page 568. 2 I obtained a view of the appearances in these forms of disease through the kindness of Dr. Nathan Weiss, who prepared the specimens in my laboratory.