491 FIGURE-OF-EIGHT BANDAGES. the metatarsus; then carry the bandage parallel with the inner or outer margin of the sole of the foot, according to whether it be the right or left foot, directly aci’oss the posterior surface of the heel, thence along the oppo- site border of the foot and over the dorsum; this completes one spica turn. From the dorsum the bandage is made to encircle the foot and pass around the heel and over the foot the second time, thereby forming another spica on the foot. By continuing these successive turns around the foot and the heel, each complete turn overlapping one-half or two-thirds of the preceding, in an ascending order, the entire foot and ankle are covered. (Fig. 58). In all cases in which firm compression of the foot is indicated, as in bruises, chronic sprains, wounds of the tibial vessels, etc., this neat bandage will be found of great advantage. Figure-of-Eight Bandages.— The Figure-of-Eight Bandage of the Elboir.— A roller 6J centimetres (2| inches) wide and If metres (If yards) long. Fix the end of the roller by two circular turns around the upper part of the fore- arm, then carry it obliquely across the bend of the elbow to the arm, above the inner or outer condyle according to the direction taken, thence over the posterior surface of the arm to the opposite side, and across the front of the elbow again, to the point from which the roller started. These turns are re- peated, making those above the joint overlap the lower thirds of the preceding turns, and those below, the upper thirds, till the point of the elbow is reached; then complete the envelopment of the joint by a circular turn carried over the olecranon process. This bandage, when it does not form a constituent part of the spiral reversed of the upper extremity, is principally used to retain a compress or other dressing on the wound made in venesection at the bend of the elbow. The Anterior Figure-of-Eight Bandage of the Chest.—A roller 6| centi- metres(2| inches) wide and 6f metres (7 yards) long. Make fast the initial extre- mity by two circular turns around the upper part of the right arm, after which carry the roller over the shoulder, obliquely across the front of the thorax, through the left axilla, over the shoulder of the same side, thence back across the front of the chest (intersecting the pre- ceding turn over the ster- num) through the right axilla, and up to the top of the shoulder. Repeat the figure-of-eight turns on the anterior face of the chest, till the bandage runs out, and pin the ter- minal end. The borders of both axilke should be Anterior figure-of-eight bandage of the chest. protected from excoriation by compresses of cotton or jute, inserted between them and the turns of the bandage. (Fig. 59.) Fig. 59.