AMPUTATIONS AT THE ANKLE. 657 expose them sufficiently for being grasped in the hand and removed by the saw. After the vessels have been tied, and before the edges of the wound are stitched together, an opening should be made through the posterior part of the flap, where it is thinnest, to afford a dependent drain for the matter, as there must always be too much blood retained in the cavity to permit of union by the first intention. The dressings should be of the lightest description. As already indicated, this operation (Fig. 189) has been modified or “im- proved” by various surgeons, some making the heel flap longer, and others shorter, than directed by Mr. Syme, and some only dissecting the flap back Fig. 1S9. Amputation at ankle l>y Syme’s method. to the point of the heel, and disarticulating before dividing the tendo Acliillis and completing the separation of the os calcis. As regards the length of the flap, Dr. J. A. Wyeth, of New York, has proved by a large number of dis- sections that the main supply of blood to the heel flap is derived from the calcaneal branches of the external plantar artery, and that hence a long flap is less likely to slough than a short one: hence if any deviation is to be made from Mr. Syme’s lines of incision, it should be in the direction of lengthening the flap rather than of abbreviating it. Provided, however, that the knife be kept close to the bone, in separating the flap from the calcaneum, there is not much risk of impairing its vitality. Syme’s amputation affords an excel- lent stump, covered with the natural tissues of the heel, and capable of sus- taining the entire weight of the patient. In some cases the tendo Acliillis appears to acquire fresh attachments to the bones of the stump, and the patient is enabled not only to walk but to run. The same advantage is claimed for the stump made by Pirogoff’s method, but the Syme stump is, according to Prof. Stephen Smith, of New York, better suited than the other for the adaptation of an artificial limb. A modification of Syme’s method which seems to me to be really an improvement, is that employed by Macleod, of Glasgow, and J. Bell, of Edinburgh, which consists in preserving:, when- ever it is practicable to do so, the periosteal covering of the calcaneum. The following Table shows the statistical results of Syme’s amputation, as given by various authors:— vol. i.—42