CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 75 window to cool off before dressing for dinner. He fell asleep, heedless of a thunder- storm accompanied by a decided fall in the temperature, and awoke thoroughly chilled. On the same night he was seized with a rigor which proved to he the initial symptom of an acute general peritonitis, which terminated fatally within the week. Severe chilling of a part is also a frequent cause of inflammation. What is known in England as “ railway paralysis” is the result of inflammation of the facial nerve, or its neurilemma, from sitting in the draught of an open window when the cars are in rapid motion. A gentleman had a severe inflammation of the epididymis and testis which led to complete atrophy of the organ. It followed a chilling of the testicle from sitting for an hour upon a cold stone doorstep, in thin clothing, after being heated in walking. The pendulous organ rested upon the cold seat and had become sensibly chilled, as he noticed at the time. The next morning it was painful and swollen. The inflammation subsided in a week, but continuous shrinkage in volume of the organ followed. There was no urethral lesion. Inflammatio a frigore, as the ancients called it, has always been regarded, popularly as well as professionally, as a very common occurrence—cold being universally received as a sufficient and satisfactory cause of the inflammation. It is not improbable that mortal injury, or actual necrosis, of some of the anatomical elements of a chilled organ may set in action the series of changes which, according to our view of its pathology, constitute inflammation ; the blighted elements may degenerate, or liquefy, and undergo absorption; or the inflammation which their presence has excited may culminate in abscess, and thus effect their expulsion from the organism. Reverting to the classification of causes which have been recognized as competent to excite the inflammatory process, we shall proceed to examine in detail the most typical of them. Incised Wounds.—There is no form of mechanical violence that excites inflammation, in which the process is developed more uniformly in its benign or constructive form than in division of the tissues with a sharp knife so as to produce an “ incised wound,” such, in fact, as that made by the surgeon in cutting operations. And yet a scalpel with the keenest edge cuts on the principle of the saw, and invariably leaves in the wound myriads of micro- scopic particles of lacerated tissue. These are carried away in part by the flow of blood and the subsequent liquid exudation, and the rest undergo liquefaction and absorption by the lymphatics. They do not apparently interfere with the kindly succession of changes which, when the cut surfaces are quietly retained in proper apposition, bring about prompt union “ by the first intention.” These changes are exudation, cell-proliferation, the genera- tion of new capillaries which inosculate across the breach of continuity, and the organization of a film of cicatricial tissue, often hardly visible, by which Nature’s “first intention” is completed. This happy phrase by which Hunter described the phenomenon of “ primary union,” was applied to a result accom- plished by what he called “ adhesive inflammation.” The discovery of the microscopic mechanism of this process has not impaired in any degree the aptness of the phraseology of the great observer. It is for us to notice that, in its most perfect results, our senses detect, in the process of primary union, neither pain, heat, redness, nor swelling ; simply the healing of a textural breach by a nutritive act, effected without excitement, and by an apparently competent mechanism. Whilst admiring the perfection of this typical expression of the reparative act, our part is to detect, if possible, the causes which lead to such frequent deviations from its simple effectiveness, and, if possible, to prevent obstacles to its uniform accomplishment. The sources of