TREATMENT OE INFLAMMATION. 147 of Peru, which is a good antiseptic, to the surface of a contused wound before applying a poultice, is a favorite practice. Poultices have been criticized as uncleanly, particularly by Liston, who strongly advocated “ water dressing” as a substitute. In its most common form,"water dressing consists of a cloth saturated with water or any medi- cated solution, and then covered in by oiled silk or some impermeable tissue to prevent evaporation and drying. Water dressing is a very useful applica- tion for inflamed surfaces. When the latter are irregular, absorbent cotton may be applied more accurately in contact with them, and then saturated with fluid, medicated or otherwise, and covered in. A solution of boracic acid or biborate of sodium is an excellent medication. A bandage is more conveniently applied over a water dressing than over a poultice. The latter, however, has by no means lost its place in either professional or popular confidence. It is to be remarked that poultices are often continued unwisely long after the indications for their use have ceased. Their prolonged employment begets an unhealthy relaxation of the tissues thus subjected to too much maceration, by which the cuticle of neighboring sound integument is liable to become water-soaked and detached. In open wounds thus injudiciously treated, granulations tend to become exuberant, pale, and flabby, and cicatri- zation may be indefinitely deferred. Under these circumstances a change to dry dressing with moderate compression is often followed by benefit. A very useful and beneficial mode of applying heat and moisture is by means of the local warm bath. In renewing dressings of open wounds of the extremities, it is constantly indicated. A tin vessel of proper size and shape to receive the forearm when the elbow is flexed, in which it may be subjected to prolonged immersion without inconvenience or fatigue on the part of the patient, who occupies a sitting position, is of great value; for ex- ample, after incision and a first dressing by compression or poultice in spread- ing inflammation extending up the forearm from an injured hand, a local bath of an hour or two before the surgeon’s visit will add greatly to the pa- tient’s comfort and very much facilitate the subsequent dressing. Granula- tions have been found to form rapidly and grow well in a part submerged in tepid water; and for restoring an unhealthy wound or ulcer to a healthy condition, there is no better resource than a prolonged bath rendered antisep- tic by carbolic acid or some other substance possessing similar properties. A thorough application of eight per cent, solution of chloride of zinc, followed by a prolonged local warm bath, has proved very effective in the disinfection of foul and unhealthy parts. As to the use of the general warm bath, its advisability must be determined by the condition and circumstances of the patient. Compression.—Compression, if applied evenly, continuously, and not too forcibly, is a very valuable agent in the treatment of many of the phases of the inflammatory condition. It is capable of acting beneficially in several different ways according to the stage of the process. In acute, inflammation, we have undoubtedly the power, by the use of systematic compression, of restraining the tendency to over-distension of the enlarging capillaries, and of limiting the amount of exudation ; and in its chronic form, a wider range for application of the remedy, in promoting absorption. But the use of this power may be attended by pain, and no inconsiderable degree of danger. Of this we have clinical evidence in the cases recorded in which the testicle has sloughed after the application of strips of adhesive plaster to control acute epididymi- tis ; and we may assume that instances in which this misfortune has occurred have been left unrecorded. This mode of treatment of inflammations of the