258 RACHITIS. to the naked eye as a very thin, scarcely perceptible layer of a reddish-gray color upon the end of the shaft. It is so shallow that it does not perceptibly increase the thickness of the cartilage. In rachitis, the state of affairs is different. The zone of proliferation, in- stead of being confined to a single, or at most double, layer of cell-groups, con- sists of many layers involving nearly the whole epiphyseal cartilage. The cells, still inclosed in their distended capsules, undergo a more frequent division than in health, so that instead of groups of eight cells, as in the normal state, each group consists of from thirty to forty cells. Therefore, in rachitis, the proliferating cartilaginous zone is a broad cushion, very soft, of a grayish translucent appearance, causing the characteristic swelling ob- served around the joint. Over the distal end of the proliferating cartilage, there may still be a layer or zone, though perhaps of little depth, of normal cartilage, like that in health. Osseous Cliavges.—While this occurs, the ossifying process is also arrested. We indeed perceive an effort in the direction of bone formation. The Haver- sian canals, surrounded by capillary loops, extend from the bone into the pro- liferating zone of cartilage. Their extension is effected by absorption of the matrix and appropriation of cell-groups which lie in their way. The cells in these groups, as they enter the Haversian system, become much smaller by a rapid segmentation, forming medullary cells. We also find, as further evi- dence of the attempt at bone-formation, granules and masses of lime scat- tered through the cartilage, and here and there spiculse and nodules of true boue, springing up from the bony substratum of the shaft. Some of the canals extend far into the cartilage, nearly indeed to its free surface, but most of them terminate in its lowest portion. The growth of bone in thickness occurs from the under surface of the periosteum. In health, a soft, vascular, germinal tissue springs from the periosteal surface, and rapidly receives lime salts, and is transformed into bone. This germinal tissue, consisting largely of capillaries rising from the fibrous tissue of the periosteum, is a very thin substratum, barely visible, transient, and constantly changing from its conversion into bone. In rachitis, this vascular sub-periosteal tissue, not undergoing, or under- going slowly and imperfectly, the osseous transformation, and at the same time increasing more rapidly than in health, under the irritating influence of the rachitic disease becomes a thick layer. Its color and appearance are like spleen pulp, so that the older observers supposed that there was a hemorrhagic extravasation between the periosteum and the bone. There is, however, no extravasation of blood, unless it accidentally occur from the numerous delicate capillaries. The resemblance to extravasated blood, or spleen pulp, is due to the abundant growth of large and thin-walled capillaries from the under sur- face of the periosteum, as shown by the microscope. This vascular outgrowth is, for the most part, quite uniform over the diaphysis of the long bones, while upon the cranial bones its thickness is much greater in one locality than in another. The attempt at ossification also appears in this tissue. Lime salts are scantily and loosely deposited through it, forming osteophytes— vascular and fragile—rather than true bone. The question naturally arises: how does rachitis affect bone which is already formed when the rachitic state begins? Virchow’s answer is the following: “ Rachitis has ... by more accurate investigation been shown to consist, not in a process of softening in the old bone, as it had pre- viously been considered to be, but in a non-solidification of the fresh layers as they form; the old layers being consumed by the normally progressive forma- tion of medullary cavities, and the new remaining soft, the bone becomes