454 OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. istered with benefit. The combination of milk with occasional small quan- tities of lemonade may at first thoughts appear to be somewhat incongruous, yet clinical experience fully asserts their value, especially in operations upon the urinary organs. As the case progresses, and as the patient improves, the diet may be increased in strength and quantity, and richer soups, the breast of a chicken, or the more digestible meats may be given. In every instance, the selection of diet must be governed by the circumstances of the patient. If there is a tendency to inflammation, it must be light; while for those who are weak, or who have suffered much from shock or hemorrhage, fuller diet is demanded. A good deal can be left to the patient’s inclination, for he can sometimes judge better than those who are around him as to what he can most easily retain on his stomach ; and his fancies in this respect should be considered when not obviously objectionable. Before operation, the patient should he instructed to empty the bladder. If this be not attended to, an early use of the catheter may be demanded, since many persons experience great difficulty in voiding their urine after operation. It is, perhaps, unnecessary to state that the bowels should be freely evacuated on the morning before the operation. This is all the more to be insisted upon, since constipation usually follows operation. This may he due in part to the loss of blood, and in part to the opiates given, and the confinement to bed. It is not, however, a circumstance which need give rise to any uneasiness, or indicate hasty administration of purgatives. It is usually corrected by the change of diet, and, if it is not, a little castor oil after a few days will answer every purpose. The use of purgatives in any shape too soon after operation is greatly to be deprecated. In the first place, they are unnecessary, and, in the second, too early a movement of the bowels sometimes overtaxes the patient’s strength and is followed by exhaustion. Should the bowels act, it is well to give a little stimulus at the time. In rare instances, patients are met with who hear operations with wonder- ful composure and recover with remarkable facility. The writer can recall, as such, a case of secondary amputation at the knee-joint, upon a delicate lady. On the following morning she was found sitting up in bed knitting, and she had insisted upon her customary diet without any abatement. The popliteal ligature separated on tlie tenth day, the wound healed by first intention, and in reality in less than ten days she was well. Another singular instance occurred in an Irish soldier whose humerus was shattered in action by a ball, and whose arm was removed close to the shoulder-joint immediately afterwards. He walked on the same day, under a broiling sun, fifteen miles, carrying his gun, knapsack, and full accoutrements, and in the evening was found acting as a volunteer sentry on guard. He was with difficulty placed in hospital ; the ligature separated early, and his recovery was as rapid and wonderful as in the case above given. In neither of these instances was traumatic fever developed. There is yet one other matter which it is well for the surgeon to see to, and that is the character of the patient’s surroundings. Not only should his room be well ventilated, but it should be light and cheerful; and, as he convalesces, he should be provided with proper books, and resources to relieve the tedium of confinement, and to occupy his mind. At a later period, and where no positive reason to the contrary exists, if he be a smoker, he may be permitted his cigar or pipe. Growing flowers and plants in the chamber have been objected to on the ground of their tendency to absorb oxygen and give ofi carbonic acid. But practically this is an error, for in fact the plant lives on carbonic acid, and during daylight, while its nutrition is going on, carbonic acid in large quantities is absorbed and oxygen given off At night the