89 SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION IN TENDON, BONE, CARTILAGE, ETC. 6 W’iener acad. Sitzungsber. 1879. 7 Wiener mediz. Jahrbuclier, 1879—1S80. said that the process was propagated from cell to cell. I opposed this view in 1869. The union of the cells amongst themselves I was not yet familiar with at that time, and I could not therefore conceive how the process pro- ceeded from cell to cell. An insight into the method of nutrition of cartilage was nevertheless granted to me even then. One of my pupils1 had found that by staining hyaline cartilage with osmic acid he could make canals appear, by means of which the spaces in which the cells lay communicated with one another. Another of my pupils2 had found that pigment-granules could penetrate the basis-substance of living cartilage. In order to see this, he pointed out, you need only inject the coloring matter into the blood, and then apply an inflam- matory stimulus to the cartilage. I availed myself of these discoveries to show that there must needs be a nutritive current in cartilage. In conse- cpience of the stimulus of inflammation, I said, this nutritive current becomes increased. The current must come from the blood. The nutritive current carries pigment-granules along with it. The pigment-granules penetrate the cartilage, and remain lying there; they serve as signs of the current which has passed, just as the stones which are swept along by the torrent and carried otf, remain lying somewhere, and serve as signs of the flood which has passed away. ' Closely connected with this view of the case, and based on the researches of one of my pupils,3 was the further assertion that the cartilage-cells like- wise underwent inflammatory changes, as stated by Goodsir and Redfern, and as maintained, too, by Virchow and his followers. But my position was hostile to the theory of emigration, and hence the supporters of that doctrine denied the capability of cartilage to participate in inflammation. In like manner, my assertion of the penetration of coloring matter into cartilage was disputed. More recently, however, the penetration of coloring matter into cartilage has repeatedly been seen, and is now quite generally admitted. But Spina4 has shown even more, namely, that the pigment- granules advance through the processes of the cartilage-cells. The fact that there was cartilage the cells of which were united by processes, was known long ago. But that such was the structure of hyaline cartilage, that the apparently structureless, intermediate substance between the cartilage-cells was traversed by a system of the flnest processes, was not known. Heitz- mann5 was the first to report the existence of such ramifications in the basis- substance of hyaline cartilage. He asserted, as early as 1872, that he could see these processes in the fresh condition. In addition, he has made a very fine network appear in the immediate neighborhood of the cells by staining with gold. But I was not inclined to regard these specimens as conclusive. Mean- while Spina has advanced new proofs of the existence of such processes; they become visible when a thin section of hyaline cartilage is treated with alco- hol. Spina6 has shown, furthermore, how the cells of cartilage become con- verted into basis-substance. I shall not enter further into a discussion of this matter, but shall only remark that we have become familiar with a condition of things analogous to that in bone. On the other hand, Kassowitz,7 after examining cartilage in various pathological conditions, lias made the assertion that new cells develop in the basis-substance of cartilage, and that it is itself living matter. Accordingly we now see an analogy between cornea, tendon, cutis, cartilage, and bone. 1 Bubnoff, Wiener Sitzungsbericlite, 1868. 2 Reitz, Wiener Sitzungsberichte, Bd. 55. 3 Hutob, Wiener med. Jahrbiicher, 1871. 4 Wiener aead. Sitzungsber. 1879. 5 Studien am Knorpel und Knochen. Wiener mediz. Jahrb. 1872.