332 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. to add the exaggerated elimination of the chlorides, or of any other sub- stances contained in the urine? For the present, I have but little to say in regard to the relations existing between injuries and these various forms of diabetes. In a very large and stout man a slight contused wound of the leg did not heal, and tended to become transformed into an ulcer. Examination of the urine showed that the patient was azoturic to a high degree. On the other hand, a young scrofulous individual passed daily from 12 to 15 litres [12 J to 16 quarts] of urine as clear as water. Disarticulation of the first meta- tarsal bone had to be performed ; it was followed by no complication, and the wound healed without delay or difficulty. I have collated more abundant and more interesting material with regard to phosphaturia. It has, in the first place, appeared to me to play an im- portant part in fragilitas ossium, and in the spontaneous fractures which occur without previous circumscribed lesions. Certain facts would permit us even to establish relationships between organic affections of the bones and phos- phaturia, although it is impossible to decide whether the latter be cause or effect. We will often find an exaggerated elimination of phosphates in cases of polyuria in scrofulous children suffering from osteitis. 1 have several times observed the disastrous influence exercised by phosphaturia upon the local progress of injuries. I have noted, for example, a consecutive hemorrhage, a diffuse phlegmon, orange-colored suppuration, purulent destruction of the eye after the operation for cataract, marked delay in the union of fractures, etc. As a sequel to well-characterized maladies, it would be proper to study, in their relations to accidental or surgical injuries, certain temporary states which assuredly are not pathological in the literal sense of the word, and yet during the duration of which, the organism finds itself under peculiar conditions. These states include dentition, puberty, menstruation, the menopause, pregnancy, the puerperal state, and lactation. In the opinion of the public, these con- ditions have a very manifest influence upon previously existing or inter- current diseases, and it would be very useful to know exactly whether it were the same in regard to wounds. The question of surgical Interference, also, arises very frequently in the two extreme periods of life, infancy and old age. Opinions differ widely as to the course of injuries and the manner in which they are tolerated under these circumstances. Unfortunately we have not sufficient materials to clear up all these problems; we barely possess a few facts in re- gard to pregnancy and the puerperal state, and to operations in childhood and old age. I give here a brief summary of what is known to science upon these subjects. Pregnancy. This question was debated at length in the International Congress of Geneva, in 1877. It was established that pregnancy and traumatism may run their course parallel to each other in a normal manner, without influ- encing each other in the slightest degree, even when the injuries are extremely severe; that pregnancy may disturb the reparative process by delaying or hindering healing, and by giving rise to various wound-complications at the injured point; it may also aggravate certain non-traumatic affections in such a manner as to render necessary and even urgent, operations which, in the non-pregnant condition, could have been avoided or postponed. The delay or hindrance in the healing of wounds, which is produced by pregnancy, may cease immediately after delivery, which restores to the reparative tendency all its power. Accidental or operative wounds, even the slightest, may interfere with