229 MALIGNANT PUSTULE. quently extends to the throat, rendering respiration and deglutition very diffi- cult and painful. The constitutional symptoms which accompany these local manifestations are well pronounced: these are general uneasiness and anxiety, and afterwards high fever accompanied by rigors; a typhoid state soon follows, and septic infection then becomes manifest, from which condition, as a general rule, few patients recover. The disease is more dangerous when the pustule is located on the face than when it is on the arm or hand. It frequently runs its course i n less than a week from the time of inoculation, and after death rapid decom- position is apt to ensue. Pathology of Malignant Pustule.—Davaine considers the co-operation of specific organisms as proven in malignant pustule, and the investigations of Hodges, of Boston, and of late those of Dr. Robert, Koch,1 appear to corrobo- rate this view. [Dr. Gerald Yeo considers the disease identical with that known as Mycosis Intestinalis, and believes that the presence of an external pustule is not an essential part of the affection.] Treatment op Malignant Pustule.—The treatment of this disease is local and constitutional. With regard to the local treatment, the pustule should he destroyed as soon and as thoroughly as possible, wherever may be its situa- tion, or whatever its stage of development. The best way to accomplish this, according to Dr. Devers, is by the application of the actual cautery at a white heat. This author asserts that the white-hot cautery has the advan- tage of destroying only the part which it touches, and that it promotes the effusion of a large quantity of serum, and induces the necessary reaction in the adjacent parts better than any other means which can he employed. lie adds that if the epidermis is elevated by recently exuded serum, and separates itself around the necrosed part, the cauterization has not been sufficiently deep, and must be repeated. Mauserzin2 recommends the extirpation of the pustule by the knife, and the subsequent application of the hot iron to the surface of the wound. Complete excision is also recommended by Prof. Gross. After excision and cauterization, the parts should be enveloped in a warm emollient cataplasm, and the patient kept at rest, and supported with nour- ishing diet. The constitutional treatment, when the system becomes infected, consists in maintaining a constant supply of fresh air in the patient’s apartment, and in endeavoring to maintain his strength by the administration of strong animal broths, and milk with brandy, while pain is allayed by means of opiates. [Quinia and the mineral acids may also he given with advantage. Iodine both internally and externally is recommended by Cezard, and carbolic acid by Estradere.] 1 On Traumatic Infective Diseases. Translated by W. Watson Clieyne, F.R.C.S. London, New Sydenham Society, 1880. 2 Archives Generates de Medecine, Mars, 1SG4.