(251) RACHITIS. BY J. LEWIS SMITH, M.I). CLINICAL PROFESSOR OF DISEASES OF CHILDREN IN THE BELLEVUE HOSPITAL MEDICAL COLLEGE, NEW YORK. Rachitis, or rickets, is, in the plan of this work, considered as a constitu- tional disease, but it would seem in some respects equally in consonance with observed facts, to regard it as a disease of the osseous system, in which, in certain cases, other systems are secondarily affected. It occurs in the first years of life, and, therefore, during the period of most active growth of the skeleton. It is characterized by an abnormal nutrition and changed physio- logical action of the bone-producing tissues, namely the epiphyseal cartilage and the periosteum, and by the arrest, more or less complete, of the deposi- tion of lime salts in these tissues. Frequency of Rachitis. Rachitis is a common result of faulty diet and of anti-hygienic conditions, and is, therefore, frequent among the poor of cities, and especially in fami- lies who dwell in crowded tenement houses. It has, heretofore', been pre- valent in the city infantile asylums, but of late years, as regards at least the city of Hew York, it is much less common, in consequence of the greater attention now given to sanitary requirements in the management of these institutions. Mild cases of rickets are often overlooked, since physicians may not be summoned to attend them, while even if they he summoned, many, who have not given particular attention to this disease, are apt to err in diagnosis, and to refer the symptoms to some other than the true cause. Commencing gradually and insidiously, rachitis not infrequently continues for months, even in its typical form, before a correct diagnosis is made. In the absence of deformity, which is a late symptom, the fretfulness, tender- ness of surface, and perspirations, receive a wrong explanation. Practitioners who have heretofore given little attention to this malady, and who believe it to be rare, if they are instructed in reference to its characteristic signs, and look for them in their visits among the city poor, are surprised at the num- ber of cases with which they meet. A few years since, in the Yew Ybrk Infant Asylum, my attention was directed to a rachitic child, whose head had so changed from the normal shape that the nurses, as well as the physician, had remarked the difference. Prompted by the occurrence of this case, which had gradually developed under my eyes, I made a careful examination of all the infants, and discovered, ivhat I had not previously suspected, that about one in every nine had become rachitic. In most of the infants the disease was mild, but with symptoms so characteristic that it was readily recognized. By effecting certain improvements in the diet, among which was the daily