465 CONDITIONS DETERMINING THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. source of discharge and constitutional drain. If, on the other hand, the dis- ease of the lung has been of long continuance, but is now quiet, and is not making active progress, there is really no reason why an operation, if necessary, should not be resorted to. Yet it must be quite clear to the surgeon, that the proposed operation will make less demand upon the strength of the patient, than the cause for which it is performed is already doing. Thus it would unquestionably be proper to remove a limb for a suppurating joint or diseased bone, whatever the cause of the lesion might be, if it were quite evident that the patient’s vital powers were giving way under the exhausting drain. It not unfrequently happens that both local and constitutional evidences of scrofu- losis or tuberculosis exist in the same person, the deposit in the lung being accompanied by a disorganized joint. The propriety of amputation here de- pends upon the precise pulmonary condition. If the phthisis be far advanced, and the lung already breaking down, operation is usually inadmissible; but if the lung be as yet but slightly affected, there is always the possibility that its condition may be improved by the removal of the source of local irritation. It is well known that fistula-in-ano frequently occurs in phthisical patients. By most of the surgeons of a past generation, and indeed by many of the present day, the existence of anal fistula was and is regarded as rather favor- able to the patient than otherwise, it being held that it acts as a derivative, diminishing the progressive development of pulmonary tuberculosis. Of late years, this opinion has been challenged, and there are not a few, including many of the most learned and practical pathologists of the present day, who believe that the reverse is the case; and the belief is gaining ground that the fistula acts as a supplementary weakening discharge, rather than as a revulsive. The propriety of operation in such cases follows as a matter of course, with the proviso that the attempt to cure fistulte occurring in phthisical patients must be restricted absolutely to those in whom the disease is incipient, or at all events not progressive. Here, as in other instances of tuberculous and strumous affections, it would then seem proper to attempt the cure of the affec- tion by operation, remembering, however, that in all such cases there is an indisposition to healthy granulation, and that the wished-for cure may not always be accomplished. Dr. Van Buren, in bis excellent treatise on diseases of the rectum, expresses himself strongly on this matter. lie says that while no judicious surgeon would operate for fistula upon a patient with advanced cardiac disease, or with cirrhosis of the liver, Bright’s disease, or cancer, yet in pulmonary disease the tendency of opinion is becoming more favorable to well-considered operative interference. He adds:— “On the following points I do not hesitate to speak positively: there is no reliable evidence that the suppression of an habitual discharge can do any harm in these cases; on the contrary, it is pretty certainly a positive advantage to arrest it; and I would advise the attempt to cure a fistula in a patient with physical signs of phthisis, pro- vided there were no positively advancing softening, or severe cough, because, in addition to stopping a waste, it would remove an impediment to exercise in the open air, possi- bly on horseback. The objections to operating where there is softening or hectic are, that the concussion from coughing, and the lack of power, might prevent the wound from healing, and that the use of the knife would necessitate confinement to bed, and thus injure the patient.” In all operations which the surgeon may attempt on phthisical or scrofu- lous patients, be must, as Paget has advised, carefully avoid keeping them too long in one atmosphere, lest he may bring about that gradual impairment of health which is so favorable to the progress of tubercular disease. Urinary Organs.—The results of operations and of injuries are more powerfully influenced by organic disease of the kidney than by that of any vol. i.—30