167 SPECIFIC CAUSE OF ERYSIPELAS. that Mr. G-oodhart has collected a number of cases from hospital practice,1 which show that erysipelas may he communicated to persons suffering from diseases of the urinary passages, by means of an infected catheter, and that the affection thus induced may be attended with its usual constitutional symptoms, with an erysipelatous eruption on various parts of the skin, and with serious and often fatal inflammation of the bladder and kidneys. Specific Cause of Erysipelas.—Of late there has been an evident leaning towards the adoption of the theory that erysipelas is produced by a specific virus. At all times, under one or another form, this doctrine has existed, and indeed it afforded the only rational explanation of the familiar fact that in- fectious and contagious diseases reproduce themselves under uniform types. Leuwenhoeck discovered bacteria nearly two hundred years ago, but it has required this long period to develop the existing doctrine which asserts that every one of such diseases depends directly upon a specific, organic form. The growth of this theory has been retarded by that of Zymosis, which, although purely fanciful in its conception, acquired such authority as to have its name applied in an official nomenclature to the group of idiopathic febrile diseases. But even if it were true, which it is not, that one and the same bacterium is uniformly found in connection with the same disease, the manner in which it occasions the specific phenomena of that disease, would thereby become no clearer. It has been suggested that each specific form of bacterium secretes a specific virus, which, in its turn, produces the specific, morbid type. But this is evidently an attempt to explain ignotum per ignotius. The present state of knowledge and opinion upon the subject, as far as relates to the disease we are engaged in studying, is perhaps expressed by Orth, whose elaborate ex- periments led him to the following conclusions:2— 1. Epidemic traumatie erysipelas is caused by a poison in the blood as well as in the secretions of the affected part. 2. These secretions are capable of producing erysipelas by inoculation. 3. Bacteria are generated pari passu with the development of erysipelas. 4. Bacteria stand intimately related to the septic cause of erysipelas, for its characteris- tic symptoms may be produced by artificially propagated bacteria. 5. But bacteria are only an indirect cause of the disease, since they are not formed abundantly in the blood of infected animals, and because they may be removed without entirely destroying the activity of the infecting liquid. 6. Bacteria appear to belong to the microspheres and the schizomycetes. 7. It is probable that in different forms of the disease different micro-organisms occur,. but thus far no proof of this proposition exists. In 1879, Tillmanns, of Leipzic, performed some experiments on this sub- ject. Of twenty-five attempts to convey erysipelas by direct inoculation to healthy rabbits, a positive result was obtained in only five. In all the suc- cessful cases, the inoculated liquid contained bacteria, and the addition to it of a two to four per cent, carbolic acid solution rendered a previously active in- oculating fluid quite inert. But the presence of bacteria, either in the secre- tions or in the tissues themselves, is not a constant feature in erysipelas. It is thus probable that not every case of erysipelas is brought about by the migration of bacteria as such, and that the advance of the disease is not in all cases connected with the presence of these micro-organisms.3 According to Koch, the distinctive micro-organism of erysipelas is" a bacillus.4 1 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d s., vol. xix. p. 357. 2 Archiv f. experiment. Pathol, u. Pliarm., Bd. i. S. 81. 3 Edinburgh Medical Journal, vol. xxv. p. 666. 4 Etiology of Traumatic Infective Diseases, New Sydenham Society’s edition, 1880, p. 57..