TREATMENT OP TUBERCLE. 289 most acceptable and worthy of credence are that tubercle, in its most perfect form, possesses such a microscopic structure as that which we described in defining it; that some tubercles never attain this complete or typical struc- ture^ Avliile others either degenerate or become further developed; that devia- tions from this type may and do occur, in accordance with the situation in which a tubercle is found; that tubercle is an inflammatory production, not a malignant growth (as sarcoma and carcinoma are malignant); that a tuber- culous tissue or organ is a centre whence tubercle may be conveyed through- out the body; that the channels by which the conveyance is etfected are several; that tubercle may be produced in the bodies of certain individuals by the absorption of an infective material. But the evidence which is fur- nished on the more advanced questions is not yet sufficiently convincing to permit us to form a decided opinion on them. We cannot yet assign to each tubercle its value. We cannot be sure whether all tubercles are due to the absorption of infective material, or whether they sometimes own another cause. For can we say with certainty whether the infective material is sim- ple, or whether it is specific. And although we may admit that a predispo- sition to tubercle is necessary ere it can be developed, we are not yet in a position to define the nature of this predisposition. A few years ago, inherit- ance was regarded as one of the chief predisposing causes of tuberculosis, blow, it is said that tuberculosis is not inherited, but that the offspring in- herits from the parent a tendency to the production of caseous masses, from which tubercle may be developed.1 Treatment of Tubercle.—The tuberculous affections in which surgery is mainly interested, are those of which examples have been given; of the tongue, the pharynx, the glands, the urinary mucous membrane, and the testis. The bones or periosteum, and the synovial membranes, may be added to the list, while tubercle of the larynx and the choroid are more likely to be met with in the practice of the special surgeon, or the physician. It is not intended that this article should comprise a detailed account of the tuberculous affections of each part. These will be treated of in subse- quent pages devoted to the study of the special organs and tissues. It now only remains therefore to indicate the main lines on which the treatment of tuberculous disease is founded. Treatment is directed not only.to the cure of those who are tuberculous, but to the prevention of tuberculosis. For our wider knowledge of the .etiology of the disease, and of the course which it may not improbably pursue, leads us, not unnaturally, to adopt those meas- ures which seem calculated best to avert its cause, and to arrest its progress. We believe that the offspring of tuberculous parents are predisposed to tubercle. We cannot prevent the parents from begetting children, but we can place many of the children in conditions which will diminish their lia- bility to tubercle. By careful hygiene, by clothing and by food, we may lessen the number of the tuberculous among the children of the poor; while for the children of the more wealthy classes, in addition to these things, each should be advised, if possible, to select a calling which will not subject him to frequent or long-continued strain, or expose him to continued cold and wet. Residence, too, in places where the air is clear and dry, and the winter not too long or cold, should be strongly recommended. When tubercle is actually present, to these measures are generally added, often with the best result, the administration of certain drugs, the beneficial influence of which over the progress of tubercle has long been recognized. Cod-liver oil and syrup of the iodide of iron are exhibited with bark and alkalies, or acids, as 1 Billroth; Pitha und Billroth’s Handbuch der Cliirurgie ; Bd. I., Abth. 2, Hft. 1, S. 307-