652 AMPUTATIONS. to get a cicatrix which shall not he exposed to pressure from the shoe in walking. This operation gives an excellent stump, and one which seems to be more serviceable than those obtained by amputation at a point nearer the ankle. Amputation op the Entire Metatarsus.—This operation is said to have been formerly practised in a rude fashion by the North American Indians as a means of preventing their prisoners from escaping. It may be performed by either the elliptical or the flap method, the latter being that generally adopted. There are two principal varieties of this operation, known respect- ively by the names of Iley (of Leeds), and of Lisfranc. (1) hey’s amputation is practised by cutting a long plantar flap from with- out inwards, the incision beginning on the outside at the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone, passing downwards to the line of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations, then crossing the sole transversely in a curved line, and passing up again on the inner side of the foot to the prominence of the scaphoid bone. The upper ends of this wound are united by a curved incision, convex down- wards, across the dorsum of the foot, making a short anterior flap. The four outer metatarsals are then disarticulated from the cuboid and external and middle cuneiform bones, and the projecting internal cuneiform cut across with a small saw. This operation has been modified by sawing across the base of the second metatarsal bone, instead of the internal cuneiform, but the latter was the part divided in the operation as originally performed in 1799 by Mr. Hey.1 A similar operation is known to French surgeons by the name of Bedard, while Clocpiet has carried the use of the saw still further, recom- mending its employment at any point at which disarticulation is found troublesome. (2) Lisfravc’s amputation differs from Hey’s in being a pure disarticula- tion. (Fig. 185.) The surgeon begins his incision (for the right foot) at the tuberosity of the fifth metatar- sal, carries it across the dorsum of the foot, in a curved line with its convexity downwards, and terminates it at the tubercle of the first metatarsal. This incis- ion divides all the tissues down to the bone, and, the skin being retracted by an assistant, a few light touches of the knife serve to expose the line of the tarso- metatarsal joints. Disarticula- tion is then begun at the outer side, the fifth, fourth, and third metatarsals being first separated, and then the first; the second, which projects backwards be- hind the line of the others, being left until the others have been freed. The point of the knife is then entered between the internal cuneiform and the base of the second metatarsal, and made to cut upwards so as to divide the interosseous ligament; the dorsal ligaments of the second metatarsal are next divided transversely; and finally disarticu- lation is completed by severing the fibrous bands on the outer side of the 1 Practical Observations in Surgery, p. 331. Philadelphia, 1805. Fig. 185. Amputation of entire metatarsus Toy Llsfranc’s method.