ANESTHETICS AND ANESTHESIA. 424 structed inhaler, the autopsies of the victims of anaesthesia present nothing positive or characteristic. In such cases, death is the consecpience of disturb- ance of the nervous apparatus concerned in the acts either of respiration or of circulation. The changes which have produced the result are iutra-mole- cular, and are consequently beyond the reach of our senses. Anesthetic Substances. The majority of alcohols and ethers are probably endowed with anaesthetic properties. The number, however, of such compounds which are capable of use in a manner to exhibit this quality, is comparatively limited. The fol- lowing list includes all that have been tested with any degree of precision. Besides these, a vai'iety of substances which do not belong to the class of alcohols and ethers, are known to possess anaesthetic properties. Nitrous oxide, carbonic anhydride, and various hydrocarbons, are examples of these bodies. It is not unlikely that all substances which possess antiseptic qualities are also capable of producing artificial anaesthesia, if sufficiently diluted. There is wide room for experiment and observation in this field of investiga- tion. The classification here adopted is furnished by Miller’s Elements of Chemistry (fifth edition). The formulae and the descriptions of the different substances are derived either from the same source or from Watts’s Dictionary of Chemistry. I. Hydrocarbons and their Derivatives. From petroleum and from coal, certain binary compounds of carbon and hydrogen may be separated by distillation. These are either gaseous and present in illuminating gas, or liquid and separable by fractional distillation from the kindred compounds with which they are associated in crude petro- leum. A number of these substances have been isolated, and separately tested in the production of artificial anaesthesia. Others, like keroselene, have been used in their natural combinations. The lowest member of the series is Methane, CII4, sometimes called metliylic hydride, marsh gas, or light carburetted hydrogen. It is one of the products of the destructive distillation of wood, peat, soft coal, and other allied sub- stances. It is one of the principal constituents of illuminating gas. It is a colorless, inodorous, tasteless gas, sp. gr. 0.5576, respirable with safety if diluted with air. It is never thus used, unless by accidental breathing of coal gas. The derivatives of this radical are among the most important anaesthetics. Ethane, C2IIfi, Ethylic hydride, or Dimethyl, is a tasteless, and odorless gas with a specific gravity of 1.075. It is chiefly interesting as the radical of the ethylic series of alcohols, aldehydes, ethers, etc. Tetrane, C;il]0, Butane, Diethyl, Butylic hydride, is a liquid derived by fractional distillation from petroleum. The vapors must be condensed at a low temperature, for the boiling point of the liquid is 1° C. (33°.8 F.). Dis- solved in naphtha, the solution constitutes rhigolene, a colorless liquid which evaporates with great rapidity, boiling in the palm of the hand. It has been used for the production of local anaesthesia by the evaporation of its spray. Keroselene is a colorless liquid, with a variable composition, derived by dis- tillation from petroleum. It is chiefly composed of higher members of the paraffin series, such as amylic, caprylic, oenanthylic, laurylic, myristilic and palmitylic hydrides. Inhalation of its vapor produces disagreeable and