INFLAMMATION. 146 The use of an ice bag, by producing excessive vascular contraction, has caused gangrene of the edges of a wound. It is to be observed, also, that after a cold application has been removed from a part, more or less vascular reaction always follows, in the way of afflux and increase of heat. Although the fact has not often been noticed, it is hard to believe that parts frozen by ether-spray, or freezing mixtures, to produce anaesthesia, are not more or less impaired in their vitality. On the other hand, the use of an ice-cap to the shaved head has a positive value in the cerebro-meningitis which so often complicates wounds of this region. Esmarch especially praises cold in injuries of joints as preventing and controlling intense vascular excitement. The use of crushed ice in a bladder, which can be moulded to the part, is a favorite remedy for inflamed hemor- rhoids in the early stage. In the excessive temperature of the body in fever, the cold bath and the cold pack are remedies of undoubted power in dimin- ishing the danger of fatal injury to vital organs from the overheated blood. Heat and Moisture.—Dry heat is well known for its efficiency in calming pain; and heat, with moisture, in the form of a poultice, constitutes, perhaps, the local remedy sanctioned by most general use for the relief of the pain and tensive heat of a local inflammation. Its soothing and relaxing effect upon the inflamed part is the reverse of the astringent, although sedative, action of cold. The latter finds the indication for its use in the very earliest evi- dences of excess in vascular^ action that succeed an injury, and here it con- stringes the capillaries of the inflaming part, and promotes a disposition to return to a normal condition—in other words, to a termination by resolution. On the other hand, the influence of moist heat upon the tissues of an inflam- ing part is distinctly relaxing, and, therefore, tends rather to promote exuda- tion, if not suppuration. This tendency of a poultice or warm fomentation to favor suppuration, is an article of popular belief, but there is no absolute certainty of its truth. Habitually, in practice, cold applications are aban- doned as soon as resolution seems unattainable, and poultices are substituted, on the assumption that suppuration is the next best result to be hoped for. At this juncture compression may be possibly introduced, tentatively, as an alternative, if the influence of the poultice in causing suppuration is feared. After this, if the pain continue, the use of the poultice is justified. Where pain is a prominent symptom, it is an excellent plan to sprinkle the surface of a poultice with laudanum, or to anoint the inflamed part, when the skin is unbroken, with the ointment of stramonium or any other narco- tic. In acute and painful inflammations of the testicle, the tobacco poultice has long been in use at the Hew York Hospital; it is very effective in epi- didymitis. It is a common practice in France and Germany, sanctioned by the authority of Velpeau and Billroth, to cover an inflamed surface with mercurial ointment before applying a poultice. This is based on the wide- spread belief, founded upon its singular efficiency in syphilitic inflammations, that this drug has a certain power in mitigating the intensity of the inflam- matory act, and in rendering exudations more readily absorbable. There is no positive evidence that mercury possesses this power except in syphilis. The materials which have been found to possess the best qualities as poul- tices, are freshly ground flaxseed and slippery elm bark. The consistence of a poultice and its emollient and unirritating character render it capable of being moulded in contact with the irregularities of surface of open and granulating wounds. The addition of vaseline, or of boracic acid, or of a weak solution of carbolic acid, will prevent fermentation in the poultice, and counteract putrefaction in the wound. The liberal application of the balsam