640 AMPUTATIONS. Mixed Methods.—Sedillot makes superficial flaps, and divides the deeper tissues circularly, while on the other hand Riehet makes a circular incision through the skin and fascia, and then forms muscular flaps by transfixion. I see no advantage in either of these proceedings over those more commonly adopted. The mortality after amputation of the forearm is, as shown by the Table on page 630,19.4 per cent., or about one in five. It would appear from Otis’s statistics,1 that the results are slightly more favorable for amputations at the middle of the forearm than for those at either extremity, though among the smaller number of cases embraced in Gorman’s Tables,2 amputations of the middle third proved the most fatal. Amputation at the Elbow. This operation appears to have been first performed by the illustrious Ambroise Pare,3 in the case of a soldier whose arm became gangrenous after a severe wound from an arquebuse. The patient was attacked with tetanus fifteen days after the operation, but eventually made a good recovery. Amputation at the elbow may be performed by either the elliptical, the circular, or one or other variety of the flap method, the first-named plan being, I think, upon the whole the best. Elliptical Method.—The lower segment of the ellipse should be placed upon the back of the forearm (see Fig. 148, page 583), where the tissues, though not very thick, are resisting, and accustomed to support pressure. The arm being semiflexed, the point of the knife is entered nearly an inch below the internal condyle of the humerus, curved upwards over the front of the forearm nearly to the line of the joint, and downwards again to a point an inch and a half below the external condyle; the arm being then forcibly flexed, the ellipse is completed on the back of the forearm by a curved incision passing nearly three inches below the tip of the olecranon. The cuff thus marked out is rapidly dissected upwards as far as necessary, when the mus- cles of the front of the forearm are cut about half an inch below, and the ulnar nerve as far above the joint, and disarticulation is effected from the outer side. Some surgeons leave the olecranon in situ, sawing across its base; but it is apt to become necrosed under these circumstances, and, altogether, I see no advantage to be gained by its retention. The vessels requiring liga- tion, in this operation, are the brachial—or the radial and ulnar, according to the exact line of the deep incision—with some smaller anastomotic branches. The wound is closed transversely, forming a small curved cicatrix in front of the bone, which is well covered. Circular Method.—In this operation, which also makes a good stump, the first incision is placed two and a half or three inches below the line of the joint. It is better not to cut through the muscles, but to adopt Velpeau’s plan, and dissect up the cuff of integument to the necessary height, and then effect immediate disarticulation. The olecranon should be removed in this as in the elliptical operation. 1 Medical and Surgical History, etc., Second Part, Surgical volume, p. 967. 2 Medical and Surgical Reports of the Boston City Hospital, Second series, 1877, pp. 299, 300. 3 Op. cit., t. ii. p. 233.