495 BANDAGES FOR THE HEAD. merit, overlapping one-third or one-half of the preceding turn. These recur- rent turns over the summit of the skull are repeated till the top of the head is entirely covered, alter which the bandage is reversed and two circular turns are made around the vault of the cranium, to secure the ends of the recurrent turns just above the root of the nose and below the occipital protu- berance. (Fig. 66.) While this bandage is being applied, one extremity of the recurrent turn must he kept in position either by an assistant or by the patient; the other extremity may be retained by the surgeon himself, till they are made fast by the terminal circular turns. Fig. 66. Recurrent bandage of the head. Fig. 67. V-bandage of the head. The V-bandage of the Head.—A roller 5 centimetres (2 inches) wide and 3f metres (4 yards) long. Secure the initial extremity of the roller by two circular turns around the vault of the cranium, and, on arriving at the back of the head, conduct the roller forward under the ear, over the upper or lower lip, as the case may be, and backward on the opposite side of the head to the occipital protuberance. Then make alternate turns around the base of the cranium and the front of the face, and terminate the bandage by pinning it at the intersection of the turns on the occiput. (Fig. 67.) This bandage was suggested by the writer for the purpose of retaining dressings on the lip or the front of the chin, in cases Fig- 68. of wound of those parts. In consequence of the direction of its turns, this bandage offers no obstruc- tion to the patient opening his mouth, which is not the case with Barton’s bandage when it is used to meet the same indications. Other Roller Bandages.— The Recurrent Band- age for Stumps after Amputation.—A roller 5-de- cent imetres (2-2J inches) wide and 4|-6J metres (5-7 yards) long. After securing the initial end of the roller by two circular turns around the stump, a few inches above its extremity, reverse the band- age on the under or postei'ior surface of the stump, and conduct it over the extremity to a point oppo- site, on the upper aspect, thence back over the end Eecurrent bandage for stumps, of the stump to the point of beginning. Repeat these recurrent turns, each turn overlapping the preceding by one-third or