( 231 ) SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. BY HENRY TRENTHAM BUTLIN, F.R.C.S., ASSISTANT SURGEON TO, AND DEMONSTRATOR OF SURGERY AT, ST. BARTHOLOMEW’S HOSPITAL, LONDON. Tubercle. Scarcely- any task in medicine is iioyv more difficult than that of writing clearly on Scrofula and Tubercle. The nature of both diseases, the structure of their morbid products, their relations, are all matters of uncertainty which modern pathology and the microscope have not yet succeeded in rendering plain. Indeed the confusion which prevails is almost greater than that of twenty years ago, in spite of the excessive labor which has in many countries been devoted, especially to the subject of tuberculosis. Nor can we yet be certain whether this confusion may not endure ; or whether out of it we may expect to see order and perspicuity established. We cannot even define either disease with accuracy. For there is a total lack of unanimity of opin- ion respecting some of the foundations on which an account of scrofula and tubercle should be based. We still hope, however, that from the shadowy lines which now exist, some master-hand may form a sketch, perfect in all its parts, firm and clear in outline, correct in its proportions, and delicately toned in light and shade. Until this has haply been accomplished, the only course which remains to each successive writer is to sum up, as it were, on the evidence which is laid before him, and to present to his readers an account, as clear as he is able, of each subject. I shall depart from the order usually observed, and shall treat first of Tubercle ; and as I am not able to define tuberculosis, and scarcely know how to describe it in accordance with all the most recent doctrines, I am almost compelled to adopt a course which for other reasons I preferfirst, to relate certain cases which will, I believe, be regarded by almost all authors as cases of tubercle, and then to deduce from them an account of the disease. Case I—A girl 15 years old, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital in July of the present year (1880). Occupying the submaxillary region of the left side, and extending across the middle line, was a greatly enlarged lymphatic gland, meas- uring about two and a quarter inches in length by half an inch in breadth, and as thick as it was broad. It was smooth, of oval shape, firm but elastic, and could be moved with tolerable freedom. Several of the glands in close proximity to this one were enlarged, but to a far less degree. The child was pale-faced, with gray eyes and fair hair ; her skin not very thin, nor freckled ; her eyelashes not long ; her superficial veins not large or prominent. Her mother told us that the tumor had existed in the girl’s neck for fully six years, that no cause of its origin had been recognized, and that from the onset it had very slowly continued to increase in size. It had never been