58 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. network of cells, produced at the expense of the basis-substance. This swelling means the extension of the cell-borders—a conversion of basis- substance into cell-body. At the same time the cells themselves become capable of proliferation. They divide, and form pus, as long as the process is an acute (stiirmisch) one. Finally, a portion of the infiltrated tissue is disintegrated. The process becomes less intense. The disintegration stops, but the growth of the cells continues. New boundary lines are also formed, but the cells do not separate. At the boundary lines intermediate substances appear, and herewith the genesis of tissue is begun. Suppuration, however, does not cease upon the commencement of tissue- genesis. On the most superficial layers of the new tissue a real cell-partition still takes place, and pus is formed. A moderate production of pus on the surface of the ulcer is, as physicians know, not at all an impediment to recovery. But the suppuration must not become so profuse as to make the newly-formed tissue disintegrate; for in that case a replacement of the destroyed tissue could not take place. In recent, carefully-nursed wounds following operations, tissue-genesis predominates over suppuration. If the process be hastened by warm applications, we increase the suppuration, indeed, but we also hasten the replacement of the lost tissue, which could not take place were the suppuration to predominate. In old, badly-treated ulcers, suppuration and tissue-genesis are about evenly balanced, or suppuration even may predominate. In such cases the ulcer does not heal, or may even extend more deeply. In other instances, again, the tissue-genesis predominates to such an extent that the granulations grow beyond the level of the normal surface, as “proud flesh.” Finally, in other cases, cell-growth in general is but slightly stimulated, and here also the ulcer does not heal, even though it does not suppurate. In this last instance, too, warm poultices can stimulate growth. It is probable that the varied course of the healing process depends at least in part on the fulness of the vessels. New vessels grow along with the tissue-genesis. The new tissue, as it is said, becomes vascularized. I am unable to say anything on the mode of this new formation. Statements in reference to it are indeed not wanting; but they are based on such faulty microscopical examinations that I do not consider it worth while to take notice of them. It is not likely that bloodvessels are produced in granu- lations otherwise than in the. embryo, and in certain inflammatory and non- inflammatory new growths, in which their genesis has been accurately determined (see pp. 7 et seq.). That the vessels of granulation tissue consist of young, soft, easily permeable and easily lacerated tissue, may be inferred from the circumstance that granulating surfaces bleed on the slightest pro- vocation. The definitive cure of an ulcer cannot result from the granulations alone. A covering of epithelium must be developed. This covering proceeds either from the margins, that is, from the place where the epithelium is preserved, or from the bottom of the ulcer, if there are glands still preserved there. Finally, the covering may be artificially produced1 from transplanted pieces of cutis. It is self-evident that the transplanted portion must still be covered with cells of the rete, for the protection of which, moreover, the uppermost cells are also necessary. From a theoretical point of view, the transplantation of rete and epidermis ought in every respect to be sufficient to furnish a new centre for the production of a new covering of cells in the ulcer, and this has in fact been confirmed by experiment. But whether it is desirable in prac- ' As first practised by Reverdin. See Gazette Medicate de Paris, 1866, No. 26. Report of Marc See.