19 THE MECHANICAL HYPEREMIAS. also play an important part even in health. The flushing of the face which accompanies outbreaks of anger is probably a hypertonia of irritation. For, at the same time, the nerves of the muscles of the trunk also become stimu- lated ; excited persons gesticulate violently, and contract the muscles of the face, and of speech. The glandular nerves also become excited, for in great passion the secretion of saliva is increased.1 Finally, this circumstance is still to be considered, namely, that the hypercemia diminishes as soon as the person calms down. The hyperemias which are associated with the functions of organs we may also presume to belong to this class. Respecting the salivary glands, we know that irritation of the glandular nerves (discovered by C. Ludwig) always causes an active hyperemia, and, at the same time, an increased secre- tion. But I have already remarked that this hyperemia is produced by vaso-dilators. It is accordingly most plausible to suppose that the hyperemia which is associated with the function of glands in general, is a hyperemia of irritation. For the other organs, it is true, we have no such positive data as in the case of the glands. But it is more probable than an irritation of the dilators is connected with the function of an organ (which requires stimuli in order to perform this function), than that a paralysis of the constrictors is associated with that function or with such stimuli. That the erection of the penis is produced (according to a discovery of Eckhard) by irritation of vaso- dilators, I have mentioned previously. According to our present knowledge, it is, therefore, not improbable that all passing, active hypersemias which arise normally in life, and many pathological fluxions, are caused, not by paralysis of the constrictors, but by irritation of the dilators. The Mechanical Hyperemias. It is an open question whether hypersemias can arise without vaso-motor nerves being concerned in their production. The various forms of hypersemia due to mechanical causes, which have been enumerated by pathologists, can- not he advanced as an argument here. Physicians have named the various forms of hyperremia after their causation and their phenomena; they have not at all taken into account whether vaso-motor nerves are implicated or not, especially because they have had no- knowledge, or very inadequate knowledge, of these nerves. However, in one direction, physicians have pro- perly judged of the mechanical conditions. The ultimate cause of all hyper- semias of stagnation and of paralysis, is of a mechanical nature. If the blood does not press on the walls of the vessels, these relaxed and paralyzed walls cannot become filled and dilated.2 It is still undecided whether the blood- pressure alone can dilate the vessels while they retain their normal tone, i. e., while they are not relaxed. As far as we have, until now, been taught by experiment, this question must he answered in the negative. In conclusion, let me remark that sometimes the hyperaemia is ascribed to increased blood-pressure, even when there is no proof of this increase. So in the case of collateral hypersemia. It is true that the occlusion or ligature of an artery effects a dilatation of the bloodvessels in the neighborhood; but it is not demonstrable that the increased blood-pressure is the cause of the dila- 1 In the dialect of the common people, the phrase “ Her Geifer rinnt ihm ans dem Munde vor Zorn” (he foams at the mouth with rage) is very commonly employed. The same phenomena as those mentioned in the text are presented in a more marked degree in cases of maniacal delirium. 2 I remind the reader that an active dilatation of the vessels only occurs in hyperaemia of irri- tation.