136 INFLAMMATION. There are points which may be profitably noticed in connection with each of these terminations of inflammation. Resolution.—In resolution, the exudation which nas caused the swelling undergoes absorption by the agency of the lymphatics. Its more serous por- tions are absorbed directly and rapidly. The same is true of the leucocytes and wandering cells, which are said to find their way readily into the lym- phatics, but the process may be somewhat slower. Rindfleisch’s opinion has already been noticed, that the exudation cells in scrofulous inflammations are often exceptions to this method of absorption, in consequence of their larger size. Under some circumstances the exudative products, when partially de- veloped, undergo liquefaction, or degeneration, and subsequent absorption. Although in the process of resolution inflamed parts are said to return to their normal condition, this is not absolutely true under all circumstances. The changes impressed upon the vessels and nerves by the excessive nutritive effort, leave traces of their effects in what is called “weakness” of the parts. The evidence of this weakness is recognizable in certain modifications of sen- sibility, e. g., increased liability to pain ; a deeper discoloration of the surface under circumstances which invite it, as in a warm bath, through passive con- gestion of the capillaries which have been overstretched; and proneness to take on inflammatory action without sufficient cause. Tissue Production.—The occurrence of tissue 'production as a final purpose or termination of inflammation, which is recognized by all recent authorities, is a culminating proof of the original reparative intention of the process. Whether in union by primary adhesion, in the process of healing under a scab, in subcutaneous consolidation, in the secondary adhesion of granulations, or in the accomplishment of cicatrization after protracted suppuration, tissue production is, in all, the medium by which the final purpose of repairing in- juries is achieved. In primary union, the increased nutritive effort may be scarcely recogniz- able by the presence of any of the symptoms of inflammation, and its result may be a barely perceptible linear cicatrix, and yet this result has been brought about by tissue production. Newly developed capillary loops are passing across the chasm through a delicate layer of granulation tissue, just organized. All the earlier phenomena of the inflammatory process: increased rapidity of capillary circulation, dilatation—afflux, in short—and exudation, have this end in view. This becomes apparent if we study these phenomena in the variations they present in inflammation as seen in the several original tissues of the body, varieties due to the different ways in which their nutritive blood- supply is accomplished, mainly as regards the size and peculiar arrangement of capillary vessels. Thus, the process as it occurs in bone explains the rea- son of its exceeding slowness, and, at the same time, illustrates the unerring tendency to reversion to the embryonic condition in order to reach the result of tissue production. The Haversian canals of the bony tissue enlarge by absorption of their walls, in order that sufficient vascular distension may take place under the influence of the afflux, to secure exudation. Stimulated by the exudation, as soon as it has taken place, the adjacent cells begin to germinate, and thus absorption of bone goes on until it becomes replaced' by embryonic or granulation tissue, in which, in due time, the earthy salts are deposited, and the formation of callus accomplished. In case of an obstacle to its accomplishment, the conversion of bone into embryonic tissue goes on in a purposeless way, a collection of pus takes place, or the process lapses into a chronic stage, constituting caries, or chronic osteitis. In a similar manner, but more rapidly, the peculiar substance of muscle, tendon, or even of nerve,