PROGNOSIS OF RACHITIS. 273 • costo-chondral articulations and those of the wrist, should also he carefully examined to ascertain if there is any enlargement, and the shape of the tho- rax, which begins to exhibit the rachitic deformity at an early stage of the disease, should likewise be noticed. We should also examine the child in reference to other less prominent signs, such as spinal curvature, abdominal protuberance, muscular weakness, and relaxation of ligaments (which produce feeble and unsteady use of the limbs), perspirations upon the head and neck from slight excitement, and during sleep, fretfulness, etc. If rachitis he pre- sent, certain of these signs will be observed. The late Dr. Parry called attention to the importance of making a differ- ential diagnosis between the pseudo-paraplegia of rachitis and true paraplegia, which is the prominent symptom of infantile paralysis. The rachitic child, from muscular weakness and ligamentous relaxation, and from the soreness and tenderness common in this condition, may seldom use his legs; may sit or lie quietly at the age when healthy children, if awake, are constantly moving their limbs. If we attempt to make him walk or stand, his legs may be so limp and powerless that they give way under his weight, but this is a different state from paralysis. In paralysis, the fault is in the nervous sys- tem—usually in the nervous centres—whereas, in rachitis, it is in the mus- cles and ligaments. The rachitic child, when sitting or lying down, readily moves his legs if his feet he tickled or pinched, while the paralyzed limb responds to the irritation imperfectly. In infantile paralysis, the loss of mus- cular power is, with few exceptions, confined to the muscles of the lower ex- tremities ; but in rachitis, the muscular feebleness is more general, being noticeable in the arms as well as in the legs. Great relaxation of the liga- ments is in most instances due to rachitis. It is especially noticeable in the ankle and knee-joints, and is a diagnostic sign which should not he overlooked in the examination of a suspected case of the disease. Prognosis of Rachitis. The prognosis of rickets is usually favorable, provided that no serious com- plication arises. Rachitis is not in itself fatal, under ordinary circumstances. If there he much lateral depression and narrowing of the thorax, the func- tions of the heart and lungs may be embarrassed, and if the patient have a severe bronchial catarrh, or broncho-pneumonia, the condition becomes one of danger. Rachitic children seem to he especially liable to catarrhal attacks of the air passages, and even a moderate catarrh, with a deformed thorax, may prevent proper decarbonization of the blood, and cause lividity and dyspnoea. Therefore, now and then, a rachitic child succumbs to an attack of inflam- mation of the respiratory apparatus, which would not have been fatal if there had been no rachitic deformity. We have seen that in whatever way it may act to produce this form of spasm, rachitis is a cause of laryngismus stridulus. Occasionally spasm of the glottis is fatal, but cases with such a termination are rare in America, though not infrequent in some European countries. Of the diseases of childhood which rachitic children tolerate badly, and which may prove fatal in consequence of rachitic bone-softening and de- formity, pertussis should he mentioned. If this be severe while the ribs are soft and yielding, and there be lateral depression of the thorax, the spasmodic cough produces great suffering and involves danger. Lividity, feeble action of the heart, pulmonary and cerebral congestion, and eclampsia, may occur. Measles, if it be attended by considerable bronchitis, and especially if it be complicated by broncho-pneumonia, is also one of the dangerous intercurrent diseases. The gravity of these inflammations of the respiratory apparatus is VOL. i.—18