286 SCURVY. principally in those occurring during famines, observations have been made which seem to indicate a partiality of the disease to attack adults. Curran says that in all of his cases during the Irish famine, the age of the patients exceeded eighteen years, whilst at least two-thirds of the patients were beyond the middle period of life ;1 * 3 4 a circumstance that might easily he explained by the difference in the degrees of exposure, at different ages, to the determining causes of the disease. Nor would the youthful portion of a community he apt to he exposed in the same degree to the disturbing influences of tempestuous weather, exhausting labors, and depressing emotions. Old age brings with it mal-nutrition and debility that invite the speedy invasion of morbific causes. Sex cannot be accused of any predisposing influence: statistical returns will, of course, show an excess of males, for the reason that they are more often under those conditions which determine the disease. It has occasionally hap- pened, however, that more women than men have been attacked, as in the epidemic of 1813 in Southeastern Hungary; and in Croatia, in 1707, women only were affected. In the Irish famine, the proportion was about eleven males to one female. It has been surmised that a low temperature, particularly when associated with dampness, fatigue, and mental depression, was a powerfully predisposing cause, if it did not actually originate the disease. M. Scoutetten,2 in a com- munication to the Academie de Medecine on the epidemic at Giret, insisted upon these influences as all-powerful-—an opinion which seemed to he sus- tained by the Academy. The Austrian war ship Novara, in her passage from Madras to Singapore, although, it is represented, abundantly supplied with fresh vegetables and acid fruit, was invaded by scurvy. The disease also oc- curred at Rastadt,3 among the Austrian troops, when, according to Opitz,the only assignable causes were dampness and cold, the food not being defective in fresh vegetables. So, at Ingolstadt, the French prisoners in 1871 suffered, although abundantly supplied with potatoes and meat. In opposition to these views, it may he stated that the hottest and driest parts of the earth, as in India, the West Indies, and the interior of Africa, have been the scenes of as destructive outbreaks as those regions where the reverse conditions hold good. The greatest hardships have been undergone, without the slightest evidence of scorbutic taint affecting the sufferers, as long as proper alimentation could be maintained. On the other hand, inactivity has been regarded as a predis- posing cause, and the alleged greater frequency of the disease among marines and skulkers of war ships, than among the seamen, is said erroneously to be due to this cause. Depressing emotions, fear, anxiety, despair, etc., have been said to he able to determine the disease, and those of a reverse character to he able to check its progress; and our credulity is not a little taxed when we read the statement of Lind, that he has seen the scurvy, very prevalent and increasing in the fleet, at once arrested and quickly got rid of by the news of a successful engagement, or even the anticipation of one; or, more apochryphal still, the story of the Prince of Orange having arrested the disease by distributing a little colored water which was believed by the soldiers to be a wonderful and most expensive elixir. Monneret,4 Fleury, and Papavoine,5 have even asserted that they have seen scurvy result from mental influences alone in isolated cases. 1 Dublin Quarterly Journal of Med. Science, 1847. * Gazette Medicale de Paris, Juillet, 1847. 3 Vierteljahrsschrift fur die praktische Heilkunde, Bd. i. S. 114. 4 Compend. de Med., t. vii. p. 507. 5 Journal Hebdom., t. ix. p. 321.