315 SCROFULA. indolent, stationary glands, which it was not thought necessary to remove when operating upon the principal tumor, rapidly attain a considerable size, soften, and ulcerate. Before performing castration, the iliac and perineal regions may have been examined with the greatest care, and nothing suspicious have been discovered; but the cicatrization of the scrotal wound is scarcely effected before the patient complains of lumbar and abdominal pains, and pal- pation discloses, deep in the abdomen, tumors which grow with extreme rapidity. Injuries not due to operations have the same stimulating power; those which are least severe, such as simple fractures or contusions of the limbs (very remote, therefore, from visceral cancers), may aggravate the latter to such a degree as to produce an entirely unexpected death within a few days. In some exceptional cases, the injury, especially if it is of an operative nature, appears to cause a temporary revulsion and to arrest the general progress of the disease. This respite is usually temporary ; the wound has scarcely cica- trized before the cancerous deposits assume or resume their destructive course. Surgical operations for cancer, when accompanied by profuse loss of blood, or followed by profuse or prolonged suppuration, manifestly hasten the progress of the cachexia. Scrofula. Bearing in mind the morbid processes habitually met with in the scrofu- lous : inflammation, not severe but obstinate, of slow course, and often chronic from the beginning; abundant connective-tissue proliferation, readily set up by local irritation, but remaining stationary and able neither to disappear nor to complete its organization; suppuration without inflammatory reaction of the surrounding parts, often profuse and kept with difficulty within bounds; indolent, atonic, intenninable ulcers, which return on the slightest occasions, etc.—we can readily understand what modifications this constitu- tional disease can produce on the various acts of the reparative process. At first, this process appears to progress as well as could be wished; the traumatic irritation and local inflammation are moderate, circumscribed, without tendency to diffusion, accompanied by scarcely any pain; immediate union is often attained, and, in eases of open wounds, the granular membrane is rapidly formed. After this first effort, however, everything seems to have come to a stop; the suppuration becomes thin and serous; the granulations grow pale, swell up, and soften; the edges of the ulcer, which have ap- proached one another, separate, gape open, and grow thin; the wound is replaced by an ulceration which, after a short period, differs but little from a scrofulous ulcer that has developed spontaneously. In case of interstitial injury, the connective-tissue proliferation appears under the form of diffuse swelling, fungous growths of the synovial membranes, and thickening of the periosteum; suppuration commonly occurs in this centre of induration, in which, without doubt, tubercles are sometimes developed. These abscesses are followed by inevitable and interminable fistulae, with blind pouches, sup- purating tracts, and separations of tissue, whence stagnation and alteration of pus, almost inevitably giving rise to chronic septicaemia and its conse- quences, especially if various parts of the skeleton are involved. Recovery, however, sometimes occurs after a longer or shorter period, but it is not rare to find a relapse of the local complications, either on account of fresh vio- lence, even slight, affecting the parts formerly injured ; or under the influence of an intercurrent disease; or from the progress of the scrofula as regards the viscera; or, finally, from the onset of tuberculosis. There is nothing