199 TREATMENT OF ERYSIPELAS. country at least, by Surgeon Satterlee, U. S. A., as long ago as the Florida Indian war, in 1835. In 1836, Latham1 claimed that in certain cases the patients must have died without quinia, and that it “ cured them outright, without the fulfilment of any intermediate purpose whatever;” and he recalled the fact that at the beginning of the present century bark was regarded by all experienced physicians as a specific for erysipelas. Indeed it was pre- scribed by Heberden, Hoffman, Fordyce, Pearson, Cooper, and many others, to control a tendency toward the typhoid state so characteristic of this disease. In 1857, Coale prescribed ten grain doses of quinia in pharyngeal erysipelas.2 More recently, quinia has been employed for quite a different purpose, viz., in such doses as to produce a sedative impression. In 1874, Dr. F. Satterlee recommended the administration, in the forming stage of the attack, of sulphate of quinia in doses of twenty-five or thirty grains, but if the disease was fully developed, he directed a similar dose every night for three successive times. He claimed that in some cases a single one of the doses mentioned proved sufficient to abort the attack, while in other instances the temperature and pulse fell greatly, and the general symptoms either dis- appeared or improved, from twenty-four to forty-eight hours sufficing to abort the disease.3 Binz and Liebermeister have also used this method with like results. It may be added to these statements, without attributing to it great weight, that, according to Bombla, liydrobromate of quinia, employed hypodermically, caused a rapid subsidence of the symptoms in a case of typhoid erysipelas.4 It will be observed that equal success is claimed for quinia, whether it is given in small or tonic doses, or in massive, sedative, or so-called antipyretic doses. Theory apart, it must be believed that the former are most appropriate in the epidemic and typhoid forms of the disease, and the latter in the more sthenic cases, of which erysipelas of the face, as it ordinarily occurs, may be taken as the type. Tincture of chloride of iron was, at one time, regarded as almost a specific, at least in the idiopathic forms of erysipelas. In 1851, Mr. G. IT. Bell, of Edinburgh, declared that for twenty-five years he had made use of it without having in a single instance failed of success. In mild cases he prescribed fifteen drops, and in severe cases twenty-five drops, of the medicine every two hours, night and day, however high the fever and delirium, until the disease was completely removed. These conclusions were confirmed by C. Bell and others. In 1852, Begbie related several cases in which the exhibition of the medicine was quickly followed by a remission of all the symptoms.5 6 Pirrie stated, that under its use, “ the febrile condition seemed to be relieved, the frequency of the pulse reduced, the powers of the system generally to be upheld, and the stomach and bowels in no way irritated. Headache and sensorial disturbance diminished under its use.” He prescribed 15 to 20 drops every two or three hours, until convalescence was fairly established.5 In France it was used soon afterwards by Aran, Matliey, and others. Ac- cording to Mathey, by the third day after the medicine was commenced, often by the second, or even by the first day, the progress of the disease was checked. He, however, prescribed not more than thirty drops a day ; but Aran increased the dose to twice or three times as much, or even more than this, and obtained equally satisfactory results. He conceived that certain cases were not benefited by this treatment, especially those occurring in young 1 Op. cit., p. 461. 2 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, February, 1857, p. 63. 3 New York Medical Journal, vol. xx. p. 579. 4 Compendium de Therapeutique, 1880, p. 83. 5 Monthly Journal of Medical Science, September, 1852, p. 243. 6 Edinburgh Medical Journal, July, 1861.