289 ETIOLOGY OF SCURVY. shown by the fact that large quantities of it may he given, as was clone by Sir G-. Blane, in scorbutic cases, without apparent deleterious effects. Simple deficiency in the quantity of the food also, it has been alleged, plays the most important role in the causation of the disease, and its prevalence during famines has been cited in evidence of the truth of this assertion. The fact is quite familiar, however, that scurvy is far from being an invariable accompani- ment of famine, nor does it affect men on long cruises, or those shut up in besieged towns, when simply on short rations. The quality of the food has as little influence as lack of quantity in pro- ducing the disease. Mouldy biscuit, and spoiled or even putrid meats, have been subsisted upon for long periods, and though the health has been thereby greatly impaired, no scorbutic condition has been produced. From all the facts, both positive and negative, we may reasonably assume that the essential dietetic error leading to the development of scurvy, in the immense majority if not in all cases, consists in a deficiency in the variety of food; that is to say, that there is not the requisite proportion of animal mat- ter with a diversity of vegetable substances. Xo single natural order contains plants that supply all the substances essential to the nutrition of the body and right composition of the blood; the graminaceous and leguminous articles of food, for instance, are numerous but not various; they all afford the same or * analogous albuminous elements which have about the same nutrient value as the corresponding substances in animal food; and hence health and vigor cannot be sustained on a diet of animal flesh, combined with wheat, rice, and oat-meal, or with beans and peas, or with all of these together. Outbreaks of scurvy have occurred on ship-board where the ration is made up princi- pally of these articles, as on Anson’s ships when supplied with an abundance of fresh animal, farinaceous, and leguminous foods. In the epidemic that occurred at Carlisle and its vicinity, according to Dr. Lonsdale,1 some of the railway excavators were affected, though they breakfasted off of beefsteaks or mutton chops, and partook of dinners composed of bread, boiled beef or bacon, pea-soup or broth, and suet puddings containing currants; but there were no potatoes nor fresh vegetables. It is clear therefore, that, in order to obtain the proper variety of materials required in nutrition, we must resort to several of the natural groups—those particularly which comprise the succu- lent vegetables and fruits. What is the precise nature of the materials furnished by these latter, yet remains to be determined. Acid fruits, such as oranges, lemons, limes, etc., stand pre-eminent as antiscorbutics, and this fact led to the conclusion that their utility depended-upon the vegetable acids which they contained, and the use of the latter in scurvy has been followed with a certain degree of success. Experience has shown, however, that the fresh juices and pulp of these arti- cles, particularly when green, are more decidedly antiscorbutic than the same materials when prepared by the various methods of drying, cooking, and pi’eserving, or than their vegetable acids. The influence of these agents in warding off or curing scurvy, may be of a catalytic nature, fitting by their presence the organic matter otherwise injurious or defective, for nutrition, in the same manner for instance as sodium chloride, which does not participate essentially by its elements in the formation of the solids and semi-solids of the body, yet is indispensable in the fixation of new proximate principles in those tissues. Dr. Aldridge2 held that the cause of scurvy was a deficiency in the supply of mineral matter, phosphorus, sulphur, lime, potassa, and soda; the daily 1 Monthly Journal of Medical Science, Aug. 1847. 2 Value of Food, Dablin, 184,7... VOL. I.—19