450 OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. above the point of operation, thus expelling the blood from the part, and leaving the tissues completely exsanguine. The second rubber band, thicker and stronger than the former, is then carried two or three times around the part, with sufficient tension to thoroughly compress the soft tissues, and cut off the circulation in the arterial trunks. The first band is then removed, when the operation can be performed without bleeding, and with the same facility as on the limb of a cadaver. In applying the second constricting band, care must be taken not to draw it too tightly; if this be done, there will be danger of sloughing ; this is not an imaginary evil, but has occurred, and the resulting ulcers have been deep, unmanageable, and difficult to heal. The broad thick band is preferable to the tubing, which has been so much used, since the latter on being stretched acts as a cord, and is apt to produce mis- chief. If the reader doubts this assertion, let him try the experiment of the application of these rubbers upon his own person, and he will be quickly con- vinced of the power of their action. There is another precaution which it is well to observe in the use of the upper constricting band; this is, not to ap- ply it when the muscles and tissues which it constricts are in a state of shortening or flexion. If this mistake be made, and the distal portion of the limb be afterwards extended, as may be necessary during an amputation, injury or laceration of the upper structures may take place, thus causing troublesome after-consequences, or even deep sloughing. A question has arisen as to the propriety of making much pressure, with the first bandage of Esmarch, over suppurating or gangrenous tissues, or even malignant growths, and it has been urged that, by so doing, disorganized and morbid elements might be forced into the general circulation. Whether this be so or not, it is difficult to say ; at the same time, it is a contingency which it is worth while for sur- geons to bear in mind. A plan of emptying a limb of blood by simply elevating it to the highest point, and then stroking it for a minute or more in the direction of the venous circulation, has of late years been practised in Great Britain, and is described by Mr. Erichsen as “Lister’s method.” It is one, however, which has long been familiar to the American profession, and was witnessed by the writer in the hands of Pancoast of Philadelphia, nearly thirty years since. Before beginning an operation, the surgeon should see that the proper in- struments have been laid out, and that they are in good condition, and, if he intends to employ complicated apparatus, that it is in working order. Neglect of this precaution is often attended with great annoyance, and these matters should not be entrusted to an assistant, but should pass beneath the sur- geon’s own eye. If the operation be a cutting one, all incisions must be deliberately planned, and made without faltering. Haste should be avoided, but each stroke of the knife should be an onward step in the operation, and piecemeal or imperfect work ought not to be permitted. The first cut should divide the entire thickness of the skin, and the succeeding one, if the opera- tion be a deep one, as the ligature of an artery, should be of the same length. The division of the deep structures will thus be as long, or nearly so, as the first incision, and full opportunity will be afforded the operator to make the necessary search at the bottom of the wound. When this course is not fol- lowed, the lowest portion of the wound will often be so contracted as to pre- vent full examination. The wound will in fact be a cone, with the apex downwards, a most undesirable result. In making dissections and incisions, if the bloodless method is not adopted, it is well to tie the larger vessels as they bleed, while the smaller ones can be left until the conclusion of the ope- ration. For the ligature of vessels, the ordinary silk or linen thread, or the carbolized cat-gut ligatures, may be employed. Acupressure pins may at times be conveniently substituted for the ligatures, not only for the purpose of con-