255 ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION OF RACHITIS. It might he supposed, from the nature of rachitis, that the use of food de- ficient in phosphoric acid, and lime was the common cause of rachitis; but facts show that this is not the correct view of its etiology, as it commonly occurs, although in its treatment these agents are of undoubted value. The disturbed and altered nutrition of the osteo-plastic tissues, namely of the epi- physeal cartilage and the periosteum, is the important factor in producing the rachitic bone disease, and this may occur although the ingesta contain a sufficient amount of phosphoric acid and lime. Deficiency of these substances probably tends to diminish the amount of lime deposition, but is not the essential element in the causation of the malady. This is to be found in the unhealthy condition and action of the cartilage and periosteum, or rather in the agencies, now partly ascertained, which produce the abnormal state and altered nutrition of these tissues. Artificial Production of Rachitis. The important fact has been ascertained by experiments on young animals, that rachitis can be produced, as I have already stated, by at least two chemi- cal agents, which may be admitted into the system in the ingesta, and which exert an especially irritating action on the osteo-plastic tissues. Senator states, in Ziemssen’s Encyclopaedia, that “Wegner . . . has recently brought experimental evidence to show that true rickets may be artificially produced by the continued administration of very minute doses of phosphorus . . . together with a simultaneous withdrawal of lime from the food.” The fact being established that it is possible to produce rickets by certain deleterious principles in the ingesta, opens an interesting field for experimental inquiry. Since improper feeding and indigestion are known to sustain a causative rela- tion to rachitis, experiments have been made to ascertain whether some chemical agent, developed in the system during the digestive process, or intro- duced with the food, may not cause rachitis as it ordinarily occurs in the infant. Among the foremost in that line of experiment has been Dr. Ileitz- mann, a resident of Vienna when his observations were made, but now a citi- zen of Hew York. In young children, acids, especially the lactic, are commonly produced, and often in large quantities, as the result of improper feeding, of indigestion, and of intestinal catarrh. The acidity of the infant’s stools, under such conditions of ill health, is well known. What more natural, then, than the supposition or belief that this acid, thus generated, sustains the same causative relation to rickets, as phosphorus in the experiments which have been made with that agent. But the acid which is produced so abundantly in disturbed states of the digestive apparatus in the infant, believed to be chiefly the lac- tic, must, in order to reach the bones and influence their nutrition, pass through the blood, which is always alkaline. This difficulty in the way of the theory that lactic acid is the irritating agent, is removed by physiologists who tell us that among the organic acids the existence of lactic acid in healthy blood is not entirely beyond doubt, but that it has been found in the latter under abnormal conditions.1 Lactic acid has also been found, after having made the circuit of the system, in the excretion from the kidneys. Heitzmann, in order to ascertain Avhether this acid sustained a causative relation to rickets, made a series of experiments, which have passed into the literature of this disease, and he has kindly furnished me with their details, as follows:— 1 Heinrich Frey, of Zurich.