4 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. matter. It is this coloring matter (haemoglobine) which takes up the oxygen in the lungs, and then, while its carriers, the red blood-corpuscles, pass through the capillaries, provides for the interchange of oxygen and carbonic acid— for the internal respiration, blow it is in the main immaterial whether the coloring matter is diminished because there is a want of blood, or because the number of red blood-corpuscles is too small, or because they are too pale. On the other hand, a diminution of the total amount of blood cannot be diagnos- ticated at the bedside at all, with the means now at our command. Even in the case of anaemia after loss of blood, we cannot assert with certainty that it is really the diminution of the total amount of blood which produces the features of the disease. The researches of C. Ludwig and his pupils have shown us that the blood is very rapidly replaced after hemorrhages, probably by the entrance of colorless lymph into the vascular system; while I have shown,1 on the other hand, that a frog, for whose blood a dilute solution of salt has been as thoroughly as possible substituted, has, a few hours afterwards, a very large number of white blood-corpuscles circulating in the vessels, with a small number of red globules. Finally, we must take into consideration the fact that the pale color of the face, lips, and gums, and, in general, of every organ, may also be produced by a permanent contraction of the blood- vessels. In this instance, too, the word anaemia is used, but here in contra- distinction to hgpercemia. In the case of local poverty of blood the expression ischaemia is indeed used; hut we very commonly speak of anaemia of the liver, of the kidney, or of the brain, entirely without regard to the total amount of blood. Causes of Hyperemia and Ischemia. The immediate cause of hyperaemia as well as of ischaemia is doubtless to be found, as I have already (page 1) remarked, in a change of calibre of the bloodvessels. The question therefore turns upon a second cause, namely, that of the contraction and dilatation of the vessels. I shall divide the answer to this question into several parts. I shall first speak of the well-known arrange- ments in the vessels for the production of contraction ; I shall next devote a separate section to the contractility of the capillaries; I shall then treat of the modus operandi of these movements separately; and, finally, the nerves which govern the contractions will be considered. The Contractile Elements of the Bloodvessels.—The arteries have a sheath of circularly-arranged, smooth, muscular fibres, by the contraction of which the lumen must be narrowed. The larger the artery, the more does this coat of smooth muscular fibres become mixed with elastic elements, and the more is the contractility of the entire tube impaired. The capability of contraction is accordingly much more marked in the smaller arteries than in the large ones, the smallest arteries having indeed the power of contracting until their lumen has disappeared. When the contraction of the circular muscles subsides, the arteries must widen again and refill, in consequence of the pressure which the blood (really the heart) exerts upon them. Thus contraction of the circular muscular fibres causes a narrowing of the vessels, while relaxation of the circular muscular fibres produces a widening of the same. It is generally supposed that the elastic tissue also takes part in the narrowing of arteries, for it is thought that the elastic fibres are distended by the impulse which the blood receives during systole, and assume their former dimensions during diastole. It is, indeed, true that the arterial wall is 1 Studien aus dem Instit. f. experim. Path., 1869.