472 OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. foreign to the present article. Yet it may be said that for military purposes the well-known pavilion system of hospitals, with a central building for ad- ministration, is probably the most perfect which can he designed. It has also been shown practically that the same system, with certain modifications, can be made applicable to the erection of civil hospitals when sufficient ground can be obtained. One advantage of this system is the possibility of its ex- pansion to almost any extent, an important consideration in the foundation of hospital charities designed to meet the wants of rapidly-growing popula- tions. The experience of our late war conclusively proved the advantages of the pavilion system of hospital construction, and the history of the mag- nificent and extensive pavilion hospitals, which then sprang up over our whole country, will remain forever as a memorial of the intelligence, zeal, and ready adaptability to circumstances, which characterized the services of our army medical staff. Perhaps in this connection it may not be amiss to refer to the excellent results which at that time attended operations treated in tent hos- pitals. As is well known, after severe battles, vast numbers of wounded were thrown upon the hands of the army surgeons. These patients were accommo- dated in division, corps, and general hospitals placed near the seat of action. These hospitals were composed of hospital tents, the number used being suited to the urgency of the occasion, and varying from ten or a dozen up to several hundred. Four or five or more of these tents were often pitched end to end, arranged in conformity with the lay of the ground, so as to form wards of proper size, which could be readily cared for and overlooked by the nurses and medical attendants. In winter weather and during the heat of summer, these tents were protected by the army tent-fly. In cold weather, the warming was accomplished by small iron wood-stoves. In many instances, where it was probable that the hospital would be in use for some time, board floors were laid down. Whether this was really an advantage or otherwise seemed at times questionable. Tents so furnished looked better, it is true, but were open to the objection of foul accumulations taking place beneath the floor. They were supposed to be more free from dampness, but this could usually be guarded against by proper trenching, and it is not impossible that the earth floor in itself was preferable from its inherent antiseptic qualities. During this period it was surprising to note how well operations did, and how rapidly convalescence took place under these simple arrangements, which, rough as they might seem to the unprofessional eye, were undoubtedly to be preferred to any form of barrack, or, indeed, permanent hospital. Causes of Death after Operations. % Hemorrhage.—Death may occur during or after an operation from different causes, acting singly or in combination. It may result, in the first place, from hemorrhage; and the more rapidly this takes place, and the greater its amount, the more depressing and disastrous will be its effects. If it be very excessive, death may be almost immediate; but generally in operations, although bleeding may possibly be profuse, it is prolonged, marked by quantity rather than by rapidity, and by timely and vigorous effort it may be arrested. There are instances, too, where, although not great in extent, its effects may at the time be pronounced, and, in tlie end, fatal. This is apt to be the case in patients of broken-down constitution, and who are usually spoken of as had subjects for operation. These fail to react, and either sink from exhaustion or fall ready victims to septic or intercurrent diseases. Fortunately, at the present day, death upon the operating table from bleeding rarely happens, since the resources of modern surgery have