670 AMPUTATIONS. by the efforts of nature, M. Lacroix, the attending surgeon, removed it by simply dividing with scissors the ligamentum teres and the sciatic nerve. Four days afterwards, the left limb was painlessly and bloodlessly amputated on a level with the great trochanter, by sawing through the bone which was exposed by the separation of the gangrenous soft parts. The patient did well for a while, but finally succumbed, eleven days after the second, and fifteen days after the first operation. A quarter of a century later (1773 or 1774), Perault, a surgeon of Sainte-Maure, performed a similar operation upon a man named Francois Gois, whose thigh had been crushed between the pole of a carriage and a wall, and had subsequently become gangrenous. The limb was almost entirely separated by the processes of nature, and Perault merely completed its removal. The patient recovered, and twenty years afterwards was working as a cook in an inn of Sainte-Maure, was married, and had a healthy child.1 The first amputation at the hip, through living parts, appears to have been performed by Mr. Henry Thomson, Surgeon to the London Hospital, some time before 1777—that is, if his namesake, Dr. John Thomson,2 is correct in supposing that it was this case the “ horridness” of which provoked Mr. Per- cival Pott’s denunciation of the procedure, in his Remarks on Amputation, written in that year.3 In December, 1778, Mr. Kerr, of Northampton, ampu- tated at the hip in the case of a girl of eleven years, who was suffering from advanced hip-disease and phthisis, and who survived the operation eighteen days.4 The first hip-joint amputation in military practice occurred in 1793, the patient being a French soldier of the Army of the Rhine, and the ope- rator, the illustrious Baron Larrey.5 The case terminated unfavorably owing to the patient’s being obliged to accompany the troops in a forced march, which they were compelled to undertake a few hours after the operation. Three cases (two successful) are attributed to the elder Blandin (Larrey’s as- sistant), in 1794, but, though Velpeau and Lisfranc both refer to them, they give no reference to their authority, and certain contemporary or nearly con- temporary writers, including Larrey and the younger Blandin,6 do not men- tion their occurrence, so that their authenticity has been called in question. Brownrigg (in 1811) was the first British army surgeon to attempt the opera- tion, which he repeated successfully in the following year, the latter case being, if Blandin’s claims are disregarded, the first instance of recovery from the operation known to military surgery. Amputation at the hip-joint may be performed in many ways—Farabeuf speaks of over forty-five methods—and writers on Operative Surgery describe more than one mode of procedure recommended by surgeons who, whatever their skill in operating upon the dead body, have never had occasion to amputate at the hip of a living person. I shall enumerate only the more important methods. Oval Method.—On a slender limb, this operation, which is known by the name of Cornuau and Scoutetten, gives a well-formed and serviceable stump, particularly if Malgaigne’s modification (en raquette) be adopted. The surgeon first makes a longitudinal incision of about three inches on the outer side of 1 Sabatier, quoted by Velpeau, op. cit., t. ii. p. 539, and by Lisfranc, op. cit., t. ii. p. 381. 2 Report of Observations made in the British Military Hospitals in Belgium, etc., p. 264. Edin- burgh, 1816. 3 Chirurgical Works of Percival Pott, vol. iii. p. 218, and Life, by Sir James Earle, Ibid., vol. i. p. xxv. London, 1808. 4 Medical and Philosophical Commentaries. By a Society in Edinburgh, vol. vi. Part iii. page 337. London, 1779. 5 Memoires de Cliirurgie Militaire et Campagnes, t. ii. p. 180. Paris, 1812. 6 Dictionnaire de M6decine et de Cliirurgie Pratiques, t. ii. p. 2S0. Paris, 1829.