TRANSFUSION OF BLOOD. 509 tions of which should be made directly over the compress; a few circular turns may be carried around the elbow to give additional security. It is ad- visable, also, to apply a firm roller to the hand and forearm, to support the venous circulation of these parts till the wound is healed. The arm should be carried in a sling for a few days. Venesection may be practised on the external jugular vein, whenever, either from excess of fat, or in cases of children, the veins at the bend of the elbow are not easily found. To distend this vessel, and, at the same time, to prevent the admission of air when the incision is made, the thumb of the operator, or a pad, should be placed over the vein at the outer edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, just above the clavicle. If the pad be used, it may be secured by a bandage carried over the pad and through the opposite axilla. The best place to incise the vein is over the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle; the opening should be parallel with the fibres of the muscle. By making the incision in this direction, the fibres of the platysma myoides muscle (which is superficial to the vein) will be divided transversely, and, by their retraction, the oblique opening in the vein will be kept patulous. In order that all risks of air gaining access to the vein may be avoided, the wound must be securely closed before the pad is removed from the vein in the supra-clavicular fossa. When this operation is performed in the veins of the ankle the internal saphena is selected. That this vessel and its tributaries may be fully dis- tended, the foot and ankle should be immersed in warm water for a few min- utes before the constricting band is placed around the lower third of the leg. The internal saphena vein, where it passes up in front of the internal malle- olus, should be opened by an oblique incision, made from behind, forwards and upwards. The accompanying nerve lies immediately behind the vein. Arteriotomy.—The vessel usually selected for this operation is the tempo- ral artery, above the zygoma, or one of its two principal branches, either of which may be easily found. Whichever trunk be chosen, it must be firmly held in position by the finger or thumb of the operator, placed on it below the point at which the incision is to be made. A transverse opening should be made in the vessel with a sharp-pointed bistoury or lancet, and, if the blood does not flow with sufficient freedom, the vessel may be cut entirely across. The hemorrhage may be checked by a firm compress laid on the wound and secured by a circular bandage of the vault of the cranium; if this fail to arrest the bleeding, both ends of the vessel may be ligatured in the wound, and the same dressing applied. Transfusion of Blood. This operation has never found much favor with the profession in this country, partly owing to the fact that a very large proportion of the patients operated upon die (though not in consequence of the operation, but rather in spite of it), and partly as a result of the many difficulties attending the per- formance of the operation itself. There are two methods by which transfu- sion may be effected: the immediate or direct, and the mediate or indirect. By the former, blood is conveyed directly and without exposure to the air, from the vessels of one person to those of another; by the latter, it is first drawn and then injected either as a whole or after being deprived of its fibrine. It would seem, theoretically at least, that the immediate method possessed the greater advantages, by virtue of the fact that by it blood is transferred from one individual to another in its natural state, and is not contaminated by