154 INFLAMMATION. revulsion and counter-irritation are usually preceded, if there is much local heat, by the application of leeches or cups. Derivation by Ligation of Main Artery.—As long ago as 1813, it was pro- posed by Dr. Henry U. Onderdonk, of New York, as a remedy for inflam- mation, to cut off the supply of blood from an inflaming part by ligating its main arterial trunk.1 Instances are on record in which this measure has been followed by good results. The femoral artery has been tied after a wound of the knee threatening destructive inflammation, with the effect, apparently, of saving the joint.2 Though recently revived and ably advo- cated by Prof. H. F. Campbell, of Augusta, Georgia, and other surgeons, it is not probable that this somewhat hazardous remedy will be often employed. Partial arrest of the flow through a main artery by a compress placed under the dressing, has been employed with the object of preventing excessive reac- tion after an operation. Diet and Nursing.—In inflammation, and particularly under circumstances in which it is liable to assume formidable proportions, the diet of the patient demands intelligent management on the part of the surgeon. On the one hand we have to deal with digestive organs enfeebled by the shock of injury, by pain, and by confinement to a bed with unsavory surroundings—and pos- sibly weakened by disastrous depletion, or by exhausting discharges; on the other, we require the best blood which the patient’s organs are competent to elaborate, and in adequate quantity, in order to carry on the work of repair, or replace the waste of fever. The popular idea that low diet is necessary in the treatment of inflamma- tion and fever, for the purpose of preventing and restraining excessive action, is based upon the same fallacy in which the word “ antiphlogistic” took its origin—a term which, under the influence of the prevailing doctrines of pathology, has lost its significance and is falling into disuse. The facts are, simply, that the patient, in inflammation or fever, should be provided with the most nutritious articles of food that his stomach is able to digest, and in quantity, and at intervals, graded in accordance with its power to dispose of them. Adequate nutrition is to be sought for, and danger of repletion care- fully guarded against. It is a judicious plan, in a serious case, to prescribe the hours at which food should be administered, as well as its quantity, in the form of written directions placed in full view of the attendants in charge, and to see that they are systematically enforced. It is the popular belief that the medicines prescribed in a given case are more important to the patient than his food ; whereas the reverse is generally true. Systematic and judicious feeding is, in truth, the basis on which suc- cessful treatment is founded. In the language of Bernard, the anatomical elements of our tissues, and the organs they compose, live in a medium—an atmosphere, so to speak—of blood, in which they are constantly bathed, and from which they derive all their sustenance. It is a paramount necessity, therefore, that the nutritive qualities of this all-important fluid should be constantly renewed by the mode which Nature has ordained. There are many articles of diet usually regarded as appropriate food for the sick, the nutritious qualities of which are very much overrated. Arrow- root and jelly, for example, are almost worthless; and beef-tea, as usually pre- pared, is useful for little else than to supply blood salts. The use of these 1 Letter to Dr. David Hosack, published in the American Medical and Philosophical Register, Aug. 1813. 2 See a paper by Dr. David L. Rogers, in the New York Medical Journal, vol. iii. p. 453, 1824; and, also, “Surgical Essays,” by the same author, 1849.