PURULENT INFILTRATION WITH CONNECTIVE-TISSUE NECROSIS. 127 greater degree, inevitably involves a destruction of existing tissue, besides the wasteful overflow of anatomical elements which we have already recognized. Wherever healing has followed suppuration, there is evidence, in the depres- sion of the cicatrix, and in the general shrinkage in volume of the parts in- volved, that there has been loss as to bulk—certainly, also, as to quality—of pre-existing tissue. A cicatricial surface never contains sweat-glands, nor hair-bulbs, and only after a good deal of delay, according to Paget, the yellow elastic fibres. “ But,” it may be asked, “ is not the healing of the wound to be credited to the suppuration ?” By no means. A moment’s reflection will recall the fact that the most prompt and solid healing with least loss of sub- stance, is accomplished in primary union, in the subcutaneous consolidation of a divided tendon, and in that of a simple fracture, where there is no pus formation whatever; in short, that new tissue is freely generated without its aid. Again, examples are occurring constantly, in practice, of patients wasting with suppuration who are benefited by cod-liver oil; and of amputation for injuries of limbs in which repair has failed, and where improvement in the patient’s condition has begun at once after the removal of a source of exhaust- ing and impotent suppuration. Daily experience tells us that hectic fever is coincident with, if not caused by, suppuration from surfaces incapable of heal- ing. We have to add, also, to the injurious effects resulting from pus produc- tion, the possibility of amyloid degeneration of the arteries and the viscera; for modern pathology has recognized prolonged suppuration as one of the most common causes of this grave and obscure affection. The conclusion, therefore, seems to be unavoidable that the secretion of pus is not only, in a general way, useless and wasteful, but that it is, in many cases, positively in- jurious; while the benefit to be derived from it is uncertain, and in some degree, hypothetical. It is desirable that the surgeon should recognize these truths, and assume it as a duty not only to favor rapid union in wounds, and a prompt cure in abscess and sinus, wherever this result is feasible, but under all circumstances to avoid suppuration as much as possible, and to arrest it always as soon as he can, keeping in mind the fact that the formation of pus involves the ex- penditure of vital force just as much as the construction of tissue. Purulent Infiltration with Connective-Tissue Necrosis. Three ways have been thus far described in which pus formation takes place in the organism: (1) on the surface of wounds healing by granulation; (2) on serous, mucous, and tegumentary surfaces; and (3) in the form of a collection imbedded in the tissues and bounded by well-defined walls, as an abscess. There is a fourth variety in which pus formation is not unfrequently encoun- tered, namely, as an infiltration into the substance of a part—mostly into the meshes of the connective tissue, or into the cellular interspaces occupied by this substance—with a tendency to spread or travel, and showing no disposi- tion to self-limitation as in abscess. From abscess, which is always charac- terized by limitary walls, this mode of pus formation is distinguished as 'purulent infiltration, and it is also often spoken of as “diffused inflammation.” This obscure term was first applied by Duncan, of Edinburgh,1 to the pus formation formerly so common in the axilla, and deeply amongst the muscles of the arm and thorax, after dissection wounds, and after venesection, in which 1 Cases of Diffuse Inflammation of the Cellular Texture, with the Appearances on Dissection, and Observations. By Andrew Duncan, Jun., M.D., etc. Edinburgh Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. i. p. 470, 1824.