HEPATISM—NEPHRISM CARDISM. 327 and languisliing, furnishes an abundant but serous and fetid pus; that, in a word, it presents no tendency to cicatrization. I have several times observed this torpid process in the anal region, even when there was no tuberculous lesion present in the lung. The wounds, however free they may themselves be from any unusual phe- nomena, may react directly upon the pre-existing hepatic affection, causing, for example, the reappearance of jaundice, biliary colic, anasarca, ascites, ob- stinate vomiting, and anorexia, profuse diarrhoea, etc. Under this disastrous influence, a patient with hepatic disease who yet has been in a passable con- dition and threatened by no immediate danger, may soon enter into the period of cachexia, and finally succumb at the end of a few weeks or months. But the disturbing action of the traumatism may be still more rapid and terrible. Thus we may find a patient who suffers from cancer of the liver, cirrhosis, or biliary lithiasis, sinking, shortly after an injury, into a vague condition, bear- ing no name, and without any well-defined symptoms, and die in a few days, precisely as those do who are wounded while suffering from albuminuria or diabetes. The probabilities of the appearance of local complications, or of the recip- rocal action of the injury upon the hepatic condition, can in no wise be deter- mined from the nature or gravity of the injury. Life has been seriously threatened or even destroyed almost as often in consequence of slight injuries (leech bites, paracentesis abdominis, opening abscesses, simple fractures and dislocations), as after serious operations or grave wounds (compound fractures, severe contusions, herniotomy, castration, amputation, removal of tumors). Nephrism.—This is the general condition observed in patients suffering from a grave renal affection, whether old or recent. This condition may be acute or chronic, temporary or prolonged, latent or revealed by more or less evident symptoms, among which the character of the urine occupies the chief rank. The part played by the urinary secretion in the depuration of the blood enables us readily to understand and, to a certain extent, foresee, the changes undergone by the nutrient fluid when the renal parenchyma does not fulfil its eliminating function. Nephrism is very like cases of blood-poisoning, with this difference, that the poison here does not come from without but from within, manifesting its effects as soon as it accumulates in the mass of blood, and making an effort to escape through complementary channels. At the same time that they prevent the necessary expulsion of superfluous and inju- rious matters, certain renal lesions also permit the spoliation of the blood by the untoward escape of useful substances, as is the case, for example, in albu- minuria. The blood, thus adulterated or impoverished, is ill-fitted for the nourishment of the tissues; the poison, seeking unusual channels of escape,, affects the various organs, so that, at the end of a certain length of time, there is a true disease totius substantice ; the digestive functions are lowered, the heart is affected, the peripheral circulation embarrassed ; the blood escapes from its channels, and serum accumulates, especially in serous or connective tissue spaces. Finally, the nervous centres themselves participate in the disorder. Renal affections, which are numerous, do not all produce nephrism with the same rapidity or intensity, but eventually, if persistent, they all end by ruin- ing the organism. Generalized, interstitial or parenchymatous nephritis,, hydronephrosis, and cystic degeneration, are especially graven then follow renal lithiasis and pyelonephritis; and finally fatty and amyloid degeneration.. From a surgical point of view, however, we may repeat what has been said above with regard to affections of the liver, that is that we are not in a posi- tion to say which form of nephritis, for example, most seriously complicates