CONDITIONS DETERMINING THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 463 operation is the patient’s strength. From what has been said, it will he seen that the season has not as much to do with operation as the weather, and in this relation the tendency to intercurrent diseases must he borne in mind. During the winter, these are most apt to involve the pulmonary organs, in the forms of acute bronchitis and pneumonia, while in the summer, the abdo- minal viscera suffer from the acute internal inflammations, accompanied by diarrhoea. Locality has something to do with the result of operations. "When the patient is exposed to damp and depressing exhalations, and to malarious in- fluences, wounds do badly, and convalescence, particularly after the large operations, is tardy. The reverse is the case when the atmosphere is dry and exhilarating, as on the mountain slopes. The sea breezes also act as a most powerful tonic. It would be easy, from the recent military experiences of our country, to adduce example after example in support of these asser- tions. It has often happened that, after great battles, soldiers who had under- gone amputations and other severe operations, have from military exigencies been left for a time in field hospitals, planted in unhealthy districts, and swept by marsh exhalations. Under such circumstances, wounds and stumps not unfrequently did badly, and assumed a sloughing and unhealthy appear- ance. As soon, however, as the men could he removed to hospitals in salu- brious localities, an immediate change in their condition was observed. The wounds cast off their unhealthy character, and entered upon active repara- tion. Ho operation should be performed, except in cases of emergency, in any locality in which an epidemic is prevailing, such as diphtheria, erysipelas, cholera, yellow fever, and possibly influenza of a bad type. Influence of Visceral Affections.—There are certain organic diseases of the great viscera which exert a direct and unfavorable bearing upon the chances of operation. Chief among these are affections of the heart, lungs, and kidney. Heart and Arteries.—In regard to the heart, it is probable that the risks of operation are not always so seriously increased by disease of this organ as is generally supposed. A great deal will depend upon the degree of cardiac trouble, the evil consequences which have attended it, or are present at the time, and its duration. It not unfrequently happens that cardiac dis- turbance dependent upon valvular changes is relieved by the hemorrhage which attends an operation. If the amount of disease observable is such as to greatly disturb the patient, and to interfere with his circulation and respira- tion, the risks of shock, either at the time of operation or subsequently, must undoubtedly be recognized. Fatty degeneration of the substance of the heart is attended by great danger, greater probably than the more simple degrees of valvular obstruction. These constitute the class of feeble hearts, which are strongly influenced by shock and blood loss; and to patients thus affected, ether should be given in preference to chloroform on account of its stimulating effects. Sir James Paget, in his lectures on the risks of operations, has drawn atten- tion to the manner of the heart’s action when it is believed to be healthy, and to the phenomena of the pulse. He tells us that a slow pulse does not forbid operation, nor does an accelerated one necessarily do so, provided it be not accompanied by organic disease. Children and young persons of nervous temperament have often very rapid pulses, and the surgeon, in deciding upon the propriety of operation upon them, should be guided, not by the pulse alone, but rather by noting whether the respirations are proportionately rapid. In