SUPPURATIVE KERATITIS. 29 acid, the tissue becomes swollen, and its parts are loosened. On the other hand, from the action of the silver (perhaps coagulation), it has acquired a certain hardness. Consequently we can easily separate it into lamellae which still possess a certain hardness. The first cleavage into two lamellae, and then of each of these into two, I can accomplish with the naked eye. The further cleavage I perform with the aid of a magnifying glass; the method cannot he well described, hut can easily he found out for himself hy the practised manipulator. Even in the lamellae which have been stripped off with the naked eye, we can distinctly recognize, under the magnifying glass (with transmitted light), the inflammatory focus and the purulent spot respectively. On these foci or spots I concentrate my main attention during the subsequent cleavage. For little is to be gained by a fine cleavage of the normal or slightly altered spots in the neighborhood of the focus. We can obtain a view of the normal appearance even in thicker, less transparent lamellae. But in the inflam- matory focus we do not get clear and convincing pictures until we have thin lamellae. The inflammatory foci are less translucent than the normal spots; furthermore, the accumulation of cells into heaps interferes with the exami- nation. All of these impediments are done away with if the lamellae are very thin. The pictures here become so clear that there can no longer be any doubt with regard to the nature of the suppurative process. JSefore describing these pictures, however, I must correct an error which has crept in as a consequence of the method of staining with silver. If we stain an excised cornea in a solution of nitrate of silver, the branched cells of the cornea appear as light cells on a dark background. For the basis-substance of the cornea in which the cells lie imbedded absorbs the silver better than the cells do, and accordingly becomes stained a deep brown when exposed to daylight, while the cells remain of a light .color. In fact, the cells are, as a rule, not visible at all; we only see light branched spots (spaces) on a dark ground. Fig. 6. (Fig. 6.) Recklinghausen, who was the first one to em- ploy this silver-staining me- thodically, believed that the cornea contained real spaces, and called these spaces nutri- tive canals (saftkanalchen). In these spaces he thought that the cells were situated, and that the amoeboid cells wandered through them. At a later period, Cohnheim stained the cornea with chlo- ride of gold, and then a dif- ferent picture was presented. Anastomosing figures were also to be seen here; but these figures proved to be nucleated cells which had been stained of a violet color by the solution of gold, and, in fact, more deeply stained than the surrounding basis-substance. Accordingly, the branched figures were here dark on a light background, but in the cornea treated with silver, on the contrary, light on a dark background. Using the language of the photographers, we may say that the branched cells appear as positives after staining with gold, but as negatives, on the contrary, after staining with silver. This agreement of the forms, after staining with silver and with gold, induced me to C. C. Cornea corpuscles.