525 MASSAGE. Galvanization and Faradization often prove of service in the various neuralgic and paralytic conditions which accompany or follow surgical affec- tions. In some forms of spinal curvature, and of club-foot, the muscles can be advantageously faradized. Sprains, muscle-strains, and some forms of synovitis, can also with advantage be treated by local faradization or galvanization. Fig. 95 represents one of the best forms of faradic battery. Massage. Under the general term of massage, Dr. W. Wagner, of Friedburg,1 includes four different manipulations, viz., (1) stroking (cffleurage); (2) kneading (petrissage); (3) tapping or per- cussion (tapotement); and (4) passive and active motion. To these varieties may be added an- other form of massage, quite extensively used in this country, which consists in pinching up the integuments and muscles, the latter singly or in groups, and rolling them gently between the thumb and fingers. In the larger cities this treatment is generally intrusted to assistants called rubbers, manipulators, or masseurs, who, being specially trained to the art, soon gain great, dexterity in its appli- cation. Preliminary to the application of massage, the part to be operated upon should be anointed with cocoa-oil or vaseline. If there be a heavy growth of hair on the part, this should be carefully shaved, as otherwise irri- tation of the follicles and the development of boils may be the consequences of the rubbing. Stroking (Effleurage) consists in gently smoothing or rubbing the surface of a part with the palm of the hand from the periphery; distended veins and lymphatics are thus emptied, and liquid transudation removed from the tis- sues. In the early stages of inflammation, this manipulation is first applied above the seat of disease, in order to afford more space for the returning cur- rents. By degrees the inflamed part is approached, and, when reached, firm but gentle pressure is made on it, thus forcing the fluids inwards, and pro- moting the absorption of exudations if they have already occurred. With a diminution in the contents of the vessels, there is a proportionate subsidence of all the local phenomena of inflammation. Kneading (Petrissage) is a form of massage, applied by rubbing a part cir- cularly with the extremities of the fingers or thumb, or the palm of the hand, and is indicated in cases of inflammatory transudations, and in those of eccliymosis into the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Kneading may with ad- vantage be combined with stroking, whenever it is desirable not only to break up exudation, but likewise to hasten the removal of the resulting detritus from the tissues. The amount of pressure to be used in applying this variety of massage must be determined by the nature and the seat of the material to be gotten rid of, and by the sensitiveness of the patient. A vigorous appli- cation of this manipulation is more apt to be tolerated in cases of partially 1 Berliner klinische Wochenschrift, Nov. 6 und 13, 1876. Boston Medical and Surgical Jour- nal, May 17, 1877. Fig. 95. Faradic battery.