AMPUTATIONS. 598 Prof. Lister lias quite recently announced that an equally good effect may be obtained from the oil of eucalyptus. The second volume of this work will contain an Article specially devoted to the Antiseptic System, and I shall there- fore merely say in this place that, the operation having been performed under a spray of carbolized steam (one to forty), and the instruments, sponges, etc., having been throughout kept thoroughly antiseptic—the limb itself should have been tirst washed with a 1-20 solution of carbolic acid—the vessels are tied with carbolized catgut, and the wound (amply furnished with drainage tubes) closed with “antiseptic sutures;” the “protective” dipped in a 1-40 solution is next adjusted, and covered with one or more layers of “antiseptic gauze,” dipped in the same solution; then with numerous layers of dry gauze; next with one of mackintosh; and lastly with a tinal layer of gauze, and a bandage of the same material. The outer dressings are not renewed until tbe discharge has begun to soak through them, while the inner dressings are sometimes allowed to remain for weeks together. Wadding Dressing.—As in Prof. Lister’s dressing the bacteria and micro- cocci are met and destroyed, in their effort to reach the wound, by successive layers of gauze impregnated with carbolic acid, so by M. Guerin’s device they are mechanically arrested by a huge thickness of cotton-wadding, and, unable to get either in or out, miserably perish in its meshes. All hemor- rhage from the stump having been checked, AT. Guerin washes the wound, and indeed the whole limb, with carbolized water, has it gently dried, and held immovably in one position by assistants, while the dressing is applied. Sutures may or may not be used. Drainage tubes are not required. A thick pad of cotton is first placed over either flap, and then two strips of wadding, three inches wide and ten or twelve long, are applied with their middle to the end of the stump, and their extremities folded down upon the limb above and below; these strips are crossed by two others of similar dimensions, and a fifth, applied circularly, holds them all in position. A long band of wad- ding is then employed like a bandage, to completely cover in the stump and the limb to a point half way between the two nearest joints; the amount of cotton used is to be enough to make the diameter of the covered limb at least three times that which it naturally possesses. Ordinary bandages are next applied over the wadding, the first turns being quite loose, and the bandages then gradually made more and more tight, until the final turns exercise a very energetic but equable compression over the whole stump. Usually thirteen bandages of eleven yards each are required for this purpose. When the dressing is complete, the limb can be moved in any direction, or the stump struck, without giving the patient any pain. If in the course of a few hours, any blood is found leaking through the bandages, a thick square of wadding and an additional bandage are applied. The dressing must be ex- amined every day during the first week, and, if necessary, still more bandage added so as to keep up firm compression. The dressing is allowed to remain, as a rule, for from twenty to twenty-five days; it should be applied, and, when necessary, reapplied, in a special room and not in the ordinary ward.1 For want of space I can merely mention the '•'•Bordeaux Method,” winch may be considered as in some degree a combination of Lister’s and Guerin’s plans, embracing the use of drainage tubes, very accurate adjustment of the flaps with sutures and collodion, washing the stump with carbolized water, and covering it with cotton ;2 and the Earth Dressing of Dr. Addinell Hewson,3 • Fort, op. cit., pp. 159 et seq. 2 Ibid., p. 177. 3 Earth as a topical application in Surgery. Philadelphia, 1872.