334 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. Surgical interference is not interdicted during pregnancy, but is subject to special rules. We should operate upon a pregnant woman with the greatest reserve, and sometimes refuse absolutely; but it would be an equally grave fault to abstain systematically in all cases. The affections which are amenable to operation—more numerous during gestation than during the non-pregnant state—are divided into several categories which suggest the following rules of practice:— To operate at once in those affections which immediately endanger the life of the mother, and against which medical treatment would be certainly or almost certainly unavailing; To operate also, at a suitable time, and after having tried palliative or curative remedies, in those diseases which, although not immediately com- promising life, endanger it by their progress, and tend to become incurable if not met with energetic treatment; To operate also in those affections which, without disturbing pregnancy and without being aggravated by it, become, at its termination, causes of dystocia. In these cases, the surgeon may operate before or at the very period of delivery, upon the mother or upon the foetus, the premature expul- sion of which may be induced. An attempt should be made to save both the maternal and foetal lives, but, if this be impossible, the latter must be unhesitatingly sacrificed to the former; To abstain, as far as possible, in those affections which are uninfluenced by pregnancy—and which, in turn, only compromise pregnancy and parturition indirectly—by, as far as possible, allowing nature to act, and by aiding her by mild measures; To abstain absolutely from every operation for affections which compromise only the form or function of organs of secondary importance, or which are susceptible of spontaneous cure after delivery To avoid, as far as possible, every operation during the puerperal state. In case of danger, to operate rather during pregnancy, and, under opposite circumstances, to postpone interference until a period sufficiently remote (two to four months) from delivery. Infancy. The benignity of wounds and surgical operations in children is universally admitted, and the explanation, moreover, is simple. In fact, at this period of life, constitutional diseases are not deeply rooted, but of recent date; the viscera are for the most part healthy ; and connective-tissue proliferation and regeneration of tissues occur with promptness and energy, etc. We must not, however, regard this benignity as a rule without exceptions. Athrepsic children, poorly nourished, syphilitic, or tubercular, or who suffer from calculus with nephritis, readily fall a prey to the consequences of their wounds. In this long period of childhood, moreover, we should establish categories according to the age, and consider also the particular variety of operation which is in question. The new-born, for example, support loss of blood and restricted diet very badly ; and the resulting contra-indications continue, at least until the twelfth or fifteenth month. It is for this latter reason that we postpone until the fourth or fifth year, if not later, complicated operations upon the mouth, lips, hard or soft palate, etc. The small size of the parts also relegates to the period of late childhood certain anaplastic operations upon the penis and fingers. Finally, we wait still longer before undertaking the cure of certain imperforations in the female sex.