240 SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. may seem best to meet the requirements of each individual case. For we believe that tubercle, however rarely, is capable of cure; both because persons who have seemed to suffer from tuberculosis of the lungs, have recovered, and because ulcers of the mouth and pharynx which have borne the typical tuberculous aspect, have been watched as they slowly but completely healed. But when a limited area which is easily accessible, is tuberculous, and there is no evidence that the disease affects more distant parts, it seems but reason- able, in appreciation of the infectious nature of the disease, to cut away the affected portion as if it were a malignant growth. Of late years this has been done with tolerable frequency. The testis has been thus treated, and so have tuberculous ulcers of the tongue, and tuberculous affections of the bones and joints. Of the propriety of all these operations, there can be no doubt, pro- vided that they are undertaken in fitting cases and performed with all due care. But opinion is not so unanimous as to the advisability of removing lymphatic glands containing tubercles. For, although the disease may remain long limited to a certain group of glands, it is not often limited to a single gland, but quickly spreads from one to another. A whole group of glands can rarely be removed, especially as the cervical glands are those which tuber- cle most commonly affects. And if one, perhaps the largest, of a certain group be tal^en away, the operation so far from being beneficial may even prove the reverse by exciting to activity the morbid process in the glands still left behind. A case illustrating this is that of a girl twelve years old, who for two or more years had suffered from a tuberculous gland in the middle line, beneath the floor of the mouth. Sometimes it suppurated, and unhealthy ulcers formed; and, again, the openings closed and all bid fair for cure. But the lump remained, and was a constant eyesore and source of annoyance to the 'patient. I removed it, therefore, with all due care, and the wound healed by the first intention. Now, however, the neighboring glands, which before the operation had been quiescent and scarcely at all enlarged, quickly grew larger, and, suppurating, formed scars and ulcers, more distressing and dis- figuring than the disease which I had removed. Further experience, based on numerous observations, is required to decide as to the propriety of ope- rating under such circumstances. Scrofula. Two cases, shortly recounted, will serve to preface the description of Scrofula. Each of them is typical in its kind, yet it will be seen that the difference is great between them. Case Y.—The first is that of a boy, twelve years old, who came to my Out-Patient room nearly two years ago (February, 1879), with a swelling of the back of one hand. He was a well-grown lad, with fair hair, blue eyes, and a ruddy glow, as if of health. His skin was not very thin or freckled, nor was it so transparent as to permit the super- ficial veins to be seen clearly through it. The swelling of his hand had followed almost immediately upon a blow. It occupied the whole of the dorsum of the hand, but was most prominent over the third metacarpal bone, where the skin was reddened, hot, and tender. For many days or weeks it changed but little ; then slowly suppurated ; and at the bottom of the suppurating cavity bare bone was easily distinguished. After a while, almost the whole of the metacarpal bone was removed by operation, and there seemed to be no reason why the wound should not fill up by granulations and become a healthy scar. But the progress towards recovery was marvellously slow. The wound appeared to flag, and sinuses burrowed through to the palm ; yet the general characters of good health were preserved, and no new local mischief in the bones or joints was discovered. At the end of a year of treatment, the hand was still unhealed. And now two ulcers