AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. 677 IV. Summary of Forty-eight Oases of Hip-joint Amputation for Unknown Causes. Recov- ered. Died. Undeter- mined. Total. Mortality per cent.1 Number of cases. ..... 10 34 4 48 77.2 V. General Summary of Six Hundred and Thirty-three Cases of IIip-joint Amputation for all Causes. Nature of case. Recov- ered. Died. Undeter- mined. Total. Mortality per cent.1 Pathological 156 105 15 276 40.2 Traumatic ....... 54 254 1 309 82.4 Cause unknown 10 34 4 48 77.2 Total ...... 220 393 20 633 64.1 From the preceding statistics it will be seen that, in military practice, the death-rate of primary and of intermediate amputation has reached the appalling figure of 93 per cent., or, in other words, that not one patient in fourteen recovers from the operation. In civil practice, the results of primary amputation are still very unfavorable, the mortality being over 80 per cent., or but one patient in five recovering. Hence the inference is irresistible that, except in very exceptional circumstances, as where the limb is entirely carried away by a round shot, or completely crushed at a point too high for amputation in its continuity, or where, besides the injury to the bone, the great vessels are severed—in other words where the patient is threatened with instant death as the result of his injury—primary amputation at the hip-joint should be avoided. Whenever there is the lightest chance of doing so, an effort should be made to tide the patient over the immediate risks of the injury by expectant and palliative measures, keeping amputation in reserve, if necessary, as a secondary operation. Secondary hip-joint ampu- tation, though very grave, is comparatively a successful procedure, the mor- tality, in civil and military cases taken together, being somewhat over 60 per cent., or two patients out of five recovering. In non-traumatic cases (opera- tions for necrosis, tumors, etc.), the results are still more favorable, the death- rate being less than 41 per cent., or three out of five patients recovering. Taking all cases together, the mortality is seen to be 64.1 per cent., as com- pared with a death-rate of 63.8 per cent, for all amputations through the continuity of the thigh,2 thus confirming the general rule that the gravity of amputation increases as the site of operation is in closer proximity to the trunk. In every class of cases, but particularly in cases of injury, re-amputation after previous amputation through the thigh, is much less fatal than when the whole lower extremity is removed at once; this is easily understood when we reflect that the shock to the system of such a re-amputation is necessarily much less severe than when the patient, seeking to avoid imminent death, submits to what Hennen3 calls the “ tremendous alternative” of losing at one operation nearly a fourth of the whole body. ' Undetermined cases omitted in computing percentages. 2 See Table, page 630. 8 Op. cit., p. 30.