CONDITIONS DETERMINING THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 459 of exaggeration and excitement of the mental functions—the sure forerunners of coming trouble. During and preceding these attacks no operation should be attempted, unless in the utmost emergency. In close relation to excess in drinking, stands overfeeding, or gluttony. Overindulgence in the pleasures of the table undoubtedly adds to the risk of operation, inasmuch as an abnormal condition is thereby developed, accom- panied by bodily indolence, and by perversion of the natural excretions. This is the case when large amounts of meat are consumed, and when deficient exercise interferes with the proper elimination. Influence of Xervous System.—There is another class of persons upon whom the surgeon at times almost fears to operate, in consequence of the existence of what is ordinarily described as a “ nervous” state of mind and body. It is possible, however, that fears in this respect are often exaggerated. A patient may be timid and nervous in the highest degree, with a mind worked up to a point of greatest tension ; his dread of operation may be so intense as to give rise to fears of subsequent shock; and yet, after all, the operative dangers in such a case may be imaginary rather than real. As long as organic disease does not exist, the surgeon may hope and indeed count upon this depression, dependent upon mental causes, passing away as soon as the contemplated operation has been performed. Here the reaction is not, usually, as quick and marked as was the pre-existent mental prostra- tion, and, the depressing cause once removed, the patient will probably pass to a corresponding condition of contentment of mind in every way favorable to the production of a happy result. Operations are often demanded upon feeble persons in whom, although there are no evidences of positive disease, there is an absence of robust or even of moderate health. Such individuals are apt to have been overworked or worried. They have been taxed either mentally or bodily beyond their powers of endurance, and are in no condition to sustain the weakening and depressing effects of operation. In such eases, all surgical interference should, if possible, be delayed until, by rest and judicious medical treatment, the general condition has been sufficiently improved. As a familiar example of the class of patients first referred to—the men- tally overtaxed—may be cited the hard-worked man of business, whose mind has long been kept on the strain by the exacting nature of his calling, and whose face betokens the anxiety and harassment of his vocation. His aim is the accumulation of money, and for its accomplishment all other objects must give way—even health itself. Of the latter class—those worked beyond bodily endurance and ill fed—there are in this country fortunately but few, the rate of wages being usually sufficient to provide good food and a home for the poorest laborer, if he be industrious. Age and Sex.—Age exercises a decided influence upon the results of opera- tions. As a rule children bear operations well, and, while they are peculiarly susceptible to pain and shock, they are not liable to the mental depression which acts so powerfully in after life. They are usually healthy, and their internal organs are not so frequently the seat of organic diseases, the result of long-continued or abused action, as those of adults. Their growing con- dition, moreover, favors the process of repair, and the union of wounds. The chief danger to them is shock, consequent upon pain and hemorrhage; the latter undoubtedly acts powerfully in this direction, but, this once overcome, the wounds of children heal kindly and rapidly, and they are rarely sub- ject to the secondary complications of pyaemia or septicaemia; tetanus may at times occur, but more often as the consequence of lacerated or ragged