414 ANESTHETICS AND ANESTHESIA. ity, during which tlie pulse suddenly disappears, respiration ceases, and death occurs. Death in all such cases, and they form the vast majority of the examples of death during the anaesthetic process, is the direct result of the toxic effects of the drug upon the nervous centres which preside over the acts of circulation and respiration. It is, therefore, impossible to employ any anaesthetic agent without, in some small degree, at least, approaching the con- fines of danger. All diseases which diminish the energy of the heart and of the lungs, tend to increase the dangers of anaesthesia. Hemorrhage, intem- perance, cold, hunger, want, misery, mental anxiety, loss of sleep, fatigue, are all causes of danger, because they serve to depress the vital energies. Since suffocation by the passage of food into the trachea has occurred during the ac-c of vomiting excited by the anaesthetic, it is advisable to administer the vapor at a time when the stomach is probably empty. The rate of inhalation may become a source of danger. Hasty saturation of the tissues with a powerful anaesthetic may cause speedy death. The primary stage of anaesthesia is a period of excitement, during which it is not impossible that fatal syncope may result from over-stimulation of the cardiac inhibitory apparatus before the fully toxic action of the drug has been dis- played. Convulsions may thus be aroused, and may produce death by arrest of respiration, or they may be the forerunners of fatal syncope. Sudden excitement of the reflex apparatus, by incision of the skin before complete abolition of sensibility, may in like manner become a cause of death. It is for this reason always best to produce complete insensibility before the com- mencement of an operation, even though a certain slight risk of over-satura- tion of the tissues be thus incurred. As a general fact, children are remarkably tolerant of anaesthesia. The rapid rate of circulation and respiration, and the larger relative surfaces of their bodies, provide for a speedy elimination of the anaesthetic substance, so that cumulative effects are almost out of the question. Aged persons, also, have been claimed as more than ordinarily favorable subjects for artificial anaesthesia. Few old people, however, become the objects of such experiment, and the fatality among them must therefore seem to be less than among the middle-aged who form the mass of patients. To such elderly patients, anaes- thetics should be administered with more than ordinary care, for with them the phenomena of anaesthesia are liable to assume an adynamic character. Women resemble children in the rapidity with which they yield to inhalation. It has been thought that they are less liable than men to the accident of syncope during anaesthesia. At the menstrual epoch they are more than usually liable to nervous excitement and to hallucinations, but are otherwise not excessively exposed to danger. During the period of pregnancy, aside from the risk of injury through violent muscular efforts in the stage of excitement, there seems to he no unusual risk from artificial anaesthesia. The act of parturition seems to confer almost absolute immunity from danger through anaesthetic inhalation. Peculiarities of temperament and constitution appear to exercise no appreciable effect upon the course of anaesthesia. A predisposition to syncope does indeed furnish a contra-indication to the use of anaesthetics. Various diseases of the brain and spinal cord, especially such as encroach upon the medulla oblongata and its neighborhood, increase the danger of accident. Epileptics are very liable to convulsion during the stage of excite- ment, but the immediately subsequent stage of resolution is sufficiently favor- able to warrant the administration of anaesthetics to such patients. The same thing is true of hystero-epilepsy. Alcoholic intoxication and delirium tremens prohibit inhalation, because of the existing tendency to death from exhaustion and syncope. Surgical shock, for the same reason, constitutes a