98 INFLAMMATION. and in inflammations of serous and mucous membranes, before exudation has taken place into the connective tissue underlying these membranes. In fact, the looseness of texture and distensibility of the connective tissue of an in- flamed part is a condition necessary for the production of this symptom in any considerable degree. The Pain so rarely absent in inflammation is explained by the local irrita- tion of the nerves of a part by the causes which have excited the condition, as by the contact of a splinter, or an acrid poison, or by a burn, and also by the tension and partial laceration of nervous filaments by any of the causes which beget swelling. The sudden darting pains which are felt in an abscess approaching maturity, mark the rupture of small nerves stretched beyond their capacity of resistance by the growing bulk of the collection of pus. Pain alone is often a valuable sign of a deep-seated local inflammation, where its distance from the surface of the body has prevented the recognition of heat, redness, or swelling. The first symptom of a subfascial abscess of the iliac fossa is pain in extending the thigh. The knotted hardness and keen sensitiveness over the track of the lymphatic trunks precedes the redness in lymphangeitis. The extreme tenderness to the touch of the lymphatic gland in front of the ear, is one of the characteristic prodromata by which we are able to foretell an outbreak of erysipelas of the face. The exquisite sensi- bility on pressure over the vein, is the earliest diagnostic symptom of a phlebitis. Pain varies much in character according to the nature and ordinary sensi- bility of the parts affected. When they are unyielding, as in periostitis in the socket of a tooth threatening abscess, or in whitlow—which involves the dense fibrous structures surrounding the bone at the end of a finger—or in a crisis of gout, the pain amounts to torture. In inflammation of the substance of the testis, enveloped by the unyielding tunica albuginea, or of the tissues within the globe of the eye, or in the external meatus of the ear, or in the interior of bone, pain is notoriously severe. Pain of a pulsatile or throbbing character is caused by the increased force of the smaller arteries bring- ing blood to the focus of inflammation, and by the obstruction to free circulation caused by the swelling, and possibly increased by stasis, at the centre of the inflamed area. The condition of strangulation, in which the pain is excessive, takes place when the veins of an inflamed part are obstructed by the pressure of the swelling, so that the blood cannot escape through them whilst it is still being brought by the arteries. This is liable to occur in epididymitis and acute orchitis, in which the turgid vessels of the spermatic cord are encircled by the unyielding borders of the external abdominal ring. On the other hand, pain is not rarely trivial, or even entirely absent, in grave inflammations where the parts affected are of soft consistence and have free room to swell, as, for example, in pneumonia. Pain presents variety in quality as well as in degree, and expressions are in common use for indicating certain of its varieties. Thus where 'a nerve of any size is subjected to pressure, as from a collection of pus, the pain is aching, sometimes tingling, as when the ulnar nerve where it lies behind the internal condyle of the humerus has been bruised. In many skin inflamma- tions pain takes the form of itching; in others, again, this form of pain is entirely absent, as in the eruptions of syphilis. An abscess forming in the head of the tibia causes a boring pain, which is distinctly worse at night. An abscess forming slowly in soft parts produces a sense of weight, or a tensive pain ; when about to point it gives rise to lancinating pain. The pain of an erysipelas is described as burning or sore. Thus the pain of inflammation has a language of its own, a familiarity with which is useful in diagnosis, espe-