577 INSTRUMENTS REQUIRED FOR AMPUTATION. fluids which, are always poured out in an amputation-wound after the opera- tion, but if the ordinary form of ligature be adopted, the drainage tube is usually unnecessary. Other means of checking the bleeding after amputa- tion, such as acupressure or some of its modifications—filo-pressure, etc.—or torsion, may be employed, and each method is advocated by excellent sur- geons. These will be fully described in the article on Injuries of Blood- vessels, in a subsequent volume, and need not be further considered here. I have, however, no hesitation in expressing the opinion that the ligature is more valuable than all of its substitutes put together, and is certainly prefer- able as a means of arresting hemorrage after the operation of amputation. The Retractor is an important part of the necessary apparatus for an amputation, and its value, as has been already mentioned, was fully recog- nized by the surgeons of antiquity. It consists of a piece of stout muslin, six or eight inches wide and three or four feet long, one end being split to the middle into two tails for amputations of the upper arm and thigh, and into three tails for those of the forearm and leg below the knee. In the former case the tails are wound around the bone, and crossed ; in the latter, the middle tail is thrust between the bones and the others are disposed of as before ; both ends of the retractor are then grasped by an assistant and firmly drawn upwards, so as to answer the double purpose of retracting the muscles from the bone and of protecting the soft parts from being injured by the saw. The muslin retractor is made fresh for every case; certainly a cleaner and better plan than to use the leather retractor of Gooch,1 Broml'eild,2 and others of our predecessors. Sutures.—Great diversity of opinion has prevailed at different times as to the propriety of using sutures in the dressing of amputation wounds. The ancients employed them as one of the means of arresting hemorrhage, and they continued to be thus used until the general adoption of the ligature; and the eminent surgeon of Guy’s Hospital, Samuel Sharp, or Sharpe—he spelt his name both ways—revived the use of the “cross-stitch” (an old device employed by Pare and Wiseman), to prevent retraction of the soft parts and consequent protrusion of the bone, and in both his “Treatise on the Opera- tions of Surgery,” and his “ Critical Enquiry,” lauded it as not less valuable for this purpose than the “double incision” of Petit and Cheselden. Other surgeons have reprobated the use of sutures altogether, preferring to secure approximation of the edges of the wound by the use of compresses and bandages, or by the employment of adhesive plaster. There can certainly be nothing more injudicious than to sew up a stump tightly, as if to hermetically seal it, without making any provision for the escape of effused fluids, or allowing for the unavoidable occurrence of swelling; such a mode of dressing the wound will, in the course of a few hours, probably send up the patient's pulse and temperature in an early development of traumatic fever, and it will be fortunate if the mistake is discovered in time to cut out the offending stitches before sloughing is inevitable. But provided that there is tissue enough to cover the bone without making tension, and that ample drainage is afforded either by the ligature ends or by the introduction of a tube, sutures may be properly employed after amputation, and present, I think, many advantages over other methods of closing the wound. The best material for the suture is, I think, silver, lead, or malleable iron wire; catgut is unsatisfactory, as not keeping its place for a sufficient length 1 Cases and Practical Remarks in Surgery, vol. ii. p. 330. Norwich, 1767. 2 Chirurgical Observations and Cases, vol. i. p. 152. London, 1773. vol. i.—37