35 APPARENT MIGRATION OF CELLS IN THE MIDST OF TISSUE. where the so-called fixed cornea-cells were still preserved, and have never even seen an approach to forms which I might call wandering cells. In the pa- renchyma of the cornea which is still provided with branched cells, I have until now seen wandering cells only in the case of the frog, and even here I was deceived, as new researches have taught me. The migration of cells in the living cornea was discovered by Reckling- hausen. Row, if I say that this discovery was based on an illusion, the reproach is applicable not alone to the discoverer, but to myself as well, and to all those who have admitted the discovery. Recklinghausen’s observation was really one of great excellence, and everybody can convince himself that the forms which were called wandering cells, actually change their position. The essence of this change, however, is not founded on a migration of cells. If somebody should show me a mass of white, hardened wax, which he had poured into a metallic vessel, and should secretly move a flame slowly along under the vessel, I might perhaps see a spot wandering along the surface of the wax, a spot which could be recognized to be melted wax. I could also look towards the bottom, and matters might appear as though a lump of melted wax were wandering through the rigid mass. But, in reality, the wax would not move, it would be only the change (by melting) which would do so. In such a case closer inspection would show me that, on one side, the fluid lump gradually hardened and assumed the character of the remaining wax, whilst, on the other side, it gradually increased in extent by the melting of a new mass of Avax. The situation is similar in the inflamed cornea of a frog. On one side, the end of a cell assumes the character of the basis-sub- stance ; on the other side, a portion of the basis-substance which borders on the cell assumes the character of the cell. The final result of this change is a change in form and position of the entire cell.1 I must remark here that the observations on which I base the foregoing statement Avere made on the inflamed cornets of frogs, Avith the slide heated up to about 38° C. [100°.4 F.].2 My preparations are made as follows: I wound the cornea one or two days before the examination, according to the season of the year. About an hour before the examination I kill another animal, and collect its blood in a small saucer. In the course of an hour the blood is firmly coagulated, and clear serum is col- lected on the surface of the clot. I draw this serum off with the aid of a capillary glass tube, and put enough on the slide to prepare the excised cor- nea in it. During the course of the examination I add a fresh drop of serum from time to time. The observation that migratory cells become altered, and assume the ap- pearance of basis-substance, is really not neAv. It aatis knoivn long ago that in the building up of the animal organism cells became metamorphosed into basis-substance; but it Avas belieATed that this metamorphosis signified the final destruction of the cell; there Avas likeAArise ground for the assumption that this metamorphosis only proceeded sloAvly. For it takes Aveeks, months, and at times years, according to the growth of the animal, until the meta- morphosis is effected. On the other hand, a rapid change Avas not altogether unknown. If I am not mistaken, Recklinghausen has already reported that the migratory cells occasionally disappear from vieAv. I spoke of it myself in the year 1869.3 At that time I had already learned, from long-continued 1 These observations are difficult, and liable to excite opposition. Yet I cannot enter into a detailed description and proof in this place. I have done so in an article which will be pub- lished with the title of “ Zellen und Grundsubstanzen” (Cells and Basis-substance). More- over, I shall again return to the subject in this section (page 36), and shall adduce other observations which will elucidate from another point of view the assertions made in the text. 2 My heatable slide (see Strieker’s Manual, American edition, p. 57) did me excellent ser- vice here. 3 Studien aus d. Inst, fur exp. Path.