163 CAUSES OF ERYSIPELAS. character of those sources will he pointed out presently. Meanwhile it may be stated that the exposure to such effluvia of any wound, great or small, in- cised, lacerated or punctured, recent or chronic, healthy or unhealthy, suppu- rating or not, may be sufficient to admit the virus of the disease. And equally is it true that any mucous membrane similarly exposed to receive that virus, may become the channel of its introduction into the system. These facts must always be taken into account while studying the general influences which seem to determine more or less the prevalence of the disease. Thus it is often said that the total number of cases of erysipelas, and their proportionate mor- tality, are greater during the winter and spring months, or from October to March inclusively, than during the summer and autumn, or from April to September inclusively. But to infer from this statement that cold weather was a cause, predisposing or exciting, of the disease, would be unwarrantable; since it is perfectly intelligible that, if the disease were propagated by a mate- rial poison, it would be more prevalent and fatal in close rooms during the winter, than in well-ventilated summer wards or apartments. In point of fact, however, the rule is not absolute, and it has happened that epidemics which began in the winter, have reached their height only during the following summer. One of the worst epidemics of erysipelas on record prevailed at Paris in the summer of 1861. It is often remarked that erysipelas is apt to prevail or increase during cold and damp weather, and when the wind is easterly, and it has been charged that the habit of ventilating certain hospital wards in London, and elsewhere in the north of Europe, by opening the windows widely while the wind blew from the east, was frequently the means of producing and extending the dis- ease. That being chilled sometimes develops erysipelas, seems certain; and some persons have attributed to cold a direct and independent power of pro- ducing it, on the strength of such cases as the following: — A man subject to articular rheumatism was exposed to cold and wet, and after a chill was attacked with fever, and articular pains in a limb which presently became swollen, red, and covered with pldyctense; after a time the skin broke and discharged a large amount of sanious liquid, and then, as the patient was growing convalescent, he was attacked with erysipelas of the face, which ran its usual course.1 In this case, it is not certain that cold was the only morbid cause to which the patient was exposed. Of the case reported by Mr. Beale,2 in which a child three weeks old was, without known cause, attacked with phlegmonous ery- sipelas of the left leg and thigh, which speedily proved fatal, it can only be said that the cause was unknown. Certainly, in many cases, erysipelas of the face follows exposure to cold, and especially to cold winds ; but how far cold may be regarded as an essential cause, is uncertain. In like manner cachectic conditions seem to favor the development of the disease, but probably only by lessening resistance to the morbid poison on which the disease more directly depends. It would seem that Bright’s disease in a special manner consti- tutes such a predisposition, as appears in the following instance related by Mr. Fergusson:—3 A woman of intemperate habits, who had albuminous urine, pricked her thumb; the wound soon grew painful and erysipelatous, and the inflammation in a phlegmonous form spread rapidly to the whole limb, terminating fatally about the ninth day. The difficulty of accounting for attacks of erysipelas is aptly illustrated by the remark of Mr. Callender, made as lately as 1878,4 that they sometimes 1 Denoyer, Archives Generates de Medecine, Dec. 1878, p. 719. 2 Lancet, March, 1860, p. 293. 3 Medical Times and Gazette, Aug. 1868, p. 211. 4 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. xiv. p. 185.