523 SURGICAL USES OF ELECTRICITY. Iii the treatment of aneurism, two methods are employed. One method is to insert the needle, connected with only one of the poles of the battery, into the sac, the other rheophore being applied to the surface of the body. In the second and better method, two fine, sharp needles, carefully insulated nearly to their extremities, and connected with the conducting cords from both poles of the battery, are introduced into the aneurismal sac. At first a weak cur- rent is allowed to pass, its strength being gradually and cautiously increased as the operation advances. The operation should be performed slowly, as clots that are rapidly produced are liable to be washed away by the blood current. At the expiration of a period varying from half an hour to an hour, the needles are to be removed, and the punctures closed by small compresses of lint secured by plaster or collodion. In some cases it will be found neces- sary, in consequence of the timidity of the patient, or of pain, to resort to anaesthesia either local or general. In treating tumors of any kind by electrolysis, the methods are practically the same. As in the case of aneurism, needles either from one or from both poles of the battery are introduced directly into the tumor, in the same way that a hypodermic needle would be inserted. The cells of carcinomata are said to yield sooner to electrolysis than other cells, just as one body may decompose more readily than another. Some electro-therapeutists, the two Bruns, for example, consider that the destructive action of the current is strictly and wholly due to the action of the alkali developed at the negative, and the acid at the positive pole. In addition to its uses in cases of aneurism and tumors, it is claimed by electro-therapeutists that electrolysis is serviceable in the treatment of hydrocele, stricture of the urethra, opacities of the cornea, cata- ract, inflammatory thickenings in and about the ear, etc. Galvano-Cautery.—Galvano-cautery batteries are made with plates or ele- ments of a large size, hut comparatively few in number, and placed close to one another. In this way, “ internal resistance,” as the electrician would say, is reduced, and a current is obtained which will keep a metallic electrode at a white heat. There are many varieties of the galvano-cautery battery, hut perhaps the most compact and generally useful apparatus is the Byrne Cautery Battery, an invention of Dr. John Byrne, of Brooklyn, Y. Y. Figs. 93 and 94 represent the battery and the necessary appliances, such as handles, ecraseurs, knives, moxa, scoops, etc. The galvano-cautery may he employed in nearly all operations in which the actual or potential cautery, or the ecraseur, are employed. By its aid morbid growths and diseased parts can he removed with greater expedition, and with less risk of con- secutive hemorrhage, than with the ordinary ecra- seur. When resorted to as a means of applying the cautery in cavities, its action can be more accu- rately localized than that of the ordinary methods of cauterization; for which reason, many gynae- cologists prefer this apparatus to all others in their operations on the cervix uteri and in the cavity of the womb. The success attending the use of the galvano- cautery is mainly dependent on the degree of tem- perature employed. Experience has demonstrated that a dull red heat pro- duces the best results, and hence this temperature should be continuously