ERYSIPELAS. 164 seem “ to grow out of the irritation caused by some acrid secretion by error allowed to remain in a wound.” The term “ acrid secretion” is familiar but indefinite, and is hardly to be accepted as correct in regard to any liquid at the moment of its secretion. But although any such liquid may become acrid by putrefaction, it is well known that no such change is necessary to produce even traumatic erysipelas, and to that alone the above remark applies. Neverthe- less, the proofs of the origin of many cases of erysipelas in the emanations of decomposing organic matter are conclusive. Of this statement some illustra- tions may here be given. Dr. Begbie published several cases of erysipelas, one of which was traceable to the emanations of decomposing vegetable mat- ter.1 It is of interest in this instance to remark that the family attacked was from the country, and newly arrived in Edinburgh, while the other in- mates of the infected house had long been resident there, and had doubtless become seasoned to its poisonous atmosphere. Several years ago an English writer used this language: “There is now no more doubt that erysipelas is originated by sewer gas than that typhoid fever is more often than not due to impure water.”2 In numerous instances the prevalence of the disease has been proved to be coincident with the presence of choked drains, drains communicating with town sewers, or drains which had become permeable to fecal gases or liquids either by the corrosive action of their contents or by the gnawing of rats, while the subsidence of such local epidemics has coincided with a reformation of the existing defects in venti- lation, sewerage, and water supply. As an example of these agencies, the case of the Somerset County (England) Lunatic Asylum may he cited. Be- tween December and the following May, thirty-two cases of erysipelas occurred, of which four proved fatal, and, on investigation, it was found that none of the soil pipes were ventilated; one of them had a communication with the main sewer; most of them were of lead, and several of these were eaten and riddled with holes; and the main drain had, on one occasion, been blocked entirely to the extent of three or four yards. According to the same authority, in a large London hospital, pyaemia and erysipelas had prevailed to a deplo- rable extent, and, on examination, its means of ventilation were found to be very defective; but as soon as the defects were corrected and the pressure removed from the traps of the closets and lavatories, no fresh cases occurred. In another instance, an epidemic of the disease was distinctly traced to the stopping up of a ventilation-pipe by a careless workman. The Sanitary Reports of England contain numerous instances which prove, like those just cited, that outbreaks of erysipelas, as well as of hospital gan- grene and of fevers, are, with scarcely an exception, connected with serious defects of drainage or ventilation, or with a lack of any provision for isolat- ing infection, or with some of these defects combined. Thus, at the Radcliffe Infirmary, where twenty-six persons affected with various diseases or injuries had been attacked with erysipelas, and five of them had died of the super- induced affection, the origin of the outbreak was undoubtedly owing to the imperfect arrangement of the drains, added to crowding, uncleanliness, and imperfect ventilation. At the Royal Infirmary, Manchester, recurring out- breaks of traumatic erysipelas had taken place, which were traced to the ex- cessively foul drainage and to the overcrowding of the house with patients and attendants. The water-closets, baths, ward offices, and drains of the infirmary were placed within thfc building, and several of the closets were without direct communication with the outer air, so that sewer gas escaping from them necessarily passed into the corridors and wards. Under such con- 1 Monthly Journal of Medical Science, Sept. 1852, p. 243. s London Sanitary Record, June, 1879, pp. 357, 379.