530 MIXOR SURGERY. trunks of the extremities, and furnishes tracings of a delicate and reliable character in a very short time. The improved form of Dr. Pond’s sphygmo- graph does not require. a splint or other support for the part to whiclf the instrument may be applied. The pulsations of an artery are communicated to the expanded extremity of a vertical lever, inclosed in a tube that is closed below by a diaphragm of thin rubber. This lever is connected with a system ol levers which serve to move a pendulum-jointed needle which records the arterial pulsations on a slip. A watch-movement attached to the vertical tube by an upright moves the tracing-slip on a fixed horizontal slide. A pressure-gauge, graduated from one to sixteen ounces, is attached to the tube containing the vertical lever, and indicates the amount of pressure made on an artery when a tracing is being taken. (Fig. 98.) A slip of enamelled paper or mica, prepared as has already been de- scribed for receiving a tracing, is secured on the slide by setting free the watch- movement, ; when the slip has been carried along about a quarter of an inch, the watch-movement is stopped till the sphyg- mograph is adjusted. The operator then places the instrument over the artery (usually the radial, just within the styloid process of the radius), with the button- like extremity of the vertical lever im- pinging upon the vessel, and holds it steadily in this position while the tracing is being taken. The amount of com- pression that will give the maximum movement to the needle on the slip may be ascertained by observing the pressure- gauge as the pressure on the artery is varied ; this degree of compression should be maintained during the operation. With the instrument properly adjusted, and the tracing-slip in position, the watch- movement is to be liberated—to be again stopped when the slip has been propelled over the platform. Should it be desirable, sphygmographic tracings can be readily preserved by varnishing them. To make them of service for future reference, the name of the patient, the date of the observation, and the amount of pressure made on the artery, should be inscribed on the blackened surface of each slip by means of some sharp-pointed instrument, as a needle or pin. The varnish recommended by Dr. A. E. Sansom is composed of gum benzoin, one ounce, and methylated spirit, six ounces. Dr. Pond prefers one consisting of alcohol, one pint; gum sandarac, three ounces ; and castor oil, half an ounce. The slips, after having been inscribed, are carefully dipped in the varnish, and allowed to dry. Fig. 98. Pond’s sphygmograph.