622 AMPUTATIONS. times as apt to be followed by death as during the earlier period ; and (2) that in persons more than thirty years of age, amputation is almost twice as fatal as in those who are younger. Constitutional Condition.—The influence of pre-existing constitutional affections on the results of injuries and surgical operations in general, has been forcibly set forth by Prof. Verneuil in a preceding article of the present volume (page 307), and the same lesson lias been taught by Dr. Brinton in his remarks on Operative Surgery in General (page 463). It remains for me therefore, in this place, merely to adduce certain particular illustrations of the truth of these doctrines as applied to amputations. Mr. Birkett1 has recorded the results of 167 single amputations, mostly performed by himself in the wards of Guy’s Hospital. Of the whole number of cases, 53 proved fatal, 10 dying from the immediate effects of the injuries for which the ope- ration was performed, and 22 (or more than half of the remainder) being proved by post-mortem examination to have been the subjects of chronic disease of the viscera, while in fifteen more the patients’ powers of nutrition were evidently impaired before the operation. Mr. Holmes, in his two papers,2 has recorded 500 cases, of which 148 proved fatal: in 33 of these, the patients’ death was inevitable, resulting from causes unconnected with the operation; and in 57 more, death, though probably not inevitable, was mainly due to visceral disease or other morbid conditions existing prior to the amputation. Mr. Bryant’s Table of 300 cases3 shows that well-marked visceral disease was the cause of death in 13 per cent, of all fatal cases, and in Mr. Callender’s Tables of 358 cases,4 the mortality from the same cause was over 16 per cent., while Dr Clievers, in his Inquiry into the causes of death after injuries and surgical operations (not exclusively amputations),5 6 found that of 153 fatal cases, the kidneys were markedly diseased in at least 72, the liver and spleen also being often affected, and that “ in a rather large proportion of these cases, the disease of the liver, spleen, and kidneys had evidently existed for a very considerable time previous to the patient’s receiving the wounds or injuries which became the apparent primary .causes of death.” Sex.-—The influence of visceral disease upon the mortality of amputations, is, of course, largely concerned in rendering the operation more fatal among adults than among children—healthy viscera being the rule in childhood ; and the same influence is no doubt shown in the slightly greater risk in per- sons of the male than in those of the female sex—men, at the period of life at which most amputations are performed, being, from their habits and modes of living, probably more apt to be the subjects of visceral disease than women of the same age. This point may be illustrated by Dr. Steele’s Tables of 507 cases of amputation in Guy’s Hospital during the fifteen years from 1854 to 1868.® The mortality among males was 37.7 per cent., but among females only 21.5 per cent. In Malgaigne’s 560 cases7 of major amputation derived from various French hospitals, the male mortality was over 55 per cent., the female less than 47 per cent.; and in Trelat’s 1144 cases,8 also derived 1 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d s., vol. xv. p. 562. 2 St. George’s Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 291, and vol. viii. p. 269. 3 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xlii. p. 67. 4 Ibid., vol. xlvii. p. 75. 5 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 2d s. vol. i. p. 78. . . 6 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d s. vol. xv. p. 600. I have not utilized Dr. Steele’s statistics as to the effects of age, because his Tables are overlapped by those of Mr. Golding-Bird, which are somewhat larger. 7 Archives Generates de Medecine, Mai, 1842, p. 57. 8 Bulletin de l’Academie Imperiale de Medecine, tome xxvii. p. 591.