541 SKIN GRAFTING. with a score of others derived from a young pig.1 Animals, also, were made the subjects of experimentation; indeed, some years before 1869, with regard to animal grafting it was proposed to “ unite,” or “ glue together,” two ani- mals by their cutaneous envelopes, and even animals of different species.2 Some, like Reverdin, preferred small grafts; others, as M. Ollier,3 thought better of larger ones, even reaching the dimensions of eight square centimetres, or, as Donnelly,4 employed those of a diameter of a quarter of an inch. Savrey, quoted by Georges Martin,5 6 asserts that “ two Swedes, to give each other a durable remembrancer, exchanged a bit of skin of the inside of the forearm;” but the most remarkable graft ever applied was one of which we find the account in the discourse of Ustariz already referred to. It is as follows:— “ Armaignac says that, in the seventeenth century, there is seen a light glimmering in this direction, quoting' a case, related by an ecclesiastic named Kraemoinkel, of a soldier who had lost a large part of the hairy seal;) and of the bone beneath it, the surgeon closing this opening with a portion of bone and skin, of the' same form and dimensions, taken from a dog which he killed for the purpose. As it appears, the Church being apprised of the matter, there were launched against the poor surgeon all the anathemas and furies of which that institution is capable ; and it became necessary for his return into the communion of the faithful that he should practise a new operation upon the unfortunate soldier, ridding him of that unclean spoil of dog which had become strongly consolidated with the adjacent parts, and, as Armaignac facetiously remarks, subjecting him to a treatment more conformable to the Christian character.” The whole matter of skin, or, as Reverdiu calls it, epidermic grafting, was liberally treated by that author in the Archives Generales de Medicine for the year 1872. His method, exceedingly simple, may be expressed in a few words. Taking usually his little bits from the inner surface of the leg, he rendered the skin tense over the flat surface of the tibia, and introduced the point of a rather large venesection lancet parallel to the bone, and to the depth of a half millimetre; then pushing it forward so that the point should emerge three or four millimetres further on, the little piece was cut loose by the edges of the instrument. “ The little wound,” he adds, “is the seat of a fine sanguineous dew.” “I apply,” continues the author, “my lancet, hearing the graft, upon the granulations which I have selected, and slide it upon them with the point of a pin. It is thus in relation with the granulations by its deeper face, and I ascertain, by a motion from side to side, that no part of its edge is rolled up, for it is necessary that it should be completely spread out. This result once obtained, and all my grafts in place, I cover them with strips of diachylon plaster, which are not removed for twenty-four hours.” Some- times the grafts were furnished by the subject himself; at other times they were successfully borrowed from a different person; now they were obtained, as at Guy’s Hospital and at St. Barfliolomew’s, from limbs recently ampu- tated; or, again, they were derived from the cadaver, soon after death, as by M. Prudhomme.* One fact, says Reverdin, would be of great importance “ if it were perfectly demonstrated.” Dobson and Laroyenne7 found it necessary and advantageous to borrow grafts from young subjects to implant upon aged patients. But, from his own experience, the inventor of the process does not “venture to draw a definitive conclusion” upon this point. We learn also 1 Thomas F. Raven, British Medical Journal, London, 1877, vol. ii. p. 623. 2 P. Bert, Exp. et Consid. sur la GrefFe Animale. Journal de l’Anat. et de la Physiol, nor- male et path., t. i. pp. 64, 87. Paris, 1864. 3 Ollier, Sur les Greffes Cutanees ou Autoplastiques. Bull, de l’Acad. de Medecine, Paris, 1872, pp. 242, 246. 1 Donnelly, New York Med. Record, 1872, p. 572. 5 Georges Martin, op. cit. p. 14. 6 Lancet, May 20, 1871 ; These de Colrat ; Reverdin, loc. cit. 7 Med. Times and Gazette, Oct. 29, 1870 ; Colrat, op. cit. ; Reverdin, loc. cit.