311 ARTHRITISM. have obtained wonderful results with the permanent antiseptic hath and with open dressings. Lister and his disciples daily perform similar miracles which throw into relief the great part played by the traumatic centre in the produc- tion of complications. We must not, however, run into extremes; and in considering how very favorable is the suppression of traumatic fever in dia- thetic individuals, we must not imagine that all danger ceases from merely treating the wounds antiseptically. If' this were so, the influence of constitu- tional conditions would be entirely neutralized to-day, and these pages would be unnecessary. I know not whether in the future affairs will run such a course that we need not fear the deterioration of the economy by antecedent diseases, but unfortunately we have not arrived at that stage at present. With the anti- septic method we lose indeed fewer, many fewer patients ; but we still lose some, and a careful examination of the causes of death clearly shows us that they consist almost exclusively in bad constitutional conditions of the injured persons. We may add, moreover, that antiseptic dressings, in order to be really efficacious, should be applied rigorously, and that such applications cannot always be effected in the actual condition of science. In order to prove this, it is only necessary to refer to the extensive class of operations in cavities, that we may remind the surgeon that, under many circumstances, he must still combat the evil influence of general disease. But the point which must be insisted on most strongly, is the necessity of instituting during, after, and especially before the operation, if there be no urgency, a plan of treatment in which are associated hygiene, diet, the use of drugs—medical treatment par excellence—designed to combat the constitu- tional disease, as would be done were no surgical complication present. Hot only, by such a plan, will the chances of the immediate success of the opera- tion be*increased, but we will often have the good fortune of indefinitely delaying the injurious relapses of the diathesis. It may even happen that, while merely attempting a preparation which shall be favorable to the final result, there may be obtained, by medical treatment alone, a recovery as bril- liant and much less onerous than that which was expected, from the knife. After these general considerations upon the reciprocal influence of consti- tutional diseases and traumatic lesions, we will now begin the study of the relations of each panpathy to wounds. Arthritism. (Rheumatism., Gout, Herpetism.) Rheumatism.—(1) Influence of Rheumatism upon the Seat of Injury.—The rheumatic diathesis has not, like syphilis and scrofula, the property of im- pressing a peculiar stamp upon the traumatic lesion ; it does not even modify to an appreciable extent the reparative process as do alcoholism and diabetes. Heither favoring the production of pus, nor counting among its morbid pro- cesses either ulceration, gangrene, or diffuse inflammation, it has hardly any tendency to modify surgical wounds unfavorably, to increase or alter the sup- puration, to prevent the formation and transformation of the granular mem- brane. Open wounds, therefore, have commonly a good appearance in rheu- matic patients, and run their course in the usual manner. Certain specific complications may, however, occur at the wounded point, which are observed not unfrequently and are easily recognized. It is known that even a slight articular lesion in a rheumatic patient readily gives rise to a hydrarthrosis, a more or less obstinate synovitis, or even loose bodies ; and that a luxation, a