TRAUMATIC OR INFLAMMATORY FEVER. 105 of temperature are present, ending in congestion, inflammation, and suppura- tion.1 Aided by clinical evidence, we may conclude, concerning the duration of ordinary traumatic or inflammatory fever, that whether it arises from a ner- vous, or a material infective cause, or from a combination of both, in the great majority of cases it tends to get well spontaneously, in a few days; the vital powers being competent to set to rights the nervous constitutional disturbance, or to resist and prevent the propagation, within the organism, of any material or infective fever-producing agents. This point, that is, the tendency of traumatic fever to spontaneous and speedy recovery, should be clearly con- ceived, in view of its bearing upon the question of treatment. In accordance with the doctrine of the day already recognized, and leaving nervous influence out of the question, the theory which best explains the oc- currence of traumatic fever is the absorption of poisonous material from the wound into the circulating current, the presence of which poisonous material in the blood causes its rise of temperature. If the traumatic fever persist beyond the five or six days assigned as its usual duration, or if it recurs in the form of “secondary” fever, the most probable explanation of these pheno- mena will be found in lack of power in the organism to prevent the propaga- tion within it of the infective material. The terms infective and n on-infective, introduced by Simon and Sanderson, have been so generally adopted in treating of surgical inflammations and fevers as to require special definition. They involve a belief in a simple form of inflammation which never occurs without a cause, and which tends to'disappear spontaneously as soon as its cause is withdrawn. “An inflam- mation,” says Sanderson,2 “ which is more or less exactly limited in duration and extent by the limits of the injury which has caused it, may, with scien- tific precision, be designated a simple or normal inflammation,” that is, non- inf ective. On the contrary, “ an inflammation which spreads and endures beyond the direct and primary operation of its cause, which induces similar inflam- mations in other parts, and disorders the vital functions of the whole body, has in it something beyond the effects of the injury, and may be properly termed infective.”3 In the latest English systematic work on pathology4 this is spoken of as “ one of the most important divisions of inflammation and it is stated that, “ in all infective inflammations the formation of the infective substance appears to be due to the presence of minute organisms, these organisms, in the ordinary non-specific inflammations, being the com- mon septic bacteria.” It cannot be said to be demonstrated that the infective properties undoubtedly possessed by fresh healthy pus, as the typical pi’oduct of inflammation, are due to micro-organisms. If so, the vital quality which 1 In his opening address, as President of the Surgical Section of the British Medical Association, in August, 1880, Mr. Savory expresses himself as follows : “ For many years the belief prevailed that disturbance of the whole body, or the illness produced by local mischief, was evoked through the nervous system, and hence the phrases ‘ sympathetic inflammatory fever,’ and ‘constitu- tional irritation and this great doctrine naturally grew in force as the functions of the nervous system came to be better understood. The discovery of reflex function went very far to explain the mode of action of the nervous system as the channel of sympathy between the various struc- tures and organs of the body. But then came the knowledge of what is now known as 1 blood- poisoning and from the time, not far distant, when this first dawned on the minds of surgeons, it has become so rapidly developed that now it threatens to, nay actually does, exclude the older view ; so that with many, at the present time, constitutional disturbance, in this relation, means, always, the phenomena of blood-poisoning, in some one or other of its various forms.” He then proceeds to show that both these forms of constitutional disturbance occur, and that although they are often confused, it is of the highest importance to distinguish each of them. 2 Report of an Experimental Study of Infective Inflammation, 1872, p. 48. 3 Ibid. p. 49. 4 An Introduction to Pathology and Morbid Anatomy, p. 215. By T. Henry Green, etc. London,