358 SHOCK. and general depression, all point to some failure among those forces that main- tain the circulating fluid at the necessary tension ; to some difficulty affecting the motive impulse of the heart, or the peripheral resistance of the capillaries, or the state of tone of the smaller vessels, arteries as well as veins; for these are the forces mainly concerned in keeping up the arterial pressure on which the circulation depends. That the first of these three, the heart, is affected, can have escaped the notice of none who have ever experienced emotion of any kind; with regard to the others, there would be greater doubt if it had not been proved by experimental demonstration ; though it might reasonably have been surmised from the well-known occurrence of syncope, in failure of the heart’s power from organic disease or other causes, that for the production of shock, unattended by loss of consciousness, some additional element must be present. With regard to the causes of shock, there can he no doubt that mental emotion, especially joy or fear, of itself, without bodily hurt of any kind, may be followed by the gravest form of shock, resulting in immediate death even where there is no probability of organic disease of the heart. Many years ago, the janitor of a college had rendered himself in some way obnox- ious to the students, and they determined to punish him. They accordingly prepared a block and axe, which they conveyed to a lonely place, and, having dressed themselves in black, some of them prepared to act as judges, and sent others of their company to bring him before them. When lie saw the preparations that had been made, lie at first affected to treat the whole thing as a joke, but was solemnly assured by the students that they meant it in real earnest. He was told to prepare for immediate death, for they were going to behead him then and there. The trembling janitor looked all around in the vain hope of seeing some indication that nothing was really meant, but stern looks everywhere met him, and one of the students proceeded to blindfold him. The poor man was made to kneel before the block, the executioner’s axe was raised, but, instead of the sharp edge, a wet towel was brought smartly down on the back of the culprit’s neck. This was all that the students meant to do, and, thinking that they had frightened the janitor sufficiently, they undid the bandage which covered his eyes. To their astonishment and horror, they found that he wTas dead.1 And although this extreme effect may not be common, instances of cata- lepsy, hysteria, idiocy, and other morbid mental conditions are in plenty: nor can this be in any way a matter for astonishment, when the effects of mental impressions on the functions of the body are taken into consideration. A familiar instance of their influence is seen in women during lactation: the qualities of the milk are from this cause often suddenly changed so as to pro- duce very serious effects upon the infant: in some recorded cases the result lias proved fatal. It is remarkable and characteristic that severe shocks to the system from mental emotion, after the more immediate effects have passed away, often leave some organ permanently impaired in its function. Sudden fright, for instance, has produced deafness.2 There is, however, in individuals the greatest possible difference in this respect. ISTo two persons are ever affected in the same way by mental emo- tion, or to the same degree : some are but slightly moved by that which influences others in a most serious manner; others again are greatly disturbed by slight accidents of some special kind, while they are altogether heedless about troubles much more grave; and under different circumstances, at dif- ferent times of life—nay, even at different times of the day—the same people may remain apparently unconcerned, or be quite overcome. Yet sometimes, when the temperament and nervous susceptibility of a patient are well known, a prediction may be hazarded as to the probable effect of an injury or opera- 1 Lauder Bninton, Shock and Syncope. 2 Savory, Collapse ; Holmes’s System of Surgery.