70 INFLAMMATION. day, this fashion has passed away. The expert (as he is now properly styled) in either of these branches of medicine finds his knowledge advantageously supplemented by deferring to the histological pathologist, who, in the exer- cise of his peculiar methods, is also an expert in the more accurate interpre- tation of the appearances of morbid anatomy. To illustrate the correlation of medicine, surgery, and histology, it may be mentioned that Curling; first called attention to the relation between burns of the surface of the body and the ulceration of the duodenum which so often accompanies them; and Erichsen emphasizes the fact that death ascribed to the shock of injury and to exhaustion, is often explained, in the dead-house, by the discovery of laceration of the liver. Jaccoud and Ferrier have obtained most of their illustrations of intra-cranial pathology from well-observed cases of surgical injuries of the head. The histologist has taught us that senile gangrene, formerly attributed to arteritis, is in fact caused by calcific degeneration of the arterial coats, and by thrombosis and embolism; and that arteritis, formerly supposed to be a common occurrence, is in reality a rare condition. Predisposing and Exciting Causes.—Systematic writers usually lay much stress upon the distinction between what are called the predisposing causes of inflammation and its immediately exciting or determining causes. An example will illustrate the meaning of these terms: A growing boy, overheated by exercise, goes into the water to bathe, or throws himself on the ground in the shade to rest. During the following night he is awakened by a severe pain in the thigh, which is continuous as well as severe, and finally results in a necrosis from limited osteomyelitis. In such a case, which is of common occurrence, the activity of the nutritive process in the rapidly growing bone of the adolescent, and exhaustion incident to the fatigue incurred, are the ■predisposing causes; and the rapid abstraction of heat from the body by the cold water, or the cool earth—the chilling, in fact—is the exciting cause of the inflammation. These two classes of causes are also designated as remote and proximate. Most of the sources of injury classified above are examples of proximate or exciting causes. Predisposing Causes of Inflammation.—The most obvious and important of the remoter causes which predispose a part or an organ to take on the con- dition of inflammation, is defect in quality of the blood. When we reflect that all the organs and tissues of the body are, as it were, enveloped in an atmos- phere of liquor sanguinis, and that they are continually absorbing from it the materials required to maintain them in a normal state of health, it is easy to comprehend how a variation in the quality of this fluid necessarily disturbs the nutrition of the tissues, and, as a consequence, may diminish their vital capacity of resisting injury, and also of repairing it when incurred. In the language of the older surgeons, “ a vitiated state of the blood is a very com- mon cause of the ill behavior of wounds in regard to their kindly healing.” Now, habitual excess of food and drink, ancT also habitual lack of proper food and deprivation of an adequate supply of pure fresh air, which prevents elimination of the products of textural waste, equally tend to impair the quality of the blood, and consequently of the tissues supplied by it; so that slight injuries, which in a state of health would take on prompt repair, under these unfavorable circumstances linger in healing, and run into suppu- ration, or into partial or molecular gangrene; at other times they become indolent, refuse to cicatrize, or remain indefinitely in the condition known as chronic inflammation. As common examples, taken from clinical observation, the following are cases in point:—