425 ANAESTHETIC SUBSTANCES. alarming symptoms, so that it may be justly discarded from the list of useful anaesthetics. Pentane, C5II12, Amylic hydride, is a colorless liquid, boiling between 37° and 39° C. (98°.6 and 102°.2 F.). Its specific gravity is 0.629. It is one of the constituents of naphtha and of rhigolene. Inhalation of its vapor is fol- lowed by speedy anaesthesia, without disagreeable consequences. It has been successfully used in dental surgery, but its extreme volatility is an objection to its general employment. Octane, C8II13, Caprylic hydride., has also been isolated from keroselene or from petroleum. It is a colorless liquid, with a specific gravity of 0.728. Its boiling point is uncertain; 115°-125° C. (239°-257° F.). Administered to animals, it produces a long period of excitement, often accompanied by vom- iting. The substances above mentioned belong to the paraffin series of hydro- carbons. The olefin series of hydrocarbons has yielded two substances whose anaesthetic properties have been recognized—ethylene and amylene. Ethylene, C21I4, Olefiant gas, Heavy carburetted hydrogen, Elayl. This is one of the most important luminous constituents of coal-gas. It is a trans- parent, colorless gas, with a faint, sweetish, alliaceous odor, and is soluble in about 12 times its bulk of cold water. Its specific gravity is 0.978. Liquefied under great pressure, it remains unfrozen at —110° C. (—166° F.). Asso- ciated with methane, butylene, acetylene, hydrogen, carbonic oxide, and a variable volume of impurities, it constitutes a part of the gaseous mixture used for illuminating purposes. Illuminating gas, when inhaled in consider- able quantity, produces muscular rigidity, contraction of the pupils, injection of the cutaneous vessels, rapidity of the pulse, snoring respiration, and com- plete insensibility. Continued inhalation produces dilatation of the pupils, muscular relaxation, vomiting, and death. The fatal issue results in part from the asphyxiating property of the impurities contained in the gas, and in part from the directly toxic effect of its various ingredients. Amylene, C5II]0, Pentylene, or Pentene. Sp. gr. 0.6549. Boiling point, 39°-42° C. (102°.2-107°.6 F.). A transparent, colorless, mobile liquid, with an offensive, cabbage-like odor. It burns with a luminous flame, is almost insoluble in water, but mixes in all proportions with alcohol or ether. It may he distilled from a mixture of zinc chloride and amylic alcohol, and it also exists as a constituent of petroleum. The condition of insensibility pro- duced by inhalation of its vapor is less persistent than the effect of chloro- form. Muscular spasms are likely to occur under its influence. Snow administered it in more than one hundred cases; but, two deaths occurring as a consequence of its use, it was entirely abandoned. FIydrocarbons of the Terpene Series are represented by Turpentine oil, C10II](l. This is a colorless, mobile liquid with a peculiar, aromatic odor, and is obtained by distillation of the oleo-resinous juices of certain species of Pinus. Its specific gravity is 0.86, and it boils at 150°-160° C. (302°-320° F.). It has been recommended in combination with chloroform as a means of preventing syncope during anaesthesia. Administered to animals, it pro- duces complete insensibility without unfavorable consequences. Its effects are slowly evolved, and it sometimes produces local irritation of the respira- tory and urinary passages. Hydrocarbons of the Benzene Series. Benzene, C6H6, Benzol, Phenylic hydride. Sp. gr. at 0° C. (32° F.), 0.8995. Boiling point, 80°.5 C. (176°.9 F.). A colorless, limpid, strongly refracting liquid, of a peculiar and Bather agreeable odor. Its vapor is very inflammable, burning with a luminous and smoky flame. The substances generally sold under the names of benzine and benzoline are chiefly mixtures of paraffins, and do not contain benzene. It