659 AMPUTATIONS AT THE ANKLE. 1 Op. cit., p. 184. leg bones may be divided from below upwards by reversing the blade of the instrument. Any tendency to tilting of the heel fragment by the action of the calf-muscles must be overcome in the manner directed in speaking of Cho- part’s amputation. Various modifications of this operation have been sug- gested, as that the tibia and fibula should be sawn before the calcaneum; that the latter should be sawn from below upwards, that it should be sawn oblifpiely, etc. Dr. J. S. Wight, of Brooklyn, saws through the os calcis, and then removes the foot and malleoli together, without disarticulation. But the most important modifications of Pirogotfs method are those of Sir AV. Fergusson and Prof. Le Fort, which will be presently described. Air. Syme denounced the adoption of Pirogotfs method as “ a certain sign of lax surgical principle,” but other operators have entertained a more favor- able view of the Russian surgeon’s procedure. While I have myself preferred either the original method of Syme or the subastragaloid operation, I have seen most admirable stumps produced by Pirogotf’s mode of amputating, and can entertain no doubt of its value. Its statistical results also are very favor- able, as may be seen by the following figures: Pirogotf, in a letter to Air. Hancock,1 speaks of “ nearly 100” cases in civil practice in Russia, and 60 during the Crimean war, and of the latter says, “ I only know with certainty of seven deaths.” 0. AVeber enumerates 40 cases, and estimates the mortality at 15 per cent. Fifteen cases reported by Ivestnor, of Strasbourg, appear to have all terminated favorably. Eighty-one cases collected by Hancock, prin- cipally from British sources, gave only 7 deaths, a mortality of but 8.6 per cent., and 77 cases collected by Gross (of Haney) and Pasquier gave only 8 deaths, a mortality of 10.3 per cent. Dr. A. Hewson and Dr. Forbes, of Philadelphia, have each performed the operation several times with excellent results. Fergusson’s AIodification of Pirogotfs amputation consists in not interfer- ing with the malleoli, unless they are themselves diseased, but thrusting the sawn end of the os calcis up between them. This plan has also been adopted by other surgeons, among whom I may mention Prof. Agnew, of Philadel- phia, and Dr. Quimby, of Hew Jersey. In order to prevent retraction of the heel-fiap, Sir William Fergusson also recommended division of the tendo Achillis as a preliminary step in the operation. Le Fort’s AIodification of Pirogotf’s operation is performed as follows: The external incisions are the same as in Roux’s modification of Syme’s am- putation. The dorsal flap is loosened and raised so as to expose the ankle- joint, taking care, in working at the inner side, not to wound the posterior tibial artery. The ligaments which unite the foot to the fibula are then divided, with the ligaments between the calcaneum and the astragalus, allow- ing the luxation of the foot inwards. The anterior portion of the foot is next cut away at the medip-tarsal joint, and the astragalus seized with strong for- ceps to facilitate its enucleation. The os calcis is then depressed, and divided with a narrow-bladed saw from behind forwards, so as to remove all the upper part of the bone, beginning at the insertion of the tendo Achillis. The mal- leoli and articulating surface of the tibia are finally removed, and the sawn surfaces of bone placed in apposition. What is proposed to be accomplished by this particular form of operation, is to keep the os calcis in a compara- tively normal position, and to permit the patient, in walking, to receive pres- sure on the thick tissue of the heel, which is accustomed to support it, rather than on the thin tissue behind the heel, which is apt to be drawn forwards when the operation is done by the original method of Pirogotf.