MINOR SURGERY. 498 upon the shape of the bandages and the anatomical designation of the parts to which they are to he applied. The essential point to be borne in mind in the application of these dressings, is that the base of the triangle, or the body of the cravat, is to he placed on the part, the designation of which forms the first portion of the name of the bandage. The angles or extremities are, as a rule, carried around the part, and either knotted or fastened with pins. The advantage of this arrangement of the names may be illustrated in the case of the Occipito-Frontal Triangle, or the Fronto-Occipito-Labial Cravat. The name of the former indicates that a handkerchief, in the shape of a tri- angle, is to he used, and that its base is to be applied to the occiput, and its angles carried around the head to the frontal region ; that of the latter denotes that a handkerchief folded in cravat form is to he employed, its body being placed on the forehead, and its extremities crossed on the occipital region and terminated on the upper or lower lip, as the case may be. Fixed Dressings, or Hardening Bandages.—A great variety of substances are used, at the present time, to give greater fixity and solidity to bandages, in the treatment of fractures and other surgical affections. The substances most commonly employed in the preparation of fixed dressings are plaster of Paris, or gypsum, starch, and silicate of potassium; other materials are sometimes used, among which may be mentioned a mixture of chalk and gum, a combi- nation of oxide of zinc and glue, glue alone, and paraffine. Plaster of Paris Bandage.—The plaster for this purpose should he the extra- calcined variety used by dentists for taking casts for teeth, and by modellers. If it is not fresh and free from moisture, it will fail Fig. 70. to serve the purpose for which it is used. This band- age may be applied in two ways:— First Method. Add dry plaster to some cold water in a basin, and stir the mixture till it becomes of the consistence of cream. Thus prepared, the plas- ter may be smeared over the surface of a bandage on a limb; or a bandage previously wetted may be loosely rolled in the plaster-cream, and then applied. Strips of bandage dipped in plaster-cream are some- times applied after the manner of the many-tailed bandage of Scultetus. To render the surface of the dressing smooth after it has been applied in either of the above ways, a little dry plaster may be rubbed over it. Second Method. The bandages used in this method are made of some loosely-woven material, such as cross-barred muslin, mosquito-netting, or (what is far better than either) crinoline, a substance recom- mended by Prof. Sayre. This material is cut into strips 6|-7A centimetres (21—3 inches) wide and 4§-6f metres (5-7 yards) long. As these strips are loosely rolled into cylinders, dry plaster is rubbed into their meshes, either by hand or by means ot a machine called a plaster bandage winder (Fig. 70). Bandages thus prepared may be kept ready for use in some air-tight receptacle. Before applying one of these bandages, it is placed on end in a basin of tepid water, sufficiently deep to cover it entirely, and is allowed to remain till the bubbles of air cease