SMOOTH MUSCULAR FIBRES AND THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. 47 of the nature of this substance is undecided, as is also the question of how this substance is distributed in the living muscular libre. As regards the fibrillte, we have not yet reached a decision. For the present, let us remember that the fibril la; may appear and disappear again in the living muscle, and, furthermore, that in disease the muscular fibre can be definitively transformed into fibrillar bundles, not, however, losing thereby its functional power. And, relying upon these and other experiences, we will soon obtain a definitive answer. The Smooth Muscular Fibres and the Central Nervous System. Continuation of the Discussion on the FiBRiLLiE. A more searching criticism of the hypothesis of the pre-existence of the fibrillee * is furnished us by those tissues which normally never appear fibrillar, whether examined in a fresh or in a macerated state, though it is true that they may become fibrillar when subjected to pathological changes. To this class belong:— (1) The Smooth Muscular Fibres.—In the normal state we recognize the smooth muscular fibres as spindle cells with oblong nuclei. In case of sup- puration, the smooth muscular fibres may subdivide and form pus-corpuscles. But there is a regular series of chronic processes in which they are changed into fibrillre. The close relationship between fibroma and myoyna is based on these transitions. In such neoplasms, we find undivided (non-fibrillated) smooth muscular fibres next to bundles of fibril be. Hence we may be in doubt as to whether we have to deal with a fibroma or a myoma, according as one or the other tissue is more abundant. (2) The White and Gray Matter of the Central Nervous System.—I have already stated that the medullated fibres of the white matter are stuck into a filamentous network of connective substance. This network is directly continuous with that fine network which constitutes the neuroglia of the gray matter.1 In the gray matter, however, the network is filled up with a mass which, in the living specimen perhaps, is homogeneous, but which appears finely granulated in hardened preparations. This fine network, plus the mass in its meshes, constitutes the basis-substance of the brain and spinal cord. In this basis-substance the ganglion cells and their processes are situated. These processes are of two kinds, as was first shown by Deiters.2 In the first place, we have axis-cylinder processes, such processes as penetrate the white matter and become the axis-cylinders of the medullated fibres. In the second place, the ganglion-cells send out processes which form connections with the network of the neuroglia. These processes were called by Deiters protoplasma processes. Besides the ganglion-cells, we meet with other cells in the gray matter, concerning the nature of which we are not quite clear, and the processes of which are 1 ikewise continuous with the network. Many of these cells are called connective-tissue corpuscles. As I cannot here enter into the discussions on the minute structure of the gray matter,31 rest satisfied with this description, and recapitulate as follows: In the gray matter there are ganglion-cells and other cells, the pro- cesses of which form a fine network. The network, plus the mass in its meshes, constitutes the basis-substance. But there are also processes which originate in the ganglion-cells, pass directly into the white matter, and con- ' Tliis network is identical with the substance called “neuroglia” by Virchow. It was first accurately described by Bidder and Kupffer. See the history in my Lectures, p. 561 et seq. 2 Untersuch. fiber Gehirn und Ruckenmark. Braunschweig, 1865. 3 See my Lectures ; Lect. xxxii. p. 561 et seq.