AMPUTATION OF THE FOREARM. 639 which is due to the large proportion of cases derived from the records of the French army in the Crimea, in which service amputations of all kinds proved to be of exceptional gravity. Table showing the Mortality of Amputations at the Wrist. Authority. Cases. Deaths. Mortality per cent. Reference. Malgaigne 16 0 0.0 Archives Gen. de Medecine, Avril, 1842. Trelat . 27 6 22.2 Legouest, Traite de Chirurgie d’Armee, p. 722. Paris, 1863. Legouest 77 36 46.7 Ibid. Otis 66 7 10.6 Med. and Surg. History of the War, etc. Aggregates . 186 49 26.3* Amputation of the Forearm. The best operation in this situation is, under ordinary circumstances, the circular, though very good stumps may he made by several of the flap methods. The amputation may he done at any part of the limb, the disad- vantages supposed by Larrey to attend division of the tendinous structures at the lower part of the forearm, being more imaginary than real, and there being a positive advantage in making the stump as long as practicable. Circular Method.—If the limb be conical, as it usually is except in very thin persons, there may be some difficulty in turning up the tegumentary cuff, in the circular operation, when it will be advisable to slit the cuff upon the ulnar side. If the tendons elude division, in amputating at the lower part of the limb, the knife may be slipped beneath them and they may be cut from within outwards. In sawing the bones, the limb should be placed in a Eosition midway between pronation and supination, so that both bones may e divided at the same level. Five or six vessels commonly require ligation, in forearm amputations, and of these the anterior and posterior interosseous are those that give the most trouble, from their tendency to retract between the bones, where it may be difficult to discover them. Flap Methods.—The most brilliant operation is that made by taking antero-posterior flaps (see Fig. 150, page 586), the posterior flap being shaped from without inwards, and the anterior being cut either in the same way, or by transfixion, according to the fancy of the operator. I have more than once known consecutive hemorrhage to follow this particular form of opera- tion, apparently from the interosseous artery having been divided obliquely, and as a consequence not being properly secured by the ligature; hence I have been led to prefer, in this situation, either the circular operation or Tcale's method, in which this complication is more readily avoided. In practising Teale’s method (Figs. 151, 152, pp. 587, 588), care must be taken to mark out the flaps by measurement before attempting to cut them, as otherwise, from the conical shape of the limb, the long flap will be apt to be made too narrow at its distal extremity. In any of the flap methods, trouble may be experienced from the tendons projecting beyond their sheaths. Should this occur, each tendon should be separately seized with forceps, drawn down, and cut off at as high a point as possible. 1 Omitting Legouest’s cases, the mortality would be about 12 per cent., which would, I believe, be a fairer statement.