PLASTIC SURGERY. 542 from Reverdin’s memoir that grafts were taken by himself and others from negroes; that little bits derived from different animals could be successfully grafted; and also that Czerny and others had transplanted pieces from the mucous membranes. We have, so far, traced in brief detail the method of the pioneer himself, and reproduced his views at some length, for the reason that his observations were so exact, and his practice so sure, that those who followed him made but little change in the plans proposed, found few opportunities for new applications of the practice, and emitted not many original views as to the plans of operating, the mode of attachment of the bits of tissue, or thte general laws of physiology applicable in the mass of cases, or in particular instances. But real progress was, perhaps, determined by the recognition of the elements upon which proliferation depended, and of the fact that the marginal cicatrix was formed from all the borders of the grafts; although R. C. Dobson1 had declared, as early as 1870, that the growth of cicatrix was not unlimited, and that- no one island exceeded the dimensions of a sixpence. And the same may be said with regard to the conditions necessary to success, for, as all ulcers tend towards or must be brought to the form of the common or typical ulcer in the process of healing,2 so must all ulcers, for a favorable reception of the grafts, be already covered with willing granulations, or be made to be covered with them. To express the same idea in the words of Reverdin, “the end to be attained when we wish to prepare a wound for grafts, is to obtain [a surface of] granulations as well defined as possible.” And it is here of interest to record the fact that, in speaking of the growth of the little islands, as determining the rapidity of cicatrization, Reverdin informs3 us that the observation of a case of ulcer in which the formation of pellicle advanced from spontaneous uilots,” gave him the first idea of ula grejfe qndermique.” But rapidity, although promoting a prompt cure, was found to be asso- ciated with solidity, and this latter quality with permanency. For a time, says Reverdin, the cicatrix due to the grafts is a little prominent, but event- ually becomes depressed “as an umbilicus;” then around the grafts is formed a whiter, thicker, and more solid cicatrix, and one which resists relapses.4 And although his facts were few, still results seemed to point to the conclu- sion that “cicatricial retraction and vicious cicatrization” were opposed, rather than favored, by the new process.5 “I can now conclude,” says Reverdin, “(1) That by grafting we may prevent the adhesion (soudure) of two neigh- boring granulating surfaces. (2) That as for retraction, reasoning and certain facts demonstrate that it can be prevented, at least in part, by means of grafts. (3) That the applications [of grafts] made for the cure of certain deformed cicatrices have given good lesults; these results should be verified by time.” There remains to be briefly noticed Reverdin’s view with regard to the part taken by certain elements in the formation of a cicatrix, and to do this I will reproduce his language, premising the quotation with his statement that, “ on account of pain and possible accidents, small grafts are preferable.”6 Thus : “ The epidermis by itself, but the living epidermis, that of the deep layer, is alone necessary for the success of the graft.”7 “ The adherence of the graft is accomplished, then, by the epidermis; the union of the dermis is only secondary and accessory.”8 And finally, the opinion is expressed that we can greatly facilitate the cure of rebellious wounds of which the duration bears no relation to their extent. 1 Med. Times and Gazette, Oct. 29, 1870, p. 500 ; Reverdin, loc. cit. 2 Paget, in Holmes’s System of Surgery. 3 Loc. cit., p. 555. 4 Loc. cit., p. 564. 5 Loc. cit., p. 571. 6 Loc. cit., p. 711. 7 Loc. cit., p. 707. 8 Loc. cit., p. 708.