101 TRAUMATIC OR INFLAMMATORY FEVER. week, the febrile movement has ceased. Not infrequently, when suppuration takes place in a wound at the usual period, say from the third to the fifth day, the traumatic fever declines coincidently with the appearance of pus and the diminution of the local swelling and tension. This is the typical course of traumatic or inflammatory fever. If it does not disappear promptly within this limit of time, there is reason to suspect deeper suppuration, or some other complication of the local inflammation, to account for the continuance of the febrile symptoms, which can no longer be ascribed to simple traumatic fever, but threaten to assume the character of septicaemia, pyaemia, or hectic. These phases of febrile action will be considered here- after ; at present we shall confine our remarks to the simpler affection. The personal quality of the patient as to constitution, condition of health, and surroundings, besides the extent and locality of the injury, have their influence in producing the various phases of traumatic fever encountered by the surgeon, and in determining their gravity; but this influence, like the cause and nature of the fever itself, is both complex and obscure. When an inflammation is rapid in its development, characterized by strongly marked symptoms, and attended by much local excitement, it is said to he acute, and, under these circumstances, the symptoms of the accompanying traumatic fever are well marked and more intense. The term sthenic is used to designate fever of this type; its occurrence is not incompatible with a previous high grade of sound health. Its acme or fastigium is rapidly attained, and its defervescence or Igsis is usually prompt and complete. On the other hand, in an organism which has been previously the seat of chronic disease, a new injury is not likely to be resented by a high grade either of inflammation or of traumatic fever. A boy, aged 17, was subjected, at the New York Hospital, to amputation of the thigh at its lower third for “ chronic synovitis” of the knee-joint. The next day his habitual aspect of depression had distinctly improved; his tongue was noticeably less red ; his pulse was less frequent than the day before the operation ; he had slept more continuously during the night—apparently in consequence of entire relief from the aching joint pain. In this case no febrile movement occurred until the evening of the third day, when there was slight heat and tension of the stump and a moderate rise of temperature. On the next day there was a flow of pus along the track of the ligatures, the tension of the stump had subsided, the general temperature had fallen, and all evi- dence of traumatic fever had disappeared. Subsequent recovery was unusually rapid and complete. Except where the presence of the ligatures had provoked suppuration, the inflammation following the amputation was limited entirely to its constructive phase. Primary amputation of the thigh rendered necessary by injury is rarely followed by a result so innocent, as regards inflammatory or febrile reaction, as in this amputation for disease. Even in health, the suddenness of an injury favors subsequent febrile reaction. Within certain limits, previous training by illness and pain renders the organism more tolerant. The signifi- cance of these facts is embodied in the surgical doctrine that secondary ampu- tations for disease involve less danger than primary amputations for injury. They are introduced here as illustrative of traumatic fever from a clinical point of view, awaiting a solution, from physiology, of the difficult problem of the nature and immediate cause of fever, by which they are to be ulti- mately explained. What actually constitutes the condition to which we give the name ot fever, may be stated, in plain terms, without speculation. Clinical observa- tion, aided by research and experiments on the lower animals, has led to cer- tain conclusions which are admitted by all. The essential feature of fever is an increase in the temperature of the blood; and this increase may reach