439 PREPARATION FOR AN OPERATION. carefully to investigate its characters. His conclusions should be deliberately arrived at, and the propriety of an operation must be quite clear to his own mind, before any announcement is made of its necessity. When, however, it is evident to the surgeon that an operation should be done, it becomes his duty to state the facts to the patient, if he is of sufficient age, and in a pro- per state of mind, or, if not, to his family or friends. This should be done gently, and not abruptly, nor in a manner calculated to alarm. The necessity of the operation ought to be clearly explained to those concerned, and the chances of success and recovery fairly laid before them. It is also right that the surgeon should add to these statements the weight of his professional opinion, and he must not shrink from the responsibility of so doing, nor speak with hesitation or doubt. He must remember that the persons interested look to him for advice, and that as consultants they are fairly entitled to whatever help he can so render them. It is not to be ex- pected that the public can always decide wisely in matters affecting life or health; they must in the end depend upon professional judgment; and the professional utterance ought to be positive and unmistakable. It becomes, therefore, the duty of the surgeon to neither exaggerate nor underrate the possible peril of an operation ; he must think for his patient, and by his s}’in- pathy and the kindness of his manner win the confidence of the latter, so making him to feel that the arm of his surgical adviser is in truth one of strength, upon which he, in his own weakness, may safely lean. All this the surgeon may rightly do, not endangering his professional position, but rather strengthening it by his services as counsellor and friend. To the question which is so often put in minor cases, “Is there any danger in the operation?” he can truthfully answer, “ Hot greater than in the chapter of the ordinary accidents of life, and whatever risk there is, I advise you to take it.” The ultimate decision thus rests with the patient himself, but he may be fortified in mind, and upheld in a correct judgment, by the judicious and wise words of his professional attendant. In a general way, it is customary to divide surgical operations into two great classes. The first comprises operations of necessity, where life is at stake, and where surgical interference to be of avail must be immediate. Ope- rations for strangulated hernia, or for hemorrhage, or for foreign bodies in the air passages, or for many surgical injuries, are examples of this nature. The second class comprises operations of expediency, in which a slight delay in performance does not materially affect the result. The removal of morbid growths, the correction of deformities, and many other operations in the great category of surgical diseases, are examples of the second order. In de- ciding upon operations of the first class, the surgeon must often assume a great responsibility. His professional duty demands that he should act deci- sively and promptly to save life ; and, in the absence of friends, or where the patient is very young, or from the very nature of the case incapable of being consulted, the surgical attendant must take the burden upon his own shoul- ders. Sometimes, in such capital cases, the advice of colleagues may be obtained, but where the urgency is very great, the surgeon should learn to depend fearlessly upon his own judgment, and to act in accordance with it. Time for Operation.—In ordinary cases, not those of immediate necessity, where an operation has been decided upon, the first question which presents itself to the mind is the time for its performance. Broadly stated, the answer to this question is, “As soon as the patient can be brought into the best state of mind and body.” The first of these conditions must depend somewhat upon the patient’s morale and his confidence in his surgeon. Many sufferers