265 ANATOMICAL CHARACTERS OP RACHITIS. to this author, the arched shape of the lower jaw becomes polygonal, and the direction of the alveolar process also changes, so that it inclines inward. This deviation in the arch, and in the alveolar process, which begins in the region of the canine teeth, necessarily causes shortening of the lower jaw. Commencing soon after, a change is observed in the upper jaw-bone from the zygomatic arch forward, so as to cause lengthening of this bone, changing here also the shape of the arch and the position of the teeth. The lateral incisors, instead of being in front, have a lateral position, and the incisors and molars diverge, so that when the jaws are closed they overlap the corre- sponding teeth of the lower jaw in front and upon the sides, a condition the opposite of that seen in the jaws of old people. Fleischmann attributes these changes in the lower jaw to the action of the masseter and mylo-hyoid mus- cles, and perhaps the genio-glossus, and to pressure of the lip, the deficiency of earthy salts in the bone rendering it more easily acted on by the muscles. The change in the upper jaw-bone he attributes to lateral pressure of the zygomatic arches. Changes in the Ribs.—The ribs are early affected in rachitis. The swelling of their anterior ends, where they unite with the costal cartilages, producing the “ rachitic rosary,” has been already alluded to as one of the first and most Fig. 12. conspicuous signs of rachitis. The costo- chondral articulations are enlarged in all directions, appearing as nodules under the skin. If an opportunity occur of inspecting, at an autopsy, the pleural surface, the nodular prominences are seen to be even greater and more distinct there than under the skin. The deformity of the thorax conse- quent upon softening of the ribs is inter- esting. Commencing with the spine, the ribs extend nearly directly outward ; at the union of the dorsal and lateral re- gions, they make a short curve forward, and then turn inward, also with a short curve toward the sternum (Fig. 13). This bending abrupt bending of the ribs, which, in their softened state, has been caused by atmospheric pressure during respiration, produces a depression in the thoracic wall at about the point where the ribs and their cartilages unite. A groove ex- tends on the antero-lateral surface of the thorax from the second or third rib downward, and a little outward. Sometimes the bottom of the groove is oc- cupied by the costo-chondral joints; in other cases these joints are a little to one side of the deepest part of the groove. The transverse diameter, therefore, of the anterior half of the thorax is much less than in health. This necessarily diminishes the lateral expansion of the lung in inspiration, and causes unusual prominence of the sternum. Hence the expressions “pigeon- breasted,” “resemblance to the prow of a ship,” etc., applied to this deformity. The presence of the heart renders the groove more*shallow on the left side, at the fourth and fifth ribs, than on the opposite side, since this organ affords partial support to the chest-wall. On the other hand, the right groove is Rachitic child with characteristic deformity of head, ribs, and radius. (From a patient in the New York Foundling Asylum.)