222 HYDROPHOBIA—GLANDERS—MALIGNANT PUSTULE. and that in well-established instances of the disease the physician may look with a reasonable assurance to a successful termination.” Treatment of Hydrophobia.—The treatment of hydrophobia resolves itself into that which is preventive and that which is curative. Preventive Treatment.—The essential influence producing hydrophobia is lodged in the fluid from the rabid animal’s mouth, and not the wound made by the teeth. The first means to he employed in order to prevent the virus from entering the system is prompt suction of the wound, so as in this way to remove the poison from the part at once. The bitten person should do this for himself, and should wash his mouth, after spitting out its contents, with some fluid, and so by continued sucking and washing get rid of the poison as far as possible. The wound, when its situation permits, as when it is in an extremity, should be squeezed on its cardiac side at the same time; it should also be well washed. Or a strap or handkerchief may be applied tightly above the wound, and a cupping-glass be applied to the part at once, and strong suction made. Cauterization should be practised as soon as possible, and the best possible means of cauterizing the part is with the hot iron. A knife blade, a nail, or an iron poker may be used; the iron should be heated to a white heat, and the wound throughout its entire extent should be burnt with the greatest thoroughness and in the shortest possible time after the person has been bitten. Dr. Bigelow gives the following statement as taken from Fleming: In Al- geria, out of 16 cases of immunity, in 14 the patients had the wounds inflicted by rabid animals cauterized more or less promptly; tln'ee persons were cau- terized twenty-four hours after being wounded, and a fourth not for thirty- six hours. The following Table gives the details of the 16 cases:— CASES. Immunity after immediate cauterization with hot iron . . 7 “ “ “ with gunpowder . 1 “ after late appearance cauterized with hot iron . . 1 “ after at least 24 hours ...... 3 “ “ 36 u ...... 1 “ after immediate cauterization with muriate of antimony after 3 hours ...... 1 “ without adopting precautions 2 In short, immunity in one-half of these cases may be supposed to have been due to immediate cauterization, in three-eighths to tardy cauterization, while in one-eighth the patients escaped without any treatment. Hugo speaks of seven persons who were bitten by a rabid dog; three had their injuries cauterized twenty-four hours afterwards, and the four others cauter- ized themselves with two pieces of iron heated in the fire; all escaped. The same dog attacked a child twelve years old, and, its wounds not having been attended to, it died of hydrophobia. Excision is strongly recommended by Foot, Fleming, Abernethy, and others. Foot gives eight cases in which excision was practised. In one case it was done at once"; in another, six hours after the bite; and seventy-two hours after the bite was the longest period in which it was performed in any of the eight cases. If excision is made dangerous from the neighbor- hood of large bloodvessels or nerves, caustics are recommended. Nearly all the caustics in use have been recommended by different surgeons as having been successful in their hands. We must remember, however, that