76 INFLAMMATION. injury next to be considered—stabs and punctured wounds—often present features and complications by which a result so desirable as that just described is prevented. Punctured Wounds.—Puncture by a smooth polished instrument resembles an incision, and, if the track of the wound be kept at rest, and subjected to gen- tle pressure in order to keep the divided surfaces in contact, it generally heals kindly. Wounds made by surgical needles for suture, exploration, or aspiration, are examples; even trocar wounds heal promptly. Thus, when the tissues are simply divided and thrust aside, there is no cause for compli- cations ; but from a puncture made by a rough instrument, as where a rusty nail perforates the sole, larger particles of tissue are liable to be killed, and foreign matter is apt to be left in the wound. The presence in a vcound of foreign material is a very common source of interference with the healthy process of repair. Hence the formal rule enjoining its careful removal before dressings are applied. In the first place, it prevents accurate contact of divided parts, a condition absolutely necessary for prompt healing. In the second place, the presence of a foreign body in contact with the living tissues, as a rule, acts as an irritant, and ushers in a series of phenomena which have for their purpose its expulsion from the organism. These are, afflux of blood to its vicinity, the germination of em- bryonic cells, their accumulation in the form of pus, and ulceration in the direction of the nearest free surface, by which a free vent is gained, and the foreign substance is thus thrown off. These phenomena are attended by pain, heat, redness, and swelling, and they constitute a phase of inflammation which attains a degree of intensity that involves destruction of tissue. This forms at once a contrast with the simple process of repair. There are excep- tions to the rule that foreign bodies act as irritants, and provoke suppurative inflammation. Some of the metals, such as lead, silver, and iron, are in a cer- tain degree tolerated by the tissues, causing only a grade of inflammation which ends in tissue formation, and they become finally enveloped by a sac of connective substance called technically a cyst; they are said to be encysted. But these exceptions serve only to prove a rule. This is exemplified by what Furl)ringer, of Jena, says of hypodermic injections of metallic mercury: that “ they are well borne, but within twenty-four hours inflammatory symptoms set in, and frequently result in abscess.” Our own tissues, when from any cause deprived of life, become foreign bodies and constitute the most common examples of irritants, even when the dead masses are quite minute. The ordinary boil is due to this cause, which may be demonstrated by examining its core microscopically. The core of a boil consists of a little slough of connective substance, mainly of the yellow elastic fibres, containing in its meshes some leucocytes or pus cells. This small mass has become necrosed, and its white fibrous element has liquefied and mingled whh the pus ; but its yellow fibres, one of the most indestructi- ble of all the simple tissues, remain unchanged and constitute the foreign body the presence of which has excited the suppurative inflammation. Ne- crosis of connective substance in minute masses is not a rare occurrence. It is due to some defect in nutritive quality of the blood, or of the nervous sup- ply transmitted to the tissues. Its cause is obviously central, and not local; for boils often occur in indefinite succession in different localities ; and their tendency to recurrence is distinctly controlled by the internal use of certain drugs which modify favorably the blood and the nerve force, such as arsenic, sulphide of calcium, and the hypophosphites. Certain blood poisons give rise to disseminated tissue necroses. In smallpox, each pustule is evolved for the