PLASTIC SURGERY. 546 the operation. The first of these refers to the persistence of vitality in the grafts; and the second to the size of the particles or pieces translated ; ques- tions which, as may he supposed, commanded the attention, not of French observers only, but also of those of other countries, without excluding the members of the medical profession in the United States. Not that these questions were absolutely disposed of in France, but that they were presented in a very formal manner in several papers of note. The first of these, by Paul Bert, antedated skin grafting, so called, and had for its title “ Experiments and reflexions upon animal grafting,”1 and entertained the proposition “ of the preservation of vital properties in parts separated from the body and declared that “transfusion of blood, animal grafting, restoration, constitute but one single and immense order of facts, which are properly studied simultaneously, and which might be comprehended under one common formula.” Then follow his divisions, (1) animal graft; (2) “ marcotte,” by slips or shoots ; and (3), grafting by approximation of ani- mals of different species. Under marcotte, Bert ranges the “ Indian method, in which the flap is never for a moment separated from the body.” It will be observed that Bert treats of anaplasty and autoplasty, and the same may almost be said of Ollier,2 of Lyons, who, at a later period, discussed the whole subject of animal grafts, giving preference to larger pieces instead of the minute morsels recommended by Reverdin, approaching the boldness, but not quite equalling the venture, of Hamilton, of New York. Paul Bert’s remarkable experiments in animal grafting3 gave as results the following; of less value from the fact of the adhesion of the tails of rats, than from the length of time which had elapsed since their amputation before they were applied to a stump. Thus tails of rats, separated from the animal for 3^ hours, adhered when grafted, and so did others after a lapse of 7^, 16, 26, 48, 62, 64, and 72 hours, although failure ensued in other cases. And Ollier4 adduced instances of periosteal flaps 24 hours old, obtained from a rabbit, which adhered when applied to another animal of the same species. Georges Martin, in his Thesis already referred to, upon the duration of the vitality of tissues, etc., brings together 343 grafting operations, which form the object of 60 per- sonal observations, and, in detailing these, records very surprising experiments and their results; and he quotes Baronio, Gohier, Wiesmann, Dieffenbach and others, and their variable success. But the most worthy of attention are his original experiments and observations, as to the limits of vitality, with cutaneous and dermo-epidermic grafts in the human subject. It would appear that none of his grafts lived and were effective after 108 hours’ exposure “ in free air” at a temperature of nearly zero, C. [32° F.], but that when kept in tubes, or confined air, under the same circumstances, the grafts were successful. Another experiment, the temperature being nearly at zero, C., was successful after 96 hours, the morsel having been preserved in free air; in another, the temperature being 6° C. [42°.8 F.], the limits were 82 and 96 hours, under the re- spective conditions of free and confined air; when the temperature was 12° C. [53°.6 F.] they were 72 and 84 hours; when 15° C. [59° F.] the figures were 60 and 72; when 20° C. [68° F.], they were 36 and 36 ; and, finally, a last experiment, at 28° C. [82.°4 F.], showed the limits of vitality to be 6 hours and 7 hours, in free and in con- fined air respectively. M. Martin laments that we have no medicament capable of prolonging cellular life, but he asks the question, whether certain alkaline solutions may not afford the means. In this connection he quotes M. Caliste, as having proved that muscular irritability continues for a long time in a weak solution of potassa, while distilled water destroys it rapidly, and M. Pelikan, who saw frogs’ muscles, plunged in these solutions, remain intact after fourteen days. Finally, M. Brown-Sequard noticed contractility of the iris for sixteen days, and accounted for the phenomenon by the residence of the membrane in the alkaline media of the eye. Besides the conditions referred to as favoring adhe- 1 Journal de l’Anat. et de la Physiol, normale et patliol. de l’homme et des animaux, t. i. pp. 69-87. Paris, 1864. 2 Bullet, de l’Acad. de Medecine, t. i. 2e serie, pp. 242-246. Paris, 1872. “ Sur les greffes cutanees ou autoplastiques.” 3 Tlifese, 1863. See also Coste, Marseille Medical, 1873. 4 Traite sur la regeneration des os, t. i. p. 417.