SYMPTOMS AND LESIONS OP PYiEMIA. 209 the 9th day he became delirious. On the 15th day, there were severe rigors. The fever and delirium continued, the patient gradually sank, and died on the 19th day after the operation. At the autopsy it was found that the edges of the wound were granulating, but that its cavity was filled with foul pus. There were no thrombi in the veins; no lesions in the viscera. In such cases as these, it seems evident that the cause of the symptoms is the condition of the wound, and this condition in turn seems to be due to putrefaction. There appear to be only two probable explanations of the way in which the condition of the wound can produce constitutional symptoms: either some morbid material is absorbed from the wound, and poisons the system; or the mere presence of such an unhealthy wound is sufficient. It seems that if it is a poison which is absorbed, this poison does not multiply after absorption, for the symptoms only continue while the wound remains unhealthy, and the severity of the symptoms is in proportion to the amount of putrefying tissue. If the patient dies, no lesions are found except the unhealthy wound, and perhaps thrombi in some of the veins. The indications for treatment seem to be evident, to remove the putrefying tissues; or, if this cannot be done, to adopt such local treatment as will stop the putrefactive process. III. There are cases in which the original wound is very small, but in which some foreign substance appears to be introduced into the body through the wound, and to act as a poison. The most marked examples of such cases are some of the so-called dissecting wounds. It has long been known that the worst dissecting wounds are those received in examining a body in which decomposition has not commenced, and that the bodies of those dying with acute peritonitis are especially dangerous. It is also known that a small puncture or scratch is sufficient for the infection. The symptoms do not appear until several hours after the infliction of the wound. Then there are rigors, a febrile movement, and marked general prostration. There will he a little redness about the wound, and inflamed lymphatics extending up the arm. A general, unhealthy inflammation of the arm follows, the patient passes into a typhoid condition, and dies in from ten days to three weeks. Cases similar to these are observed, in which we are unable to discover the source of the infection :— A man, twenty-six years old, a porter by occupation, received a slight lacerated wound of the left forefinger nine days before his death. It was not known in exactly what way the injury had been received. Six days before death, the left hand, fore- arm and arm became swollen, as did also the axillary glands ; there were fever and marked prostration. The fever continued, the patient vomited constantly, passed into a typhoid condition, and died. At the autopsy there was found diffuse, unhealthy in- flammation of the connective tissue of the hand and arm, and of the axillary glands. There were red infarctions in tiie right lung, and in one of the kidneys. Similar cases are also seen after operations A child, seven years old, had the knee resected for the relief of a chronic inflamma- tion. The wound was dressed antiseptically, and there was no odor in the discharge at any time. The patient began to vomit on the day after the operation, and continued to do so. The temperature was never above 101° ; and fell to 96.2° before death. The leg became swollen ; the patient became cold, cyanotic, and pulseless, and died on the fifth day after the operation. There were no lesions except a slight swelling of the liver, spleen, and kidneys.1 1 Report of the Committee of the London Pathological Society. Transactions, vol. xxx. 1879. VOL. I. 14