AMPUTATIONS. 580 2 Traite de medecine op6ratoire, tome i. p. 322. Paris, 1853. to the side or foot of the bed or operating table, in such a way that the limb to he removed shall project fairly over the edge. The patient should be well protected from the cold, and a coarse blanket, or a tray containing bran or saw- dust, should be placed on the floor to catch the blood. The circulation is then to be controlled by the adjustment of the tourniquet with or without Esmarch’s tube, as already described, or in certain situations by the pressure of an assistant’s linger, or by means of a wrapped key, as will be particularly explained when we come to speak of amputations at the shoulder. If the application of the tourniquet is entrusted to an assistant, the surgeon should at least see for himself that the compress is accurately placed over the main vessel, and that the strap is drawn sufficiently tight for the pulsation of the artery below to be arrested by a few turns of the screw. The circulation being under control, one assistant is deputed to take special charge of the tourni- quet, a second to manage the anaesthetic, and a third to hold the limb in whatever position may be convenient for the operator. A fourth assistant may hand the instruments, or, which I prefer, these may be arranged in a tray at the surgeon’s right hand, in the order in which they are to be used, so that he may readily help himself. The operator should stand with his left hand towards the patient’s trunk; thus in amputating the right lower extremity, the surgeon stands at the patient’s right side, while in removing the left leg or thigh he stands between the patient’s limbs. In amputating the right arm, he stands facing the patient’s feet; but in amputating the left arm, he faces the patient’s head. Almost all of the older surgeons, beside the fillet or band with which they tried to control the circulation, before the invention of the tourniquet, applied other hands, one above and one below the point at which the limb was to be removed; these were to serve the triple purpose of numbing the patient’s sensibility, of preventing the muscles from slipping or being jerked away from the knife, and of furnishing a guide for the surgeon’s incision. But, as Bichat1 very justly observed, with a good eye and a sharp knife (and every surgeon should possess both of these), such clumsy helps to the operation are quite unnecessary. In making his first incision, the surgeon should steady and draw the skin of the patient’s limb upwards with his left hand, while, stooping somewhat, he carries his right hand, holding the long knife, around the limb, so that the back of the knife shall be directed towards his own face. Sinking the heel of the knife then firmly into the flesh, he makes a circular sweep around the part, rising as he does so, and thus completes the whole, or nearly the whole, of the cutaneous incision with one motion. A few light touches with the same knife, or with a scalpel, serve to free any points at which the skin may he still adherent, and permit considerable retraction to he at once effected. If the limb he slender, this degree of retraction may be sufficient, but it is usually necessary to dissect up, by rapid strokes of the knife, a cuff of skin and fascia, about half as long as the limb is thick. The first incision should go completely down to the muscles, and, in dissecting up the cuff, the edge of the knife should he kept constantly directed towards the deeper structures, as otherwise the nutritive vessels of the skin will he endangered, and slough- ing will be apt to follow. If the limb he conical (as in the calf of the leg), there will be great difficulty in reflecting the dissected cuff, and the surgeon will then find advantage in making a longitudinal incision on one or the other side—a modification of the ordinary procedure which Sedillot2 attributes to Lacauchie. This incision supplies a convenient point for bringing out the 1 CEuvres chirurgicales de P. J. Desault. Seconde partie, p. 490. Paris, 1798.