AMPUTATIONS. 568 upon the aorta. TV ithout knowing of Prof. Pancoast’s operation, Prof. Lister, formerly of Glasgow and Edinburgh, and now of King’s College, London^ adapted Hoey’s clamp to the abdominal aorta (Fig. 112), and this instrument is the one generally employed in_England. I have used both in amputating at the hip-joint, and have no hesitation in declaring my preference for Prof. Lister’s instrument, as being much simpler and more readily adjusted than the other. Fig- ill. Fig. 112. Pancoast’s abdominal tourniquet. Lister’s aortic compressor. There have always been, and, probably, always will be, two schools in operative surgery: that which makes light of the loss of blood, looking upon it as a trilling matter, and that which deprecates any unnecessary expenditure of the “ vital fluid,” considering every drop that can be saved as of value to the patient. Ilence we find that some surgeons have objected to the use of the tourniquet in amputation, preferring to rely exclusively upon compression of the main artery by the fingers of an assistant. It is said that the tourni- quet produces venous congestion, and, in the circular operation, interferes with the necessary muscular contraction; and of late years it has been imagined that, by inducing venous thrombosis at the point of application, it predis- poses to the occurrence of pyaemia. The last-mentioned objection is hardly worthy of serious consideration : if venous thrombosis, per se, were the cause of pyaemia, we should have pyaemic complications in almost all cases of sim- ple fracture. By taking care to elevate the limb, or even to surround it with a firm bandage applied from below upwards, before screwing down the tourni- quet, the interference with the venous circulation may be reduced to a mini- mum ; and nothing can be easier than to saw off an additional piece of bone, after securing the vessels, if the retraction of the muscles should render it necessary. Guthrie and Ilennen speak of the operator compressing the artery with one hand while he amputates with the other; but such unnecessary feats seem to me rather adapted to exhibit the skill and boldness of the surgeon than to promote the welfare of the patient. Safety should never be sacrificed to brilliancy, and there can be no doubt that a well-applied tourniquet renders an amputation safer than the best directed manual pressure; for while this can only arrest the flow of blood through the main trunk, the tourniquet controls all the arteries at once, and it is often the smaller vessels that give the most trouble.