432 ANAESTHETICS AND ANAESTHESIA. by such disagreeable dizziness, headache, and general discomfort that its use cannot be recommended. Ethylic Formate, C3H802, Formic ether. Sp. gr. 0.918. Boiling point, 54°.9 C. (130°.8 F.). Vapor density, 2.573. A colorless liquid with an agreeable, pungent odor, formed by distilling a mixture of formic acid and ethylic alcohol with sulphuric acid. It is supposed to act by decomposition into alcohol and alkaline formiates in the blood. Upon animals its effect is similar to that of alcohol. Boses of six or eight cubic centimetres (a drachm and a half to two drachms), given to the human subject, produce only drowsi- ness. Ethylic Acetate, C4II302, Acetic ether. Sp. gr. 0.906. Boiling point, 77° C. (170°.6 F.). Vapor density, 3.047. A colorless liquid which has a pleasant, fruity odor when diluted with alcohol or water. It is obtained by distilling a mixture of ethylic hydric sulphate and sodic acetate. Less volatile and less inflammable than ordinary ether, it produces anaesthesia in small animals with less previous agitation than when ether is used. It may be employed in doses similar to those of sulphuric ether. V. Aldehydes. Ethaldehyde, CHrCOH, Acetic or Ethylic aldehyde, Aldehyde. Sp. gr. 0.801. Boiling point, 22° C. (71°.6 F.). Vapor density, 1.532. Produced by the action of nearly every oxidizing agent on ethylic alcohol, this substance is a colorless, mobile, inflammable liquid, with a characteristic, pungent, not dis- agreeable odor. Inhalation of its vapor produces a sense of constriction about the chest, and distressing irritation of the respiratory passages, with a marked tendency to arrest of respiration. It is a powerful anaesthetic, producing insensibility in about two minutes; but its effects are disagreeable and dangerous. VI. Ketones. Bimethyl Ketone, CH3.CO.CH3, Acetone. Sp. gr. 0.814. Boiling point, 56°.3 C. (133°.3 F.). Vapor density, 2.0025. A limpid liquid possessing an agreeable odor, and a biting taste like peppermint. Prepared by various processes, it is most conveniently obtained by the dry distillation of calcic acetate. Its vapor is slightly anaesthetic to frogs. Inhaled by the human subject, it produces soporific effects associated with dyspnoea and irritation of the air-passages. VII. Inorganic Substances. Kitrogen, K. Sp.gr. 0.971. A colorless, tasteless, odorless gas. Its reac- tion is neutral with litmus, and it is neither inflammable nor a supporter of combustion. It may be readily inhaled in an undiluted form. It thus pro- duces simple, uncomplicated asphyxia. Such insensibility as follows its inha- lation is merely one of the preliminaries of death by asphyxia. For this reason, nitrogen cannot strictly be considered an anaesthetic substance. Kitrous Oxide, K20, Laughing gas. Sp. gr. of gas, 1.527. Sp. gr. of liquid, 0.908. Boiling point of liquid, —88° C. (—126°.4 F.). A transpa- rent, colorless gas, with a faint, sweetish smell and taste, prepared by heating ammonium nitrate. It may be liquefied by a pressure of fifty atmospheres at