57 HEALING BY FIRST INTENTION AND HEALING BY GRANULATION. here a central portion of the cell divides. The peripheral portion of the body forms a hull, a capsule, a matrix in which young cells lie. But the young cells are nothing else than portions of the old body which have become amoeboid. The capsule bursts, and the young cell or the several young cells which were in it, are liberated and appear on the surface as pus-corpuscles. But I must state here that endogenesis does not always take place in an old resistant capsule. I would recall the fact that, in the embryo, blood-corpuscles are produced by endogenesis. And here the capsule is still a young cell-body, and even will become a contractile vascular wall, as has already been shown. Finally I wish to remark that epithelium does not always reproduce itself by endogenesis. I have already seen, sufficiently often, examples of complete division in epithelial cells, and believe therefore that they can return wholly to the embryonic condition, and undergo total division. The difference probably depends on the condition of the peripheral zones. If these are very resistant, as appears to be the case in cells situated superficially, then endo- genesis prevails. The most superficial layers of epidermis seem to be incapable of proliferation. Here the life of the cells seems to have reached too low a grade, if it be not entirely extinguished. But the next deeper layers of cells show a multiplication of nuclei in conditions of irritation. The principal proliferation (new cell-formation) certainly takes place in the deeper layers of cells in the so-called rete Malpighi i. If the suppuration of mucous membrane has proceeded so far as to finally lay bare the substantia propria, and the pus is now produced on this part, we call the diseased surface an ulcer. As long as the epithelium is preserved, the superficial inflammatory process of the mucous membrane may still be called catarrh, although to do so is not quite correct. In a strict sense, catarrh is present only as long as the secretion consists of mucus. If the (former) mucous membrane produces pus only, it is no longer a mucous membrane, and can no longer be in a catarrhal state. We are not so par- ticular, however, about fixing the limits, because frequently we cannot at all decide whether the secretion is entirely devoid of .mucus and Consists only of pus. It is therefore preferable to regard the condition of the mucous mem- brane as the determining point, and to draw the line between catarrh and ulceration by using anatomical data as the basis of our judgment. The expression catarrhal ulcer, employed by pathological anatomists, naturally only points to the genesis of the ulcer. A catarrhal ulcer is one which is the result of the catarrhal process. But one and the same spot cannot be the seat of catarrhal and ulcerative processes at the same time. Healing by First Intention and Healing by Granulation. Ulcers as well as cavities of abscesses heal by the formation of granula- tions. We call the new formations “granulations,” because of the little warts or protuberances on the surface of the ulcer and the interior of the abscess- cavity respectively. Why these new formations appear here in the form of little protuberances is not known. These little protuberances consist of cells which are designated as granulation cells. But between the cells we find layers of intermediate substance—now broader, now narrower. The cells, added to the intermediate substance, form a young tissue from which the cicatrix is produced. The matrix for this young tissue is in the bottom of the ulcer and in the lining of the abscess-cavity respectively. The granu- lations are not developed from the normal tissue, however, but from the tissue infiltrated by inflammation. We know, now, what the word infil- tration signifies. We know that infiltration consists of a swelling of the