597 DRESSING THE STUMP. well as muscles and connective tissue. Vet charpie is then placed outside to diminish the irritation of the skin, and this constitutes the whole dressing. The perchloride of iron “combines with” the tissues with which it is in con- tact, and at the end of twelve hours forms a thick, solid magma, a “ tough cuirass,” which completely isolates the subjacent tissues from the influence of surrounding agents. Suppuration begins from the sixth to the tenth day —sometimes later—and the charpie, becoming detached, leaves a sloughy- looking surface which soon becomes covered with healthy granulations. The wound is then dressed with aromatic wine, and the flaps may be brought together so as to induce union by “secondary adhesion.” Open Method.—This mode of dressing stumps, which, except as to the use of sutures, somewhat resembles that which I have called the “air-dressing” of Teale and Humphry, is principally advocated by Prof. James R. Wood, of New York.1 “ After a limb has been amputated, the flaps are not even approximated, but left entirely open. A pillow of oakum is placed under the stump, which is allowed to rest upon this support until the wound is nearly healed. A small piece of gauze is placed over the contour of the stump, and a cradle is placed over the limb, so that the clothes may not come in contact with the painful extremity. This is all the dressing that is employed: no sutures are used except in the lateral skin-flap method, as will be described.” [One or two stitches are placed at the anterior angle of the wound, so that the flaps may cover the bone, but the rest is allowed to gape.] “ No adhesive plaster is employed, no oil-silk is placed over the stump, no bandage is applied, no dry charpie is stuffed into the wound, no fenestrated compresses are placed between the flaps; in other words, the stump is left entirely alone, just as the surgeon made it in his amputa- tion. The wound is thus allowed to drain freely, and the stump is gently washed at frequent intervals by means of an Esmarch’s wound-douche. The water in this irri- gator is impregnated with crystals of carbolic acid, and, after this ablution, balsam of Peru (which makes a fine stimulating application) is poured over the granulating sur- face. The discharge which falls from the wound is removed every few hours in order to secure perfect cleanliness The stump is then washed at frequent inter- vals until suppuration has nearly subsided in the wound, and then the flaps are gradu- ally approximated by means of strips of adhesive plaster.” The historian of Prof. Wood’s eases, Dr. F. S. Dennis, professes his faith in Pasteur’s and Lister’s doctrines as to the evil effects produced by micro- scopic organisms floating in the air, but believes that their bad influence may be sufficiently neutralized by frequently washing the stump with carbol- ized water in the manner described. We have next to consider two modes of dressing which aim at the entire exclusion of these organisms; the antiseptic dressing of Prof. Lister, and the wadding-dressing of M. Alphonse Guerin. Antiseptic Dressing.—In a certain sense, almost all of the modern modes of dressing wounds may be termed “antiseptic,” and indeed it is not unusual for the advocates of “Listerism” to claim all the good results obtained by sur- geons who do not follow their mode of practice, as due to an unconscious or involuntary antisepticism, while the bad results are attributed to careless or wilful neglect of antiseptic precautions. But by the name antiseptic dressing, in this article, I mean the peculiar mode of dressing stumps advocated by Prof. Lister, formerly of Glasgow and Edinburgh, but now of King’s College, London, and founded in a firm belief in the baleful influence of bacteria and other micro-organisms, and in the absolute necessity of excluding them from the wound. The antiseptic agent commonly employed is carbolic acid, but 1 Dennis, Treatment of Amputations by the Open Method. New York Medical Journal, vol. xxiii. p. 8, 1876.