514 MINOR SURGERY. eleven times, with sufficient success to encourage him in the belief that, under certain circumstances, the procedure is perfectly justifiable, and that milk introduced into the system in this way may become a valuable therapeutic resource. Intra-venous injection is an easier operation than transfusion, and is most conveniently effected by hydrostatic pressure. The apparatus used by the writer consists of a glass funnel holding about 160 grammes (5 ounces), connected with an India-rubber tube to which is attached a small curved canula provided with a stopcock. (Fig. 85.) A cup-shaped strainer of fine wire, made to fit the expanded extremity of the funnel, is an important part of the apparatus. (Fig. 86.) Fig. 86. Strainer for intra-venous injection of milk. Either cow’s or goat’s milk may be used, and, as it is absolutely essential that the milk be perfectly fresh, and alkaline or neutral in reaction, it should be taken from the animal immediately before it is injected. The surgeon exposes a prominent vein in the bend of the patient’s elbow, and raises it up by passing a probeor director beneath it, while an assistant fills the apparatus by pouring the milk into the funnel through the wire strainer. In order that no air may be left in the apparatus, the canula with the stopcock open is held vertically along- side of the funnel, and, as the milk begins to How from the canula, the stopcock is closed; by this plan the milk is retained in the canula by atmospheric pressure. The sharp point of the canula is now thrust into the lumen of the vein (or, if the vein be small or collapsed, a Y-shaped incision may be made in it for the canula), when, on opening the stopcock and raising the funnel above the level of the patient’s arm, the milk will flow into the vessel. The rate at which the milk enters the vein may be regulated by the stopcock, or by varying the height at which the funnel is held above the arm. Artificial Respiration. Artificial respiration is resorted to in cases of threatened death from apncea consequent upon drowning, inhalation of irrespirable gases, profound anesthetization, or other causes that act by temporarily checking or inter- fering with the function of breathing. Two conditions are essentially neces- sary to the successful application of this procedure: these are (1) an unob- structed passage for the entrance of air to the lungs, and (2) the absence of all obstacles to free expansion of the chest-walls. Hence mucus, free liquids, or foreign bodies in the air-passages must be removed—if necessary, by trache- otomy ; and all bands or tight clothing around the chest and neck must be loosened. Mouth to Mouth Inflation is a method of practising artificial respiration sometimes adopted in cases of great urgency, as a temporary expedient till other more efficient measures may be instituted. It is especially applicable to cases of children under six months of age, in consequence of the weak and inelastic condition of their chest-walls. Instead of the operator applying his