91 CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. after a short time the symptoms of poisoning passed away, and the discolora- tion of a sheet of white paper saturated with a solution of a salt of lead and held before the nostrils of the animal, showed that the gas was being elimi- nated from the blood, through the lungs. There is no evidence that any phlogogenic power is exerted by this gas which so constantly accompanies putrefaction. The notoriously dangerous effects which are liable to follow inoculation with the fluids of a recently dead body, as exemplified in wounds received in post-mortem examinations, have been ascribed to a poison formed by chemical action taking place just before or just after death. It is proved by experience that wounds received in examination of recently dead bodies, are more likely to be serious in their poisonous effects than those received after decomposition has set in. Hence the assertion, formulated by Robin, that putrefaction destroys animal poisons. Nevertheless, according to Mitchell, the venom of the rattlesnake, a typical animal poison, is equally deadly and characteristic in its action after it has been kept for weeks and has become “ horribly offensive” and full of living organisms, as when perfectly fresh and containing, as he asserts, no figured elements whatever. This leads to the question, which has been so much disputed, as to the nature of the putrid poison—Whether it is a soluble substance of chemical origin, or whether its poisonous qualities are due to the presence of living organisms ? The much-quoted researches of Bergmann, and more recently of Panum, affirm the existence in putrid matters of a soluble substance of the nature of an alkaloid active principle, to which the name of sepsin has been given ; and the validity of this conclusion has not been successfully disputed. But the still more recent researches of Pasteur, of Burdon Sanderson—into the nature of the cause of infective inflammation—and latterly of Ivoch, justify the belief that bacteria of many species—some of which are noxious and phlogogenic, some doubtful, and others entirely innocent—are also to be found in all putrid substances. At the present time, therefore, we must admit that putrid substances contain both chemical and bacterie sources of poisonous action. In the well-known experiments of Dr. Anders, of Dorpat,1 in which he showed that complete destruction of the organisms in a liquid which had been proved to be septic, in no way impaired its virulent action, the conclusion was to all appearances indisputable. Although the bacteria were removed from the virulent putrescent fluid by filtration through porcelain—a method not absolutely certain—yet no evidences of bacterie life could afterwards be discovered in it by the cultivation test, that is, by adding a drop of the filtered fluid to Pasteur’s or any solution offering congenial soil. But these experi- ments are not final; the bacteria before their removal may, as a part of their vegetative process, have excreted certain soluble substances of a poisonous nature which remained in the filtered solution. Such substances, for exam- ple, as were diffused into the surrounding tissues by the gangrene-producing micrococcus discovered by Koch.2 The latter observer evidently recognizes the presence of poisonous agents of both chemical and bacterie origin in putrid fluids. In his researches under- taken to test the correctness of the conclusions of Coze, Feltz, and Davaine, putrid fluids, e. y., putrefying blood, putrid meat infusion, etc., were injected under the skin in mice. “ The result of such an injection,” he says, “ differs much according to the nature of the putrid fluid, and according to the quantity which is introduced. Blood and meat 1 Detailed in the first article in tlie seventh volume of the Deutsche Zeitschrift fur Chirurgie. 2 Op. cit., p. 42.