BLOODLETTING. 505 lines about 2| centimetres (one inch) apart, either parallel to or crossing one another. The intense burning that follows the application of the hot iron may be allayed by placing on the cauterized part compresses wrung out of cold water, or saturated with equal parts of olive oil and lime-water. It is not deemed prudent to apply the actual cautery to the skin covering salient points of the skeleton, or immediately overlying important organs. Bruce’s gas cautery, which consists of a point, disk, or wedge of platinum heated by a flame of gas, has the advantage over the ordinary cauting-iron, that it can be easily maintained at a high temperature while it is in contact with moist tissue. A very convenient and efficient form of thermo-cautery has been recently introduced by Paquelin, which comprises two hollow knives (Pig. 77, G, II) and a hollow button of platinum (I); a metallic handle (F), likewise hollow and covered with wood; a reservoir for benzole (C); and rubber bulbs and tubing (E), similar to those used with the hand spray-apparatus. In pre- paring the cautery for use, the platinum extremity, in which there is platinum sponge, is first heated by the flame of an alcohol lamp (A) ; it is then quickly made incandescent by passing through it a continuous stream of air saturated with the vapor of benzole. By compressing the rubber bulb, air is forced into the rubber bag surrounded with netting, and the elasticity of this causes a steady flow of air through the reservoir or bottle containing benzole; the air thus charged is conveyed by the rubber tubing to the platinum point. The use of the galvanic cautery will be referred to on a subsequent page. Bloodletting. The operation of bloodletting is occasionally resorted to, both as a local and as a general remedial measure. The methods by which local depletion (that is, from the capillaries) is effected, are scarification, puncturation, cupping, and leeching. General bloodletting comprises venesection and arteriotomy. Scarification consists in making small incisions with a lancet or a sharp- pointed bistoury in the surface of a congested or inflamed part. By means of these incisions, the overloaded capillaries are promptly relieved, and a vent is afforded for the escape of transudation. The cases in which this operation is most efficacious are, inflammation of the integuments, engorgements of the tongue and tonsils, chemosis of the conjunctiva, and urinary infiltration. The incisions should be in parallel rows, and, as a rule, should correspond in direction to the long axis of the part. Their length and depth, as well as their number, must be determined by the circumstances of each individual case. Care must be taken that the large subcutaneous veins are not wounded. Warm fomentations will increase and prolong the flow of blood from the small wounds. Puncturation is an operation somewhat similar in character to that just described, and may be done with a sharp-pointed, narrow-bladed bistoury. It is of marked service in cases of acute epididymitis, phlegmonous erysipelas, etc., both by relieving tension and by effecting depletion. Cupping.—Under this head are included two minor operations, viz., dry- cupping and wet or bloody-cupping. The use of cups relieves deep-seated inflammation by inviting the blood to the surface. Dry-ciLpping is indicated in cases of inflammation in which the action of a derivative is desired without the abstraction of blood. In an emergency, this