569 INSTRUMENTS REQUIRED FOR AMPUTATION. Esmarch’s Apparatus.—I have already mentioned the plan of elevating the limb and bandaging it from below upwards, before screwing down the tourniquet, in order to prevent the loss of venous blood besides controlling arterial hemorrhage. An improvement upon this procedure has been intro- duced within a few years by an Italian surgeon, Silvestri, and by Esmarch, an eminent surgeon of Kiel. Esmarch’s apparatus (Figs. 113,114) consists of a gum-elastic bandage and tube. The bandage is accurately applied to the Fig. 113. Fig. 114. Esmarch’s elastic bandage. Esmarch’s elastic tube. limb upon which the operation is to be performed, from below upwards, and with sufficient firmness to render the part quite bloodless. The elasticity of the bandage renders it unnecessary to make reverses, and with a little care the whole extremity can be covered in without leaving any gaps between the turns. The tube, which may be either round or flattened (as in Fig. 114), is next wound firmly four or five times around the limb, at the point of ter- mination of the bandage, and is secured either by tying or by a hook and chain. The bandage being then removed, the part is left fully exposed, and entirely free from blood. In the early days of “ artificial ischaemia,” as this method of rendering a limb bloodless has been called, an India-rubber cord was sometimes used instead of the tube, thus making much firmer constric- tion than was really necessary, and leading in some cases to paralysis or even gangrene of the limb to which it was applied, while in other instances the pressure of the bandage, by dislodging clots and forcing them upwards into the larger veins, caused, it is said, pulmonary embolism and death. But the principal objection that has been urged against the employment of Esmarch’s apparatus is the liability to consecutive hemorrhage. There is no doubt that, unless special precautions be observed, free capillary oozing will inevitably follow when the tube is removed, and in some cases this may prove a very serious complication: thus I am cognizant of one case in which, after the use of the tube and bandage in an excision of the knee-joint, capillary bleeding began when the tube was removed, and continued until the patient’s death. Various plans have been adopted to prevent this oozing: Kicaise advises compression of the wound with a sponge dipped in a two-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid; Riedinger applies to the wound a current of induced elec- tricity ; and Esmarch himself recommends that, after tying all the vessels that can be found, the wound should be closed with deep sutures, dressed, and elevated to a vertical position before the tube is removed, and that this position should be maintained for at least half an hour afterwards. The plan which I have myself adopted, and which I can confidently recom- mend as being less troublesome, and at least as satisfactory, as any of those that have been mentioned, is based upon a consideration of the cause of the capillary oozing referred to. The firm pressure of the elastic tube, if con- tinued for more than a very short time, produces temporary paralysis of the