54 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. under our very eyes, then there is no longer ground for the assumption that the cornea is fibrillar in the living state. I can now support my opinion by observation, which teaches that in life the normal cornea is not fibrillar, but homogeneous, and that in certain pathological conditions, or before death, it becomes fibrillar. Whoever now still asserts that the cornea or the cords of connective substance are constructed of fibrillne, must prove his assertion. In accordance with these explanations, I consider it advisable to separate distinctly the expressions fibrillar and connective-tissue-like (bindegewebig). A tissue which appears fibrillar to us, is not necessarily connective tissue. Hence it is also desirable to retain in pathology the plain term “ fibrillar.” If therefore the spinal cord is transformed into fibrillse, we shall designate this as a fibrillar degeneration, or as a formation of fibrillar tissue. If the con- nective substance in the spinal cord is increased, this has b}T no means the same signification as fibrillar degeneration. Wherever the tissue has once defi- nitively degenerated into fibril la1, its function is forever destroyed. Swelling of the reticulated tissue of the white matter does not, however, exclude the possibility of a cure, as I have already remarked. This swelling—although, according to our present nomenclature, we call it proliferation of connective substance—is equal in significance to infiltration. The infiltration can degenerate, while the fibrilhe on the other hand are products of degeneration.1 All that I have said here in regard to fibrillie, only refers to their occurrence in bundles. But there are tissues which contain fine isolated fibrilhe. Such fibrillee may occur sparsely or abundantly. But each one takes its own direction, and where they occur abundantly they may even form a felt (Filz) of intersecting threads. The nature of all of these threads is by no means a settled question. At times they are processes of smooth muscular fibres, as e. g. many of the fibrillse in the bladder of the frog; at times processes of transversely striped muscular fibres, as for example in the auricles of the frog; at times they are nerves, such as likewise occur in the bladder of the frog; at times again elastic fibres, i. e. cell-processes which have become resistant; finally they are very thin bundles of connective tissue (as e. g. in the interstices of the frog’s muscle), which form a felt and may be designated as fibrilhe. These are indeed not very fine fibrilhe, but, as already remarked, very thin cords, which are commonly called (and perhaps justly) connective tissue, because of their wavy appearance and because of their reaction (becoming swollen) with acetic acid. From the results of my most recent investigations, I no longer admit that the very fine networks which I have demonstrated in the cornea by treating it with lunar caustic, are present in the living state. How, this matter of the reticular structure is a peculiar one. The living matter is nowhere chemically the same, whether in the cells or in the basis-substances. In both there are always mixtures. Besides the living matter, the cells contain a fluid; the basis-substance of bone contains in addition certain lime salts; and cartilage, probably some other substance which gives to it its peculiar appearance. How when I mix a soft mass such as dough, with something else, such as shot, the doughy mass must contain pores in which the foreign particles are situated. A mass which has many such pores must be constructed like a network. Whether just these are the nets which I make apparent with silver, or whether there are others that only assume a new configuration after the use of the silver, is not a question of material importance. However, the transformation 1 I draw the ’•eader’s attention here to the fact that the term “connective substance” is not yet sharply defined. I consider it possible that the connective substance of the nervous system represents only an undeveloped state of nerve-tissue, from which new nerve-tissue can he de- veloped under favorable circumstances. I shall treat of this more in detail in the article already referred to on page 51.