TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 143 Destructive inflammation is often provoked by inadvertent motion, as in the case of a laborer, or a mechanic, with a spreading inflammation of the forearm following a neglected hurt of the hand, which could have been cer- tainly prevented by timely precaution securing quietude and immobility. The average patient cannot understand that moving a wounded part can do it harm, as long as the motion does not give pain at the moment. It is as difficult for an open wound to granulate or cicatrize when continually sub- jected to motion, as for a rosebud to bloom whilst being carried in a button- hole. Similarly, a wrenched ligament after a sprain cannot promptly regain its integrity unless the part to which it belongs is rendered immovable; nor can an inflamed eye get well whilst the organ is in constant use. Thus we must recognize it as an ultimate fact established by clinical experience, that too much motion is as certain to retard and pervert the process of repair, as it is to provoke and excite the destructive phases of the inflammatory process. The means at the command of the surgeon by which he can most readily enforce quietude and immobility of a part are, primarily, splints and band- ages, or strips of adhesive plaster. Even where confinement to bed might be thought sufficient, as in some forms of fracture, retentive appliances are generally indispensable. In the most firmly impacted fracture of the neck of the femur, it would be the best course to render the parts immovable. The so-called immovable apparatus, consisting of bandages hardened by gypsum, starch, dextrine, or the silicates, are easy of application, and useful for many lesions besides fracture. Billroth states that he has had a greater degree of success in the treatment of sprains since he adopted the use of the plaster of Paris bandage; and the value of the plaster jacket in disease of the vertebral processes and bodies has been demonstrated by Sayre. Carved wooden splints, and guttered splints of tin or wire, prepared felt, gutta-percha, or sole- leather, which can be moulded to the injured part, are available for lesions in the neighborhood of joints, where motion is especially to be guarded against. For smaller wounds, which are always liable, when neglected, to become sources of serious complication, strips of adhesive plaster, collodion, and even court-plaster, are of value. In wounds of the face where quick union is espe- cially desired, to prevent scars, the latter form of plaster, when free from coloring matter, is very useful; also between minute sutures in plastic opera- tions on the face, collodion being applied over the ends of the strips, but not upon the wound itself. For securing rest by the relief of pain and consequent restlessness, which is often a source of additional injury after dressing a recent wound; for every form of nervous excitability accompanying surgical lesions; and above all for traumatic delirium, which is an expression of the most intense form of nervous excitement—always excepting hysteria—-opium in some form, as the typical anodyne, is invaluable. This drug is of such great importance as an adjuvant in the treatment of inflammation, through the possession of these qualities, that it has acquired a reputation as one of its indispensable remedies. This reputation is due, in the first place, to its power in controlling the symptom of pain, and in the next place, to its influence over muscular irritability and the prevention of twitching, spasm, and consequent injurious mobility at the seat of inflammation. By this latter quality its well-earned reputation in the treatment of peritonitis has been attained; it not only arrests, for the time, the peristaltic squirming of the intestines, but slows the action of the diaphragm, thus favoring the adhesive results of inflammation, and averting fatal suppuration. Opium is in this manner eminently useful as a preventive of the destructive manifestations of the inflammatory process. Hence after dressing a surgical case, and having placed the injured part in the