272 RACHITIS. ports the softened ribs, a white patch is often found, due to thickening of the pericardium and proliferation of the endothelial cells, just as thickening of the skin in the palm of the hand occurs from friction and pressure upon that part. It is probable that this pressure does not seriously impair the function of the heart, but it may increase the weakness of its movements in any asthenic disease which may occur during the rachitic period. The injury sustained by the lungs is greater and more apparent. If the ribs be flexible, and much depressed, full inflation of the lung cannot occur in those parts where the depression is greatest. Semi-collapse of certain lobules is apt to occur, and even complete collapse of the distant thin edges of the lung. The stress of respiration falls unequally upon different parts of the lung. The anterior portion, which ascends with the sternum as that is propelled forward, is more fully dilated than the lateral and posterior parts, and hence is apt to become emphysematous. If in this state of the thorax and lungs, severe bronchitis or broncho-pneumonia arise, the state is one of great peril. The mucus and pus being expectorated with difficulty, clog the tubes and produce dyspnoea. Tull inspiration in the lateral and depending portions of the lung, which is required in order to expel the mucus, not occurring, the result may be unfavorable, even in comparatively mild forms of inflammation. Bron- chitis and broncho-pneumonia are the causes of death in not a few cases of severe rickets. Certain writers state that chronic hydrocephalus, diarrhoea, and eclampsia may complicate rachitis. I have not seen any case in which rickets seemed to sustain a causative relation to either hydrocephalus or diar- rhoea, but we know that diarrhoea frequently precedes and accompanies rachitis, and its relation to it is that of cause rather than effect. This sub- ject has been sufficiently treated of in preceding pages. Rachitic infants ap- pear to be more liable to eclampsia than those who are healthy. This would be inferred from their liability to laryngismus stridulus, for there is a simili- tude in the nature of these neuroses. Diagnosis of Rachitis. Rachitis in many instances continues a considerable time before its nature is suspected, the symptoms to which it gives rise being overlooked, or attrib- uted to other causes than the true one; and yet it is important that an early diagnosis be made, for it is much more amenable to treatment in its early than in its later stages. The deformities which mar the beauty, and to a certain extent impair the activity and usefulness, of so many who have been rachitic in childhood, may often be prevented by early diagnosis and treatment. Many with this disease do not show the usual signs of faulty digestion and innutrition, especially on casual inspection, for there nicy be considerable adipose development and rotundity of features and form in a rachitic child; while, on the other hand, there are numerous instances of mal-nutrition and wasting without rachitis. Early diagnosis, when the affection is of a mild type, is necessarily difficult, but a watchful and painstaking physician will commonly detect the disease before it has run many weeks, if lie bears in mind its frequency, and looks carefully for it. If called to a suspected case, we should inquire into the history, and par- ticularly whether there have been signs of intestinal catarrh or innutrition. The gums should be inspected to ascertain whether there is backwardness in dentition, and the head, to note its shape and size, whether it is elongated, or whether it approximates the square shape, with broad forehead and large protuberances. AVe should notice also the state of the fontanelles and sutures, and whether there are softening and thinning of the cranial bones. The