DRESSING THE STUMP. 599 which, as its name implies, consists in the use of prepared earth or dried clay, placed in immediate contact with the wound. What is the legitimate inference to be derived from a consideration of the various and very dissimilar methods of dressing stumps which have now been referred to—methods, it must be remembered, which have been, each without exception, lauded by their promoters as superior to all others, and, in the opinion of their advocates, proved to be so by the unerring test of clinical experience ? Is it not that the particular mode in which a stump is dressed is, after all, of comparatively little importance, and that we must look for information as to the probable result of an amputation, rather to the nature of the lesions which render the operation necessary, and the consti- tutional condition of the patient, than to the influence of any extraneous circumstances? This cpiestion will be referred to again when we come to consider the statistics of amputation, and is merely suggested here in con- nection with the mode of treatment next to be described, and which I have ventured to call the simple dressing for amputation wounds. Simple Dressing.—In the first place, let us consider what are the requisites for a good stump dressing. There must obviously be ample means provided for drainage; or pain, if not worse, will be caused by the accumulation and retention of the sero-sanguineous flow which inevitably follows an amputa- tion. Hence, as already mentioned, care must be taken not to apply the stitches too close together, and, if sufficient drainage be not afforded by the ligatures, one or two fenestrated India-rubber tubes may be laid in the wound and brought out at the angles. Then, whatever dressing is employed should not be liable to stick to the wound, lest it interfere with the exit of discharges and cause pain when it is renewed; hence wet dressings are preferable to salves or ointments, and upon the whole I know of nothing which answers a better purpose than pure laudanum, the use of which in dressing stumps I learned many years ago from that excellent surgeon Dr. Joseph Pancoast. The lau- danum is no doubt antiseptic, from the alcohol which it contains, and its use is certainly very soothing to the patient; it prevents, to a great extent, if not entirely, that painful jerking of the stump which is so apt to follow ampu- tation. Mr. Bryant accomplishes the same purpose by bandaging the stump firmly to a padded splint, but with the laudanum dressing this is unnecessary, and the stump will be found to rest very comfortably upon a soft pillow, which should be covered with a piece of India-rubber cloth and a clean towel. At the second dressing, forty-eight hours after the operation, I commonly substitute diluted alcohol for the laudanum, and continue this dressing until the wound is nearly healed, after which the ointment of the oxide of zinc may be employed instead. While my preference is for pure laudanum, as a first dressing, I have occasionally used, with excellent results, diluted lau- danum, or lead-water and laudanum, or simply olive oil. I have no particu- lar objection to carbolized oil, if it be not so strongly impregnated with the acid as to produce irritation of the skin, but have seen no advantage from its employment. Whatever material be employed for the dressing, this must be kept moist; otherwise it will adhere to the edges of the wound and produce irritation. This object is best accomplished by saturating with whatever preparation is employed, a large piece of lint, laying it underneath the stump, folding it over the end, and then again (doubled) from either side, so that on top of the stump are placed five layers of wet lint, constituting a reservoir from which the med icated fluid is gradually drawn downwards. The whole should be covered moreover with oiled silk, or some other impermeable tissue which will keep