(215) HYDROPHOBIA AND RABIES; GLANDERS; MALIGNANT PUSTULE. BY WILLIAM S. FORBES, M.D., DEMONSTRATOR OF ANATOMY IN THE JEFFERSON MEDICAL COLLEGE ; SENIOR SURGEON TO THE EPISCOPAL HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Hydrophobia and Rabies. Hydrophobia is a general malady which manifests itself chiefly through disturbances of the nervous system, of an intensely distressing character. The word hydrophobia (uSwp water and <p6i30{ fear) signifies dread of water, a name suggested by the inability to swallow liquids, which forms one of the most prominent and marked features of the disease as it exists in man. In consequence of the occasional absence of this striking symptom, and of its occasional presence in other diseases, the name has been objected to, and the word rabies, which is the term applied to the corresponding affection met with in the lower animals, has been sometimes substituted instead. It may be well, however, to retain the name hydrophobia at present, as it is the one by which the disease is most widely known. Cause of Hydrophobia.—The primary or exciting cause of hydrophobia may be said to be the inoculation of the body with a poison of a specific cha- racter, which is generated or at least contained in the salivary fluids or secre- tions from the buccal and faucial mucous membranes of an animal which is affected with rabies, the virus being introduced upon the animal’s teeth, or possibly by its lips or tongue. It is not necessary that there should be an actual bite, but an abraded surface must exist, in order that inoculation shall be effected. Hydrophobia is apparently produced by the action of this spe- cific poison upon the respiratory centres of the nervous system, producing a morbid irritability of the medulla oblongata, and of the eighth pair of nerves of Willis’s classification. Rabies originates in certain animals, such as the dog, the wolf, the fox, the skunk, the jackall, the cat, and the badger. The disease does not originate in man, and it is not sure that it can be communicated from one human being to another. But animals in whom the virus does not originate, are yet sus- ceptible to hydrophobia, and all are probably capable of transmitting it when under its influence. Magendie inoculated two dogs with the saliva of a man suffering from hydrophobia; one of the dogs became mad and bit twro others, one of which also became mad and died. The malady has been provoked in dogs by inoculating them with the saliva of rabid horses and asses, and cases have been reported of human beings having acquired hydrophobia from the bites of rabid horses and pigs. Rabbits and similar animals, as well as fowls,