390 TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM AND DELIRIUM TREMENS. be for months. Is it any wonder that these patients all become delirious, and that in some the symptom is continuous until the end ? Those who re- cover, also have delirium, which varies in extent and duration with the severity of the injuries. Touch, the master sense, of which all other special senses are modifications, and without which no knowledge of the external world is conceivable, is terribly deranged, and expresses itself to the sensor- ium only as pain. Myriads of fibres as conveyers, myriads of cells as receivers, are involved. There is so much wrong at the surface, that it would be a marvel if wrong did not follow at the centre. I should much sooner expect to find irritative exudations on the posterior surfaces of the cortex in fatal burns, than ulcers in the duodenum. Besides pain, as a producer of delirium in burns, surgical fever, with its ordinary phenomena, may also set in and develop it. This, however, is not often the case, for it is surprising to notice, after the surfaces have become clean and the papillae well covered with healthy granulations, how tolerant the patient becomes; and when repair is fully in progress, he passes on to a slow recovery without any mental disturbance. I have the charts of six burnt and scalded patients before me, all of whom had delirium. Four of these recovered and two died. One of the fatal cases illustrates a burn and the other a scald. These two charts (Figs. 30, 31) are Fig. 31. Temperature chart of P. M., aged 23. Traumatic delirium following scalds of face, neck, forearms, hands, and air-passages (by inhalation). Violent raving delirium began on August 13 (second day), and continued day and night, until the patient’s death, requiring mechanical restraint. The treatment consisted in the administration of 30 grains of bromide of potassium with 10 drops of the tincture of digitalis every four hours ; of 10 grains of chloral hydrate every six hours ; and of half a grain of morphia, hypodermically, at night. annexed, as well as one (Fig. 32) of recovery from burn. In two, the delirium set in on the second, and in the other on the fourth day, certainly too soon I think in all of them, and at least in the first two, for ordinary surgical fever. There was no delirium tremens in these cases. The absolute and quick de-