SUPPURATIVE KERATITIS. 31 mens). At one time the basis-substance becomes enlarged, while the cells and their processes (i. e., the trabeculae of the network) become diminished; at another time the reverse is the case. Border quarrels, as it were, take place between the network of cells and the basis-substance. One and the same strip of territory is at one period a portion of the body of a cell, or of a pro- cess ; at another period, a part of the basis-substance. Here and there, also, entire cells perish, and are completely converted into basis-substance. As I shall soon show, it only requires changes of short duration to transform the basis-substance into a cell, and, vice versa, a cell into basis-substance. These changes correspond on the one hand to the normal development of tissue, and on the other hand to pathological processes. In general, we may say that the larger cells, and also a greater abundance of cells, are characteristic of a more youthful condition of the tissue. In the embryo, we see scarcely anything but cells, separated by narrow traces of intermediate or basis-substance. The older the tissue becomes, the broader are the traces of intermediate substance, and the more slender are the cells and their processes. The reverse takes place in inflammation. The more advanced is the process of inflammation, the larger do the bodies of the cells and their processes become, and the smaller are the islands of basis-substance which till up the meshes of the network. But it is now appropriate to describe more accurately these processes as they occur in inflammation. I proceed, accordingly, to the consideration of those microscopical observations, of which it has already been said that they are in harmony with the clinical phenomena—observations, namely, which I have made on the inflamed cornese of young cats, examined after staining during the life of the animal. I shall suppose that the inflammation has been excited by touching the centre of the cornea with caustic potassa.1 If now we place under the micro- scope a lamella prepared according to the specified method, we easily recognize the cauterized focus. Here no pus-corpuscle, not any trace of an inflammatory process, is to be found. The cornea-corpuscles and the network respectively are still to be recognized; they present themselves as crumbled masses. Howhere a multiplication of nuclei; nowhere an indication that there was still life in them at the time they were stained with silver, that is, at the height of the inflammatory process. It is different in the neighborhood of the slough. Here the network of cornea-corpuscles appears greatly swollen,2 and the basis-substance in the meshes of the network diminished. Here and there the basis-substance has entirely disappeared, and the network has thereby become very much nodulated. The relation is about the same as if I should pour water on the polished surface of a table, and then spread it out with the linger into a network over the entire surface. The beams of the watery network are to represent the network of cells, the dry islands of the table the basis-substance. If now I pour on water repeatedly, the lines of water become continually increased in size, whilst the dry islands become smaller, until finally nearly the entire table is covered with great masses of water, with only here and there a dry island still visible. If we look at the lamella with a magnifying glass while it floats about in water, we notice that in all those places where the network of cells is swollen, the lamella is swollen too. If we expose such a lamella to diffused daylight for some hours (even up to several days), we shall soon recognize with a power 1 Best as follows : Melt caustic potassa in a silver crucible, and allow it to be sucked up by capillary attraction into very fine glass tubes. Each of these tubes may be employed to cauterize repeatedly, by breaking oil' the used-up point. 2 Always in patches only; I have never seen this change in the entire circumference of the eschar.