363 SYMPTOMS OF SHOCK. This death-like calm is, however, by no means invariable in cases of shock; indeed, in this respect they may present the greatest possible variety. There may be from the first a condition of the most extreme restlessness and excita- bility, that erethistic form which Travers has termed “ prostration with ex- citement or this may follow on the former type as a kind of reaction. The patient then tosses wildly and vaguely from side to side, as if frantic, complaining of a fearful oppression and want of breath; with presentiments of death, and a feeling of total annihilation ; often shouting again and again the same thing, perhaps utterly meaningless ; with a countenance expressive of nothing but a nameless anxiety and excruciating agony. No encourage- ment is of any use; the consciousness is unclouded, but seems altogether pre- occupied by the frightful anguish; no question is answered; there is only the same constant moaning exclamation; no attention is paid to anything going on around ; there is but one feeling, that of closely impending dissolu- tion. The respiration and pulse present the same general character as in the torpid form of shock, but it is seldom that the pallor and coldness are so great; sometimes even the face is flushed, and burning thirst is nearly always felt; fluids are swallowed with the greatest eagerness, and vomited as soon. Often the limbs or the whole body are convulsed by a sudden rigor. Sleep is unknown, or there is at best a fitful slumber which gives no relief; more often, as night approaches, the incoherence becomes wild delirium. Ex- haustion rapidly supervenes; a profuse and clammy sweat appears on the face, and spreads over the whole body; the pulse becomes fainter and feebler, and with a sudden cessation of all movement, often preceded by a slight con- vulsion, the expression alters, and the patient is dead. In spite of the very great difference in the external manifestations of these two forms of shock, it is by no means improbable, just as under other circum- stances coma and convulsions may occur together, and be due to the same cause, that the same pathological condition underlies them both—of course in somewhat different measure; at least, the distinction is so slight that either may succeed the other, and no prediction as yet is possible either from the constitution of the patient or the nature of the lesion, as to which may be the form which will supervene. But even these are not the only, though they are perhaps the most striking, forms in which the intense depression of vital power that follows serious injury may manifest itself. Sometimes, and it is more particularly after rail- way injuries, as a result, perhaps, of the fright—perhaps of the violent concus- sion sustained by the whole body as it is violently projected into space, or jerked backwards and forwards with all the muscles unprepared—there is seen a form so insidious as to falsify the most guarded prognosis. After the accident, the patient, who has sustained no apparent bodily hurt (and this seems to be essential), appears perfectly calm and unaffected—often unnatu- rally so—congratulating himself on his escape; his color is good ; pulse quiet; respiration tranquil; there seems nothing wrong. But at night there comes an inability to sleep, and a tendency to become feverish; the pulse becomes quicker and softer; the eye bright and restless; the extremities cool; and, even within the space of three or four days, persistent vomiting and exhaustion, running on to prostration and coma, may supervene. More frequently the time occu- pied is much longer, and there follows a condition which has been variously called, for want of a better name, hysteria, or hypochondriasis. It is true that much doubt has been justly thrown on a great number of these cases; in many, the symptoms have been simulated completely; in others, and proba- bly the greater number, the real cause has been a slowly progressing, chronic cerebrospinal meningitis; but there still remain a few (presenting no objec- tive signs) to which this explanation will not apply; a few in which, as the