ALCOHOLISM. 823 nutrition, such as the lungs, liver, and kidneys. They do not always cause swift death, and may even disappear quite rapidly; then the curative process, which has been temporarily suspended, resumes its course with more or less activity and rapidity; but it may also be subject to fresh periods of arrest, languish for an indefinite period, and even retrograde. We then observe pro- fuse suppuration, the absence of secondary union,'and the formation of atonic wounds and callous ulcers. After various alternations, recovery may finally occur, but it is at least as common to find fresh complications supervene, rendering the local lesions manifestly incurable, and leaving no other alterna- tive than death from cachexia, or surgical interference of the most dangerous kind. The danger of wounds in drunkards is none the less serious when it comes reciprocally from the action of the traumatism on alcoholism. It is not rare to find that a wound recalls, with more or less violence, the manifestations of alcoholism which is latent, or which has been long believed to have disappeared. In the first rank stands Delirium Tremens. Tliis serious complication may arise suddenly, a few hours after the injury, and by a true reflex action upon the previously affected cerebral organ; or it may appear at later periods, when the septic poison originating in the wound and produced by the local complications has more or less poisoned the blood. Be that as it may, this delirium tremens of traumatic origin is of considerable gravity, and often resists all the measures which are directed against it. Delirium is not the only neuropathy which injury may produce or awaken in the victims of alcohol; there must also be noted, epileptiform convulsions, tetanic spasms, hyperaesthesia and anaesthesia, hallucinations, and other psychical disturb- ances. The reaction of the traumatism upon the other viscera affected prior to the wound, though less sudden and violent, is none the less very threatening. On the part of the digestive tract appear vomiting, anorexia—sometimes complete—and the malnutrition which results therefrom. When the liver is cirrhotic or fatty, secondary hemorrhages are greatly to be dreaded, as are also albuminuria and uraemic phenomena when the kidneys are affected. In case of fatty degeneration of the heart, we must have in our minds the liability to residual overdistension (asystolie), which has been already several times observed in drunkards, and which explains the sudden or very rapid death sometimes observed in their cases. In other words, when we remem- ber that alcohol produces three principal lesions, to wit, fatty degeneration and cirrhosis in the parenchymatous organs, and atheroma in the vessels; and that in inveterate drinkers all the tissues and organs are more or less deterio- rated, and all the functions more or less compromised, wTe may understand that death may occur in several ways, and, -in some manner, through all the more important organs. To certain lesions, however, correspond certain disorders which destroy life by a constant mechanism. In crushes of the limbs and compound fractures for instance, death occurs from acute septicaemia. The centre of traumatism rapidly becomes the site of an intense phlegmonous inflammation, which extends step by step, and soon involves the entire limb; the connective tissue is infiltrated with gas and putrid fluids; sphacelus at once attacks the contused parts, and cadaveric decomposition appears to commence before death. Surgical interference is almost useless; amputation and resection are unavailing. Antiseptic dress- ings applied immediately after the accident have saved some wounded alco- holics, but still permit the death of the larger number.