ADMINISTRATION OF ETHER. 443 the larynx occur, evinced by the lividity and discoloration of the lips and ears. This can usually be relieved by turning the head, or by pushing for- wards the angles of the jaws, and by making pressure upon the chest, thus exciting afresh the respiratory efforts. The pulse must be watched as well as the breathing, especially if the patient have a fatty heart, or any other form of organic cardiac disease. While, in the great majority of cases, ether will accomplish all that chlo- roform can do, and indeed all that can be desired, and, as we think, with a greater degree of safety, there are nevertheless instances in which it seems proper to employ chloroform. As is well known, ether vapor acts as an irritant to the lungs even when healthy, and its use is sometimes followed by more or less bronchitis. It should not, therefore, be resorted to when any pulmonary irritation or inflammation already exists, but preference should be given to chloroform. Acute oedema of the lungs, terminating fatally in a few hours, has occurred after the inhalation of ether to the writer’s knowledge, and it is probable that most of the few deaths charged to the use of ether have in reality been due to this cause. An examination of the lungs and of the heart must consequently be made before ether is given. The use of ether in cardiac disease has also been questioned, but here hesitation need only be felt when there is a tendency to overloading of the right heart; and there does not appear to be any reason for not giving ether when the heart is weak or fatty. Indeed, its action as a cardiac stimulant would rather favor its employment in these cases, but under such circumstances its effects must of course be carefully watched. Chloroform is peculiarly adapted for children; upon them it acts readily, and, as far as is known, safely. First Insensibility from Ether.—Before describing the mode of adminis- tration of ether and chloroform, it may be well to allude here to one of the effects of ether inhalation which is not as widely known as it deserves to be, namely, the transitory state of first insensibility produced by a few whiffs of ether, originally pointed out by Dr. Packard, of Philadelphia,1 who has noticed that, if, when a patient begins to inhale ether, “. . . . lie be told to hold up his hand, and the direction be repeated as often as necessary, for a little while he will obey, but soon there will be a failure of voluntary power, and the hand will drop. At this instant there begins a very brief period—less than a minute—of total insensibility. If the inhalation be now suspended, conscious- ness will return at once, and the patient will come to himself without headache, nausea, or any other of the disagreeable effects so commonly experienced after the prolonged administration of the anaesthetic. During this brief period of anaesthesia, the ‘first insensibility,’ as I have called it, any operation may be performed as painlessly as if the inhalation had been carried to the fullest extent I feel warranted in asserting that this first insensibility invariably occurs; that it is absolute and profound, though brief; and that it may always be detected and taken advantage of by careful observation and prompt action.” From a personal experience, the writer can testify to the entire accuracy of Dr. Packard’s statements, not only as to the occurrence of this short in- sensibility, but also as to its thoroughness and completeness as regards any sensation of pain from cutting operations. Administration of Ether.—In obtaining antesthesia from ether, not a little depends upon the skill of the administrator. If the patient be frightened or roughly handled, he naturally rebels, and the process is necessarily pro- longed, and therefore to a degree imperfect. Here, as in all other surgical * American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1877, and April, 1878.