INFLAMMATION. 110 Plastic or Coagulable Lymph. To return to the well-known inflammatory effusion which exudes from recently divided living surfaces, and deposits upon them the plastic or coagu- lable lymph by the organization of which their union is effected, this form of exudation, and the steps by which it undergoes the organizing process, are worthy of careful study. It is the characteristic product of the “ adhesive” inflammation of Hunter, the normal type of the true, healthy, constructive process. Hunter describes the aspect presented by the pale jelly-like coagu- lable lymph as it appeared to his unaided eye upon an exposed surface of bone; he could easily have wiped it away, but did not; the next day, to his surprise, it had become pinkish in color, and bled when touched by the probe. It had become organized. The mechanism of this curious change—one of the changes which constitute the condition of inflammation: that is, the organization of plastic lymph, which histology and embryology have since rendered plain to us—it is the surgeon’s duty to supervise; and to do this intelligently he must be familiar with it. Hunter wisely withheld his hand and watched the process with the eye of genius. At the end of another century, with the advantage of the microscope, we enjoy the privilege of seeing more clearly the minute appearances which attend the organization of plastic lymph, and can recognize with certainty what Hunter only assumed. The substance of coagulable or plastic lymph affords by its chemico-vital constituents the best possible pabulum for cell germination and sustenance, and the leucocytes or white corpuscles already present in it begin, at once, to germinate. In a few hours after the receipt of a wound, the process of cell germination has converted the jelly-like material deposited upon its surface into a mass of granular cells, all of the same size, and so numerous as to touch each other on all sides, leaving only minute angular interspaces filled with intercellular substance. These granular cells are minute spherical masses of protoplasm, called by Huxley “embryonic” cells. lie gives them this name because they are the first formed and most constant features that make their appearance in the jelly-like substance—plastic lymph, it might be called— that constitutes the human embryo when it first becomes manifest under a magnifying power. They are almost if not quite identical with white blood corpuscles, with lymph corpuscles, with young pus cells, with young epithe- lium, with so-called granulation cells, and with young connective tissue cor- puscles ; and to all these cells, undistinguishable from each other in their earlier stages by any means at present under our command, the common ap- pellation of leucocytes or indifferent cells is applied by histologists. And now, as soon as the plastic lymph has been thus converted by the ger- minal power into a mass of living cells, another strange phenomenon takes place: a minute stream of cells, differing in appearance from those just de- scribed, may be seen coursing its way through the crowd of leucocytes, which seem to flatten out and make walls, apparently to keep the slender current within bounds; and this tiny stream of pinkish yellow cells, curving upon itself, assumes, forthwith, the outline of a loop. It is, in fact, a newly formed capillary, containing red blood-corpuscles, which are readily distinguishable as such by their faint color, and their characteristic shape-—that of flattened bi-concave disks. The new capillary loops shoot into the cell mass from the surfaces of the recently divided tissue, projected, as it were, from its over- distended capillaries by a process of budding and growth of new vessels, or by simple rupture and “ channelling.” However formed, they shortly con- stitute myriads of delicate connecting threads running into the mass of recently germinated cells which, thus furnished with a blood supply, begin