220 HYDROPHOBIA—GLANDERS—MALIGNANT PUSTULE. ventricle. In three of the cases, the larger veins in this position presented aggrega- tions of small cells within the perivascular lymphatic sheath Similar cells were scattered through the tissue, among the nerve elements, and in some places, chiefly in and near the hypoglossal nuclei, thtre were dense collections of these cells, constituting in fact miliary abscesses. Similar smaller collections were seen among the fibres of origin of the hypoglossal and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. In the paroxysms of hydrophobia, the respiratory apparatus is wholly engaged, and in Dr. Gowers’s eases the structural change was especially well marked in the region of the “ respiratory centre,” in the medulla; and in the case in which the change was most decided the diaphragm had been violently affected. [Changes in the medullary and spinal cord, analogous to those observed by Dr. Gowers, have also been noted by Clifford Allbutt, and by Cheadle. Bene- dikt, of Vienna, and Wassilief, of St. Petersburg, have found inflammatory changes in the brain, while JS’epveu has noticed congestion of the nerve-struc- tures in the neighborhood of the wound, and inflammatory lesions in the salivary glands. Coats, of Glasgow, has observed hyperaemia of the kidneys, with an accumulation of white corpuscles. The only characteristic macro- scopic change, according to Cooper Forster, is dilatation of the pharynx.] Dr. Bigelow states that the structural changes noted in hydrophobia are not essential and primary factors in developing the train of symptoms, but are in all probability secondary lesions, resulting from the terrible disturbance which the disease causes in the functions of the respiratory, vascular, and nervous systems. Such phenomena can hardly, therefore, be of any value in determining the pathogeny of the affection. He adds that though we have acquired new and important data by these observations, still we cannot affirm positively that we have found a characteristic lesion pathognomonic of hydro- phobia. [Middleton, of Glasgow, entertains a similar view.] It has been conjectured, according to Dr. Hammond, that hydrophobia may begin as a blood disease, and end as a nerve disease. “The nature of the hydrophobic virus is unknown. It is probably of the nature of a ferment Dr. Barry, on the other hand, in his Experimental Researches, rejects the idea that the poison of hydrophobia, is absorbed and mingled with the blood, as being directly opposed to all analogy. Diagnosis of Hydrophobia.—Dr. Dolan well says that the symptoms of hydrophobia are so characteristic that they should not be confounded with those of any other disease. To distinguish it from tetanus, Drs. Holland and Shinkwin point out the following differences:— (1) Tetanus results from injuries of the most varied character. (2) In tetanus the effects follow in a very short space of time, a week seldom elapsing between the injury and the development of the symptoms, while in the one hundred and tu'enty cases of hydrophobia collected by Dr. Holland, the shortest interval recorded between the bite and the first symptoms of rabies was twelve days, the longest three hundred and thirty-four days, and the average sixty-one days and eighteen hours. (3) The anxiety, horror, and convulsions at the sight of fluids, are not found in tetanus. (4) In tetanus, some of the muscles are often in a state of rigidity, and the convul- sions occur at much shorter intervals than in cases of rabies. (5) Delirium is a very rare symptom in tetanus, and a frequent one in rabies, hav- ing occurred eighty times in one hundred and twenty cases. (f>) In tetanus, the secretion of saliva is seldom increased. (7) In tetanus, the muscles of the lower jaw are frequently in a state of tension. (8) Opisthotonos or emprosthctonos often terminates the case in tetanus.