115 DESTRUCTIVE INFLAMMATION—PUS FORMATION. the body and exposed at an ordinary temperature, it is rather slow to undergo change. When allowed to stand quietly for some hours, pus gradually separates into two portions: one, solid, which, under the influence of gravity, sinks to the bottom of the vessel; and another, liquid, and lighter in color, which floats. The solid portion of fresh pus consists almost entirely of leucocytes, which are here called q>us-corpuscles; its liquid portion is a serous fluid known as liquor pitris. In normal pus of average quality, its solid portion constitutes about twenty-five per cent, of the whole; three-quarters of its bulk being, therefore, liquor puris. But this proportion may vary greatly: in most cases, by diminution in quantity of the corpuscles. Thus, in the thin, serous, watery pus that comes from an open wound on the eve of heal- ing—when it usually presents this quality—or in that furnished by an indo- lent ulcer, the proportion of corpuscles may sink as low as two or three per cent.; whilst in the thick unctuous discharge from a healthy granulating wound, or an acute abscess, it may rise as high as twenty-nine per cent.1 The presence of pus of good consistence—the “ laudable” pus of the older surgeons—indicates the existence of active reparative power. Thin pus means just the contrary: either that the healing process has reached a natural termination—a cicatrix being about to close in the suppurating surface—or that its healthy progress is otherwise interfered with or suspended. When pus is formed under pressure, as in the antrum of the upper jaw, or in abscess of bone, it may present the aspect of a yellowish, solid, cheesy mass, the com- pressed pus-cells showing, under a magnifying power, an angular outline. But they will swell in water, and the addition of acetic acid will bring out the characteristic nuclei. Solid pus has been mistaken for tubercular deposit. As to variations in color, pus sometimes presents a deep yellow or orange tint from bile, or, in rare cases, on dressings long unchanged, it shows a blue color, which is caused by the growth of a minute fungus or mould. All the other tints of pus come from the coloring matter of the blood—hsematoidine. Anatomical Characteristics of Pus.—When we investigate the anatomi- cal characteristics of pus, after separating its solid constituents from the serum, we find that more than nine-tenths of the former consist of leucocytes or young pus-cells. These latter, in freshly formed pus, present, under a mode- rate magnifying power (250 diameters), the granular aspect, and also the peculiar amoeboid movements, of vigorous young healthy leucocytes. In pus which has been collecting in an abscess for several days, or which has been discharged from the body for a few hours, these movements indicative of life are no longer to be seen. Under these circumstances, the pus-corpuscles pre- sent themselves as cells with from two to five nuclei, most generally three, and these form a cluster resembling a clover leaf. This is considered and pictured as the most characteristic form of the pus-corpuscle. But, whenever the pus-corpuscle presents this aspect, it is no longer capable of amoeboid movements—it is dead. A film, constituting a sort of cell-wall, has formed around its outer surface; it is uniformly round. When subjected to the action of dilute acetic acid, it dissolves—all except the outer film or cell-wall, and the central trefoil-shaped nucleiform mass. These two varieties of pus-cells, living and dead, are often seen mingled together in various proportions in an ordinary specimen of pus. In pus which has been formed for some time, and confined in contact with the tissues, there are also found larger corpuscles, overgrown, as it were, and stuffed with granules of fatty matter in addition to their nuclei; these are 1 Robin, ut supra.