PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 20 tation. If we ligate tlie femoral artery of a dog, the hlood-pressure rises only temporarily. This rise is a consequence of the irritation applied to the nerves of the artery; the irritation produces a retlex act; the rise of pressure is the result of reflex action. If, before the operation, we inject sufficient hydrate of chloral into the veins of the animal to destroy the reflex excitability, the ligature of the femoral no longer produces a rise of pressure. But the rise of hlood-pressure after ligature of an artery continues so short a time that it is impossible to regard it as the cause of the collateral hypenemia. The im- mense dilatation of the vessels must accordingly be due to other causes; the innervation of these vessels must be altered to make them dilate to such a degree, and to so thicken their walls, that capillaries become transformed into small arteries and veins. A similar, though not so marked, an instance, is the case of venous reflux. If the blood from the artery cannot penetrate the capillaries, on account of an obstruction (e. y., an embolus), then this capillary region can become filled from the direction of the veins, as was first shown by Virchow, and a hypersemia can be produced which is very similar to the hypenemia of stagnation. Aow it is conceivable that we have to deal here with mechanical principles merely. If no blood enters from the arteries, then the pressure in the capillaries, it is supposed, equals zero, and the least pressure in the neighboring veins is sufficient to force the blood back into the capillaries. But, after all that we know of the dilatation of vessels, it is not probable that the feeble pressure which is present in the small veins is suffi- cient to dilate the capillaries. If this were possible, the capillaries could not at all retain their normal diameter under the variable influence of the arte- rial pressure to which they are ordinarily exposed; they would have to undergo an immense dilatation under normal circumstances. An experiment performed on the spleen, by Bochefontaine,1 is reported to have shown that the venous reflux (congestion) is absent when all nerves are pushed aside before tying the splenic artery; that is, when only the artery, and not also the accompanying nerves are tied. In concluding this section, it may not be out of place to mention that simple hypenemia of stagnation depends solely on mechanical causes. Xevertheless, we do not know but that the vaso-motor innervation is also changed, and that the dilatation of the vessels is produced in this way. Consequences of Hyperemia ; (Edema and Hemorrhage. In order to appreciate the consequences of hypenemia, we must once more consider the capillary walls. The contractile cells have a peculiar condition of aggregation. They are not fluid, but nevertheless their parts move among each other as though they were fluid. If we watch a pigment granule in an amoeboid cell, we see that it changes its position in the cell almost constantly. If, furthermore, Ave Avatcli with a high power the so-called coarsely-granulated, white blood-corpuscles of the frog, we soon observe that the coarse granules are not stationary; they alter their relative positions, and also their shape. If Ave accurately fix upon a granule, Ave see, in addition, that it does not pre- sent a constant appearance. A granule may become a fine thread; the thread may disappear completely; it may perish in the hyaline basis-substance of the cell, in which the granules are apparently imbedded. In other places ncAAr granules appear. This phenomenon can lie seen readily AATith a Xo. 15 lens ot Hartnaek. On the other hand, a still more powerful lens2 (Xo. X of 1 Archives de Physiologic, 1874, p. COS. 2 Claimed to correspond with No. 124 Hartnaek.