431 ANESTHETIC SUBSTANCES. effects produced by chloral hydrate. It, however, produces marked insensi- bility of the nerves of the head and face. This has given the drug a certain reputation in the treatment of facial neuralgia. The ordinary soporific dose is about gm. 0.20 (three grains), repeated at intervals of an hour. Excessive doses may prove fatal by arresting the movements of respiration. III. Ethers. Metiiylic Ether or Oxide of methyl, CIT3.O.CH3. A colorless gas, with a pleasant, ethereal odor, it may be condensed by cold or by pressure to a liquid boiling at about —21° C. (—5°.8 F.). It is not used in surgery, but its solution in ether has been tested under the name of methyl-ethylic ether. The vapor of this substance produces anaesthesia without agitation, spasm, or convulsion. Small animals killed by its inhalation die from paralysis of respiration. Its odor and its extreme volatility furnish the principal objec- tions to its use. Ethylic Oxide, C2II4.O.CJI3, Ethylic ether, Ether, Sulphuric ether. Sp. gr. 0.736. Boiling point, 35°.5 C. (95°.9 F.). Vapor density, 2.586. A colorless, transparent, mobile liquid, with a peculiar, exhilarating odor and sharp, burn- ing taste, with a cooling after-taste. It is formed by the action of sulphuric acid upon ethylic alcohol. The primary effect of ether inhalation is excite- ment. The pulse and respiration are accelerated; the mucous surfaces are irritated ; there is a disposition to muscular movement; the brain is excited. This stage is soon followed by a diminution and perversion of general sensi- bility. The sense of pain is overcome before the sense of touch. The special senses soon yield; the muscular apparatus is relaxed; the pupils are con- tracted ; the face suffused; the skin becomes moist; consciousness ceases. In this stage the circulation and respiration recede towards the normal standard, and tend towards a uniform rate. In profound anaesthesia the respiration may become stertorous and slow; the pulse falls and weakens; the skin is cool, moist, and pale—sometimes cyanotic. In the rare instances of death from inhalation of ether, the fatal result is due to arrest of the func- tions of respiration and circulation. [Under the name of “first insensibility from ether,” Dr. Packard, of Philadelphia, has described a condition of brief duration in which certain operations, such as opening an abscess, can be per- formed without pain to the patient, though the administration of the anses- thetic has not been pushed to the extent of producing complete insensibility. A similar condition of “primary anaesthesia” from the use of chloroform, has been noticed by Dr. Gibney, of Hew York.] Methylal, CII2(OCH3)2, Methylene dimethyl ether. Sp. gr. 0.8551. Boiling point, 42° C. (107°.6 F.). Vapor density, 2.625. A colorless, ethereal liquid, obtained in small quantity by distilling metbylie alcohol with sulphuric acid and manganic peroxide. It possesses decided anaesthetic properties, but is less agreeable and less manageable than chloroform. IV. Ethereal Salts. Ethylic Nitrate, C2IIs.N03, Nitric ether. Sp. gr. 1.112. Boiling point, 85° C. (185° F.). Vapor density, 3.112. A colorless liquid with an agree- able odor, and a taste at first very sweet, but followed by a bitterish after- taste. It is obtained by distillation from a mixture of alcohol and nitric acid with urea. The vapor of fifty or sixty drops produces anaesthesia, followed