264 RACHITIS. servers, like Senator, it is certain that laryngismus stridulus is common in the rachitic who do not have craniotabes, so that there must be a causative rela- tion in rachitis to laryngismus independently of the cranial softening. The preceding wood-cut represents the rachitic head of a child in the New York Infant Asylum. This patient had also attacks of laryngismus stridulus. Fig. 11. Charges in the Vertebrae, etc.—The short hones which participate in the rachitic disease, become softer and more yielding, and their cancelli are filled with a reddish pulpy substance. In many rachitic cases, the vertebrae are but slightly involved, so that no deformity of the spinal column results; hut occasionally, when many bones are affected, the vertebrae and inter-vertebral cartilages soften, and spinal curvatures result. The curvatures are due to the weight of the shoulders and head on the spinal column. They are, with some deviations, an exaggeration of those present in the normal state. Ra- chitic curvatures are, therefore, mainly antero-posterior with some lateral deflections. Where there is much curvature, the vertebrae become wedge- shaped, narrowed upon the concavity, and thickened upon the convexity. The inter-vertebral cartilages are also more or less changed by the pressure, being thinned where the vertebrae approximate to each other, on the concave aspect of the curvature, and of normal thickness or thicker than normal upon the convexity. The accompanying wood-cut exhibits the nature and appearance of rachitic spinal curva- ture in the adidt. Rachitis, having occurred at the usual age, resulted in the permanent deformity here illustrated. In extreme cases, fortunately rare, the functions of important organs may be seriously im- paired by the curvature and consequent compression, as in Pott’s disease. Thus, according to Miller, the aorta has been so doubled upon itself as to materially diminish the flow of blood to the lower extremities, and to thus sensibly impair their nutrition. The effect of so great curvature upon the functions of the heart and lungs must obviously be detrimental. At first the spinal curvatures disappear when the child reclines, or is lifted by the axillae, so as to raise the head and shoulders from the spine, hut when the deformity has continued so long that the vertebrae and cartilages have become wedge-shaped, it remains for life, or can only be rectified slowly and with dif- ficulty by mechanical appliances. As seen in the wood-cut, the common curvature in the dorsal region is backward (kyphosis), while to compensate the pa- tient instinctively carries the neck forward, with the head thrown back, causing cervical lordosis, a similar anterior curvature being common in the lumbar re- gion. Lateral curvature (scoliosis) may or may not he present, even when there is considerable antero-posterior flexure. Scoliosis is sometimes produced by the nurse, in carrying the infant habitually over one arm. Rachitic spinal curvature in an adult. (From a specimen in the Wood Museum, Bellevue Hospi- tal.) Changes in the Maxillae.—Fleischmann has investigated the changes which rachitis produces in the maxillary bones. Stunted growth of the facial bones, generally, has long been known, and has been remarked upon by various writers ; hut, according to Fleischmann, other interesting changes occur in the jaw-hones, which affect the direction and position of the teeth. According