321 MALARIA. trauma ; or at a distance, but in a single organ or in a circumscribed region; or finally in several parts of the economy at once, as if there was a recent infection which had become generalized. The diathetic manifestations thus forcibly provoked by the stimulating action of an injury, are a valuable means of diagnosis, revealing the exist- ence of a syphilitic taint of which the patients themselves are ignorant, or which they believe to have been long since extinct. They usually present no exceptional gravity, and yield cpiite readily to well directed treatment. Malaria. Of all constitutional conditions, malaria is perhaps that which reacts most upon the centre of traumatism, and which reciprocally experiences most fre- quently the counter-stroke of the injury. Accordingly, in countries in which malarial poisoning is endemic, it is expected that the reparative process should be constantly disturbed by various complications, while wounds, on the other hand, excite or renew attacks of intermittent fever. In our temperate climate, and in large cities, these facts, though of rarer occurrence, are nevertheless met with. Malaria may give rise, at the site of injury, to various complica- tions, such as hemorrhage, neuralgia, erysipelas, spasms, and even tetanus; com- plications which assume an intermittent type, and which yield to the employ- ment of sulphate of quinia. But the influence of the poison is not always shown by periodical disturbances. We find in fact that certain wounds assume a bad appearance, or at least remain stationary, until, the cause being suspected, preparations of quinine, which act like a charm, are adminis- tered. It is especially in cases of malarial cachexia that are observed that slowness and insufficiency of repair which terminate in serious diffuse in- flammations, or even in gangrene, and which are not always subdued by anti- periodic remedies. The injury may occur under the following various circumstances: (1) In a patient actually affected by intermittent fever. In this case the wound, especially if it is followed by hemorrhage, rapidly and markedly aggra- vates the disease. (2) In a patient who has previously been subject to inter- mittent fever, but who appears to have entirely recovered. The injury, even when of slight importance, such as a contusion, subcutaneous fracture, punc- ture, slight wound or operation, and although the recovery from the fever may have occurred many years previously (five, ten, or fifteen years, and even more), reawakens the latter or itself experiences its influence, which shows itself under the form of local intermittent complications. It may even hap- pen that these complications (hemorrhage, neuralgia, spasm), instead of choos- ing a site at the wounded point, appear in a totally different region of the body, not affected by the traumatism, and thus clearly indicate the return of the disease. (3) In a patient who has never had intermittent fever, and who lives in a healthy country, but who formerly resided in a malarial district. The wound, in such cases, may apparently give rise to intermittent fever or to intermittent complications. It is very clear that the injury, not being able of itself to produce a true intoxication, has merely provoked the explosion of a hitherto latent disease, and forced it to reveal itself by pathognomonic manifestations. These latter cases are not very rare, and are especially observed in large cities and in the healthiest regions. They must not be confounded with other cases in which intermittence is also evident, but which bear no relation to malaria. It appears astonishing at first sight that a dis- ease, which is generally so well characterized and so readily recognized, can remain so long and so completely latent. We will be less surprised if we VOL. i.—21