AMPUTATIONS. 558 provement by which a sufficient covering was secured for the stump by dis- secting up the skin and fascia so as to form a cuff, which was afterwards brought down over the muscles and bone. Bromfeild came very near suggest- ing this improvement, but, as Alanson points out, just missed it.1 Alanson, wbo like Desault,2 in France, preferred a straight knife to the heavy knives with concave edges, which were commonly employed in amputations, made his deep incision by applying the knife obliquely, and cutting the muscles into the form of a hollow cone; but other operators did not succeed in fol- lowing his directions, finding that a knife thus used was more apt to make a spiral than a circular incision, and his peculiar mode of operating is now looked upon merely as a matter of historical interest. "When the limb was a large one, Desault divided the muscles in two layers; he also divided the skin by two semicircular incisions, instead of making one complete circle, but, like Petit, he divided the bone on a level with the highest section of the muscles.3 The operation of Bell and Hey—that “ with a triple incision,” as the latter called it,4 the skin and fascia being first divided and dissected up for a sufficient distance, then the muscles cut and separated from the bone, and this finally sawn through at a still higher point—constitutes in all essen- tial particulars the circular operation of the present day. The first flap operation appears to have been suggested by Lowdham, of Exeter, as described by Young, of Plymouth, in his “ Currus triumphalis e terebintho,” published in 1679.5 Velpeau,6 however, declares that the opera- tion was clearly described by both Leonidas and Ileliodorus at a much earlier period. Velpeau’s statement seems to me to be hardly justified: the opinions of Leonidas, or Leonides,7 are known only through the writings of Hit ins and Paulus Hlgineta, the latter surgeon giving his views upon amputation, as already referred to ;8 while the only passage in the extant fragments of Helio- dorus,9 which can, with any degree of fairness, be considered a description of the flap operation, is his direction that in removing superfluous fingers a circular incision should be first made, and then straight cuts on either side from this, when two bodies or parts were to be raised up (fIra di/oumJAtrat o^nata) ;10 but in his general remarks on amputation he certainly says nothing which can be reasonably construed into a description of the flap method.11 Lowdham’s and Young’s operation was applied to the leg, and consisted in cutting from without inwards a long flap of skin and fascia from over the mus- cles of the calf. Verduin,12 of Amsterdam, in 1696, and Sabourin, of Geneva, in 1702,13 introduced the plan of forming a musculo-cutaneous flap from the calf of the leg, by transfixion, and attempted to control the bleeding by pressing this firmly against the end of the stump; Verduin’s flap was adopted by Garengeot,14 who, however, ligated the bleeding vessels, and thus perfected the ordinary flap operation of the leg as it is still often practised at the pre- sent day. O’Halloran,15 an Irish surgeon, likewise employed this mode of 1 Chirurgical Observations and Cases. "By William Bromfeild, etc., vol. i. page 151. London, 1.773. 2 (Euvres chirnrgicales, seconde partie, p. 491. Paris, 1798. s Op. cit., pp. 480, 492. 4 Op. cit., p. 317. 6 La Faye, Histoire de l’amputation 5, lambeau, etc., Mem. de l’Acad. Royale de Chirurgie, t. ii. p. 169. Paris, 1819. s Nouveaux elements de medecine operatoire, t. ii. p. 360. ’ Haller, Bibliotheca chirurgica, t. i. p. 79. 8 Vide supra, page 553. 9 Op. cit., p. 158. 10 This was rather an anticipation of Ravaton’s double-flap method than of Lowdham’s opera- tion . ■ ^ 11 Op. cit., p. 156. Vide supra, page 553. 12 Mangetus, Bibliotheca scriptorum medicorum, lib. xx. t. ii.,pars ii., p. 493, and Garengeot, Traite des operations, t. iii. p. 393. 13 La Faye, loc. cit., p. 170. 14 Mem. de l’Acad. Royale de Chirurgie, t. ii. p. 180. 15 The Medical Museum, vol. iii. p. 65. London, 1764.