578 AMPUTATIONS. of time, while the metallic has the great advantage over the silk or hemp suture, that it can be loosened by untwisting, if there be too much tension of the part, without being entirely withdrawn. Indeed I make a practice, at the first renewal of the dressing after an amputation, of trying every suture point in succession, and untwisting it a little, if it seems to be applied too closely. The form of suture adapted for amputation wounds is the interrupted suture, and its points should be at least half or three-quarters of an inch apart. If silk be employed, it is tied in a reef-knot (as in the case of liga- tures), but if wire be used, it is twisted with four or live turns, and the ends then cut smoothly oil'; it is well to take the precaution of twisting all the stitches in the same direction, for greater convenience in untwisting if this should be found necessary. Needles.—The ordinary “surgeon’s needle” (Tig. 141) answers every pur- pose in introducing the sutures after amputation, whatever material for the suture be employed. The needle should be rather large, strong, and either straight or but slightly curved. It should be provided with a lance-point, that it may readily penetrate the tissues, and should have a large eye that it may be threaded without difficulty. Needles are made, to be used with wire, with a groove on either side at the eyed end; but the wire very seldom rests in the groove, and the advantage of this modi- fication is more in theory than in reality. Other needles have been made with a female screw worked in the blunt end, for the wire to be screwed into it; but the wire is apt to become detached at inconvenient moments, and upon the whole I am disposed to regard the old- fashioned needle as quite as satisfactory as any of its substitutes. If the flaps be unusually thick, it may be convenient to employ a needle with a handle, and an eye near its point (Fig. 142), like that employed in the opera- Fig. 142. Needle with eye near point. tion of strangulating a nsevus. The wire with which a needle is armed should be about eighteen inches long, and should be passed through the eye for an inch or an inch and a quarter of its length, and then folded evenly upon itself, without twisting; its thickness should be in proportion to the size and weight of the flaps which it is intended to hold together, and it should be flexible and smooth, and quite free from kinks. Fig. 143. Dissecting forceps. Dissecting Fokceps (Fig. 143) are employed to seize projecting nerves or tendons which may require to be cut off, and to aid in adjusting the sutures.