474 OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. as a purely nervous effect, independent of hemorrhage or the other lethal causes referred to. Another cause of shock, of more common occurrence than it should be, is too prolonged or lengthy operation; and this must be carefully guarded against, particularly in childhood and old age—periods of life more than all others susceptible to depressing influences. Pain, if great or of long dura- tion, either at the time of operation or afterwards, contributes not a little to prostration, and may weigh down the scale of life and death. Violence dur- ing operation, or roughness of manipulation, leading to bruising of delicate tissues, as the prostate gland and neck of the bladder, may produce disastrous consequences, and the more so if such efforts are persisted in for any length of time; and the same may be said of forcible extension of the knee-joint, a procedure too often fraught with fatal shock. V hen, from any circumstance, a condition of sudden depression, prostration, or shock, is becoming apparent during or immediately following operation, the most active measures must be instantly resorted to. Hemorrhage must be stopped at once, even if the operation has to be temporarily discontinued; the patient’s body must be elevated, and his head made dependent, so as to invite the flow of blood to the brain. With the same intent, the large arteries of the extremities may be compressed by tourniquets, so as for the time to cut off the vascular supply in this direction, and increase the amount avail- able for the demands of the central organs. The anaesthetic should be imme- diately withdrawn, and the vapor of ammonia and that of nitrite of amyl employed for their stimulating effects. The temperature of the body should be kept up by the application of hot-water bottles and cloths to the trunk and limbs, and by the use of stimulating or hot-water enemata. If the loss of blood has been very severe, transfusion should be attempted. The success of this measure in chronic hemorrhages has been sufficiently great to warrant, and, indeed, command, its employment as an immediate resource in acute surgical cases, where of all others its happy influence may be expected. Any of the different processes may be resorted to, but caution should be observed as to the quantity of blood injected; not more than three or four ounces should be thrown in at first, and the effects of the operation carefully watched. Usually, if this has not been too long delayed, these are promptly marked by the stronger heart-beats and the improved character of the pulse. If blood cannot be readily obtained, intra-venous injections of milk or other fluids can be made, in the manner described in another part of this work. (See Article on Minor Surgery.) Hypodermic injections of ether may also be used as a substitute for transfusion, with excellent results. Occasionally it happens that death after operation results from secondary shock or exhaustion. This is most frequently the case in old persons, or those of delicate constitution, or of impressionable temperament. In them the first reaction is apparently complete and satisfactory ; the respiration and circula- tion seem good ; they sleep ; and there may be some return of appetite. These favorable appearances are, however, delusive and of short duration, for in a little while, it may he at the expiration of eight or ten hours, or perhaps even after two or three days, the patient becomes weaker and weaker, and slowly relapses into a condition of shock, from which he cannot be extricated, and which continues until death. Sometimes the patient's downward course is rapid, at other times very gradual. Usually, in these cases, the mind remains clear to the last, and the patient seems indifferent as to his condition. It is difficult to offer any explanation of the state of secondary shock, except on the idea of exhaustion of the heart, and the giving out of its power, dependent upon some of the causes already spoken of. Heart clot, formed during the