473 CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER OPERATIONS. placed in the hands of the operator so many and such ingenious means of preventing such an occurrence; at the same time, it is just possible that the very employment of some of these means of controlling the primary flow may predispose to its secondary occurrence. Thus, if Esmarch’s upper bandage be drawn too tightly, it may by its pressure prevent bleeding from vessels of medium size, which it were well to ligate, so that on the removal of the constriction and on full reaction, after the patient has been carried to his bed, troublesome bleeding may set in. This fact must be remembered, and caution should be observed in regulating the pressure at the time of operation; and very careful search must be instituted for bleeding points. Secondary arterial hemorrhage may happen at any moment, from the hour of operation until the deep portions of the wound are healed. It may result from imperfect ligation, from enlargement of the vessels, from too rapid and great development of the collateral circulation, from sloughing, from atheroma of the arteries, or from premature falling of the ligatures. Secondary venous bleeding may take place from the backward flow of blood at points destitute of valves, either where the valves are normally deficient, or where they have become imperfect from disease; or bleeding may occur from veins where a varicose condition exists. And in this connection it may be said that there is no reason why the veins which bleed should not be tied in amputations. The risk of so doing is exaggerated; the writer has frequently practised such ligations, and has known many instances where others have pursued the same course with good results. Venous bleeding may also be caused after ampu- tation by adhesive strips or bandages applied circularly around the stump, so as to produce too much pressure when swelling of the part has occurred. The danger of bleeding, let the cause be what it may, cannot be overesti- mated, constituting, as it so often does, the turning point in the case, and forming one of the factors in the production and maintenance of shock. Shock.—The shock of operation, familiar to every surgeon, is usually the result of no single cause, but rather of several combined. Hemorrhage, anaesthesia, prolonged manipulation, chilling of the body consequent upon exposure to the air, and the operative lesion to the tissues, are alike con- cerned in bringing about the prostration which characterizes this state. Mental causes also exert no slight predisposing influence in the production of shock. There is scarcely any better preparation for a patient about to submit to operation than a bright, hopeful disposition ; there is none worse than despondency and dread. Other things being equal, the chances of recovery in the former instance are far better than in the latter. Shock is usually attended by extreme depression of the nervous system and inter- ference with the action of the heart. The skin is of a waxy-white pallor; there is loss of color in the face, and particularly in the lips; a cold clammy perspiration, with sweat-drops forming on the forehead; and a pinched and contracted expression of countenance. There is intense muscular prostra- tion, loss of bodily temperature, feeble respiration, and, in extreme cases, relaxation of the sphincter muscles. The pulse becomes feeble and irregular, and sometimes cannot be detected at the wrist. If an anaesthetic has been used, it will be difficult to form an opinion of the condition of the special senses; but, if not, these will be found to be somewhat dulled and interfered with. Intellection may remain in part—ordinarily, however, accompanied by some degree of hebetude or bewilderment. In milder cases of shock, there are not unfrequently nausea and vomiting, the latter of which is usually followed by reaction. Where the shock is very great and prolonged, death occurs from cessation of the heart’s action; and this may at times happen