536 PLASTIC SURGERY, bare flaps, and that hairy flaps should not, upon pain of ridiculous disfigure- ment of the patient, be translated to regions normally devoid of hair. The end of a re-made nose would be an undesirable termination of that organ, if it were made to hear a tuft derived from a well-covered scalp. Another circumstance tending towards the successful ending of a plastic operation, is recognition of a due proportion between the size of the gap to be filled or bridged over, and that of the flap. And it must be well borne in mind that, as by cicatrization a “ natural autoplasty” (Verneuil) is accom- plished by the simple traction of the cicatricial tissue, it may be necessary, under different circumstances, to employ a flap smaller, the size of, or much larger than the space to be covered. A flap borrowed from situations in which the tissues are lax, ought to be many times larger than the opening or chasm ; for, by the natural elasticity of its elements, the flap is greatly reduced in size, and, inasmuch as it will not bear tension, scantiness of material may lay the foundation of failure in the operation by rendering firm union between the freshened surface and the borrowed piece impossible, and by inviting and producing inflammation and gangrene. Of course, such a condition of things would be a misfortune, since positive and extensive loss of substance in the flap, or destruction of its totality, is usually repaired with difficulty, if even the damage thus occasioned should not preclude the possibility of a repetition of the operation. Wherefore the surgeon must assure himself of the just pro- portions, as well as of the form, of the proposed flap, making due allowance for shrinkage as well as for ulterior atrophy, which sometimes follows a per- fect union. But even here, it may be added that flaps of sufficient thickness, as well as size, and abundantly provided with bloodvessels, are much less liable to ulterior atrophic contraction. Classification op Plastic Operations. From what has been said, it will readily be admitted that all plastic operations may be arranged in five categories. The first comprises all those in which the borrowed piece is obtained from, a distance and transferred directly to the seat of its future residence, retaining, however, for a time not determinable with precision, its connection by means of a pedicle with the tissues of its original site; to the second belong those cases in which the auto- plasty is accomplished, after the method of Roux, by “ successive migrations” of the flap, from a point more or less remote ; the third includes all operations in which the flap or flaps are derived from the neighborhood, and are moved into place by gliding, or made to assume proper relations by stretching or by lapping over, as when a periosteal flap is made to cover the end of a severed bone after amputation; the fourth embraces all those operations of simple approximation, as after the V-shaped piece is removed for the relief of ectropion, or for the attempted cure of epithelioma of the lip, or, more primitively, when the freshened “ vivified” edges of a vesico-vaginal fistula are brought into contact, and maintained in apposition with more or less tension. Under the same caption may be inscribed several of the methods for bringing about adhesion in ununited fractures of the bones, the broken ends being, under some circumstances, vivified, and made adherent to one another by means of silver wire, or of a screw or screws of the same metal. Lastly, the fifth category comprehends all readjustments of.totally severed parts, as a nose or a tooth, authentic instances of which species of repair are not sufficiently infrequent to be wonderful. In this category are also to be enumerated the famous skin grafting by greffes tpidermiques, or dermo- epidermiques of Reverdin; the grafting by larger bits, or anaplasty, of feee,