PATHOLOGY OP INFLAMMATION. 56 They cause the firm adhesion of the serous membranes, whence is derived the name adhesive inflammation (John Hunter). The fact that the capillaries send out offshoots and thus produce a new vascularization, I have already mentioned. Epithelial Cells are likewise separated, or rather united, by narrow strips of intermediate substance. Here, too, brown boundary lines become visible by staining with silver. On many epithelial cells (cornea, cutis, and others), fine threads have been observed (Prickle cells, Max Sehultze1), which are connect- ing threads between two neighboring cells, as has been shown by Bizzozero.2 Accordingly, epithelium constitutes a tissue similar to the connective sub- stances with this exception, that the amount and structure of the basis-sub- stances, and naturally also the form and function of the cells, are different. The functions of the epithelial cells are extraordinarily varied. In the glands, the main task of secretion falls to their lot. They must therefore be adapted to the multifarious actions of the various glands. The part which is played here by the mechanical action (enlargement and diminution) of the cells, I have already heretofore described. In the intestine, the epithelial cells are certainly concerned in the process of absorption. Spina is about to publish an article in which he shows that in this process also, the mechanical action of the cells (swelling and subsequent diminution) comes into play. But of the function of by far the greater portion of epithelial cells, those of the cutis, the intestine, the air-passages, and the urinary organs, we know very little. In general, it is said that they serve as a cover, as a protective lining, and are present on the mucous membranes for the production of mucus to keep the surface viscid. The ciliated epithelium is believed to serve for the removal * of fine particles. But these statements are surely not exhaustive. The pathological processes in the epithelium of certain organs are better understood. Slight stimuli suffice to excite a. secretion of mucus in certain epithelial cells, though it is certain that the vascular system co-operates here. Acute catarrhal processes, when they appear in otherwise normal mucous membranes, commence, as a rule, with a profuse, watery transudation, and only at a later period does the secretion of mucus begin. The profuse watery transudations surely come from the blood, and even the mucus must partly come from the same source, inasmuch as we may assume that the cells must draw fresh (fluid) material from the blood in order to secrete as profusely as they are wont to do in catarrhal processes. But the conversion into mucus of the material drawn from the blood, must certainly be performed by the epithelium. During this conversion, the cells are abnormally active, and as a rule we have cell-proliferation accompanying the process. As a general thing, also, we find single amoeboid cells which are called mucus-corpuscles from the locality in which they occur. If the production of cells increases, the mucus is gradually changed into pus. But there are intermediate stages, in which indeed there are already produced very many amoeboid cells, but in which there is also still a production of mucus. Finally, the production of mucus may cease entirely, and pus alone make its appearance. But then we may presume that the epithelium as such has been destroyed, and that embryonic proliferating cells have taken its place, or, in other words, that the epithelium has returned to its embryonic condition. In the case of epithelium, this return frequently takes place in a central portion of the cell, when the peripheral portion of its body remains rigid and sterile. This species of cell multiplication is termed endogenous. It was first observed by Remak in the epithelium of the urethra, in gonorrhoea. As is seen, endogenesis is nothing else than a cell formation by division. Only 1 Medic. Centralblatt, 1864. 2 Medic. Centralblatt, 1871, S. 482.