Ill PLASTIC OR COAGULABLE LYMPH. to undergo another change. The cells, heretofore “indifferent” embryonic corpuscles, begin to alter their aspect, and to develop into connective-tissue cells; the intercellular substance undergoes the process called fibrillation; and thus the embryonic substance becomes converted into young connective tissue. The office of the newly-formed tissue now becomes apparent: it is truly connective, for, having filled the breach, it straightway draws and binds to- gether the opposite sides of the wound, and thenceforward takes the name of cicatricial tissue. Thus, the adhesive, cement-like material furnished by the inflammatory exudation becomes organized into new tissue that forms a bond of union by which a breach of continuity is healed. This is the mechanism by which constructive inflammation fulfils its repa- rative office in its most simple and typical phase. The stages of the process are appreciable by the naked eye, and at the bedside, by the symptoms already detailed, which vary in intensity according to the size and depth of the wound. The result constitutes union by the first intention. The cicatricial bond becomes invested with epidermis by the same process of cell growth and development. At first the scar is redder than the neigh- boring integument, in consecpience of the larger proportion of vessels carry- ing the red blood necessary for its organization and growth. But afterwards its succulence diminishes; the capillaries, no longer required, shrink or dis- appear ; so that the cicatrix diminishes in bulk, and becomes paler in color, forming, after the primary union of an incised wound, a simple ivliite line, in many cases scarcely visible. In the case of an abrasion, or a surface wound of limited extent, the exuding plastic lymph dries upon the raw surface when it is left at rest and exposed to the dessicating action of the air, and covers it with a crust. By this me- chanism, which is the common mode by which Nature cures the slighter wounds of animals, a tough and somewhat flexible scab is formed, which pro- tects and seals the raw surface from external contact. Beneath this natural dressing, if undisturbed, the breach of continuity is repaired very perfectly by the organization of plastic lymph. The dried scab, in due time, falls sponta- neously, revealing a smooth, slightly reddish surface invested with epidermis which, subsequently, becomes paler in color, and often scarcely distinguishable. This is a mode of repair in which the symptoms which ordinarily attend in- flammation are usually very slight, and often seem to be entirely absent. It is called healing under a scab, and is, in fact, Nature’s favorite method of cure, and should always be promoted when circumstances are favorable. In superficial wounds of mucous surfaces, a similar prompt result of con- structive inflammation is accomplished under the sheathing protection of the mucous secretions. Wounds and lacerations of interned organs often leave cicatrices behind them, discovered on post-mortem examination, as the only evidence of their previous existence. A rupture of the tendo Achillis, or a simple fracture of bone, undergoes repair by the process of tissue formation just described as “healing under a scab.” The part played here by the leuco- cytes which germinate in the plastic lymph justifies the title conferred upon them of “indifferent” cells, for they develop with equal facility into tendinous or bony substance, as into connective tissue. All these examples of the inflammatory process, usually spoken of as “ad- hesive,” “constructive,” or “reparative” inflammation, representing the mode in which are cured the great multitude of simple lesions which never come under the cognizance of the surgeon, serve to illustrate the natural healing powers possessed by the organism. It is only when this benign process, which we have described as simply an unusual effort on the part of the ordinary local nutritive apparatus, is interrupted or interfered with in any way, that