INFLAMMATION. 106 enables a healthy organism to resist disease is competent , to prevent their multiplication ; for the infective quality, as in Senator’s dogs, is not always persistent. But this reasoning would not apply to the inoculations of mice by the septicsemic bacillus, as recently described by Koch. Thus the exist- ence of an indefinite number and variety of infective agents is again suggested as probable. The preceding remarks include all that can be properly said here con- cerning the more serious forms of surgical fever. When the ordinary trau- matic or inflammatory febrile movement begins to assume more grave symp- toms, and persists, taking on the aspect of what the older surgeons, after Abernethy, called “ irritative fever,” with a dry tongue, more rapid pulse, more altered aspect, and more positive emaciation, and possibly diarrhoea, with or without a coincident unhealthy condition of the wound, and with efficient provision for drainage of the wound—for this category of symptoms we have no more probable explanation to offer than blood- poison in (j. When putrescent material has been absorbed into the blood, in larger quantity than the organism can resist or throw off, as from a con- tused or unhealthy wound from which there has been no ready avenue of escape by drainage, the symptoms which have been ascribed to traumatic fever become intensified in the manner just described ; then septic poisoning has almost certainly taken place,and the condition of the patient comes within the definition of septicaemia. Or, after an interval during which the trau- matic fever may have almost or entirely ceased, during the second week after the injury, or later—even as late as the second month-—the wound, mean- while, showing, perhaps, no serious change from a healthy aspect—a chill may suddenly occur, followed by profuse sweating and the-characteristic chill- recurrence of pyaemia. Under the titles of septicaemia and pyaemia, these phases of surgical fever will form the subject of a separate article. Inflammatory Exudations. Clinically, there are conditions and appearances of surgical disease resulting more or less directly from the presence of inflammation, and belonging to the category of its symptoms, which are caused by transudation or exudation of materials through the capillary vessels. Exudation has been aptly described as the connecting link between the intra-vascular and extra-vascular manifes- tations of inflammation; and it has also been spoken of as the material limit by which hypersemia is distinguished from true inflammation. The mate- rials which exude through the walls of the capillary vessels, vary much in character. They appear on the surface of membranes, as in diphtheria; in the interior of the body,as in local oedema, or in hydrocele; or on the surface of recent wounds, as in the form of plastic lymph, where the exudation tends distinctly to the formation of new tissue. Pathology does not explain the difference between transudation and exudation with sufficient accuracy to justify any clear or positive distinction between the terms. As a rule, the more fluid transudations consist of a phosphatic, saline liquid, containing albumen in variable proportion, together with some few leucocytes and reel blood-corpuscles, and they are ascribed to mechanical hypersemia, or. to in- flammation of a low grade; whilst the exudations, containing solid elements, e. </., white blood-corpuscles in any quantity, and fibrin—or the materials capable of readily forming it—and, possibly, other organic products, are desig- nated as “ inflammatory,” and ascribed to a more positive condition of inflam- mation.