457 CONDITIONS DETERMINING THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. be remembered that, during the last quarter of a century, hospital facilities and accommodations, the world over, have been infinitely improved and ex- tended to meet the demands of the growing influx of patients. Far more attention has been paid to the wants and necessities of the latter, and more thought and enlightened study have been paid to ventilation, drainage, and cleanliness. The necessity of increased air space has been recognized, the pavilion system of wards has been adopted, and the diet scale has been changed for the better, and in accordance with physiological teachings. It would thus seem that, while the demands upon the hospital are now greater and more imperative than they once were, at the same time every effort has been made to satisfy these claims, and that the present hygienic surroundings of the hos- pital patient are more favorable than they have ever been before. Before an operation is undertaken, the surgeon should always critically ex- amine his patient, so that he may form a correct estimate of his general apti- tude to undergo operation, and of the ability of bis constitution to sustain the fresh weight about to be imposed upon it. This examination must be con- ducted systematically, and must embrace the general condition of the patient’s system, his habits, and an inquiry into the state of his special organs, as to whether the latter are, or have been recently, diseased. It is not always easy to decide if a man is or is not a good subject for operation. There are so many factors which enter into the determination of this question, that the surgeon is liable to deceive himself, or to be deceived, unless his study of the case before him is critical and thorough.1 General Condition of the Patient.—First, as to the general constitution of the patient: what is it which makes, to use the terms of the insurance companies, a “good risk”? Undoubtedly they are the best subjects for opera- tion, in whom nutrition is most thoroughly effected, in whom assimilation is well performed, whose secretions and excretory functions are in perfect work- ing order, and in whom consequently there is no organic disease. Flow these conditions may be found both in fat and in lean subjects. Obesity is usually regarded as one of the contra-indications to operation, but it must be remembered that many persons who are in perfect health are fat, and that any undue falling off from this state is attended with more or less loss of health. On the other hand, there are those who are normally lean. Fat is not in itself an evidence of deranged health, if it be natural or hereditary; but excessive fat, or sudden or precocious development in this direction, must be regarded as one of the evidences of something being amiss constitutionally; especially is this the case if fatness be unaccompanied by a healthy condition of the skin and capillary system, or if the development have occurred sud- denly, or from habits of drinking, gluttony, or indolence, and when the pa- tient is inert, and unwilling or incapable of taking proper exercise, or exertion. Under such circumstances, the person is apt to be flabby or loose in his tis- sues; and there is a want of that firmness and contractility of the skin and subjacent structures which is inseparable from health. This state is not un- frequently observed in women approaching or passing middle age, and, when found, unquestionably indicates that the possessor is no longer in the best condition of health, nor well suited to undergo the risks of a surgical opera- tion. In such persons, the wounds of operation do not heal well; there is 1 For an elaborate and exhaustive study of the risks of operations, and of the causes influ- encing their results, the reader is invited to consult the published lectures of Sir James Paget, who has fully treated of these subjects in paragraphs which have already become classical. So great has been his experience, so close his observation, and so lucid the utterance of his beliefs, that it seems as if little else were left for other pens ; and the writer of the present article has accordingly not hesitated to make free use of the teachings of this eminent surgeon.