CAUSES OF TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM. 383 basal ones, their influence upon the cortex is remote, so that the symptom is not one of special note. I recently had the rare opportunity of observing the invasion of an attack of apoplexy in which the lesion, I think, must have been in the pons, although no autopsy was allowed to confirm the opinion. When I first saw the patient, she was entirely sensible, but in a high state of emotional excitement. She complained much of lateral and posterior headache. There was no delirium: answers to questions were promptly and properly given—but there was great restlessness in addition to the excitement ; paralysis was not then present, for various acts were performed as requested. Knowing something of the patient, I was inclined to regard the attack as hysterical, and to prescribe and leave the house. Fortunately I remained, for soon quiet came on, the countenance became suffused with redness, stertorous respiration began and grew worse, and death took place in a few hours. Probably a basal thrombus had been slowly forming, which was finally followed by rupture ; and it may be that some peculiarities, which we are apt to call hysterical, had, in this case, their origin in a pathological condition which was not a re- cent one. Immediate delirium may also be brought on by so-called subjective sensations arising from irritations or injuries of the nerves of special sense. The particular parts of the cortex (supposed by some to be chiefly in the posterior lobes of the hemispheres) which have to take up impressions from these nerves and discharge them as perceptions, know nothing else than to develop these perceptions as objective truths to the intellect. Should these apparent truths assume distorted, frightful, or absurd forms, it is easy to understand how the confusion created would upset the centres of congruity and produce delirium. I have already spoken of the fact that some authorities are disposed to give the cortex of the posterior lobes of the hemispheres the preference over the anterior ones, as seats of intellectual processes. May it not be that the more intimate rela- tions of the former with the phenomena of perception, and the close connec- tion of these phenomena with the ordinary manifestations of intellect, bring their operations more readily under observation ; and that deeper or abstract ideation has its nerve centres in the anterior lobes, these requiring for their accommodation those cranial forms which give to higher man “ the front of Jove himself?” Comparative anatomy and the doctrine of evolution both appear to sustain this view. As to delirium, the clinical facts which I have related about injuries to the cortex of the frontal and posterior lobes of the hemispheres, also support it. Delirium does not deal with the abstract, but is developed in its highest degree by disordered perceptions sending false im- pressions through their transmitters, which in turn disorder the receivers. Whatever the middle lobes may have to do with ideation, the fact of their beiug the seat of centres through which the will produces motor acts, seems to be well established. I have one important clinical observation to sustain this view. In Ferrier on “ The Functions of the Brain,”1 there is a drawing of the surfaces of the hemispheres to illustrate the effects of local electrization. One of the parts mentioned occupies the adjacent margins of the ascending frontal and ascending parietal convolu- tions, and this statement is made in regard to a certain part when it was the subject of experiment, “ Retraction with adduction of the opposite arm, the palm being directed backwards.” Now there was a’ sailor under my care, in 1879, whose case I have fully reported.2 While at sea, he had inflicted very serious injuries upon the middle lobes of his brain, by fracturing his skull with repeated blows of an axe whilst he was, there is every reason to believe, in the delirium of heat fever and exhaustion. The delirium actually disappeared after he picked the pieces of bone away. The patient landed in New York 1 London, 1876, p. 142. 2 Medical News and Library, Philadelphia, July, 1879.