183 SYMPTOMS OF ERYSIPELAS. According to Gosselin,an erysipelatous inflammation of the joints may either terminate by resolution without impairing the movements of the limb, or by suppuration, and in the latter case with all the possible consequences of such an arthritis from other causes. (Edematous Erysipelas.—There is a degree, or variety, of phlegmonous erysipelas which has been described as the (Edematous; it differs from the for- mer in presenting far less active symptoms, and congestive rather than inflam- matory. The color of the skin is not a bright, but a pale or dull, brownish red ; the swelling is smooth and shining, and pits but slightly and momenta- rily on pressure. When incised or punctured, bloody serum flows out. It occupies the same seats as idiopathic erysipelas in general, and does not fre- quently accompany the traumatic form. Gangrenous Erysipelas.—Of gangrenous erysipelas it may be remarked, in addition to what has been said above, that it is oftenest met with among the old and feeble, or persons exhausted by intemperance or disease, and in the cachetic infants of scrofulous or syphilitic parents. It is rarely primary, but usually arises in the course of some other affection. The color of the skin is a dusky red, which does not disappear under pressure; its heat is not great, nor is the pain, and the swelling is doughy and circumscribed. Phlyc- tenre form upon the inflamed skin, and discharge a thin and offensive serum, and such parts are apt to slough, especially where the skin is delicate. In this way considerable portions of the scrotum have been lost, and cases are recorded in which this covering was entirely destroyed and the testicles ex- posed, but which, nevertheless, ended in recovery. In other cases, attended with high fever and other grave symptoms, and, according to Gosselin, be- tween the fifth and the tenth day, or even later, there appear upon the ery- sipelatous surface, and sometimes quite at its limit, oue or several dark spots, which are moist, insensible, and cold, and from which the cuticle presently separates with or without the previous formation of plilyctense. At the same time the fever becomes more intense, the tongue grows dry, the strength fails, and gradually the patient sinks, and almost invariably dies. Of these different degrees or forms of gangrene affecting the skin, one appears to de- pend upon the relative intensity of the inflammation as compared with the resisting power of the tissue involved, while the other seems to be more es- pecially associated with that typhoid condition which everywhere implies an impaired vitality of the tissues. Howard Marsh1 describes an erysipelatous inflammation of the scrotum and penis, which also involves the surrounding parts. It may arise either as a primary affection, and is met with as such chiefly in persons above middle age, whose health is reduced in many instances by advanced kidney-disease, or may depend upon some local condition in which the original mischief was deep-seated abscess of the perineum. It was described by Liston as “ inflam- matory oedema,” and that surgeon declared that in Edinburgh he had had no less than six cases under his care during a very wet and unhealthy season. Mr. Holmes has particularly pointed out that the retention of urine which is apt to occur should be regarded as the effect, and not the cause, of the ery- sipelatous swelling of the scrotum. Hence the importance of determining, if possible, whether an urethral obstruction existed before the erysipelas, and also the actual condition of the canal. If a catheter can he passed readily, it is evident that the urethra is not strictured, and that, consequently, there is no need of retaining in it an instrument, which would only aggravate the 1 Medical Times and Gazette, September 30, 1865, p. 363.