135 TERMINATIONS OF INFLAMMATION. limited areas or spots, as in the papular or so-called tubercular eruptions of syphilis. Nodes, and the characteristic gummatous tumors which appear late in the disease, are results of the same tendency to new growth of a peculiar inflammatory character. In the latter, there is evidence of inability to sus- tain constructive action, as shown in a tendency to central softening and sub- sequent absorption,“after which a depressed cicatrix is left; or, to suppuration and ulceration—the latter often extending in such a way as to show that the poisoned blood has produced in the tissues a defective vitality; a weakness, and an inability to resist progressive destruction. The most interesting feature of the syphilitic inflammations is that in most instances they are promptly controlled by certain drugs—mercury and iodine —which possess a remarkable power as antidotes to the poison upon the pre- sence of which in the organism the disease depends. Terminations of Inflammation. The object and end of the local disturbance of nutrition which we call in- flammation, is the repair of injury, or the removal from the organism of locally injurious influences. In the accomplishment of this end, and, indeed, when it fails in its accomplishment, there are certain incidents liable to occur during the process, which surgical writers have added to the simple facts of its result in success or failure, and described, technically, as terminations of inflammation. Thus, besides simple subsidence and disappearance of symp- toms (resolution), and absolute failure (gangrene), pus formation and ulceration have both been added to the category of “ terminations ;” and, by some, indu- ration and chronic inflammation are also included. According to our present view of the subject, there are but three ways in which the inflammatory process may be correctly said to terminate:— (1) By resolution, in which all the inflammatory symptoms, which may have been provoked, gradually lose their intensity and disappear; the affected parts resuming, as far as possible, their normal condition. This termination takes place, as a rule, where the injury has not been severe in its character, and the progress of the inflammation proportionally mild, that is, confined to its constructive phase. (2) By formation of new tissue. In the repair of injury, the production of a new growth of tissue is the main resource by which this object is attained by inflammation. In the simplest form of union, by primary adhesion, as well as in a breach of continuity attended by loss of substance, where a mass of granulations is organized into a cicatrix, formation of new tissue is the all-important feature, as well as the final result, of the inflammatory process. It is for this purpose that inflamed parts tend to revert, at once, to their em- bryonic state as the first stage of organization and development. The forma- tion of new tissue, therefore, is properly recognized as a termination of in- flammation. (3) By gangrene, or local death. This termination conveys the idea that an inflammatory effort to repair an injury has failed in its purpose, and that the injured part has died. The local death results from the ineffectual working of the nutritive machinery in the constructive attempt: ineffectual, because the injury has involved the capillaries and the connective tissue surrounding them to such an extent as to impede their functions and to render the injury irreparable by the resources of the organism; or because obstacles have arisen at a later period which have thwarted the reparative effort, and left the injured parts to die.