HISTORIES OF EPIDEMICS OF ERYSIPELAS. 169 the western and southwestern States, the name usually given to the affection was “ Black tongue,” which recalled one of its usual local symptoms, and suggested the distinctive type of the fever. On studying this epidemic in relation to the general subject of erysipelas, we find in the succession of its phenomena abundant evidence of its constitutional nature, and hence of that of other forms of erysipelas. For while, in some cases, the attack was ush- ered in by the simultaneous appearance of the throat affection and the general febrile phenomena, in many others the constitutional pyrexial disorder, even in an intense degree, preceded the anginose symptoms by one or more days, and even the glands of the neck swelled out of all proportion to the inflamma- tion of the throat. The latter usually preceded the erysipelatous inflammation of the skin, which, according to some authorities, occurred in about one-sixth of the cases; but sometimes the opposite course Avas pursued, and, as has also been observed in Europe, the inflammation of the skin was primary and Avas seen to invade the throat by extension through the mouth or nostrils. The condition of the throat Avas as various as that of the skin is in the several forms of cutaneous erysipelas. Sometimes the inflammation Avas superficial, the part of a bright red color, and neither the mucous membrane in general nor its glands Avere much SA\rollen; but in other cases the fauces and the tongue were greatly swollen and purplish; and in others, again, dark or asli- colored sloughs formed upon the roof of the mouth and the soft palate. “ The tongue was apt to be very much SAvollen, assuming a blackish-brown color, and deglutition was almost impossible,” says Sutton, in his description of the Indiana epidemic of 1843. “ In most cases an erysipelas Avould commence at the angle of the mouth or nose, and spread over the face and head. The inflam- mation of the throat sometimes passed doAvn the trachea and bronchia, into "the nostrils, frontal sinuses, or antrum maxillare, but usually the throat became well while the erysipelas Avas spreading over the skin.” To these particulars it may be added that the sloughs above mentioned were apt to be preceded by bullte or phlyctense filled with a serous and sometimes a bloody liquid. All who have described this affection note the great elongation and flaccidity of the uvula, and the sometimes enormous sAvelling of the lymphatic glands of the neck. In not a feAV cases, stated at one-twelfth of the whole, diffuse inflammation affected the connectAe tissue in the axilla, or beloAV the pectoral muscles, sometimes extending underneath the great muscles of the back and over the entire trunk, or to tAvo or more limbs, dissecting out the muscles, and often terminating in gangrene, with a discharge or the artificial removal of long shreds of dead connective tissue resembling Avet toAV, such as will pre- sently be described as occurring in phlegmonous erysipelas of traumatic ori- gin. In many of these cases, anginose symptoms Avith fever preceded for days, or even Aveeks, the diffused cellular inflammation referred to. Accord- ing to the reporters of certain epidemics, the discharged liquid Avas so acrid “that the hardest steel was directly penetrated by it as by nitric acid.”1 In the most fa\Torable cases, when a cure resulted, adhesions were apt to form betAveen the denuded muscles and the skin, greatly and permanently restrict- ing the movements of the part. In the American as well as in the European epidemics, the internal compli- cations formed a very important element of the disease, not only by increasing its gravity, but also by illustrating its nature as a blood disease. One of the first of its American historians, Sutton, describes as accompanying the ery- sipelas, a typhoid pneumonia, which sometimes was associated with SAvelling of the axillary glands; and he suggests that it might be regarded as a “ pul- monic erysipelas.” Ten years later this account was fully confirmed by Ben- 1 Hall and Dexter, American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Jan. 1844.