( 307 ) THE RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. BY A. YEUNEUIL, M.D., PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE, PARIS. It is yet very difficult to establish in an exact and complete manner the relations existing between constitutional conditions and traumatic lesions, but even now, by the aid of the literature hitherto collected, we have (1) acquired very useful ideas in regard to the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of inju- ries which occur as the results of surgical or accidental wounds, and (2) for- mulated much more distinctly the indications and contra-indications for operation in individuals affected by previously existing constitutional states. If we consider how much has already been done in this direction, despite the short time since these studies have been begun, and the very small number of authors who have investigated them, we may be assured that they will render, before the end of the present century, considerable service to medical science and to the art of surgery. Before entering directly into this question, it will be useful to define what I mean by constitutional diseases, and to indicate their number and their classification. A constitutional disease, clearly represented by the old expression morbus totius substantioe, and which may be more concisely termed panpathy; a con- stitutional disease, I say, affects at the same time all the organic fluids and solids, altering the latter more than the former, or vice versa ; modifying by preference this fluid, or affecting this system, rather than others ; but at a given moment involving the entire economy. The number of these diseases has been sometimes too much restricted, sometimes too much extended, and a reform must be attempted in this respect. I shall content myself with drawing up a list into which may enter all those which are already known, or which are yet to be recognized. (1) Diseases of nutrition, usually hereditary, but also acquired : arthritism (including gout and rheumatism); undoubtedly cancer; scrofula (including the large majority of cases of tuberculosis). (2) Poisons of external origin: syphilis, malaria, alcoholism, morphinism, saturnism [lead poisoning], glanders, heterochthonous septicaemias; or of in-) ternal origin: diabetes, leukaemia, autochthonous septicaemias. (3) General conditions following sooner or later on a permanent lesion of an important viscus, such as the lungs, heart, liver, kidneys, brain, spinal cord, etc. Although presenting the fundamental characteristics of constitutional diseases, these conditions have not yet received a special name. It is only