453 TREATMENT OF PATIENTS AFTER OPERATION. attention to the ligatures and sutures, constitute in short the local after-treat- ment of the wound of operation. To these must be added constant watchful- ness to detect the development of abscesses, and the requisite incisions for their evacuation should any form. In fulfilling the above requirements, the surgeon must bear in mind that, while it is incumbent upon him to do what is neces- sary, and that promptly, on the proper indications, he must nevertheless ab- stain from ofiiciousness or fussiness. After an operation has been finished, and the wound satisfactorily dressed, the patient should be placed in bed, well covered, and carefully watched until he has recovered from the effects of the amesthesia. Until he has done so, he must not be left alone, or in the hands of an inexperienced assistant, or in those of a nurse. It is the duty of the surgeon himself not to leave his patient until he has recovered at least sufficient consciousness to answer questions. The general after-treatment now begins, and upon it the ultimate issue of the case in no little degree depends. The first general indication is rest: rest to body and mind, relief from excitement, and freedom from pain. There is no doubt that these ends can be best brought about by the exhibition of an anodyne, and in no better way than by the subcutaneous use of morphia. A hypodermic injection of from a quarter to a half grain, will usually be sufficient to prevent pain and soothe restlessness. In excep- tional cases more may be required, but the amount mentioned is usually sufficient, and, if not, it can be repeated. When it .acts, the patient passes off into quiet sleep, and thus escapes the shock of pain which would otherwise greet him so unpleasantly on his recovery from anaesthesia. Of course, if an hypodermic have been given prior to the operation, this fact must be remem- bered in apportioning tlie after-medication. Not unfrequently after operation a good deal of nausea is present from the effects of the ether or chloroform. This commonly passes off gradually in a few hours, but sometimes continues throughout the night and even into the next day. When prolonged, it is difficult of treatment and not readily amenable to drugs. Occasionally it is relieved by ice in small quantities, by a teaspoonful or so of brandy, by carbonated waters, or by sinapisms to the epigastrium. It is sometimes ameliorated by vomiting, although not always. In most cases of serious operation, especially if the nausea above described he present, the patient does not desire food of any kind, and, indeed, cannot retain it even if he forces it down. Great care must, therefore, be exerted in selecting the proper nourishment. It would seem that the diet most suitable under these circumstances was milk, or milk diluted with lime-water. This can generally be retained, is palatable to the patient, and gratefully assuages the thirst which is often so terrible to bear. Physiologically considered, too, it is that form of nutriment best adapted to cases where there has been much loss of blood; in fact, it would almost appear to satisfy a natural craving. Few patients object to it; and even those who at first say that they “ cannot bear milk—it does not agree with them,” yet take it willingly and even eagerly after the first trial. In administering milk, caution should be exer- cised as to the quantity. Too much should not be given at one time, but small quantities, repeated, and taken slowly. If the stomach be very irritable, an ounce and a half or two ounces every two hours will be sufficient. If the patient be very weak, brandy or whiskey can be given with the milk, or in alternate doses, according to the indications. Beef essence is not always well received by the stomach, nor are soups, however nicely they may be made. They are undoubtedly satisfactory articles of diet after the lapse of a day or two, but are not so well borne immediately after the operation. In many eases, particularly where thirst is annoying, acidulated drinks may be admin-