CONDITIONS DETERMINING THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 467 degree masked, and at times difficult of recognition. It need scarcely be said that such a state of affairs bears terribly on the chances of operation. A kid- ney thus damaged, and forming pus, is unable to discharge its duties under ordinary circumstances ; and certainly not when subjected to the shock and increased irritation produced by urethral and vesical operations. Disease of the bladder also, like disease of the kidney, with which it is usually associated, exerts a most unhappy effect upon the issue of operations, especially when it is chronic, or occurs in old persons. The occurrence of sugar in the urine is not a whit less serious than albumi- nuria, and, if the sugar be present in marked quantity, must be regarded as almost a positive bar to operation. In the condition of glycosuria, wounds have a tendency to remain open; they will not heal, and, still more, they are apt to run into spreading gangrene. This is notably the case if the lower extremity be the seat of the wound or operation. Here all attempts to arrest the diabetic gangrene commonly prove futile, and the disease spreads obsti- nately, slowly, and continuously, until the patient sinks from exhaustion. Liver.—The liver is so intimately associated, both physiologically and pathologically, with neighboring organs, that it is somewhat difficult to define the precise limits, in surgical cases, over which its power is exercised. This much, however, may be said, that a diseased liver always increases the risks of operation, and favors the development of hemorrhage, inflammation, and constitutional septic poisoning. And this is so whether the case be one merely of torpid or inactive liver, or whether decided organic changes have already occurred. If the liver has undergone either fatty or amyloid enlarge- ment, its evil influences are greatly augmented, and, before operation, careful examination should be instituted to ascertain the fact. The existence of a fatty liver may, indeed, be looked upon as an evidence of further internal mischief. It may be that the patient is suffering under some exhausting affection, or that he is, possibly secretly, intemperate. In amyloid or waxy degeneration of the liver, so often associated with splenic enlargement, renal albuminuria, and the syphilitic or tubercular cachexia, the prognosis of operations is unfavorable in the highest degree. In long-continued suppura- tion of bones, amyloid degeneration often occurs in the spleen, kidney, and liver, in the order mentioned, although either may be selected as its point of primary development, and sometimes nearly all the organs in the body are similarly affected. Cirrhosis of the liver, whether the result of alcoholism or other causes, exercises also a most deleterious effect on operative results. In fact, whenever the liver is diseased, no matter from what cause, it is a fair inference that the other organs adjunct to the portal circulation are more or less involved; and this must necessarily be so from the intimate and abundant vascular connection which exists between the liver and other abdominal viscera. The result will be portal disturbance, poor digestion, and imperfect assimilation—conditions which separately or in the aggregate promise badly for the success of the operator. Bowel Affections.—The contra-indications to operation offered by the exist- ence of diarrhoea and dysentery' are so evident as to require but a passing mention. No surgeon would deliberately operate at such time, yet it occa- sionally happens that a patient, seemingly healthy, may die shortly after operation from the development of a fresh attack of obstinate chronic dysen- tery contracted years previously. This has always been the experience of military practice, and has been fully corroborated in the annals of our own military service. The writer has on several occasions known officers and soldiers, who had long since recovered, as they supposed, from the dreaded