SYMPTOMS AND LESIONS OF PYjEMIA. 207 vations. He has arrived at the conclusions that there is a special rod-shaped form of bacteria, peculiar to pyaemia ; that this organism does not grow in contact with the air, but is killed by it (anaerobie); that micrococci are de- veloped from these rods, which are not affected by the air, and which can under favorable conditions grow into rods; that there is another form of rod- bacteria which produces local suppuration. There seems good reason to believe, from all these different experiments, that putrefying fluids, when injected beneath the skin or into the veins of animals, produce serious symptoms, or death. These putrefying fluids in- variably contain bacteria. If the bacteria are removed by filtration, boiling, etc., the fluid is still poisonous (Panum). If the bacteria removed by filtra- tion are injected, they are also poisonous ; but if these bacteria are washed repeatedly, they may be innocuous (Hiller). On the other hand, successive cultivations of a particular kind of bacteria, in indifferent fluids, produces an organism which is constantly poisonous (Pasteur). These putrefying fluids seem to act in two ways: (1) as a direct and rapid poison; (2) in small doses as a slower poison. In the animals killed by large doses, few or no bacteria are found in the blood, nor is their fresh blood poi- sonous to other animals. In the animals killed slowly, by small doses, bacteria are found in the blood, and the fresh blood is poisonous to other animals. It is still uncertain whether the symptoms and lesions produced in animals by such injections of putrefying fluids, are identical with the symptoms and lesions of pyaemia in man. Symptoms and Lesions of Pyaemia. It is impossible to describe the symptoms and lesions of pyfemia, as we can those of a definite disease. The best that can be done is to enumerate the different conditions which are commonly spoken of under the name of py;c- mia, and to describe the symptoms and lesions which belong to each con- dition. I. There are a certain number of cases of wounds and of injuries, which are characterized by the presence of a febrile movement, without any other symp- toms. The wound is healthy, the patient’s general condition is good, the febrile movement is of moderate intensity, lasts a few days, then disappears, and the patient goes on to recovery. This symptom occurs in cases of wounds which are left open, in a certain number of cases in which the wounds are treated antiseptically, and in simple fractures, especially fractures of the thigh (Volkmann). In these cases, there seems to be no infection from without; no development of any organism; no formation of a chemical poison. It seems probable that the febrile movement is due to the absorption of portions of tissue which are dead, but not putrefying. In such wounds and fractures, the injury is often sufficient to destroy the vitality of some portions of tissue. These portions do not putrefy, but undergo necrobiotic changes. The absorp- tion of such dead tissues in certain susceptible persons may be capable of pro- ducing a febrile movement. II. There are cases in which in some part of the body a portion of tissue is not only dead, but undergoing putrefaction. While this process of putrefac- tion is going on, the patient suffers from rigors, a febrile movement, disturb- ance of the stomach and great prostration, and may even die. But if the putrefactive process is arrested in time, all these symptoms at once disappear, and the patient recovers. The most marked examples of such a condition