TRANSFUSION OF BLOOD. 511 emptying and filling of the bulb, direct transfusion is effected. By bearing iu mind tlie fact that 8 grammes (2 drachms) of blood are emptied by each compression of the bulb, the quantity transferred may be readily determined. After the operation is completed, the wounds of the veins are treated as in a case of venesection. The apparatus devised by Roussel, for effecting direct transfusion, is much more complicated than the Aveling instrument, and hence its successful em- ployment necessitates considerable familiarity with its use on the part of the operator. The apparatus (Fig. 83) consists of a glass receiver containing a Fig. 83. lancet, and a Higginson’s pump, which connects the receiver with a canula that is to be inserted into the patient’s vein. The receiver is placed on the blood-donor’s arm, directly over the vein from which the blood is to be ob- tained, and is retained there by atmospheric exhaustion. In order to get rid of air, the apparatus is first filled with a solution of bicarbonate of sodium in the proportion of 2 grammes (J drachm) of the salt to 1 litre (a quart) of water; then the donor’s vein is punctured by means of the lancet in the re- ceiver, and, as soon as the sodium-solution is displaced by the blood, the latter is slowly pumped into the recipient’s vein. Indirect Transfusion.—The mediate or indirect method of transfusing blood has been very often resorted to in this country. In an emergency, this opera- tion may be done with few instruments. The first time that the writer had occasion to perform transfusion, the instruments used were a hard rubber syringe, to which was fitted a tubular needle (sometimes used by gynecologists in operations on the female perineum), two porcelain bowls, a linen strainer, a brush made of fresh broom-corn, and a sharp-pointed bistoury. By means of these instruments, five ounces of defibrinated blood were successfully in- jected into the veins of a woman who was moribund from excessive hemor- rhage consequent upon an abortion. The patient made a quick recovery. Various plans and many ingenious apparatuses have been devised with a view to facilitating the safe performance of this operation; but with care it may be done as safely and as expeditiously with the simple instruments just named as with the most elaborate apparatus. Hewitt’s Apparatus.—Dr. Graily Hewitt has devised an apparatus by which blood, before it has had time to coagulate, may be introduced into an indi- vidual’s vein. It comprises a glass syringe holding 64 grammes (2 ounces), with a piston, easily removed and inserted, and a curved nozzle provided with a stopper. There is also a curved stylet and canula (the latter fitting the nozzle of the syringe), for insertion into the recipient’s vein. In using this instrument, the blood is allowed to flow into the syringe, the piston I having been previously removed, and the nozzle closed with the stopper. During this part of the operation, the surgeon or a dextrous assistant should open the recipient’s vein, and insert the canula closed with the stylet. As