PROLONGED SUPPURATION. 213 Attempts to replace carbolic acid by any of the other germicides have not been successful. The success of this plan of treatment has been very great. Hospitals, espe- cially in Germany, which were previously mere pest-houses, now give good surgical statistics. Its disadvantages are the trouble, time, and expense in- volved in carrying out the full system of dressings, and the possibility of poisoning the patient by too much carbolic acid. For this reason, many sur- geons have discarded the complete Listerian system of dressing, and use car- bolic acid as a local application in various ways. Perhaps the question of antiseptic dressings may be best summed up in the words of Sir James Paget:— “ I believe that, in its complete (Listerian) form, we can nearly neutralize the evil influences of unhealthy hospitals and other like sources of those infectious diseases from which arise the largest portions of mortalities after operations. “ That it has not yet reduced the death-rate to a lower level than can be attained by good sanitary arrangements, good nursing, strict care and cleanliness, quietude, and simple dressing. “ That recoveries after operations are quicker and more free from fever and other constitutional disturbances, when antiseptics are used, than when they are not used. “That in certain groups of cases, operations may be safely done with antiseptics which, without them, would be very hazardous.” Prolonged Suppuration. There are cases of prolonged suppuration which are usually classed with pyaemia. There is first a wound, or a bruise, or an idiopathic, suppurative inflammation. This original focus of inflammation is of a purulent character, and shows no disposition to heal. After a time, successive abscesses are formed, without visible cause, in the connective tissue in different parts. These new abscesses all show the same disposition to continue to suppurate and not to heal. The patient loses flesh and strength; there is a febrile movement; bronchitis or broncho-pneumonia may be developed, and the patient finally dies in a condition of extreme emaciation. After death, ab- scesses are found in different parts of the body, but not in the viscera. In- farctions and thrombi do not belong to this condition. The lungs show the lesions of bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia. The liver, spleen, and kidneys are often waxy. A man, twenty years old, was admitted to the Roosevelt Hospital, February 18, 1880. Five months before his admission, his right testicle had become swollen and painful. This epididymitis had come on one month after sexual intercourse, but had not been preceded or accompanied by gonorrhoea. On February 15, he had begun to have pain, tenderness, and redness, along the femoral vessels on the left side, with nausea, vomit- ing, fever, and delirium, but no rigors. On February 18, the right epididymis was swollen and tender; the lymphatic glands in the left groin were swollen and tender; there was an erythematous blush over the anterior surface of the left thigh; there was tenderness, but no induration, along the course of the left femoral vessels; there was fever. By February 27, the lymphatic glands in the left groin had suppurated; the abscess was opened, but it was found that the pus had burrowed down the anterior sur- face of the thigh. On March 24, an abscess in the right epididymis was opened. By April 4 an abscess had formed in the right inguinal region, and by April 23, one above the spine of the scapula. On April 29, an abscess had formed above the right clavicle, and on June 5 the patient died. At the autopsy, the abscesses were found as mentioned, but no thrombosis of any veins. There was purulent broncho-pneumonia, and commencing waxy infiltration of the liver, spleen, and kidneys.