382 TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM AND DELIRIUM TREMENS. normal temperature, the pulse is full and rather frequent, the face may be more flushed than natural, the eyes bright, and the expression good. The surgeon enters a ward some morning, after a terrible accident lias occurred, and finds that a victim of this kind has just been brought in and laid upon a bed. He is at once recognized by the patient as one in authority. “ How are you, doctor,” he says, in a high voice; “what have they brought me here for? I’m not hurt! No, sir! Look at that,” and out goes an arm with the force of a prize fighter delivering a crusher. “ Look here,” and he tries to lift a leg, which his sensorium falsely tells him he has done, although his expression may indicate a vague and passing doubt. “ Why there’s my wife ! Molly, what are you doing here ? don’t cry ; what are you crying for ? I’m not hurt; go home to the children and tell them I’ll be there to supper and at the mills to- morrow. Won’t I, doctor? Go home!” Soon this great tension gives way, collapse comes on, and by night the patient is in another home than that in which he promised to be. I have never known such a case to recover. 'With all its coherence, with every intellectual and perceptive process cor- rect as far as external matters are concerned, every word and thought as to other persons and objects right, everything as to himself wrong, how are we to classify this state, except as one of delirium ? Important questions might arise as to the testamentary capacity of such persons ; from what I have seen and described, there is nothing in their condition inconsistent with full ability to direct the management of their estates and effects. Shock after injury is a condition so intimately involving the nervous sys- tem, both cerebro-spinal and organic, that delirium might be reasonably looked for as a common accompaniment of it. This symptom, however, is rarely present during the stage to which the term shock is applicable. The intellectual and perceptive faculties simply experience the profound depres- sion which is present everywhere. The nearly pulseless, pale, cold body ; the dull eyes and drooping lids ; the slow and feeble respiration, and the shrunken and clammy skin, are all expressive of that general condition, in which the brain itself takes part. In fact, shock without reaction means death, and many die in this condition. During its continuance, there may be some slight mutterings, which increase if death is to come; but upon being spoken to, it will be1 found that the patient’s intelligence is retained, and only sluggish. He wishes to be let alone, is indifferent as to what it all means, becomes colder and weaker, and dies ; or warms up, it may be sleeps for a short time, and lives. It is in this latter event, when reaction is taking place, that delirium frequently occurs. It is apt to be wild, especially in children. Its degree is in accordance with the rapidity of return of the general functions. The re- bound oversteps fue mark, and disturbance of the cortex is one of the results. Fortunately this kind of delirium does not often last long. As the skin, kid- neys, and other organs resume their normal actions, it subsides. Delirium may recur in the future progress of the case, but will have other causes for its production than what happened at the start. Embolism of the cerebral vessels, from the suddenness with which it some- times takes place, one would think would be a cause of immediate delirium. 1 do not, however, find this mentioned as a prominent symptom, or even as an ordinary one, in cases where the lesion is suspected. It may be that the limited area of cortex which is supplied by the special vessel or vessels in- volved, is nourished sufficiently from collateral sources to maintain its integ- rity, or that, if the blood is entirely cut off, local death of the delicate cells and fibres takes place so rapidly that their receptive and demonstrative pro- perties are lost at once. Thrombosis, from the comparative slowness with which it mostly occurs, would be more likely to be accompanied by delirium; but as the vessels of the brain involved in this process are generally large and