433 ANiESTIIETIC SUBSTANCES. 7° C. (45° F.). Inhalation of the gas produces both asphyxia and anaesthesia; hence it can be respired with safety for a brief period only. It rapidly dis- charges oxygen from the blood, and produces death by asphyxia. The con- vulsive phenomena which ordinarily accompany that state are suppressed by the anaesthetic action of the gas upon the convulsive nerve centres. If mixed with atmospheric air during inhalation, great nervous and cerebral exhilara- tion is produced, without loss of consciousness. The action of the undiluted gas is very prompt, and recovery is equally rapid. Paul Bert has shown that an equal mixture of nitrous oxide and common air, or an equivalent quantity of oxygen, inhaled under a pressure of two atmospheres, will produce com- plete anaesthesia without asphyxia. Inhalation of the mixture may he safely continued for an indefinite period. By this method the blood receives enough oxygen to sustain life at the same time that it is sufficiently charged with nitrous oxide to produce anaesthesia. Carbonic Oxide, CO. Sp. gr. 0.967. A transparent, colorless, inflammable, almost odorless gas. It is ordinarily produced by the combustion of coal with a limited supply of oxygen. Its action is exceedingly energetic. The presence of one tenth of one per cent, of this gas in the air is sufficient to destroy a bird, and two or three tenths of one per cent, will kill a dog. It forms a permanent combination with the haemoglobin of the blood, expelling oxygen, and producing insensibility and death by asphyxia. Resuscitation is rendered almost impossible by the stability of the compound which it forms with haemo- globin. The stupefying energy of the smoke of burning puff-ball (Lycoperdon proteus) is due to the presence of this gas. Carbonic Anhydride, C02, Carbonic acid gas. Sp. gr. of the gas, 1.529; sp. gr. of the liquid, 0.83. Boiling point, —78° C. (—109° F.). A colorless, transparent gas, with a slightly acid taste and smell. It may be liquefied and frozen by pressure and cold. It may be liberated from any carbonate by the action of a stronger acid. The gas causes speedy death by asphyxia, if inhaled without dilution. If it exceed three or four per cent, of the air that is breathed, giddiness, dyspnoea, muscular weakness, and feeble and rapid move- ments of the heart appear. Any considerable increase of the gas intensifies these phenomena, and will destroy life, even though a considerable amount of air be present. Death results partly through exclusion of oxygen from the blood, partly from retention of carbonic acid in the blood, and partly from the directly amesthetico-toxic action of the substance upon the nervous tissues. A few surgeons have attempted to combine the action of carbonic acid with the vapor of ether, by causing the patient to respire from a closed receiver containing the vapor, thus consuming his own breath until rendered insensible by its carbonic acid mingled with ether. This practice cannot be too strongly condemned. Carbonic Disulphide, CS2, Bisulphide of carbon. Sp. gr. 1.269. Boiling point, 47°.7 C. (117°.8 F.). A colorless, volatile liquid, with a pungent aro- matic taste, and an agreeable odor when pure. It is formed by dropping pieces of sulphur upon red-hot coals in a retort. The general anaesthetic efiects of the vapor resemble those produced by chloroform, but it also pro- duces great depression, sometimes followed by coma. Workmon exposed to its fumes in certain factories experience great depression, weakness, and loss of memory. The liquid has been used externally with some degree of success for the relief of neuralgia; but the offensive odor if impurities are present, and the disagreeable efiects of the resulting vapor, have led to its complete abandonment. Note.—Additional statistics show 84 deaths in 492,235 chloroform inhalations, or one in 5860. (See p. 423.)