SCURVY. 300 Ivrebel1 states that the urine is at first cloudy and brown, afterwards becoming decomposed and offensive, and an oily scum forming upon it. Duchek2 dissents from this statement, and asserts that in slight cases the urine in its physical properties is unaltered ; and that in aggravated cases it is generally of a deeper color, somewhat decreased in quantity, as happens usually in fevers, and always of an acid reaction. The quantity is diminished to from 1200 to 1500 cubic centimetres, and in very severe cases is as low as 830 cubic centimetres; the specific gravity runs as low as 1015 to 1009, and the quantity of all the solid constituents is diminished, with the exception of phosphoric acid and potassa, the latter being in proportion to the soda as 1 to 1.9, while in health it bears the proportion of 1 to 12. As recovery pro- gresses, the quantity of both urine and its solid constituents increases, with the exception of the potassa which, on the contrary, decreases. Chalvet’s analysis of the urine, from a well-developed scorbutic subject, furnished the following result:— W ater ...... Solid matters ..... Matter soluble in absolute alcohol . Albuminoid matter Mineral matter . . . . . 950.50 . 49.50 Urea . 9.60 Extractive 12.60 7.50 . 19.50 The conclusions that would seem to be authorized by the statements of these various authorities, are that the quantity of urine passed is decreased, as well as that of the urea, while the amounts of the albuminoid and mineral matters are increased. Physical examination will reveal the frequent occurrence of enlargement of the spleen, independent of malarial influences, and Ivrebel has encountered one case in which the liver was involved in inflammation. Some derangement of the visual organs is present in numerous cases. Dr. Foltz, in the epi- demic on the Raritan, reported four cases of nyctalopia and two of hemera- lopia, and other affections of the eye, such as conjunctivitis, induration and irritation of the ciliary margins of the lids, with a copious and acrimonious discharge, these conditions being obviously due to the scorbutic diathesis. Hemorrhage may occur under the conjunctiva, raising it into small pouches; into the anterior chamber, causing iritis and adhesions; and finally into the choroid and vitreous humor, exciting a general inflammation of the entire organ. Dulness of hearing and buzzing in the ears have also been signalized as occasional symptoms of scurvy. The phenomena of fever are always absent during the course of uncompli- cated scurvy, the temperature of the mouth sometimes falling as low as 92° F.; and being always one or two degrees lower than normal. It is only in the later periods of the disease, when pathological processes most often super- vene in the internal organs, that an elevated temperature and the other ordi- nary symptoms of fever are manifested. The lowered vital, resistance of scorbutic subjects particularly disposes them to the incursions of other fevers, especially those of malarial and typhoid types; hence in the low, marshy districts of northern Europe, and in sections of country afflicted by famine and overcrowded dwellings, these complications are very common. 1 Der Scorbnt, S. 156. 2 Zeitsclirift der k. k. Gesellschaft der Aerzte zu Wien, Bd. i. S. 56.