52 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. for instance, the violet-colored branched corpuscles appeared—made us incline to the belief that these corpuscles existed in the living cornea. Moreover, this conclusion seemed to be supported by the fact that the branched corpus- cles were wont to appear with the same configuration—though isolated—if the normal fresh cornea lay in aqueous humor several hours after excision; and, finally, by the fact that they were visible in increased numbers imme- diately after the excision of an inflamed cornea. It did, indeed, seem strange to me that in the inflamed cornea they appeared only here and there, and, \ moreover, that the specimens stained with gold had a different appearance in winter from that which they had in spring and autumn. If, as has been supposed, the branched corpuscles are arranged in the living cornea exactly as they are in the specimens stained with gold, then, judging from the latter specimens, we must admit that they are differently formed in winter and in spring. According to this supposition, therefore, the branched corpuscles are not fixed in the sense that they continue unchanged during their entire existence. Still another circumstance warns us against drawing unrestricted conclu- sions as to the state of the living tissue from lifeless specimens stained with gold. If we paint the cornea before excision with a stick of nitrate of silver until it has become cloudy, excise it about thirty minutes later, and then expose it to diffused daylight, we obtain a picture which is essentially different from that obtained by staining with gold. In a specimen thus treated, the processes of the cornea-corpuscles appear branched to such a degree that the basis-substance is traversed by an excessively rich network. With a magnifying power of about 1000 diameters, the basis-substance looks like a loosely woven tissue. Since I had observed similar networks in the gray matter of the brain, and since, moreover, similar networks were known to exist in bone, I expressed the opinion that all organs were built up of such a fine network. The network, added to the mass which filled up its meshes, formed, as I thought, the basis-substance, whilst the cells were nothing else than parts of this network with a different density, and a dif- ferent mass filling their interior. In the cells, I thought, there is a fluid (intracellular fluid), whilst the basis-substance has a mass in its meshes which lends it its characteristic physical stamp, different in bone, different in the cornea, different in cartilage—in short, varying according to the nature of the tissue. But the very marked ramification which we see in cornea} painted with silver, does not appear in specimens stained with gold, though here also the ramification is at times very extensive. At times, I say, but not always. Accordingly, the reagent must have some influence on the con- formation of the lifeless and fixed condition; the cornea-corpuscles and their processes must perish in varying shape in consequence of varying influences brought to bear on them. Besides, after proof had been offered that the cornea-corpuscles became altered in consequence of an inflammatory irritation; that in the cornea of the frog they appeared essentially altered, even a few hours after the applica- tion of the irritant; that they lost their processes here and there and Avere transformed into relatively large multi-nucleated masses; after I had made, moreover, the observations on the cornea of mammalia which led me to adopt the theory of inflammation and suppuration already described—the theory that the cells and their processes swell at the expense of the basis-substance— in \deAv of all these considerations, I had all the more ground to doubt the stability ot the supposed fixed cells. And yet not until quite recently ha\’e I shaken the axiom that the branched cells in the normal condition are fixed cells. During the past year, Dr. Ilansell has been engaged under my direction in