97 SYMPTOMS OF INFLAMMATION. It would seem, therefore, even from these few facts, that the condition of liy- persemia has both a constructive and a destructive aspect, determined by the circumstances which give rise to it. Redness is usually light in tint, at first, and it becomes deeper as the in- flammation increases in intensity. When a poison is present in the blood, the redness may assume a livid tint, as in certain grave phases of the eruptive fevers. The eruptions of syphilis are, for the most part, copper colored; after a snake-bite the redness is usually mottled. When the over-distended capillaries of an inflamed surface rupture, the redness shows darker points of extravasation. The blood may be removed from an over-distended vascular network by temporary pressure, as in the earlier stages of a conjunctivitis, and the redness, for the moment, entirely removed, the white sclerotica show- ing through. Its dependence upon the presence of blood in gorged blood- vessels is thus demonstrated. The term arborization is applied to a vascular area or network of vessels, thus distended with blood, when the outline of the vessels is still distinguishable. When redness presents itself as an uniform sheet, as in scarlatina, or erysipelas, it is not easily distinguished from stain- ing by extravasation or by transudation of blood-colored serum through the capillary walls, especially when the redness cannot be made to disappear by temporary pressure. In the beginning of inflammation in the non-vascular tissues, such as the cornea and cartilage, redness is not recognizable. The increased Heat of an inflamed part is to be ascribed to the greater amount of red blood present in the part, and to the greater activity of the vital processes, normal and abnormal, which are taking place in it and evolv- ing a corresponding increase of the local temperature. When fever is present, the higher temperature of the blood aids in increasing the local heat. The" presence of increased heat in an inflamed part, when not too far re- moved from the surface, is usually recognizable by the patient, but not so readily and certainly as by the hand of another person. It is verified by comparison with the temperature of another part of the body. Thus, in a knee-joint, when inflammation is suspected, its surface temperature is com- pared with that of the opposite knee. It has been proved by experiment1 that this increase of local heat is mainly the result of the local causes already mentioned; it has rarely been found to exceed, and in most cases it has not reached, the temperature of the blood. Since the very general clinical use of the thermometer this fact has been amply verified. Ingenious instruments have also been employed for accurately measuring local temperature. There is reason to believe that the temperature of inflamed parts is not so readily lowered by evaporating lotions, or the application of ice, as that of correspond- ing sound parts. The Swelling in inflammation is due in part to the greater quantity of blood present in the dilated vessels, and in part to the materials, liquid and solid, which exude through their walls, as well as to extravasation from rupture, which often occurs in consequence of the force attending the afflux of blood to the inflammatory focus. It is also due in part to cell germination and to the formation of new capillary vessels, which, as the injured tissues revert to their embryonic state under the incitement to constructive inflam- mation, contribute materially to their increase of bulk. The occurrence of swelling in a part, without other signs, is not very significant of inflammation, for it is liable to occur frequently from other causes. 17 or is it always pre- sent in inflammation, especially at first, as, for example, in simple osteitis, 1 John Hunter ; Andral and Gavarret; Marey. VOL. I.—7