247 TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. health; hut suppuration in connection with large bones and joints is peculiarly fatal, on account of the diseases which it may induce, such as hectic fever and amyloid degeneration. Treatment of Scrofula.—Fortunately, scrofula at all ages and in all its phases, is fairly amenable to treatment. The disposition, which is inherited, cannot perhaps be eradicated, but most of the lesions may by appropriate means be much improved, if, indeed, they cannot be completely cured. The treatment must be both general and local, for many affections which resist either form of treatment alone, will yield to the combined influence of both. The chief obstacle to successful constitutional treatment is the lack of ample means to carry out what is most desirable. For as the children of the poor furnish by far the most numerous body of patients, chiefly by reason of their poverty, so one of the main difficulties in treatment is the continual struggle with poverty. The parents are recommended to clothe their children warmly, to feed them on plain but good and nourishing diet, to place them where they may drink the purest water and breathe the finest air, to preserve them from frequent wet and cold, or send them where they may enjoy the advantages of sea-air and warm sea-baths—advice for the most part admirable, but as im- practicable as admirable, for all these things are far beyond the reach of the poorest classes. By. the establishment, in large towns, of hospitals especially devoted to cer- tain scrofulous affections, an attempt has been made to supply the food, warmth, and attention, which poor people cannot obtain at home; and by the foundation of country convalescent homes, something has been done to allevi- ate the sufferings of the scrofulous poor. But in the large cities of the old world, scrofula in various forms abounds, and the good which is accomplished by charitable institutions produces scarcely an appreciable effect upon a mass of misery so vast. It has been suggested that the air of hospitals is injurious to scrofulous patients, particularly where numerous suppurating wounds are treated. But while it may certainly be admitted that country patients are not likely to derive benefit from a prolonged residence in the hospital of a large city, there can be just as little doubt that the poor dwellers in large cities often owe their lives to the cleanliness with which their scrofulous sores are treated in hospitals, and to the food and medicines which they there receive.1 Not only are food and air and clothing useful, but certain medicines enjoy a well-merited reputation for their efficacy against scrofula. Of these, cod- liver oil is probably the most valuable, administered either alone or in com- bination with other remedies. It should be given once or twice a day, in doses varying from one to two or three fluidrachms, quickly after the taking of a meal, when it is least likely to produce gastric disturbance. Its use may be continued during many weeks or months, but it is better at intervals to leave it off. It may, for example, be drunk every day for fourteen days, and then remitted for a week; by this means the indigestion and nausea it is liable to produce may be avoided. It can scarcely ever be tolerated in the summer, but fortunately is not then so necessary as during the cold season. In the summer too it quickly becomes rancid unless kept in a perfectly cool place, and on this account is not a suitable medicine for out-patients during the hot season of the year. Children speedily learn not merely to tolerate, but even to like the oil, and will often take it greedily, especially when cer- 1 With, regard to the advantages of sea-air and warm sea-batlis, there exists at present some difference of opinion. It has, for instance, lately been asserted that on scrofulous affections of the eye, the effect of sea-air is positively prejudicial, and that inflammations of lymphatic glands and bones remain stationary at seaside places. (Birch-Hirschfeld, loc. cit.)