43 FIBRILLAR AND OTHER CONNECTIVE SUBSTANCES. universally admitted. The zoologists even say that my observation is not at all a new one; that they were familiar with this phenomenon long ago, in the ease of the lowest animal forms. Thus, in spite of the majority of cells (for example, young epithelial cells) having recognizable nuclei in the living specimen; in spite of the nucleus being still regarded as an attribute of the cell, it is nevertheless admitted that there are cells in which the nucleus is not a constant factor—in which, at times, there is- no nucleus at all present.} Furthermore, a majority surely of all pathologists admit that, during the' process of inflammation, nuclei appear in such large numbers as to exclude every doubt of their new formation. Now one might say that this is just the condition of things in the case of the network of cells in the cornea. It is true that cartilage and some other tissues enable us to recognize cells in the living specimen; it is true, like- wise, that we can regularly make cells appear in the cornea by the use of reagents; it is true that we can also see them in the inflamed cornea in a fresh state. But from the instances already cited, we cannot conclude with cer- tainty that they exist in the normal cornea. However, I have made new observations on this matter, and when, on a subsequent page, these observations are mentioned, I shall revert to the matter in hand. But before doing so I must consider a series of other tissues. Comparison between the supposed Fibrillar Substances and the other Connective Substances. A series of tissues, the structure of which is essentially different from that of those already mentioned, is likewise included in the list of connective sub- stances; I mean the so-called framework of the brain and spinal cord (neu- roglia, Virchow), and the so-called adenoid tissue in the lymphatic glands. This tissue consists of cells and their processes, the latter being branched and forming an extensive network. The network is really the characteristic part of the tissue. The cells (points of junction of the network) are entirely ab- sent in certain parts, as, for example, in the sinus of lymphatic glands. Since fibrilloe were regarded as characteristic of the connective substance, one was inclined to suppose that this meshwork took the place of the fibrillse. But the meshwork of the adenoid substance, as well as that of the neuroglia, is on the other hand analogous to the network of cells in the cornea, in bone, in tendon, etc.; while the tibrillae into which the latter tissues appear split (after maceration) traverse the basis-substance like the threads of woven cloth. Hence the network of the adenoid substances and of the central nervous system cannot be regarded as analogous to the fibrilhe of the connective substances. The analogy between these tissues must be sought for in other points. In the lymphatic glands, the meshes of the network are filled with a fluid in which the lymph-corpuscles float, whence the whole tissue is so soft and spongy. In the gray matter of the brain and spinal cord, the network is filled with a mass which we do not thoroughly understand; with a mass which gives to the gray matter its peculiar consistence. In the white matter of the brain and spinal cord, the meshes of the network are adapted to the nerve-> fibres; in other words the nerve-fibres are stuck into a net of connective sub- stance. It is probable, furthermore, that in the cornea, in bone, in cartilage, in tendon, etc., the meshes are filled with something that gives to each of these tissues a characteristic physical state. In bone, for example, it is the lime-salts mixed perhaps with other substances. We see accordingly that, in a lifeless condition, each of these tissues belonging to the connective substances