AMPUTATIONS. 588 least muscular tissue, and which does not contain the principal vessels ; both flaps include all the structures down to the hone. The surgeon begins hy ascertaining, with a piece of string or tape-measure, the circumference of the limb at the point at which it is to be removed; half of this circumference gives the dimensions in each direction of the long flap, which must represent a perfect square. This flap having been marked out upon the limb with ink or crayon, the dimensions of the short flap are similarly indicated, its width being likewise half the circumference of the limb, but its length only one-eighth, or one-fourth the length of the long flap. It is very important that the flaps should be accurately marked out upon the limb before beginning the operation, as otherwise, when taken from a conical limb, the long flap will almost certainly be cut narrower at its extremity than at its base. The long flap is cut first, with a strong, short knife; turned up, and given in charge to an assistant; the short flap being made, the retractor is applied, and the rest of the operation completed as in the circular method. In closing a “ Teale stump” with sutures, the ends of the flaps must he first brought together, and the lateral wounds sewed up subsequently. (Fig. 152.) Fig. 152. Stump resulting from amputation by Teale’s method. The advantage of this mode of amputating is that it furnishes a firm cushion of soft tissues to cover the end of the bone, and that it allows the cicatrix to be entirely withdrawn from pressure in the adjustment of an arti- ficial limb ; its disadvantage is that, when the limb is a large one, the peculiar form of the flaps requires the hone to be sawn at a much higher point than would otherwise be requisite, and thus not only gives a very short stump, but, at least in the case of the thigh, considerably enhances the danger of the operation. Thus, in a case of injury, should the laceration of the soft parts extend as high as the patella, and the thigh he six inches in diameter —not by any means an excessive measurement—the long flap would have to be nine inches square (half the circumference), and the bone, instead of being divided in its lower third, as it would be in the circular or the ordinary double-flap operation, would be sawn above its middle, and the risk to the patient thus materially increased. In order to obviate this disadvantage of Teale’s method, the next plan to be described was suggested about twenty years ago by Prof. Lister, then of Glasgow, hut now of King’s College, London. (6) Lister's Method.—This mode of amputating was originally recom- mended by its distinguished author for operations in the thigh and leg only, but it is equally applicable, as I have found by experience, in other situations also. Lister’s operation may be described as something midway between that of Teale and the old operation of Ravaton. In the latter, as will be remem-