ERYSIPELAS. 166 several members of the family who came into contact with those first affected experi- enced serious illness. A lady contracted the disease from her son, a young physician who had caught it from erysipelatous patients in a hospital. A gentleman, whose frae- num prseputii had been divided, died from gangrenous erysipelas ; shortly afterwards his wife, who had attended him assiduously, fell a victim to erysipelas of the throat and face, and the lady’s maid suffered a similar attack, from which, however, she recovered. A gentleman received a gunshot wound of the foot followed by gangrenous and fatal erysipelas ; his brother, who nursed him, was attacked with erysipelas of the scalp which ended in his death on the eighth day ; his daughter, a child of three years, had a slight burn of the hand which became erysipelatous; the family laundress was affected with phlegmonous erysipelas of the right hand; the sick-nurse had erysipelas of the face and head; and a sister of charity, charged with the duty of irrigating the wounded foot, had a phlegmonous abscess of the right arm followed by several in other parts of the body, which sloughed, and finally caused the woman’s death. Meanwhile, however, she had returned to her convent, where a number of the sisters were similarly affected, and two of them died. A hospital physician of Bordeaux admitted a patient with ophthalmia, placing him near one affected with phlyctenoid erysipelas; the former took the disease, and the physician, who had a slight excoriation of the lip, was also attacked. He was attended by his father, who was likewise a physician, and who con- tracted the disease and communicated it to his sister-in-law who came to visit him. Dr. Mackay, a British naval surgeon, testifies strongly to the contagious nature pf erysipelas as it was exemplified on board a man-of-war. The ship itself after thorough inspection was pronounced exceptionally pure, and the only source of the disease as an epidemic, seemed to be a case of “ erythema,” in a cachectic, syphilitic sailor; for, from his attack, and from contact with him, the subsequent cases appeared to take their rise. In several instances, the characteristic throat affection existed. The case has elsewhere been quoted, but is appropriate here, of a physician who, having bled a person suffering under erysipelas following a burn, bled a man with the same lancet, the operation being followed by erysipelas and phlebitis, and also a woman who was attacked with puerperal fever.1 These cases all belong to a period of about a quarter of a century ago, and at that time the reality of the contagiousness of erysipelas was recognized by clinical observers; long, indeed, before it was admitted by scientific men, whose vision is sometimes more acute for abstract propositions than for the plain facts of experience. Thus the great surgeon, Velpeau, taught that erysipelas was not a simple inflammation of the skin, but the product of a special poison absorbed from without; and several other leading physicians and surgeons in France held the same opinion. In a memoir addressed to the Academy of Medicine of Paris, in 1865, Blin cites the case of a young man who, after nursing in Paris a friend ill with erysipelas, returned to his village, where for a long time no case of the disease had occurred. Within a fortnight he died of it; then a servant who had nursed him was attacked, but recovered; a friend from a neighboring commune, which was free from the disease, came to visit the patient, after which he was attacked, and his wife also a little later. Four other persons who visited the last mentioned, took the disease, and the physician who attended them, his daughter, and the religious sister who nursed them, were all attacked, the physician fatally. In the report on Blin’s memoir, Gosselin adverted to a number of analogous examples, and others were referred to in the discussion to which it gave rise. Nevertheless, the contagiousness of erysipelas was not frankly admitted,2 and the reporter, Gosselin, in a later article on the disease, appears to be not thoroughly convinced of its contagiousness.3 In confirmation of the results of clinical observation which have now been brought forward to prove the contagiousness of erysipelas, it may be added 1 American Medical Times, April, 1863, p. 198. 2 Bulletin de l’Academie, t. xxx. p. 909. 3 Nouveau Dictiounaire de Medecine, etc. t. xiv. p. 40.