214 PYAEMIA AND ALLIED CONDITIONS. Spontaneous Pyaemia. Under this name we include a group of obscure cases, which resemble ordi- nary pyaemia in their symptoms and lesions, but are of obscure etiology. They do not begin with a wound, or bruise, or abscess. An individual, without known cause, will be seized with rigors followed by a febrile movement, and marked prostration. There may be vomiting, or diarrhoea, or cough. Sometimes ecchymoses or pustules appear in the skin. Usually headache and delirium are present. The patients die in a typhoid condition. At the autopsy, lesions are found like those of pyaemia: abscesses and infarctions in the lungs and kidneys; suppurative inflammations of the joints and connective tissue. A girl, ten years old, after playing in the snow, was seized with rigors, followed by a febrile movement, and with pains all over the body. The fever continued ; she became delirious ; the pain was most intense in the right hip. She passed into a typhoid condi- tion and died on the ninth day. At the autopsy, the right pleural cavity was found half full of purulent serum, the left pleura coated with fibrine, and both lungs studded with hemorrhagic infarctions. The kidneys contained infarctions ; there was a small abscess under the scalp; both hip-joints and one sterno-clavicular articulation con- tained pus. A man, forty-seven years old, of intemperate habits, was attacked twenty-six days before his death with headache, loss of appetite, and a general tenderness over the muscles ; but was not confined to bed. Eleven days before his death, rigors, a febrile movement, diarrhoea, and pain in the chest came on. He was now so ill that he was confined to bed. Eight days before death he became delirious, and continued so. After this the temperature was from 103°—107° F., the breathing from 42-48, the pulse from 112-120. There were no physical signs except a double aortic and a mitral systolic murmur. There were a few red spots in the skin, on the upper part of the abdomen. The patient passed into a typhoid condition, and died. An autopsy was made three hours after death. The brain was not examined. The heart showed the aortic and mitral valves to be thickened and insufficient, but not roughened ; the left ventricle was hypertrophied; the heart cavities were empty. The larynx and pharynx were normal. The lower two-thirds of the trachea, and the larger bronchi, were congested; their mucous membrane was coated with a layer of tenacious muco-pus. The small bronchi were full of pus. The upper lobes of the lungs were inflated and dry, the lower lobes were congested. The liver appeared normal. The spleen was large and soft. The stomach and intestines were normal. The kidneys were large ; in the cortex were numerous small white foci, surrounded by red zones. These white foci were formed of pus; the glomeruli in the foci contained colonies of micrococci. The bladder was normal. [The reader may consult with advantage papers by Dr. Samuel Wilks, on “ Pyaemia” and “Arterial pyaemia,” in Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d s., vols. vii. and xv.]