MINOR SURGERY. 506 may lie accomplished by means of wineglasses or small tumblers instead of cupping-glasses. When the former are used, the air in them may he quickly rarefied by burning in them small rolls of paper, or little masses of cotton wet with alcohol, or by the introduction of the flame of a spirit lamp for a moment or two. In using cupping-glasses, either for dry or wet-cupping, the glasses are first placed on the part, and then the air in them is exhausted by means of a portable air-pump (Fig. 78); the immediate effect of the removal of the air is marked congestion of the integument covered by the glasses. Cupping- glasses are easily removed by opening the stopcock with which they are pro- vided; or they may be tilted to one side, and the skin gently pressed away from the edge of the glass on the opposite side. They should never be pulled off. Wet or bloody-cupping.—By this means local depletion is easily effected, and the quantity of blood abstracted may be accurately determined. The instruments required for this operation are a scarificator (Fig. 79), cupping- glasses, and a portable air-pump, or a vulcanized India-rubber bulb (Fig. 80); Fig- 78. Fig. 79. Fig. 80. Cupping-glass and porta- Scarificator for wet-cupping. Cupping-glass with India-rubber ble air-pump. bulb. in place of the scarificator, any sharp-pointed knife may be used. As a pre- liminary to the performance of this operation, the skin should be sponged with warm wTater, and if necessary shaved. The cups are placed on the surface, to produce superficial congestion, and in the course of a minute or two should be removed, and the scarificator immediately applied. As soon as the inci- sions are made by springing the set of lancets conceale'd in the scarificator, the cups should be promptly replaced. When the cups become filled with blood, as their suction power is exhausted, they should be taken oft' and emptied; and, if more blood is to be abstracted, they may be reapplied to the same spots, or fresh cups may be substituted. After they are removed, the part should be carefully washed, and dressed with compresses and strips of plaster or a bandage. In using the scarificator, the blades should be set so as to cut through the true skin only. If a knife be used to make the scarifications, the same care must be exercised not to encroach upon the subcutaneous areolar tissue; the incisions should be parallel, and about one centimetre (one-third of an inch) apart. Cupping glasses should not be applied in the immediate vicinity of inflamed tissues, nor over the mammary region. Wet-cupping is