636 Amputation of fifth metacarpal by internal flap method. AMPUTATIONS. adopted in these operations, the point of the oval being placed upon the dor- sal, or, in the case of the fifth metacarpal, upon the inner (ulnar) surface. In many cases, however, the laceration of the soft parts will be such that no regular procedure can be followed, but the surgeon will be compelled to secure a covering for the bone from any portion of tissue which is uninjured. Amputation op the Fifth Metacarpal Bone may be effected by either the oval (en raquette), or the internal flap method, the former, as in the case of the thumb, being preferable, inas- much as the resulting cicatrix is smaller and better protected. The point of the oval may be placed either on the dorsal, or on the inner (ulnar) surface of the hand, and prolonged upwards as far as the carpo-metacarpal joint. If the flap method (Fig. 173) be employed, the flap, which is formed from the tissues on the inner (ulnar) side of the hand, may be made either before or after dividing the interosseous structures, and either by trans- fixion or by cutting from without inwards. Amputation of the Metacarpal Bone of either the Fore, Middle, or Ring Finger, or of two or more of them simultaneously, may be best done by the oval (en raquette) method, the point of the oval being placed upon the back of the hand, beginning from a third to half an inch above the line of the articu- lation. In order to gain more ready access to the joint, Sedillot advises that a short transverse incision should be made at the upper end of the oval, so as to mark out two triangles of tissue, which may then be raised as lateral flaps. Amputation of the Ulnar portion of the Metacarpus, involving the fourth and fifth metacarpals, or these together with the third, may also be conve- niently done by the oval method, the point of the oval in this case being placed on the ulnar side. Dorsal and palmar flaps are employed by some sur- geons in the performance of this and the preceding form of amputation, but the flap method, in this situation, seems to me more complicated, and in no respect more advantageous, than the simpler oval operation which I have described. Amputation of the Entire Metacarpus, except the Thumb, is, however, best done by taking a palmar flap, cut from without inwards. An excellent stump is thus produced, and, the thumb remaining, one which will prove of great value to the patient. Amputation of the Entire Metacarpus, including the Thumb, -and Am- putation between the two rows of the Carpus, may both be effected by either the circular, elliptical, or antero-posterior flap method. Neither of these operations, however, presents any particular advantage, and both seem to me less desirable than amputation at the wrist, suppuration being apt to occur in the inter-carpal joints, when they have once been opened, and ne- crosis of the carpal bones often following, and of course delaying recovery. Fig. 173.