71 CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. A man of middle age, of sedentary occupation, living too well, in apparently full health but perhaps slightly defective in complexion and flabby in muscle, in consequence of the slight violence caused by straining at stool, is taken with painful swelling in the ischio-rectal fossa, which results in an extensive abscess, followed by tardy and imper- fect repair, and leading to chronic fistula in ano, or even to danger of death. In another case a half-starved child is seized with a hard swelling in the thickness of the cheek, which in a few days turns black at its centre, and results in perforation, constituting the form of disease known as noma, or gangrcenopsis. The presence of a poison in the blood, whether this fluid is otherwise impov- erished or not, may predispose to inflammation. This is seen in the peculiar behavior of lesions, not arising directly from the disease, in persons affected by syphilis: instead of healing in a healthy manner, they are liable to take on the aspect of syphilitic ulcers, and to require anti-sypliilitic treatment for their cure. The condition of the blood in diabetes mellitus begets a well-marked predisposition to hypersemia of the intestinal mucous membrane, and to erup- tions of the skin. An eczema of the genitals may have proved obstinate under the use of ordinary remedies, but as soon as the presence of sugar is discovered in the urine and the patient is restricted to a diet of animal food, the local inflammation tends to get well. Blood of defective quality, especially when certain poisons are present in it, tends to stagnate in limited areas, probably through its lack of full power to stimulate the heart and bloodvessels. The local hypersemia which results from this tendency often constitutes the first stage in the development of inflammation. Hence the frequency of serous effusions in uraemia. Da Costa and Longstreth1 speak of an “outburst of in- flammation of the serous membranes”—e.g. intense pericarditis, with pleural and peritoneal effusion—the result of altered blood in Bright’s disease, the patient having suffered, also, from uraemic coma. The occurrence of eczema in the gouty is directly provoked by the acrid qualities of the perspiration. It is remotely favored by the condition of the blood; and “ the gouty irritability” of the membranes, which is, in other words, a state of nervous hyperaesthesia, is caused by the same condition of blood. In proof of this we may point to the marked relief to these symptoms which usually follows “a crisis” of gout, in which the blood has relieved itself of its impurities. Here is a typical example of what is usually spoken of as the influence of a diathesis in favoring the occurrence of inflammation; and it illustrates what is true of all the so-called diatheses, namely, that their influ- ence, if it can be properly so styled, is recognized mainly in the accidents which result from the peculiar constitutional quality. Another example of the predisposing influence of a diathesis is to be found in the meningitis of early life, which is often excited by tubercular deposit in the vicinity of the bloodvessels of the pia mater; the so-called tubercular diathesis acting as a remote cause of the inflammation. The influence of a defective or deranged nervous supply to parts is in some instances easily recognized as a remote cause of local inflammatory action. Certain inflammations of the skin, especially the herpetic eruptions, furnish illustrative examples of this influence. Thus Yon Bserensprung has shown that herpes zoster is always coincident with alteration in the anatomical ele- ments of the intervertebral ganglion situated upon the posterior or sensitive, root of the spinal nerves supplying the affected parts. This form of skin dis- ease occurs also in regions supplied by the trifacial nerve, and is accompanied by local anaesthesia of the inflamed integument, and a tendency to local death. The development of a vesicle of herpes on the cornea has been followed by the 1 American Journal of Medical Sciences, July, 18S0.