603 STRUCTURE AND DISEASES OF STUMPS. parts downwards, until the ulcer has had time to heal. Another plan is to employ extension by means of a weight, applied either with the ordinary adhesive plaster stirrup, as in fractured thigh, or, as advised by Mr. Bryant, through the medium of an arched splint attached to the front and back of the limb. The last resort, in a case of conical stump which is constantly re- ulcerating, or which is too tender to permit the use of an artificial limb, is resection of two or more inches of the end of the bone; an operation which happily is attended with very little risk, and of which the result is usually quite satisfactory. Contraction of the tendons in the neighborhood of the stump may cause trouble, by giving rise to deformity and dragging upon the cicatrix ; this is particularly observed in connection with the medio-tarsal, or Chopart’s, ampu- tation of the foot, after which operation, the natural arch of the foot being destroyed, the ternlo Achillis may be drawn upwards by the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, and a painful form of talipes equinus result, the cicatrix being forced against the sole of the shoe in walking. This occurrence can usually be prevented by taking care to make the flaps of ample size, and by the judicious use of bandages, splints, and weight extension, if any tendency to retraction be noticed. Tenotomy may be resorted to if other means prove insufficient. Hemorrhage from a stump may occur at any time before the wound is com- pletely healed, though it is not usually looked for after the safe separation of all the ligatures. I have, however, known fatal hemorrhage from the femoral artery, in a syphilitic subject, to occur four weeks after amputation of the thigh, and when all the ligatures had come away and the patient had been going about for some time. Sometimes the bleeding comes from small ves- sels which were not noticed at the time of the operation, but which begin to spout when reaction occurs {consecutive or reactionary hemorrhage). Secondary hemorrhage from a stump may be due to the bleeding vessel having been imperfectly secured in the first instance—as by tying it too near the cut end, so that the noose can slip off before repair is complete, or by including too much tissue with the artery, so that in a day or two the knot becomes loose— or to a diseased condition of the arterial coats themselves, rendering them liable to ulceration, or, more rarely, to the formation above the ligature of an aneurismal swelling which subsequently undergoes rupture. Capillary oozing or 'parenchymatous hemorrhage sometimes occurs after amputation, and appears to be due to thrombosis of the venous trunks interfering with the return circulation. The treatment of hemorrhage from a stump, if the bleed- ing be but slight in amount, consists in elevating the part and applying cold (by means of an ice-bag), and moderate pressure, and in administering ergot, digitalis, and opium; but if these means fail, or if it appear that a large vessel is bleeding, more decided measures must be adopted. If the pro- cess of healing be not far advanced, the stump should be reopened, the surgeon breaking up the recent adhesions with his fingers, and the bleed- ing artery should then be tied in the wound, it being sometimes necessary for this purpose to dissect the vessel up for a short distance, and thus free it from the surrounding tissues. If, however, the hemorrhage has not occurred until the greater part of the stump is firmly healed, it will probably be better to secure the artery immediately above the wound rather than in the wound itself; this may be done by cutting down and applying a ligature, but may be much more readily accomplished by acupressing the vessel according to Simpson’s first method—passing a long pin deeply across the known course of the vessel, so as to go below it, and, if necessary, increasing the pressure by applying a pad of lint or cork, and a figure-of-eight ligature, externally.