149 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. military surgery, where it is invaluable as a protective against the pain and danger incurred in transportation of the wounded. A bandage of flannel is more elastic, and less liable to produce irregular constriction of a limb when applied by unskilful hands, as by those of a patient. This is still more true of the bandage of caoutchouc, which has been employed so successfully by Dr. Martin, of Boston, especially in the cure of varicose ulcers of the legs. A poor man may be cured by the use of this bandage without confinement from his daily labor, applying it without diffi- culty every morning with his own hands. It is undoubtedly superior to the elastic stocking, which can rarely be made so as to fit evenly at all points. The absorption of tumors has even been effected by its use. An ingenious and effective mode of making pressure upon a limited area, as upon an inguinal gland, or a chronic ulcer of the leg, is by compressed sponge. A fine, dry sponge which has been thoroughly flattened by being- placed for a few hours between two unyielding surfaces under a weight, may be applied over a chronically enlarged inguinal gland, or an indurated sinus, and confined in its place by a spica bandage; if some tepid water be now al- lowed to trickle down so as to moisten the sponge, it will exert a perfectly safe and painless but effective pressure upon the part as it returns to its origi- nal size. A disk of compressed sponge applied in this manner over a chronic ulcer with elevated edges and depressed centre, will moisten itself by the discharge provoked by its contact with the face of the ulcer, and entirely remove the unhealthy features of the sore. In the absence of pain, this dress- ing may be left undisturbed for forty-eight hours, and even in this short time an apparently incurable chronic sore has been found converted into a healthy granulating surface, which the subsequent use of the caoutchouc bandage has rapidly conducted to cicatrization. Pressure mny be conveniently applied in the groin, in some cases, by means of a truss, or, if the patient can be confined to his back, by the pressure of a bag of shot. Blood-letting.-—Before the middle of the present century, blood-letting in some form was universally regarded as the remedy of paramount importance in combating inflammation. This condition was regarded as a disease with pain, heat, and increased vascular action as its prominent symptoms; and be- cause these were almost certain to be favorably modified, at least for the time, by the abstraction of blood, this measure became the great antiphlogistic remedy. It is certainly a remedy of power, and as certainly its power was abused, and its use carried to excess and misapplied; hence the revulsion against blood-letting which commenced during the last generation. This was aided by the rapid progress of pathology, after it had been placed upon an anatomical basis by the anatomical school. It had become evident that many diseases, before regarded as inflammatory, were entirely dependent upon other causes than those which constituted the inflammatory condition, and that they were not amenable to blood-letting; that, on the contrary, they were injured by it. The revulsion against bleeding, like all fluctuations in human opinion, has been carried to excess, and protests have been made, as by Sir James Paget, against its abandonment to such an exclusive degree. In our country, there are climatic influences which have an adverse bearing upon the use of depletion as a remedy. The greater dryness of the atmo- sphere, and the extremes of temperature which characterize our climate, ex- ercise a stimulating influence upon the nervous system, and the nervous cen- tres are liable to disproportionate wear and tear. The conditions and sur- roundings of modern life, and the habitual use of more stimulating food and drink, tend to promote nervous exhaustion. The liability to extreme cold in