646 AMPUTATIONS. i assistant. Disarticulation is then effected as in the oval operation, by rotating the arm successively inwards and outwards so as to render the muscles tense before they are cut, and the operation is termi- nated by slipping the knife behind the bone, and cutting a short flap which con- tains the brachial artery. The same precautions against hemorrhage should be observed here which were described in the account of Larrey’s operation. A modification and, I think, an im- provement of this method, originally practised by Cline, and first described in this country by Dr. J. A Smith, of Few York, in a letter to Dorsey,1 consists in cutting a deltoid flap of curved outline from without inwards, then disarticu- lating, and finally completing the opera- tion in the way already described. Fig. 180 shows the appearance of a stump re- sulting from this variety of the operation. Antero-posterior Flap Method.— This, which is known as Lisfranc’s operation, gives a resultihg wound not unlike that obtained by the oval method, to which, however, it seems to me to be inferior. It is described by its inventor as his second method.2 Supposing that it is the left arm which is to be removed, the surgeon, causing it to be held three or four inches away from the body, seizes the shoulder with his left hand, and with his right introduces a long knife on the outer side of the posterior fold of the axilla, in front of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, the blade of the knife being pushed along the posterior surface of the hume- rus and its edge being directed outwards and forwards. The knife is steadily thrust onwards until its point reaches the head of the humerus, when the hand is first raised (to clear the head of the bone), then slightly depressed, and finally raised again and carried outwards, till the point is beneath the triangular space which exists between the caput humeri and the acromion and coracoid processes. Counter-puncturation is next effected by thrusting the point of the instrument through the skin, and a posterior or more strictly a postero-external flap, extending two or three inches below the joint, is then cut from without inwards. This flap is held out of the way by an assistant, while the surgeon slips the knife around the head of the bone from behind forwards, and then cuts an anterior or antero-internal flap, another assistant grasping the artery before it is divided, as in Larrey’s method. In amputating the right arm, the anterior flap may be cut first, if the surgeon is ambidextrous, but it is better to use the right hand, standing behind the patient, and making the posterior flap by transfixion from above downwards. Amputation at the shoulder-joint is in appearance a most formidable operation, and yet its results are upon the whole fairly successful. The 1 Elements of Surgery, etc. By John Syng Dorsey, M.D., 2d edit., vol. ii. p. 309. Philadel- phia. 1818. 2 Precis de Medecine Operatoire, t. ii. p. 186.