30 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. restrict Recklinghausen’s hypothesis concerning the existence of nutritive canals.1 There must be spaces in the basis-substance, I said, because the cells must have space to lie in ; but the spaces are tilled up; the cells are everywhere in intimate contact with the basis-substance. By means of the silver-staining, the cells become invisible, and the light spaces then seem empty in the dark basis-substance. The silver-staining as I perform it—namely, in the living animal—likewise colors the basis-substance darker than the cells; but the cells, too, are stained, and appear like nucleated, granu- lated, branched bodies, exactly of the shape of those supposed spaces which can be seen after staining with silver in the case of the excised cornea, and exactly of the shape of those violet cells which appear in specimens stained with gold. On the ground of these observations, I said that they were not empty spaces (filled only with fluid), through which the nutritive current passed. These spaces are filled up with cells. Moreover, an observation which I had made at an earlier period (18G9, in con- junction with Norris) had, in fact, taught that in the inflamed cornea the nutritive cur- rents circulated through the cells. I have already mentioned under what conditions we have seen pigment-granules in the branched cells. Now, in the case of the excised cornea, these pigment-granules, while under examination, passed through a process of one cell into an anastomosing process of another. But the pigment-granules can only be carried off passively by a current of fluid (nutritive current). Accordingly, I said, the nutritive current passes through the cells, and only indirectly through the spaces, inasmuch as the cells lie in these spaces. These cells had appeared branched in all species of animals which I had examined up to that time. The processes of the various cells, I therefore said, anastomose ; cells and processes form a unit—a network ; the junctions of the network possess nuclei, and are regarded as cells. These junctions, I added, are not equally developed in all species of animals. In the frog and in the rabbit they are very marked. Here we in reality see cells and processes as described by authors. In certain fish which I have examined, I found only a network of finely granulated substance, whilst larger masses, which might be regarded as cells, were altogether wanting. In the cat and in the dog the facts are not the same as in the frog. Here there is likewise a jnore homogeneous network present,2 only the trabeculae of the network are much broader than in fishes. Accordingly the reticular structure is what appears to be common to all species of animals. But all of these observations were made on lifeless, stained corneae (with the exception of the cornea of the frog). Only in the lifeless corneas of the fish, the cat, and the rabbit, have I seen this network. What the appearances are in the living animal will be treated of on a subsequent page. For the present, I again lay stress upon the fact that we cannot recognize any structure in the normal cornea of the frog; freshly prepared in aqueous humor, it appears light-colored, glassy, and homogeneous. Only in the case of the diseased, turbid, and freshly prepared cornea of the frog do we also see such branched cells as can be made to appear by staining with silver or gold. Let us therefore consider now only those cornete in which we can see the network and basis-substance on account of their different color or differ- ent shading. The meshes of this network are filled with basis-substance. This basis-substance, as I have already remarked, and as I shall again emphasize here, is also living matter (during the life of the animal). For the entire cornea is a living organ, the basis-substance being of a different character from that of the cells. These two constituents react differently during life3 to solutions of silver and of gold, and to various other solutions. Therefore we believe that we can distinguish them by staining with silver or with gold. The cells as well as the basis-substance, I say, are living matter, and at times they vary their relative positions (as is proved by the stained speci- 1 See my Vorlesungen fiber allg. und exp. Path. Wien, 1878, S. 280. 2 Nevertheless there are trabeculae of varying thickness present. But pronounced expansions (points of junction) as they exist in the cornea of the frog are for the most part wanting. 3 In the lifeless cornea, the staining with silver and gold prove to he very imperfect. There- fore nobody has yet, to my knowledge, succeeded in obtaining such distinct pictures of the cornea of man, as of the cornea of animals which can be stained while fresh or living.