RACHITIS. 262 should at first be made lightly and cautiously, with the fingers, for if there be total absence of bone, unless of very little extent, deep and forcible pressure might injure the brain, for so soft and delicate an organ, covered only by the scalp and dura mater, badly tolerates pressure. If the first ex- amination detect no soft place, the fingers may be pressed more firmly against the scalp, when, if the bone be much thinned, so that there is only a small layer of the lime salts underneath, it will be found to yield. The sensation communicated to the fingers, when there is an open space in the cranium, and the dura mater and scalp are in contact, lias been likened to that experienced when pressing upon a fully distended bladder. At a meeting of the London Pathological Society, reported in the Lancet for November 20,1880, Dr. Lees presented statistics to show that craniotabes was one of the lesions of inherited syphilis; but whether it may result from syphilis or not, the evidence that there is a cranial softening which is strictly rachitic, appears, from repeated observations, to be sufficient. Symptoms of Craniotabes.—As craniotabes gives rise to peculiar symptoms quite distinct from those of the general rachitic disease, they may be pro- perly considered in this connection. Craniotabes usually occurs during the first year of infancy, and most frequently prior to the tenth month. The brain at this age is soft and yielding, since it contains a large percentage of water. Unless handled with care, at an autopsy, it is readily lacerated, and moderate pressure upon it is seen to disturb and move it at a considerable distance from the point of contact. It assists to a proper understanding of the symptoms of craniotabes to recall to mind the fact, well known to sur- geons, that slight depression of even a small portion of the skull is apt to produce grave symptoms. It is not surprising, therefore, that craniotabes when there is a space of considerable size in the cranial arch, destitute of bone, is attended by symptoms due to the mechanical effect of external pres- sure, whenever a substance less yielding than the brain comes in contact with the unprotected part. Since pressure from the pillow without, and from the brain within, is be- lieved to be the cause of the absorption, the craniotabes must obviously occur in the posterior and postero-lateral portions of the cranium. Corresponding with this explanation of the causation, the thinning actually occurs in the occipital and posterior portions of the parietal bones, while the anterior halves - of the parietal bones, and the frontal bones, are even thicker than normal, from the cartilaginous and periosteal proliferation occurring along the sutures and on the surface of these bones, as already described. It is well known that long-continued pressure produces absorption of calcareous matter even more readily than of soft tissues, as is shown in the absorption of a tooth of the first set by the growth of the dental pulp of the second set. In the nor- mal growth of the skull, constant absorption of the under surface of the cranial bones is going on to make room for the enlarging brain, and when no calcareous deposition occurs upon the external surface to compensate for the loss within, we might expect even a greater amount of craniotabes than ordi- narily occurs. Every rachitic infant is fretful, but one with craniotabes is especially so, if the open spaces be of considerable size. If it lie upon the pillow, in its ac- customed manner, and as is most natural for it, the unprotected portion of the brain may be so pressed upon by the weight of the head, that it feels uncom- fortable. It does not have quiet sleep, probably because the cerebral circula- tion and functions are in a measure disturbed; it is apt to awaken readily and often, and frets till it is taken in the nurse’s arms. Sometimes it in- stinctively seeks a position on the edge of the pillows with the face doivn- wards, and it becomes more quiet when resting over the nurse’s shoulder with