SURGICAL DRESSINGS. 481 may be made square, oblong, triangular, or graduated in shape. When a compress has a hole in its centre, it is termed a perforated compress; if there are many perforations, it is called a cribriform compress. A pyramidal compress is constructed by placing a series of square compresses, gradually diminishing in size, upon one another, in such a way as to form a pyramid. Oblong compresses arranged in the same serial order make a prismatic com- press. A square piece of lint or muslin, slit from its angles towards the cen- tre, forms a Maltese cross; an oblong piece, with slits extending from the angles of one side obliquely towards the opposite side, is called a half Mal- tese cross. These two forms of compress are found of service in covering the end of a stump, or in retaining dressings in contact with it. The Pledget is a form of compress consisting of charpie, oakum, or jute, the fibres of which are arranged in a direction parallel to one another; after the ends are folded down, the mass is flattened between the hands, and fashioned into the required shape, either square, oblong, pyramidal, or graduated. Constructed in this manner, pledgets are applied as external dressings to wounds, extremities of stumps, and ulcers, for the purpose of absorbing discharges and excluding the air, and in some instances to make compression, and to aid in giving fixity to other dressings. The Tent is a small roll of either of the substances referred to in the last paragraph, doubled upon itself, and made to assume a conical shape by twisting its free ends between the thumb and fingers. A strip of lint or muslin is often used for the 'Same purpose. Tents made in this way are de- signed in special cases to keep wounds patulous, and thus to afford a ready escape to discharges. A tent should be introduced into a wound by a rotary motion, having previously been smeared with some bland, unctuous substance. The Meche is made by twisting a mass of parallel threads of charpie at the middle; if the threads are tied together with a string, the mass is called a Roll. These dressings, anointed with olive oil or simple cerate, and placed in the track of a sinus or fistula that has been laid open, will delay union of its edges till the deeper part has granulated. Hemorrhage from a deep wound may be checked by pressing a meche or roll down to the bottom; the central part of the mass will compress the bleeding vessels, and the loose end will favor the formation of a clot. Meches and rolls are introduced into a wound by means of a porte-rn'eche (Fig. 40), director, or probe, placed against the compact centre of the mass. Fig. 40. GEMRIG & SON. PHIL. f Porte-m&che. Pellets and Bullets are small masses of charpie, oakum, cotton, or jute, rolled loosely between the palms of the hands. The former differ from the latter only in being inclosed in small bags of linen or old muslin. They may be usefully employed as tampons in cases of wounds, to check bleeding, and may be introduced into suppurating cavities for the purpose of absorbing pus and preventing burrowing. Retractors are strips of muslin designed to protect soft tissues from being injured by the saw in amputations. The retractor of two tails is an oblong piece of muslin, ten to fifteen centimetres (four to six inches) wide, and thirty to forty-five centimetres (twelve to eighteen inches) long, with a slit extend- vol. i.—31