SHOCK. 378 became more rapid and feeble, and, though there was no rigor or marked dyspnoea, by the evening the patient was delirious, sinking fast with a tem- perature still rising, and it was evident that the wounds were no longer aseptic. At the autopsy, though no change of importance was visible to the naked eye, yet microscopic examination showed the capillaries and arterioles of the lungs to be simply filled with oil globules. In nearly all the instances that have recently been reported at length, the symptoms resembled these. Boettscher1 gives the particulars of a case of gunshot wound of the knee- joint, fatal on the third day from sudden collapse, and states that the lungs were intensely hypersemic and full of fluid fat. Czerny’s2 case was somewhat different, in that it was one of simple fracture of the femur; but, like the rest, there was a gradual rise of temperature with sudden dyspnoea and cyanosis on the morning of the second day.; post-mortem evidence of fatty embolism was abundant, not only in the lungs but in the brain, liver, and kidneys, all of which were studded with small ecchymoses. Dejerine3 gives the particulars of a case in which a leg was severely crushed, and which proved fatal within seven hours; but, though the lungs were lull of oil, there had been no marked dyspnoea. In short, it seems impossible to reconcile the clinical data with the knowledge derived from experimentation; in the latter the conditions are known ; in the former there must be something else to cause the rise of temperature and other symptoms. It is not meant that fatty embolism does not take place after accidents, or that when it is extensive it is not dangerous from the effect which it must produce on the respiration and circulation, and perhaps from another cause recently pointed out, the solution of blood corpuscles by its agency; but that it is scarcely possible to conceive of its being so extreme as to obstruct the circu- lation through the lungs and so cause death ; or so extensive as to bring on the same result by occluding small vessels in the brain or spinal cord—the conclusion at which Scriba arrived from the artificial production of uncom- plicated fatty embolism in animals. It seems, on the whole, much more rea- sonable that it should be regarded either as an addition to that form of acute blood-poisoning known as “ collapse with cyanosis,” which is particularly likely to set in on the second or third day after an injury, and which is much more consonant with the symptoms in the majority of the cases; or, where the change has set in earlier, as a complication which, added to the already exist- ing nervous prostration and the loss of blood, is sufficient to turn the scale. But a much wider series of observations is required before this question can be regarded as in any way definitely settled. Of its importance there can be no doubt; already upwards of one hundred and forty instances have been recorded in Germany alone, and the fatty embolism was, according to Egli- Sinclair, the cause of death in no less than thirteen per cent, of these. Still less is known with regard to the significance of fatty embolism in diabetes. The occasional lactescent state of the blood serum in this disease, has long been known; and recently4 it has been shown to be due to the pres- ence of fine molecules of oil; and fatty embolism of the lungs and kidneys, exactly similar to that appearing after fractures, has been found in a patient dying in that condition of coma which is not uncommon towards the end of this affection. But the relation existing between these conditions is quite uncertain ; death in a state of coma, with an enormous increase in the amount of molecular oil in the blood, is at least quite consistent6 with the complete absence of fatty embolism. 8 Progrfes Medical, 1879. 6 Gamgee, Physiological Chemistry, p. 171. 1 Dorpat. med. Zeitschrift, 1877, S. 326. 2 Berliner klin. Wochenschrift, Nov. 1878. 4 Edinburgh Med. Journal, 1879.