94 INFLAMMATION. ments on mice, the slightest incision hy a scalpel charged with putrid matter was followed by infection, just as in the operation of vaccination. Any recent wound, therefore, which has not become covered by granulations, pre- sents an absorbing surface through which poisons enter as instantaneously as after a subcutaneous injection. The internal surface of the uterus, after throwing off its contents, possesses the same quality as to capacity for absorption as a recent wound. With regard to the absorbing power of a granulating surface, less clear opinions are held. Billroth dressed granulating wounds in dogs with putrid matter, and reports that after prolonged contact no infection followed. lie infers, therefore, that granulations when perfectly healthy do not absorb. This conclusion, however, is contrary to what analogy would lead us to expect from surfaces consisting of living protoplasm capable of absorbing, and capillary vessels so accessible as to bleed at the slightest touch. It is matter of demonstration that a poultice of garlic applied to a granulating ulcer will affect the breath; and that dressings containing morphine, or stramonium, produce the specific effect of those drugs. This result is undoubtedly less certain than absorption through a recent raw surface, as of an incision; and the difference is mainly to be accounted for by the presence of the outward current of pus continually flowing from a surface of granulations, which tends to wash away foreign matters applied to it. But it would not be safe to rely implicitly upon the protective power of a granulating surface, even when perfectly healthy, although it possesses a certain degree of efficiency. All are agreed, however, that when granulations are unhealthy, or when the surface has been destroyed, even to a limited degree, their protective power against poisonous infection by absorption is not to be trusted. The barrier of granulations set up by the constructive inflammatory effort to limit advancing suppuration, or gangrene, has its true explanation in the fact that the noxious influence which is causing a spreading suppuration, or gangrene, has diminished in power, and is no longer able to keep up the destructive process. It is not correct to assume that the primary purpose of such a con- structive barrier is, as it may at first glance seem to be, simply to resist the progressive absorption and injurious effects of a poison. Very many poisonous substances gain access to the blood through the lungs, with their enormous absorbing surfaces designed—as regards gases and vapors—especially for this purpose. Carbonic oxide gas reaches the blood, and exerts its detrimental influence upon its red globules, as readily as the oxygen that vivifies them, and, to estimate correctly the promptness with which this process of absorption takes place through the lungs, we have only to recall the phenomenon, witnessed daily, of the production of anaesthesia by inhalation of the vapor of ether or chloroform. How far does this power of absorbing by the lungs include solid pulverulent and soluble substances ? Happily it is limited to the transmission of the gases and vapors which can gain entrance through the glottis, and as to all other materials is exceptional. That it is within the range of possibility, is proved by the presence of finely pulverized carbon in the connective tissue outside of the air-tubes and in the bronchial glands, which must have traversed the lining membrane of the respiratory passages. But nature has furnished this membrane with a vibratile ciliated epithelium, with the especial design apparently of extrud- ing solid materials from the air-passages, and of preventing them from reach- ing the air-cells. The elder Mitchell does not dispute the belief that the impalpable crypto- gamic germs to which he attributes contagious and epidemic fevers, get into the blood along with the air we breathe; and this question is also applicable to the germs which give rise to infective surgical diseases. This general be-