545 SKIN GRAFTING. published in the Transactions of the Clinical Society of London, for the year 1871. At first he made a slight incision in the granulations, and imbedded the piece of skin; but afterwards he followed Re verdin closely, laying the graft on the granulations, or surface of the ulcer. He found no ditference in the results ; but he ascertained it to be essential that the patient should be in good health—a condition which appeared to lie at the foundation of success. With regard to the process of cicatrization itself, I prefer to adduce the words of the author, for it will be observed that, while agreeing to some extent with Bryant, already quoted, in his explanation of the phenomena occurring after, or induced by, grafting, he differs altogether from Reverdin, Coste, Poncet, and other French authorities, and, in differing, presents some new features in the case. When, as Pollock expresses himself, a graft is successful, there appears a fine, thin, delicate membrane, and in this membrane may be seen a beautiful network of red ves- sels. Shortly the membrane becomes white, and the vessels disappear. “ The mem- brane is, as far as I can judge, the deeper layer of epithelial cells which possessed the greatest amount of vitality and youth.” And, he adds further on, the wave of new pel- licle stimulates the margin of the original ulcer, and induces cicatrization. Mr. Pollock’s first case was that of a child of eight years, who, her dress taking fire, was burned in both thighs. The left had healed at the time of her admission into St. George’s Hos- pital, but the right thigh presented an ulcer extending from above the trochanter down to the outer surface of the knee. On the 5th of May,' the grafting was done, and on the 26th of November, of the same year, the healing was complete. In the second case there were two ulcers; in the third, a chronic ulcer of the right leg; the fourth was one of ulcer over the tibia, from a kick ; the fifth one of chronic ulcer of the leg; the sixth, a case of large sore on the chest, from a burn ; the seventh, eighth, ninth, eleventh, twelfth, and fourteenth, cases of ulcer of the leg; the tenth, one of scrofulous ulcer of the forearm ; the thirteenth, one of contraction after a burn, in which, after dividing the cicatricial bands, the gap was grafted, no success following the operation ; and the fifteenth and sixteenth, cases of syphilitic ulcer, in both of which the process proved a failure. The practice of skin grafting soon found favor in England, in spite of misgivings more or less distinctly expressed, and cases were presented to various medical societies. Among the many, we may refer to the cases of Mr. Pearse,1 in his account of which the author advocated the employment of small pieces, and making a wide gap; and to that of Mr. Raven,2 who supplemented insufficient grafts from a little girl, with “zoo-epidermical” grafts from a young pig. The method was adopted in Germany, in which country Dieffcnbach had given such development to plastic surgery; into Italy it speedily found its way; in Spain, and other European countries, it became the accepted innovation, as, for example, in Constantinople, in which city Zebrowski published, in 1873,3 an essay upon skin grafting—“ Sur la greffe epider- mique”—basing it on observations made upon eight successful cases. In fact, to use the language of Martin Howard,4 in his communication already referred to, “ In the journals will the work of the grafters be foundan evidence of the lively zeal with which the profession tested and approved of the practice. It will presently be seen that skin grafting became immediately active in America, reaching almost synchronously the United States, Canada, and Mexico ; but we prefer, in order to preserve the autonomy of the subject, to revert to the two questions which arose in the country of its origination, and which have an important bearing both upon the theory and the practice of 1 Practitioner, vol. viii. p. 36-39. London, 1872. 2 Loc. cit., 1877. Gaz. med. d’Orient, t. xvi. pp. 136, 137. 4 Loc. cit., p. 386. vol. i.—35