297 SYMPTOMS OF SCURVY. itself, and necrosis and extensive exfoliation may follow. Mastication is more or less painful, and often impossible, so that the patient is reduced to the necessity of prolonging life by the use of fluid or semi-solid food. Under the influence of appropriate treatment, it is remarkable how rapidly (in from two to four weeks) these marked changes recede, and the parts resume their normal condition; yet it occasionally occurs that permanent, callous thicken- ing of the gums results. In the progress of the disease, effusions of blood under the skin are of early occurrence. They are at first located in the superficial stratum of the cutis, or just beneath the epidermis, especially around the roots of the hair; and present themselves as roundish, bluish-red flecks, varying in size from that of a pin’s-head to that of a split pea, not eflaceable by pressure with the tip of the finger, but slightly, if at all, elevated above the surface, and enduring for weeks together. The nutrition of the hair-follicles is impaired, so that the hairs are often either lost, broken, or distorted. These petechise fade in color with progressive improvement in the case, and finally disappear, leaving behind brownish-yellow discolorations. They first appear in the extremities, particularly the lower limbs, then in the face, and lastly in the trunk. At a later period, extravasations of a larger size and more irregular form occur in the deeper layers of the derma. They vary in size from that of a finger-nail to blotches two or three inches in diameter; at first reddish in color, and subsequently of a bluish-red. When recession occurs, under appropriate treatment, the color passes through various shades of violet, blue, green, and yellow, as in ordinary traumatic ecchymoses. Outpourings of blood also occur into the subcutaneous connective tissue, notably that of the legs, and in localities where connective tissue is particularly abundant and loose, as in the ham and axilla. The dispersion of blood in this tissue may be so considerable as to cause the legs from the knees down to present a uniform, dark-blue coloration, that in form may not inaptly be compared to a stocking. The upper extremities also suffer, usually on their inner side, from the arm- pit down, the extravasation rarely reaching, however, to the hand. These extravasations take place also after the infliction of very slight injuries, as from blows, or the pressure of hard bodies, or even from the mechanical effects of prolonged dependency of the limbs, as in riding on horseback. Ex- travasations of a similar nature are occasionally present in the connective tissues of the muscles themselves, or between them, giving rise to swellings of various forms and dimensions. Xearly always, along with the sanguineous effusions, there is more or less oedema, usually beginning at the ankles, and gradually extending upwards; in some cases, there are pufliness of the face and general anasarca, so that deep pits remain on pressure. This profound impairment of nutrition of the skin continuing, in the worst cases blood is effused beneath the cuticle, forming blebs of varying size, which finally break and leave superficial, ulcerated surfaces, which ultimately be- come covered with flabby, exuberant granulations, pouring out a purulent, often offensive sanies, and bleeding upon the slightest touch. In some cases the ulceration begins in the petechhe at the hair-roots, and a number of these running together form a large ulcer. The destruction of tissue by ulceration is disposed to spread more widely and deeply, and is often of a most intractable character. Old cicatrices are the first tissues in these cases to take on the ulcerative action. Certain muscles, chiefly those of the legs, and notably the gastrocnemii, the abdominal and pectoral muscles, the psoas magnus, and the pterygoids, may become the seat of fibrinous extravasations, which finally change, by lapse of time, into hard, firm tumors, impairing the functions of those pai'ts, and leading to contractions of the limbs. The symptoms in certain epidemics of extraordinary severity, have dis-