564 AMPUTATIONS. be taken to amputate through healthy tissues, and every precaution should be observed to avoid the risk of inoculating the wound of operation with the discharges from the original seat of disease. Various Diseases of the Bones and Joints may necessitate removal of the affected limb. If either alone be diseased, less sweeping measures may suffice, excision taking the place of amputation in favorable cases of joint-disease, and the extraction of sequestra, Sedillot’s operation of evidemerd (gouging), or, in some instances, complete sub-periosteal resection, usually proving satisfactory when the bones only are affected without implication of the neighboring articulations. Much, however, as I admire the practice of “ conservative surgery,” and striving as I invariably do to substitute excision and the other operations which have been referred to, for amputation, in all suitable cases, I cannot doubt that there will always be a considerable resi- duum of bone and joint-affections, in which the “humane operation” will offer the only chance of recovery. Morbid Growths not unfrequently become causes for amputation. It may even happen that a non-malignant tumor, by its size and weight, by its rela- tions to the great vessels and nerves of an extremity, or, if suppuration and ulceration have occurred in it, by the exhaustion caused by profuse dis- charge, may render removal of the affected limb a more promising operation than an attempt to separate the growth from the surrounding tissues; while in the case of malignant tumors of the extremities, and particularly those involving the bones, including (as clinically malignant) the sarcomata, car- tilaginous growths, etc., amputation is commonly the sole remedy. It is true that, in some few instances, excision of the affected portion of bone has been advantageously resorted to, as in the examples recorded by Lucas and Morris, in which myeloid growths of the forearm were thus successfully dealt with; but in the majority of cases, amputation will be found the safer measure, and under these circumstances may usually be resorted to with every prospect of a favorable termination. Tetanus has been looked upon as an affection calling for amputation, and a cure has occasionally followed the operation. Laurent has collected seven- teen cases of minor, and twenty-four of major amputation for tetanus, with eleven recoveries in either category, or, taking both together, a proportion of successes of nearly fifty-four per cent. In most instances, however, the cases appear to have been examples of subacute or chronic tetanus, in which a good result may often be obtained by internal treatment alone, and on the other hand the milder operations of nerve-stretching and neurotomy have given at least as good results as amputation; we may probably say, therefore, in view of *all the evidence which has been produced in respect to the matter, that while, if the operation appear to be otherwise indicated, the onset of tetanus may be considered an additional reason for resorting to amputation', this should not be indiscriminately employed in all instances of tetanus originat- ing in wounds of the extremities, without regard to the other circumstances of the particular case. I cannot look upon amputation as a justifiable procedure in cases of hydro- phobia, nor, unless under very exceptional circumstances, in those of 'poisoned wounds from the bites of serpents, etc. Deformities.—Finally, amputation may be sometimes practised in cases of congenital malformation, as in some instances of neglected club-foot, or m cases of limbs deformed by accident or disease, the result of vicious cicatri-