138 INFLAMMATION. some cases the sting of a wasp or a hornet, or the bite of a venomous snake, is probably due to this cause. The recognition of gangrene may be for the moment a matter of doubt; within a day or two after a serious fracture of the leg, the coincidence of a livid color of the surface, from the ecchymosis of contusion, with large vesi- cations—a not unfrequent occurrence—is very suggestive of this condition. Similar bullrc containing bloody serum often form in erysipelas, and the black patches which they leave on drying have been mistaken for spots of commencing gangrene. But the sensibility elicited by the prick of a needle, and the absence of odor, will decide the question. It has been truly said that the earliest symptoms of gangrene are usually those of intense inflam- mation ; the swelling is hard, the pain burning and tensive, and the color livid. The pain then subsides, vesications make their appearance, and the parts put on a marbled purplish-yellow tint which afterwards becomes brown or grayish. Finally they become cold and insensible, and exhale a putrid odor. Treatment of Inflammation. The treatment of inflammation, an account of which will close this article, is necessarily derived, as far as it is logically consistent with inductive reasoning, from facts and considerations concerning the nature and causes of the process, such as those which have been somewhat imperfectly passed in review. But much that is most valuable in the practical management of inflammation, is derived from clinical observation and experience, and not from reasoning; and it is, therefore, empirical. The mode of action of some of the remedial measures which have been found most effective in practice, cannot be satisfactorily explained, in consequence of our imperfect knowledge. In the practical treatment of inflammation, the surgeon is, therefore, com- pelled to adopt an attitude of intelligent empiricism. He follows the course which has seemed to be the best, without rejecting what he cannot explain, relying upon the steady growth of more accurate and precise knowledge to throw light upon the modus operandi of some of his best remedies. In the preceding pages much space has been given to the causes of inflam- mation, in the belief that their study offers the best illustration of its nature; and it has been assumed that this course would lead at the same time to an intelligent comprehension of the rational principles of treatment. One fact has been rendered apparent by the study of inflammation from this point of view, namely, that it is the normal tendency of inflamed parts to return to a condition of health as soon as the causes which produced the inflammation have been removed. In all that belongs to this department of the subject, this important fact, which lies at the foundation of all treatment, is to be kept constantly in view. It is at once obvious that a large share of our ability to control the mani- festations of inflammation, comes from the knowledge by which we are enabled to foresee and avoid the action of causes, both predisposing and exciting, which clinical experience has shown to be capable of provoking the inflam- matory condition. Thoughtful and intelligent prevention will, therefore, necessarily constitute an important share of the surgeon’s duty in his rela- tions to inflammation, and it should receive our especial attention. The immunity from suppuration and the other manifestations of destructive in- flammation promised by thoroughly carrying out the antiseptic methods of treating wounds, which will be made the subject of a separate article, serves