ERYSIPELAS. 162 and who became delirious and died on the second day; and he points out the exceptional gravity of the disease when it invades the head. Under the name of cancer, Celsus1 describes a rodent ulcer around which the skin may grow red and painful, which condition, he adds, the Greeks called ipvairt^a;, adding that not only does it attack wounds, but it may also arise idiopathi- cally, and that it becomes very dangerous when it affects the neck and head. From the time of Galen, accuracy of description was sacrificed to elaborate speculations concerning the nature of the disease, which, it was agreed, arose from a bilious humor that tended to escape from the skin where it occasioned the local phenomena of erysipelas. Behind the veil of this myth is discernible the idea that the disease is not to be regarded as a local affection merely. In accordance with such belief, which was doubtless sustained by, if it did not originate in, the frequent occurrence of bilious vomiting at the commencement of an attack of erysipelas, emetics and cholagogue purgatives were enjoined as appropriate remedies, and they continue to be used, but upon more rational grounds, at the present day. On the other hand, a recognition of the frequent topical course as wTell as origin of erysipelas, is just as clearly indicated by the mode of treating it which pre- vailed among the later Greeks and the Romans, by means of astringent and refrigerant applications. Caution, however, was strongly enjoined by them lest a too active or too prolonged treatment of this description should induce gangrene; and Galen, as well as his successors, directed that when cooling (narcotic) herbs, vinegar, potter’s clay, preparations of lead, verdigris, sulphur, alum, and other sedative astringents failed, and the parts grew livid, the skin should be incised and warm fomentations and poultices applied to it. The resulting ulcer, if one occurred, was to be dressed with honey or rose-oil rendered stimulant or astringent by the addition of wax, rosin, myrrh, etc. Rights!)ade, henbane, lettuce, horned poppy, opium, cicuta, and mandragora are also mentioned as proper dressings during the inflammatory stage of the disease. A poultice of bread-crumb with rose-oil, saffron, and opium, was applied in anal erysipelas. The Arabians omitted from their method of treat- ing erysipelas the more repressive topical agents of the Galenical school, but retained the cataplasms and other lenitive applications; they administered gentle cholagogues and laxatives, and, while favoring venesection in sthenic cases, and especially in erysipelas of the head, warned against the tendency to exhaustion characteristic of the disease. In this, however, they only followed Paulus REgineta, who, after describing “ erysipelas of the brain,” advised de- pletion from the ranine veins, and cooling applications to the scalp. Causes of Erysipelas. General Causes.—Whatever may be the specific cause of erysipelas, there is little doubt that certain external conditions favor its production, or at least its propagation. But care should be taken to distinguish between those which are essential, and those which are casual and contingent. It would be a waste of time to inquire into the greater or less susceptibility to the disease of per- sons of opposite sexes or different ages. Apart from the inherent vigor of certain persons as compared with others, there is no real difference to be noted. Indeed, as far as individuals are concerned, the chief distinction relating to their liability to erysipelas depends upon whether they present or not some lesion of the skin, and whether or not they have breathed an atmosphere charged with effluvia from a source capable of generating the disease. The 1 Lib. v. cap. xxvi. sect. 31.