446 OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. hour, or two hours, according to circumstances, until all risk of pulmonary congestion and oedema has passed away. There is one other untoward effect of etherization, which is sometimes met with, and which does not appear as yet to have been fully studied. It is the suppression of urine, and ursemic poisoning, met with in cases where disease of the kidney has been pre-existent. To what extent this condition is charge- able to the ether used, or whether it is rather the result of the operation itself, is not altogether clear. It is nevertheless probable, that prolonged anaesthesia, ' or perhaps we should say etherization, may interfere with the due elimination of the urinary constituents. A proper examination of the urine should, of course, be made before any serious operation is attempted, and, if organic dis- ease of the kidney be manifest, the operation if done at all should be accom- panied by as short a duration of anaesthesia as is consistent with the circum- stances of the case. Administration of Chloroform.—In Europe, and in a large section of America, and in the military and naval services of different countries, chloro- form is the favorite anaesthetic agent. In the late civil war in this country, it was employed by both combatants almost to the exclusion of ether in armies in the field, and in very many of the large hospitals in the rear. The convenience, portability, prompt action, and pleasant effects of chloroform are everywhere admitted, and have already been referred to. It remains to consider its danger; and that it is dangerous is conceded by all, even by those who are loudest in its praise. Very many excellent surgeons can be found who have used chloroform for years, without an accident, and who have never witnessed an accident at the hands of others from its employment. Yet the surgical mind is undoubtedly being influenced by the growing death-roll which has marked its use. In Great Britain especially, where chloroform has for so many years been the favorite anaesthetic, a distrust of the agent is springing up, and the employment of sulphuric ether is becoming daily extended. The pages of the medical press evince this altered opinion most distinctly, a;id that it is a judgment based upon conviction, no one can doubt who is conversant with the honesty, good faith, and wide experience of the British medical profession. The administration of chloroform by surgeons in this country, and prob- ably by the major portion of those who use it abroad, is effected by pouring a drachm of the drug upon a piece of lint, or a folded towel of two or three thicknesses. This is at first held three or four inches from the face of the patient, and gradually approximated until within an inch of the nose. Free circulation and admixture of air with the chloroform are thus permitted. The defect of this mode of administration, as stated by Mr. Erichsen, is that there is no possibility of estimating the true proportion of the admixture of air and chloroform, and that the administrator can only judge by his observa- tion of the resulting effects. To remedy this uncertainty, various inhaling apparatuses have been designed, the best of these, to quote the same authority, being those of Messrs. Shaw and Clover. In that of the latter, the mixture of 30 to 40 minims of chloroform with 1000 cubic inches of air is ingeniously accomplished, and from a bag charged with this mixture, the inhalation by the patient is effected through a tube and mouth-piece. The first effect of chloroform is an excitant one upon the nervous system, and upon the action of the heart. This is soon followed by motor and sensory paralysis, by insensibility, and by a sedative effect upon the heart, with feeble respiration, and a state of greater or less asphyxia. At this time, if the chloroform be unduly pressed, there is danger of death resulting.