350 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL DIAGNOSIS. approach of death. Emotional disturbances of respiration are characterized by full inspirations and expirations, following each other sometimes rapidly, then more slowly, and often executed in a jerking or tremulous manner. There must also be mentioned the slow, stertorous and puffing respiration from paralysis of the faucial and buccinator muscles, the result of cerebral compression. The respiratory movements of the thorax are often observed with a view to furnish the rational signs of disease. In pleuritis, any attempt at taking a full breath is not only followed by acute pain in the side, hut the inspiratory act itself is suddenly arrested by the suffering induced. The same test will, in fracture of the ribs, develop crepitus, which may be either felt with the hand or heard with the ear, applied over the injured region. In swellings suspected to be hernise, the diagnosis is strengthened by noticing, in the tumor, a distinct impulse on coughing. Nervous System.—Much valuable information may be gleaned by testing the common sensibility of the skin, mucous membranes, and muscles. For the coarser examination of the cutaneous sensibility, an ordinary pin, or a pair of compasses will answer; hut, for nicer and more accurate results, the festhe- siometer, of which two forms are shown in the annexed cuts (Figs. 25 and 26), should be employed. Fig 25. Fig. 26. This instrument has a length of four inches, divided into tenths. The acuteness of the sensibility is determined by the greater or less nearness at which the touch of the two points can he recognized as separate impressiors. The presence of certain morbid poisons circulating in the blood, among which may be instanced that of syphilis, will lessen very much the acuteness of sensibility of the skin, and the same is true of a number of nerve-lesions which are followed by numbness. The sensibility may be excessively exalted (hypereesthesia), so much so, indeed, that the gentlest touch with a feather or the finger will be intolerable, and will give rise to signs of extraordinary suf- fering. Hyperesthesia is among the common phenomena of hysterical joints and of mimicked disease of the spine. The qualities of sensibility, or its perversions, are seen under different phases ; sometimes as burning, an evidence of nerve-injury; sometimes as itching, as in poisoned wounds; sometimes described as a feeling like that of ants crawling over the surface (formication); or of nettles being brought in contact with the skin (urtication); or of a current of air passing over the affected part. Such conditions of the peripheral