ANATOMICAL CHARACTERS OF RACHITIS. 263 the face backward. But if fretfulness, disturbed sleep, and the necessity of closer attention on the part of mother and nurse were the only ill effects of craniotabes, it would possess much less pathological significance than pertains to it. Pressure upon so delicate and important an organ as the brain, involves risks and produces serious symptoms in proportion to its degree. Even a slight injury of the skull which produces depression, though it may be of trifling amount, will cause serious .forms of nervous disorder. So cra- niotabes is believed to sustain a causative relation in certain cases to one of the most dangerous of the neuroses, namely laryngismus stridulus, an affec- tion which is also designated “internal convulsions,” “spasm of the glottis,” and “ Kopp’s asthma,” although Ivopp was not the first to describe and recognize the malady. The etiology of this neurosis has not been fully elu- cidated. It is certain that a large proportion of those who suffer from it are rachitic, and that it is more common and severe where rachitis is prevalent, as in England, than where it is rare, as in the rural districts of America. It is not often the cause of death in this country, and the fatal cases that do occur are only seen in cities, whereas in parts of Europe, where rachitis is much more common than with us, it causes many deaths. Certain infants, when in a state of excitement, have what are termed “ holding-breath spells.” The face is flushed, and breathing ceases for some seconds, after which respiration returns and is normal. These attacks are unimportant, but they appear to be the same in nature with the more severe and dangerous seizures of laryngismus stridulus. They have no pathological significance, excepting as they show the same neuropathic state as that in laryngismus, and as they may be precursors of this disease. Laryngismus stridulus, or glottic spasm, is usually preceded by more or less impairment of the general health, and often by fretfulness, which is characteristic of the rachitic state; but the attack occurs suddenly, without premonition, and is of short duration. It begins with an arrest of respiration, a true apnoea, as if from paralysis of the respiratory centre in the medulla. The lips may be livid; a pallor spreads over the face; sometimes more or less rigidity of the limbs occurs, with carpo-pedal contractions, and after a few seconds, a cjuarter or a half minute, a long and deep but difficult inspiration through the narrow chink of the glottis follows, accompanied in many patients by a whistling or crowing sound, and the attack ends with, per- haps, a momentary look of bewilder- ment or dread upon the child’s face. How this disease, like eclampsia, does not have a uniform causation. In certain cases, it appears to be a reflex phenomenon, due to an irritant in some part of the system, as in the intestines; but many observations have established the fact that ra- chitis, also, sustains a causative rela- tion to it. A large proportion of the infants, affected with laryngis- mus, exhibit unmistakable rachitic signs, and, in the opinion of many experienced observers, the exposed state of the brain affords explana- tion of the fact that so many of the rachitic have this neurosis. Still, from observations which I have made, and from those of other ob- Head of a rachitic child in the New York Infant Asylum. Fig. 10.