DISCUSSION ON TIIE NATURE OF THE FIBRILL.E. 53 studying the keratitis of infection, and in so doing has met with very remark- able experiences in regard to the processes taking place in the cornea of the rabbit. It appeared that, while, on the one hand, the network of cells in- creased at the expense of the basis-substance, there were spots adjoining where the cells disappeared, and where the basis-substance increased in extent. These spots seemed to correspond to a process of healing and cicatrization. However the clinical signification of the process is not in cpiestion here.1 The tact that fixed cells are transformed in a short time into basis-substance, has induced me to take up this question once more. And thus I have been led to examine the inflamed cornea of the frog on the heatable stage, with the result of showing that the branched cells are not fixed, at a temperature of about 36-38° C. [96°.8-100°.4 F.], but that processes disappear and reappear, and that the cells also alter their entire configuration. In order to make this examination easily, I recommend injuring the cornea of the frog by sewing a thread through its centre, one to three days before the examination, according to the season of the year, and beginning, the obser- vations on the unheated heatable stage. As soon as branched cells have been found, begin to beat. At times we hit upon branched corpuscles that, change even on the unheated stage; then again upon others which make only slight movements in spite of the heating; then again upon such as are transformed under our very eyes on the lieatahle stage into bodies without processes, re- sembling migratory cells; and finally upon such as gradually disappear from view, or, in other words, gradually assume the appearance of the basis- substance.2 In view of these observations, I can no longer maintain the opinion that the branched cells of the cornea are fixed. Moreover, I can no longer answer with an unconditional “yes,” the question as to the existence of branched cells in the normal living cornea. I consider it advisable now to regulate my state- ments rigidly according to the results of observation. In the fresh cornea, I do not see any cornea-corpuscles; therefore it is undetermined whether they exist there at all. My experience admits of the statement that these corpuscles are formed under the influence of inflammation, or of reagents. A definitive conclusion on this subject is reserved for the future. But at all events it is now proved by direct observation that under the influence of the process of •inflam- mation, basis-substance is transformed into branched cells, and, conversely, branched cells are converted into basis-substance; and herewith my theory of inflammation and suppuration is proved even to its ultimate consequences. In the advanced stages of inflammation, still other phenomena may be observed on the heatable stage. Here and there I have seen a network as fine as that described above (page 52), in the case of cornea; painted with silver. But the network did not remain constant; it ohanged continually; threads appeared and disappeared again. In other places again I saw" a fibrillar structure, and the fibrillse, too, were not constant. "At. one time they would run together at a certain spot, so as to make it appear that there was a cell inclosed in the bundle of fibrillse; at another time this coalesced mass would divide into fibril he again. On the strength of these observations, I believe that I can now give a decisive answer to the question as to the nature and the import of the fibrillfe. As soon as I know that fibrillse can appear and disappear again in the cornea 1 Dr. Hansell will treat of this in a separate article. 2 These observations were made by me during the last weeks, just as the manuscript of this article was receiving its last corrections. I consider my observations thoroughly reliable, and for this reason publish them. But I am not quite sure of one thing ; I do not know how soon the changes of the fixed corpuscles cease. These changes I saw with certainty (during the days from the 1st to the 20th of October, 1880), only about 15 or 20 minutes after excision.