394 TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM AND DELIRIUM TREMENS. any length of time. The coincident febrile or other symptoms would be wanting, and, by throwing the patient off his guard, it could very soon be shown whether or not he was in his right mind. A counterfeit delirium or wildness sometimes occurs in hysteria, often very difficult or impossible to tell from the real thing. In such cases time alone will develop the truth. Treatment of Traumatic Delirium.—Delirium being a symptom, its treatment naturally consists in measures to remove the cause. In by far the greater number of surgical cases, where it exists, this is the course pursued. Sometimes, however, the symptom becomes so prominent, and so disturbing to what is being done for the main affection, that especial means are required to allay it. Indeed it is not uncommon to have to almost, if not altogether, abandon the original treatment for a while, and to address remedial measures wholly to the delirium. In the very active forms, cupping on the back of the neck, cold by ice-bags to the head, and free purgation with salines are required. Hot mustard foot baths are of great use, and may be readily given to the patient while lying in bed, should there be no surgical disability of the lower extremities. The bromide of potassium, or other bromides, may be administered in large doses. Opium is too much feared, and certainly should not be discarded altogether, as is done by some surgeons. Chloral hydrate is also of great use. Sometimes the necessities of the case may call for the use of ether or chloroform by inhalation. In the passive forms of delirium, re- quiring interference, depleting measures are not well borne. Good nourish- ment and stimulants, together with moderate doses of opium, will be found to allay the violence, if not entirely to prevent the occurrence, of the symptom in ordinary cases. Of course, nothing is to be gained by directing remedies especially to the.delirium immediately preceding death, unless it should be very violent, which is not common. At the beginning of delirium, quiet, as absolute as possible, and isolation, are great factors for good. There should be no suggestive conversations with the patient, or with others in his hearing, for these might readily lead to unfortunate acts. A statement, interesting in this connection, has been recently published in the medical journals. The delirious patients of one doctor, in a hospital, were found to have a great propensity to throw themselves out of the windows, and had to be carefully watched. The other doctors’ patients were free from this tendency. A medi- cal man wras taken sick in the hospital, and became delirious. He was under the care of the first doctor. lie reported afterwards that this doctor was in the habit of giving directions about guarding the windows, in the hearing of his patients. The sick man went through the same experience, and declared that, during his delirium, the impulse to throw himself from the window was so irresistible, that he would have done so had he not been guarded. Delirium Tremens. In a “tract” upon this subject, written “by Thomas Sutton, M.D., of the Royal College of Physicians, and Physician to the Forces” (London, 1813), the author says: “ Delirium tremens, and likewise the treatment, which will be pointed out as we proceed, are known to some professional men to a cer- tain extent; but to many they are wholly unknown; and the disease has not yet taken a station in medical writings.” In his practice between 1798 and 1807, the doctor “ was led to see the distinction between phrenitis and de- lirium tremens, at least in regard to the treatment.” These remarks are introduced to show how comparatively late in the his- tory of medicine, a distinctive recognition was made between meningitis or