352 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL DIAGNOSIS. extremities ; the half or the whole of the body. When half of the body is affected, the cause is usually referable to the brain. When a single extremity or both lower extremities are paralyzed, the cause is to he sought for in the spinal marrow. A single muscle or group of muscles may he paralyzed from mechanical causes, such as the pressure of a morbid growth, or of a mass of exuberant callus. The nerve force may be suddenly exhausted by overtaxing the muscles, and this exhaustion may be followed by temporary or reflex paralysis. Spasms and twitchings of the muscles may be excited by the mechanical irritation from the spicuhe of a broken bone. Local irritations frequently provoke, through reflex agency, general spasms of the muscular system, as is witnessed in the convulsions which accompany difficult denti- tion, or which are brought on by a tight phimosis, by overloading of the stomach with crude ingesta, or by uterine disease. Permanent contractions of the muscles often occur, causing deformities of the limbs; a class of cases exceedingly unpromising, as the contractions depend upon structural changes which are altogether irremediable, namely, sclerosis of the anterior columns of the spinal cord. In fracture of the vertebra', the particular region of the spine involved is ascertained by observing which muscles are rendered help- less. Loss of power is also a result of fatty metamorphosis of the sarcous sub- stance, rendering its cells incapable of being affected by nerve force. Those neuroses which arise from peripheral causes, are, of course, most amenable to treatment, as the cause is in many instances a removable one. In these affec- tions of the nervo-muscular system, the use of the faradic and galvanic cur- rents becomes necessary, in order to test not only the pathological alterations of the muscles, but also to ascertain where the defect lies; that is to say, whether in the centre of power, in the nerve of communication, or in degene- rated fibre. An instrument called the dynamometer (Fig. 27) is employed Fig. 27. Dynamometer. The outer scale represents kilogrammes, and the inner myriagrammes. to measure the degree of power. The movements of the pointer on the dial- plate, when grasped by the hand of the patient, indicate the force exerted, in kilogrammes, while the stretching of the spring in the longitudinal direction, by an arrangement of cords and rings, indicates the force of the lumbar muscles, or the lifting power, in myriagrammes. Digestive Apparatus.—The wide range of sympathies possessed by the digestive organs confers upon them a notal»le distinction in the production of morbid phenomena. This fact is no matter of surprise to the anatomist, who is familiar with the rich supply of nerves derived from the sympathetic, and their intimate communication with those of the cerebro-spinal system. Many disorders of the circulatory, respiratory, nervous, and genito-urinary organs, though but reflected irritations from some portion of the intestinal tract,