PATHS FOR NUTRITION AND SPACES FOR COLLECTION OF (EDEMA. 33 By the purulent destruction of tissue, moreover, not only pus-corpuscles are isolated, but also small granules, small shreds from the cell-network, and, in addition, larger pieces of tissue debris—tissue debris in which the suppu- ration had not yet fully ripened when its connection with surrounding parts was severed. Suppuration is therefore a process by which pus is formed. I say pus, not wandering cells. Pus, it is true, contains wandering cells, hut wandering cells alone are not yet pus. Pus is composed of fluid, of wandering cells, of granules, and of tissue debris. Where pus is formed in the midst of the tissue, the tissue must he disintegrated. For pus takes up space; it fills up the cavity of an abscess; and in place of the cavity and pus respectively, there must formerly have been a tissue. The suppuration, the disintegration of the tissue, is prepared for by the inflammatory infiltration. The cells and their processes must swell. The basis-substance must disappear before disin- tegration takes place. Hence the inflammatory infiltration is preparatory to the disintegration of the tissue. Wherever the physician finds an inflamma- tory infiltration, an induration, he must regard disintegration, suppuration, as threatened. I say threatened, since the disintegration is not inevitable. In fact, the entire infiltration seldom suppurates, but generally a central por- tion only. The peripheral zones are for the most part preserved, and gradually return to their normal condition. For even if the network of cells is swollen, and the basis-substance reduced ; as long as no disintegration has taken place, a restoration to the former state is possible. With this explanation we have set forth the principles of the theory of suppuration. But it seems to me advisable to discuss the subject still further. In this further discussion, points of view will present themselves which will be of interest to the clinical teacher, while a clearer insight into the life of the organs may thereby be obtained by the earnest physician. The Paths for Nutrition and the Spaces for the Collection of (Edema. At first I shall speak once more of the paths for nutrition in the tissue. According to Virchow’s doctrine, the cells anastomosed with one another and through these anastomosing cells the nutritive fluid was supposed to flow. But at that time cells were considered to be hollow spaces filled with fluid, as they are to be seen in dried bone. These hollow spaces were branched and communicated with one another, and it was accordingly believed that these cells communicated, and that they were the paths for the nutritive current. When, at a later period, Recklinghausen had recognized light branched spaces in the cornea (and in other similar tissues) by means of staining with silver, he said that these were the nutritive channels. Thus his hypothesis was a development, as it were, of Virchow’s doctrine. According to the latter, the nutritive fluids passed through the hollow cells; but according to Reckling- hausen’s view only through spaces in which cells lay, and in which they could migrate. When I began to take ground against the hypothesis of nutritive canals (in Recklinghausen’s acceptation), I thought, as I have remarked already (page 30), that the nutritive canals or spaces really pre-existed, but that they were filled up. The nutritive fluids, I thought, streamed through the cells, and I had thus really taken up the doctrine of Virchow again, with the dif- ference only that I did not say that, the nutritive fluids flowed through hollow cells, but through the protoplasmic bodies themselves. It was occurrences in the protoplasm itself which promoted the current. In view of this hypothesis, the supposition of spaces in the borders between cells and basis-substance, became superfluous. And yet a number of argu- ments induced me not to discard entirely Recklinghausen’s hypothesis. In VOL. i.—3