93 CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. The main avenue through which absorption of extraneous materials into the blood takes place is, as in the process of nutrition by food, the lymphatic vessels. Absorption may also occur through the walls of the bloodvessels. The epidermis is provided for the protection of the external surface of the body, and usually prevents absorption through the skin; but not under all circumstances. Substances, like mercurial ointment, which may be possibly forced by friction into the open mouths of the sweat ducts, are very certainly absorbed, as proved by the specific action of the drug which is constantly pro- duced in this way. The same result undoubtedly follows baths containing corrosive sublimate in solution. Some of the subtle poisons lately under con- sideration may penetrate the unbroken cuticle, and, thus gaining access to the blood, give rise to infective diseases. This occurred to the eminent English surgeon, Sir James Paget, who suffered from spreading inflammation of the cellular tissue extending to the trunk and resulting in abscess, from which he barely escaped with his life after three months’ illness. He gives a detailed account of his own case,1 and attributes his illness to infection by a material absorbed from the dead body of a patient who had died from pleuritic efiu- sion and pyiemia after lithotomy. During the post-mortem examination, the surgeon’s hands were long soaked in the pleuritic fluid. He says: “What- ever the virus was, it soaked through my skin ; I had no wound or crack of any kind.” This is an exceptional case, as the epidermis, when unbroken, is usually an efficient protection. Nevertheless, as we have seen, the simple contact of a “ poison vine” will, with many persons, cause a crop of vesicles. But, as a rule, a puncture, however slight, or an abrasion, is present, and this offers an avenue of entrance to the poison. In the case of the late Dr. Hayward, of Boston, described also by himself,2 he simply touched the mucous surface of the intestine to determine the existence of ulceration, at the post-mortem examination of a child dead from tubercular meningitis, and afterwards pricked his finger slightly in aiding to sew up the body, and within the week his finger had become gangrenous. Lawrence3 details the case of a surgeon who died after similar infection, and who was not conscious of any lesion whatever until he discovered, by the aid of a magnifying lens, a minute puncture of the finger at a point which had become painful. An abrasion of the male genital organ is a recognized avenue of entrance of the syphilitic virus; and a crack of the lip, in a healthy person, may become the seat of an infecting chancre, through inoculation by the saliva of another person who has the secondary mucous patches of syphilis upon the mucous membrane of the mouth. The mode in which absorption is effected in these cases, is no doubt through the open orifices of the minute lymphatic canaliculi of the integument; although it may take place through the walls of capillary bloodvessels, even when they are free from lesion. The absorption of the vaccine virus after partially scratching away the epidermis is' a familiar example. The epithelium of mucous membranes is inferior to epidermis as a protective. Nevertheless, the pavement epithelium of the mouth being sound, it has proved safe to suck the venom from a serpent wound. Virulent substances undoubtedly become lodged in the minute mucous follicles, and are subsequently absorbed. In subcutaneous injections, as of morphine, absorption is accomplished by the lymphatic canaliculi which open upon the surfaces of the connective tissue meshes. This method is usually employed in introducing putrid poisons into the bodies of the lower animals; but in many of Koch’s experi- 1 Clinical Lectures and Essays, 2d edition, page 320. London, 1879. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, N. S. vol. vii. p. 64. s Lectures on Surgery. London, 1868.