vol. i.—22 ( 337 ) GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL DIAGNOSIS. BY D. HAYES AGNEW, M.D., LL.D., BARTON PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, SURGEON TO THE PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL* PHILADELPHIA. Operative Medicine must be based on exact knowledge. The cunning of the hand can be safely directed only by the wisdom of the head. To be able to discriminate, with accuracy, the various morbid conditions of the human body, is the highest qualification of a physician. Such knowledge can only be attained by large experience, by habits of close observation, by the ability to logically dispose of, or classify, phenomena, and by the possession of a sound judgment. In the formulation of phenomena gleaned from the domain of physics, the student is concerned with matter alone, the behavior of which is, under like circumstances, uniform. The physician also has to deal with material forms, but these forms are instinct with life and intelligence, factors which necessarily render the problem for study vastly more complex and more difficult of solution. It is, consequently, no easy task to accurately interpret the phenomena of disease, and to ascertain with absolute certainty its true nature; and yet it is only when such knowledge has been obtained that the physician or surgeon can safely venture to administer remedies or to counsel operations. The"diagnostician, to be properly equipped, must have cultivated an exten- sive domain of study. Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology, Chemistry, Physics, and Mental and Moral Philosophy, constitute the foundations of diagnostic knowledge. In pursuing the investigation of surgical disease, two methods are practised, namely, the analytical and the synthetical. By the first, the surgeon com- mences his inquiries at the origin of the affection, and traces it down to the time of the investigation ; by the second plan, the examination commences with the present phenomena, and follows them back to the beginning of the disease. Generally the first or analytical method is pursued, although the latter, or synthetical, will, in certain instances, be found preferable. The examination will, in the largest number of cases, be most successful when it is introduced by eliciting a general history of the complaint, and afterwards obtaining particulars. Such a course is less embarrassing to the patient, and tends to establish the practitioner in his or her confidence. The obscurity which attends some cases may require that both the analytical and the synthetical methods shall be employed, and even then, it is not impossible that the secret of disease may defy and baffle the tactics of the wisest diag- nostician. Whenever the surgeon is compelled to abandon certitudes, and to base his opinion on probabilities, he is on dangerous ground, and should either advance cautiously or not advance at all; the latter course should, by all means, be adopted when there is no urgency for active measures to be taken. A few