96 INFLAMMATION. heat,, with swelling and pain. To these, modem pathology adds impairment of function of the inflamed part, and the presence of more or less fever. The symptoms of inflammation with which daily experience renders us familiar, are readily explained by the subjective phenomena which character- ize the process, as reveak'd by microscopical study of tissues in which in- flammation has been artificially excited in the lower animals; and by studying the causes which have been found, by experiments upon the lower animals, competent to give rise to the condition. Thus, Redness, one of the most obvious and characteristic signs of inflam- mation, and the symptom, perhaps, most rarely absent, is explained by the increased amount of blood flowing into tbe vessels of the part, and for a time remaining there. The phenomena of afliux of blood to an inflaming part, and the temporary dilatation of the bloodvessels by which the increased amount of blood is accommodated in them, are the earliest and most striking of the changes which follow injury, and which constitute inflammation. With the explanation of the causes of these phenomena we are not at present concerned, beyond a recognition of the following facts. Redness may arise from passive hypercemia, or congestion following any cause which impedes local circulation, whether the cause be a simple mechanical obstruction, or a func- tional failure, on the part of the vessels, as a consequence of an impaired quality of blood, or of defective vaso-motor nervous action. Redness may also arise from active hypercemia, as in blushing, or in the flushing of the face which has a reflex gastric origin, or as provoked by any of the more common exciting causes of inflammation, which have proved incompetent to produce the condition beyond causing an afflux which has ceased at the stage of active hypersemia. In neither of these cases is the redness regarded as a symptom of inflammation. The line of distinction between persistent active hyper- semia and inflammation, is usually considered to be marked by the occurrence of exudation. Nevertheless we should deceive ourselves if this view were regarded as final. There is a certain degree of identity between hypersemia, or congestion, and inflammation; and the reason why the redness produced at will by roughly applying friction to the conjunctiva, or to the skin, disappears shortly, instead of going on to exudation and cell germination, is not entirely clear. After hypersemia of long duration, serous exudation does take place, not rarely, and previous to its occurrence there is increase of bulk, and also of heat, in the congested part. After death, capillaries which have been thus subjected to distension are found to present fusiform or ampullar dilatations.1 Phenomena attributed to hypersemia occur in a lower extremity after a suc- cessful ligature of the femoral artery. The collateral circulation, even when ample, is at first retarded by cutting off the arterial vis a tergo, and although for a day or so the heat of the limb is distinctly greater than that of the sound one, this difficulty is shortly adjusted, and the occurrence of inflam- mation from this cause is almost unknown. The redness, from capillary distension, that follows pressure of any duration which has been suddenly re- moved, is usually called hypersemia, which, in this form, causes overgrowth of the epidermis, and explains the production of corns on the feet. The com- plete removal of the contents of a habitually distended bladder is in most instances followed by passive congestion, which terminates in patches of ulceration and gangrene of the vesical mucous membrane. The systematic use of a local hot air bath to stimulate the growth of a wasted limb, in a child, has resulted in the production of a distinctly stronger growth of hair upon it, evidently the result of the surface hypersemia provoked by the heat. * Cornil and Ranvier.