PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 40 True, there are differences between these kinds of tissue. The basis-sub- stances of cornea and cartilage appear homogeneous throughout under the microscope, with this difference, that we can see the cells of normal cartilage in a quite fresh condition, whilst we cannot see those of the cornea until after the application of reagents. In these two kinds of tissue there are no blood- vessels, no interstices with nutrient fluid; they cannot become ccdematous. Tendon and cutis are not as homogeneous as cornea and cartilage. In tendon a loose interstitial tissue, in which the bloodvessels run, extends along the more or less dense bundles of tissue; this interstitial tissue can become cede- matous. Accordingly only these more or less dense bundles of tissue furnish us with an analogy to the cornea as regards homogeneousness. We have a similar condition in the cutis. But here, as already remarked, the bundles of tissue do not run parallel with each other, as in tendon, but are interwoven, whereby the transverse section in the cutis acquires a very complicated ap- pearance. Bone is likewise traversed by vessels, and encircling these we have, now abundantly, now more sparsely, a tissue (medullary tissue), which differs from the real compact substance of the bone. With respect to homogeneous- ness, only the compact substance of the bone is analogous to cartilage.1 In fact it has now been indisputably proved2 that compact cartilage customarily passes directly over into compact bone. If cartilage is transformed into bone, canals must be formed in the cartilage, and in these canals bloodvessels must be produced. The formation of canals in cartilage results from a so-called melting or liquefaction (Einschmelzung) of the substance of the cartilage. This liquefaction may be regarded as the physiological type of suppuration. It is exactly the same process as that which, in pathological conditions, we designate as the formation of an abscess. The basis-substance disappears, the cells enlarge and divide. In pathological conditions, we call the cavity which is formed an abscess-cavity, and the products of division, pus-cells. In normal liquefaction (Einschmelzung) the products of division are called medullary cells, and the cavities medullary spaces. Similar conditions, moreover, prevail in developed bone. The compact substance may liquefy (einschmelzen) in the course of normal development as well as in patho- logical conditions. In the former instance we speak of medullary spaces and medullary cells; in the latter instance of abscess-cavities and pus-cells. By the formation of medullary spaces, or of abscess-cavities, cartilage as well as bone becomes porous or spongy. The spongy bone can undergo com- plete suppuration if the liquefaction makes headway, if the spaces enlarge. On account of the physiological peculiarity of their basis-substance, bone and cartilage form a tissue sni generis. Their relationship with the cornea, ten- don, and cutis, has until now only been demonstrated with regard to the relation of cell to basis-substance. In the cutis, as I have said, the bundles of tissue do not run parallel as in the tendon, but are interwoven. In the cutis, however, the network forms compact masses, which do not offer space for the collection of oedema, as far as microscopical examination enables us to judge of the same.3 Now, there is a series of tissues which consist of bundles analogous to those in the cutis, but in which the interlacement is so loose that fluid can very easily permeate them. To this class subcutaneous and submucous tissues belong. The loosest 1 I do not refer here at all to the complicated relations in bone, since I cannot enter into a sufficiently detailed account, and I do not know, moreover, how much of the known structure is to he seen in the living subject. 2 Lieherkiihn, Stretzoff, Kassowitz. 3 Within the cutis itself, however, such collections are probably possible around the vessels.