CONDITIONS DETERMINING THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 469 bodily strength and by deranged action of the kidneys. Operations during an attack of erysipelas, or through tissues already affected by that disease, must not be practised if they can possibly be avoided. They may only be attempted in extreme cases, and where no other means of saving life are avail- able. Under such circumstances, the most active stimulant and tonic treat- ment, and the free exhibition of iron preparations, should be carefully pressed. Cutaneous eruptions not unfrequently occur as the sequence of operation. Allusion has already been made to the scarlatina of children. Urticaria is often consequent upon operations on the genital organs, and erythema, some- times of a very intense type, is not unusual. Erysipelas need only be men- tioned in this connection, forming, as it does, in conjunction with disintegra- tion and gangrene of the cellular tissue, one of the common causes of death after operation. Purpura and ecchymotic extravasations are evidences of blood-poisoning, and are not rare in depraved constitutions. Conditions Connected with the Operation Itself.—There are certain con- ditions, incident to the performance of operations, accidents as it were, which greatly influence the result. One of the most potent of these is pain, which in itself is depressing and conducive to shock, especially in children, who so illy sustain it. Fortunately, the discovery of anaesthesia, perhaps the greatest blessing which has been conferred on suffering humanity, has deprived surgery of half its terrors, and the operator is seldom justified in attempting any serious operative procedure without resorting to it. Hemorrhage, once the dread of the surgeon, has too in great part been over- come, and the importance of Esmarch’s invaluable contribution of bloodless surgery cannot be overestimated. It is a mistake to suppose that bleeding is advantageous in operations, for it must be remembered that the blood is a fluid of complex formation, and that, once withdrawn from the bodj', its place can- not be readily supplied. The baneful effect of bleeding on children and in the old is very decided, and has much to do with the production of shock. The relative loss of blood is often the turning point, as to recovery or death after an operation. It is dangerous when it occurs as a primary accident, and even more so in its secondary forms. In the first case, it contributes directly to shock, and in the latter, indirectly to the predisposition to septic poisoning. It must therefore be carefully guarded against, as well at the time of opera- tion as in the after conduct of the case. If it is evident during an operation that too much blood is being lost, and symptoms of exhaustion become appa- rent, the head of the patient must at once be lowered, to favor the access of blood to the brain. The respiratory efforts must be stimulated by the vapor of ammonia and cold aspersions, and, if the temperature of the body continue to fall, artificial heat must be applied. Excessive hemorrhage during opera- tion is much to be dreaded when it occurs in patients who are already anaemic from any cause. In military practice secondary bleeding has often been too common, particularly in men who have been overmarched, and whose vital powers have been broken down by privation, nervous exhaustion, defective diet, and exposure to malarial and other depressing climatic causes. Under these circumstances, prolonged transportation in Avagons and rude ambu- lances has proved most injurious by inducing bleeding; and the writer has known many a life thus lost, which might have been saAred if the exigencies of war had only permitted the sufferer to rest in quiet near the scene of conflict. Shock.—A powerful element in the production of shock is prolonged opera- tion. In some instances, this would seem to be chargeable to the very state of anaesthesia. When a patient is insensible to pain, the surgeon may be tempted, perhaps unconsciously, to extend his operation over a longer period than is altogether judicious. Then too there is sometimes undue exposure of