DESTRUCTIVE INFLAMMATION—PUS FORMATION. 119 liow both of these series of changes are only modifications of the normal nutritive process as seen in embryonic growth development. The formation of pus on the surface of a serous or mucous membrane, as in empyema, or urethritis, is attended by a less serious vital effort than its formation in a wound, or in an abscess; for leucocytes, it must he remembered, already exist as a part of the secretion of these membranes in a state of health, and the conversion of these secretions into pus involves little more than increased activity in cell germination. The exudation constantly taking place from the network of capillaries which underlies every serous and mu- cous membrane, furnishes nourishment for the epithelium which is being con- stantly renewed on their free surfaces. Now, if the equilibrium of health be disturbed, say in consequence of prolonged chilling, as in pleurisy, or through the contact of a poison, as in gonorrhoea, the injury thus offered creates a fluxion of blood to the capillaries of the membrane, and a consequent incite- ment to an increase of cell proliferation. The result is increased discharge from the surface of the membrane, carrying off the excess of cell production; in other words, a discharge of pus. If young epithelial cells are identical with leucocytes, the induction of suppuration from a membrane involves nothing more than an increase of local nutritive activity. If they are differ- ent, and this question cannot be properly discussed here, then exfoliation of epithelium precedes pus formation, as asserted by Weigert1 concerning fibri- nous exudation from mucous surfaces, which, he asserts, is only possible after the epithelium has exfoliated. Suppuration from membranes is attended usually, but not always, by pain, heat, increased redness, and tumefaction of the inflamed surface from exuda- tion into the meshes of the underlying connective tissue. A return to a state of health is marked by a diminished fluxion of blood to the part, and conse- quent diminution in cell production. The cells resume their normal tendency to develop into epithelium; the pus, just in the same proportion, becomes thin and watery; and finally, as soon as the normal conditions are completely restored, it ceases. Notice that an application of dilute ammonia, a chemical irritant, would give rise to a similar succession of phenomena. In the ex- periments of Cornil and Ranvier, a solution of nitrate of silver thrown into the peritoneal cavity of the rat, was followed by exfoliation of epithelium and proliferation of leucocytes. On serous membranes, however, except where blood poisoning is present, or the injury is peculiar and sustained—as in intestinal perforation—increased activity in cell germination tends to prompt tissue formation, resulting in adhesion and the formation of false membranes, and not to pus production. We may observe that the analogy between the occurrence of a slow and insidious purulent collection filling the cavity of a pleura, and the equally deliberate formation of a cold abscess in the loins, is very obvious; and that both of these conditions are phases of inflammation. The causes which determine the difference between the manifestations of the inflammatory condition which we call acute, and the chronic changes of which these slow collections of pus are examples, are not clearly made out. Phenomena attending Pus Formation in the Tissues.—We are now in a position to take cognizance of the phenomena which succeed the formation of pus iu the substance of the tissues, and to estimate the propriety of calling them destructive. After this we shall be better able to form an opinion as to the uses of pus. When pus is developed in the substance of the tissues in the manner just de- 1 Ut supra.