133 INFLAMMATION IN THE SCROFULOUS. mentioned, the chemical decomposition of pus, in catarrh of the bladder, by the reaction of the ammonia of the retained urine, produces a gelatinous mass that usually passes for mucus, and its resemblance to the nasal mucus in an ordinary cold undoubtedly suggested this popular name for cystitis. In conclusion, the general significance of chronic catarrhal inflammation is explained when we recognize that some constantly acting cause is produc- ing an injurious effect upon an exposed mucous membrane; and the theory of" its cure is mainly based upon the removal of this cause. Inflammation in the Scrofulous. The scrofulous catarrh of early life has just been mentioned as presenting peculiar characteristics. In truth, all the manifestations of inflammation in persons of the scrofulous diathesis present features so marked and character- istic, and differing in so many particulars from their ordinary aspect, that it is proper to study inflammation in the scrofulous as presenting one of the most important varieties of the process. This constitutional diathesis has been always recognized, and its signs are so well known that it is useless to dwell on them. Nor is it necessary here to discuss the facts which seem to justify a belief in the infective properties of tubercle, and to differentiate it from scrofula as its sole source of origin. It certainly finds a more congenial soil in the scrofulous. The influence of the latter diathesis upon the series of vascular and textural changes following injury, principally concerns us, and, after stating categorically the several modes in which this influence is manifested, we shall endeavor to reach the safest basis for treatment of inflammation in the scrofulous. It is in early life that the characteristics of scrofula are most apparent. They are seen in the tendency to enlargement of the lymphatic glands, and in the proclivity to certain forms of skin eruption, and to disease of the joints and bones. The effort required for growth and development at this period of life, seems to overtax the defective vital powers of those who inherit or acquire the diathesis. The lack of vital power manifests itself primarily in the quality of the blood, and consequently in the want of vigor and effectiveness in the nutritive machinery, and in the defective quality of the tissues and organs just indicated, but especially in the vascular tissue. There is apparently less want of power in growth, than in development; and this is shown mainly in this lack of textural quality. A scrofulous child grows finely for several years, and then, without any adequate cause, is overtaken by meningitis, or by disease of the vertebree. The same peculiarity in textural development is manifest in the repair of injuries in the scrofulous. In the process of con- structive inflammation, cell production and germination are prompt and pro- fuse, but the subsequent development of the cells into healthy tissue for complete and perfect repair is liable to fail. Thus a sprained ankle which, in a growing girl of healthy constitution, would get well certainly in two or three weeks, in a scrofulous child may fail entirely to recover, and may become the starting point of chronic disease of the joint. It is defect in vital quality and power in the vascular tissue that ex- plains such results as this, which are not uncommon in the scrofulous. Capil- lary vessels are not formed rapidly enough in the organizing granulation tissue to furnish a sufficient supply of blood; hence its constituent cells cease to develop; they linger in an overgrown but unnatural attitude, constituting the material that gives its name and its fusiform shape to that form of white swelling known as gelatiniform degeneration. The want of an adequate blood-supply leads to other changes in the growing cells: they undergo fatty