51 DISCUSSION ON THE NATURE OF THE FIBRILL.E. organ, the functional value of the destroyed portion, must he taken into con- sideration. Not such is the course in those chronic forms of inflammation that lead to fibrillar degeneration. Judging from the view now prevalent with regard to tabes dorsalis, these processes are terminated by death only. Slowly but steadily does the transformation, the metamorphosis of the tissue, proceed, and thus destroy the function of the organ. Hence, in their import- ance to the organism, these chronic processes are to he compared with malig- nant new formations. But we must here note the following considerations: As long as the fibrillar degeneration has not taken place, as long as the chronic inflammation has not passed beyond swelling of the network of con- nective substance, from the histological standpoint1 a cure is still conceivable. Accordingly, if physicians should ever be enabled to arrest the progress of the disease before the fibrillar degeneration had taken place, a complete cure would still be possible. It also appears certain to me that absolute rest, that the absolute avoidance of functional hyperaemia, is one of the means by which a return to the normal condition in certain well-marked forms of myelitis may be hastened. But where the fibrillar degeneiation has taken place (and this holds good for the advanced forms of the disease), a return to the normal state is not to be thought of.2 I shall now make use of this explanation for a further discussion of the fibrillar structure of tissues. The assertion that the white matter of the spinal cord was fibrillar, in the same sense as the cornea or the tendon, would surely be rejected by histologists, and justly so. And yet, under certain circumstances, it breaks up into fibrillre. The objection may be raised that this only holds good in the case of disease. It may be said, indeed, that here a metamorphosis has first taken place ; that the entire tissue has first returned to the embryonic condition; that it has virtually become something different from what it was. First it became connective tissue, and then only did it break up into fibrillse. On the other hand, however, we must consider that the line between pathological and normal processes is drawn arbitrarily, and only with reference to the practical requirements of man. The assertion that the nerve-tissue which has returned to the embryonic condition is now become connective tissue, is also quite arbitrary. True, the axis-cylinders coalesce with the trabeculae of connective substance. But these trabeculae likewise have returned to the embryonic condition. Now who will assert that they are still connective tissue? And who can claim that the axis- cylinders have been converted into connective tissue? If we wish to judge objectively, we must accept facts as they appear to us. The axis-cylinders break up into fibrilke; this is a fact; but what the fibrilke are we do not know. But this we know—that they are not nerves, and that they no longer perform the function of nerves. New Observations on the supposed Fixed Cells. Conclusion of the Discussion on the Nature of the Fibrillse. I have already mentioned that immediately after excision of the normal cornea we can observe in it no trace of structure, but that we can render the cornea-corpuscles visible by means of various reagents. Now the circum- stance that this reaction appeared so regularly—that after staining with gold, 1 This matter is discussed in my Lectures, and I shall treat of it more in detail in a separate publication. 2 Perhaps further information in regard to the etiology of these affections will teach us that the steadily progressive processes are dependent upon some constitutional condition, such as the presence of syphilis or other infectious disease. This has already been conjectured.