197 TREATMENT OF ERYSIPELAS. and from the first the part is soft as well as greatly swollen, and the type of the attack typlioidal, such incisions as have been described are imperatively necessary to lessen the danger of gangrene of the skin, and to furnish an outlet for the products of decomposition. “ In the scalp, crucial incisions are the most effective, while in the scrotum a single free incision on either side of the raphe will usually be all that is necesssary.” When the eyelids are much swollen, it is prudent to incise them parallel to their folds, to prevent puru- lent collections. If the eyeball becomes very prominent, and there is rea- son to believe that pus is infiltrated behind it, a deep incision of the soft parts that line the floor of the orbit is called for, and a blunt probe or direc- tor should be introduced to the supposed seat of the pus, to guide the blade of a lancet or bistoury, held flatwise. Besides the use of carbolic acid as a dressing in the proper surgical cases above noticed, it has been employed in different manners. Thus it is stated by Zuelzer1 that Ivaczorowski applied to the inflamed surface a mixture of one part of carbolic acid and ten of oil of turpentine, which, after temporarily irritating the skin, subdued its inflammation in a marked degree; that Wilde injected subcutaneously into the inflamed part a solution of sulpho-carbolate of sodium (1:12); and that Hiiter employed a three per cent, solution of car- bolic acid in the same manner. Tillmanns’s experiments led him to the conclu- sion that a carbolic acid solution (2 to 4 per cent.) rendered a previously active erysipelatous inoculating liquid quite inoperative,2 and he has more recently recommended the hypodermic injection of a similar solution around the limits of the affected skin in the earliest stages of the inflammation. This mode of treatment is said to cause no pain, and to render the skin pale and wrinkled.3 Tassi claims to have cured four cases of erysipelas by means of a saturated solution of the acid employed in the same manner.4 Rothe attributes to the following lotion a mitigation of the inflammation in duration and severity: R. Acid, carbolic, gr. xv; alcohol, Rixv; ol. terebinth inte, f5ss; tr. iodinii, RL xv; glycerine, f5iss. M. With this the part should be bathed every two hours, and kept covered with cotton-wool. Dr. S. J. RadclifTe has reported the case of a very old and feeble woman, in whom erysipelas, beginning at a bunion on the foot, extended to the whole of the lower extremity, producing enormous swelling, and attacked the buttock where it occasioned an eschar. After the total failure of local protectives and of the internal use of iron and quinia, he applied a solution (1:16) of carbolic acid in olive oil, three times a day, covering the part, also, with cotton-wool. Relief was obtained almost immediately, the local phenomena rapid A declined, and the patient recovered.5 Dr. A. G. Miller, of Edinburgh, while inclined to regard as useful the internal employment of sulpho-carbolate of sodium, and that of the carbolates of so- dium and quinia, refers to their irritant effects, and especially those of the latter preparations, upon the stomach and bladder.6 The internal medication of erysipelas in ancient times consisted, as we have seen, chiefly in the use of purgatives, which were believed to be eholagogue, and which appeared to be indicated by the gastric derangement which is the usual accompaniment of the first stage of febrile affections in warm climates. In recent times, emetics have been more generally employed for a similar pur- pose, and perhaps, by the shock which they give the system, to break up 1 Ziemssen, loc. cit. 2 Edinburgh Medical Journal, vol. xxv. p. 667. 3 Philadelphia Medical Times, January, 1881, p. 201. 4 Bulletin de Therapeutique, t. o. p. 239. 5 Philadelphia Medical Times, vol. xi. p. 455. 6 Edinburgh Medical Journal, vol. xxv. p. 1095.