RECIPROCAL INFLUENCE OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. 309 towards recovery; capable of yielding to treatment or of obstinately resisting it; still compatible with a moderate degree of health, or impairing more or less deeply the more important functions ; sometimes single, sometimes com- bined or associated with one another in such a manner as to create hybrid forms, which are very little known despite their extreme frequency and great interest. It is hardly necessary to add that each constitutional disease pre- sents mild and grave, acute and chronic varieties; and that for some of them, syphilis and scrofula for example, stages and periods are properly recognized. All these considerations enable us to understand, a priori, that operative and accidental traumata cannot have a uniform action upon dissimilar subjects, and that, on the other hand, different diseases cannot react in the same man- ner upon the traumatic process. But observation will show even better that the prognosis of operations varies infinitely in one or another panpathy, because each constitutional dis- ease interferes with the reparative process in its own way, and because the same surgical wound reacts in a peculiar manner upon each particular subject of a diathesis. I do not know how many observations would have to be made, nor how much time devoted to their analysis, before making a gener- alization and obtaining exact indications for practice; but, in the mean time, I can enunciate certain synthetic remarks which I believe to be already suf- ficiently firmly established. They are not based on clinical history, but on pathological anatomy. Without underestimating the large gaps 'which this important branch of medicine still presents with reference to general diseases (and it is known that this reproach is emphasized by the latest representatives of the purely clini- cal school), we may nevertheless recognize in these affections three distinct phases: (1) that of dyscrasia, usually opening the scene, continuing perhaps permanently, and representing alone the morbid condition; characterized essentially by a change in the fluids, which, unfortunately, we are still far from understanding even with regard to the most frequent diathesis ; (2) that of peripheral lesions, appeciable to the chemist or pathological anatomist, but slight, or affecting organs of secondary importance; and finally (3) that of visce- ral lesions, with two varieties which must be distinguished according as the organs are affected by a common or general pathological process—phlogosis, sclerosis, cirrhosis, steatosis, amylosis; or are the site of a heteromorphous deposit peculiar to certain general diseases—tubercles, gummata, lithiasis, various neoplasms. The following is the. result of experience derived from a large number of cases taken from my own practice or that of others: in the purely dyscrasic period, the patients tolerate operations almost as well as healthy subjects; the manifestations of constitutional disease, when they make their appear- ance, are usually of little gravity and but temporary; and, if the changes of the fluids are still slight, the reparative process proceeds with sufficient regu- larity. During the period of peripheral lesions, the reaction of the trauma may be more grave, because it finds, in the more or less seriously affected tis- sues, systems or organs, places of least resistance, thoroughly prepared for fresh diathetic manifestations or an aggravation of the pre-existing disorders. Anomalies in the local process are to be so much the more dreaded, as the concomitant dyscrasia is the more pronounced. During the period of visceral lesions, the dangers are greatly increased, because the morbid process is pecu- liarly complicated. In the first place, the sites (loci) of least resistance being situated in organs essential to life, the reaction of the traumatism upon them gives rise to, or aggravates, affections regarded as serious at all times and in every case, and in which there is great danger to life. The dyscrasia too, in its turn, reaches its height, fostered as it is by two causes: (1) the humoral