AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. 653 same bone. The division of the interosseous ligament between the second metatarsal and internal cuneiform bones is the most difficult part of this manoeuvre, and is best effected by thrusting the point of the knife firmly into the posterior part of the first interosseous space, and then forcibly elevat- ing the handle—a motion which is described by French writers as the tour de maitre. Disarticulation, which may be greatly aided by pressing the an- terior part of the foot firmly downwards, having been completed, the knife is carried flatwise below the metatarsal bones, and made to cut a long plantar flap—rather larger on the inner than on the outer side—from within out- wards. In order to secure greater regularity of the plantar flap, it is a good plan to mark out its dimensions with the point of the knife before proceeding to cut it; or the surgeon may adopt Duval's plan, and begin by cutting the flap from without inwards, as in Hey’s operation. Amputation at the Medio-tarsal Joint.—This operation (Fig. 186) bears the name of Chopart, although it is no longer performed in the way directed Fig. 186. Amputation at medio-tarsal joint. by that surgeon.1 Chopart made a square anterior flap from the dorsum of the foot, and, after disarticulating, cut the posterior or plantar flap from with- in outwards; but most surgeons, at the present day, adopt Richerand’s and Lisfranc’s modification, making a curved anterior flap of which the extremi- ties reach to the position of the articulation, and many prefer to cut the plantar flap from without inwards, a plan which has the advantage of allow- ing the flap to be more regularly shaped than when it is cut in the opposite direction. The object of this operation is to remove all of the tarsus except the os calcis and the astragalus, but it has often happened that the scaphoid has been left unintentionally, without interfering at all with the successful result of the procedure, and, indeed, M. Laborie and Mr. Hancock advise that it should always be retained if possible, the latter surgeon sawing across the cuboid on a corresponding line.2 In performing Chopart’s amputation, the surgeon grasps the anterior part of the foot in his left hand, and with a strong, short knife makes a transverse incision, convex forwards, over the dorsum, from a point half-way between the external malleolus and the tube- rosity of the fifth metatarsal on the outside, to a point about half an inch behind the prominence of the scaphoid, on the inner side of the foot. The plantar flap extends from the same points as far forward as the line of the metatarso-phalangeal joints. Disarticulation is rendered more easy by forci- 1 A similar operation appears to have been known to Fabricius Hildanus. 2 A similar operation is practised by Prof. Agnew, of Philadelphia, and by Dr. S. F. Forbes of Toledo, Ohio.