THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. 49 again becomes similar to the embryonic protoplasm. During this trans- formation the medullary layer disappears. Axis-cylinders and network now coalesce, and form one mass, which looks in transverse section like a large axis-cylinder. But in longitudinal sections we see that the swellings are very unequal; that marked intumescences alternate with spots of almost normal dimensions. Hence the swollen axis-cylinder is wont to look like a knotted club. In these swellings new nuclei arise (as was first recognized by Dr. Hamilton).1 Hence a multinucleated protoplasmic mass takes the place of the medullated nerve. These large nucleated masses soon subdivide into smaller cells which resemble pus-corpuscles. This process, however, does not represent the ordinary form of suppuration of the spinal cord. When the spinal cord suppurates, large numbers of cells containing fat granules are formed. How with regard to these fat cells in the inflamed spinal cord, a student, Ernst Baumler, has under my supervision quite recently obtained very remarkable results; results which throw a re- markable light on the theory of suppuration as well as on general histology. The cells with fat granules which occur in the spinal cord are essentially dif- ferent from such fat cells as the colostrum corpuscles, and the fat cells found in the liver and in other glandular organs. The fat cells of the spinal cord are characterized in the first place by their very great variation in size, and by a peculiar appearance of the fat globules. But this is a minor considera- tion. Of much greater importance are the things which arc to be seen in the interior of these fat cells after the extraction of the fat. Many of these cells still bear distinct traces of their genesis. Their body consists of a network of exactly the same kind as is observed in the still connected portions of the spinal cord in the neighborhood of the suppurative focus. Whilst on one side of the specimen (that is, towards the cavity of the abscess), these peculiar reticulated cells are found isolated, in the immediate neighborhood they are still connected together, though the lines of partition are already indicated; and somewhat further oft' even these partition lines are wanting, though ex- actly the same network is present as in the cells. There can no longer be any doubt that the entire mass of white and gray matter has become sub- divided, in exactly the same manner as has been demonstrated in the case of the cornea by staining with silver. In the case of the cornea, however, a flaw, though only a slight one, still remained in the argument. Are the cells in the already completed abscess- cavity (i. e., the cells after the destruction of the tissue) really the same as the cells indicated by brown lines in the silver-stained specimens of tissue not yet broken down by suppuration? This is, in a high degree, probable; but the pus-corpuscles of the cornea contain no direct signs of their genesis. In the other case, however, the subdivisions still bear signs of their origin. In the network there remain probably the debris of the very fatty medullary sub- stance (really intermediate substance). It is presumable, moreover, that the tissue also produces new fat. For the production of fat is one of the specific peculiarities belonging to various tissues, and, among others, to the white nerve matter. However, let the fat come whence it may; the essence of the affair is not changed thereby. Hot rarely we see also a nucleus in the network of some cells, on one of the trabeculae. We also find cells in which the system of trabeculae is only partly preserved, the remainder already having formed a homogeneous mass. This phenomenon is entirely comprehensible. I have proved by direct observa- tion2 that cells which expel their fat-globules afterwards resemble ordinary 1 Quarterly Journal of Microsc. Science, vol. xv., new series. 2 Wiener Sitzungsberichte, Bd. 53; 2te Abtli. VOL. I.—4