PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 4 Unters. liber d. Entw. d. Knoclieiigewebes. Leipzig, 1875. 6 Anatomie, 2 Aufl. I. verse sections of fibrillar fasciculi), on the contrary, sparse. The older the tendon becomes, the smaller are the cells and the thinner their processes, the more extensive on the other hand the basis-substance, i. e. the fibrillar fasci- culi. These cells and their processes are converted into elastic tissue, as has been shown by Spina. The older the tendon becomes, the more do the cells assume the character of elastic tissue. Hence the great power of resistance in the tendons of old persons and old animals. The structure of the cutis is similar to that of the tendon.1 Only the bundles of fibrillse, or, in other words, the columns of basis-substance, do not run parallel with one another as in the tendon, but are interwoven. Waldeyer was the first to show2 that the basis-substance in boric was formed from cells (called osteoblasts). It has furthermore been shown by Steudenei3 and I. Wolff,4 that, with the increased age of bone, the cells (bone-corpuscles) become smaller, and the basis-substance between them greater. In addition, Ileitzmann was the first to prove fully that the bone-cells had processes which traversed the basis-substance, sent out numerous branches there, and anasto- mosed with the processes of neighboring cells. The cavities in which the bone-cells lie, as well as the anastomosing network of finest canalculi in which the cell-processes lie, were already known; and it was especially on a knowl- edge of these facts, as has been previously remarked (page 33 et seq.), that Virchow based his theory of nutrition of the tissues. Inasmuch as, adhering to Schwann’s views, cells were regarded as vesicles, the small cavities in bone could also be considered as cells. Accordingly we were supposed to know of anastomoses of cells in bone, and herewith to have a substratum for the nutrient current. But inasmuch as the ideas of histologists on the nature of the cell changed in 1861—inasmuch as since that time we have not ventured to recognize the presence of a cell except upon seeing a protoplasmic body with a nucleus— it has become clear that the cavities in the bone and the canaliculi are the residences of the cells, and not the cells themselves. In fact, the cells in hone have only been described at a later period by Ivrause,6 and the protoplasmic processes by Heitzmann, as already mentioned. Thus we see a complete analogy between bone and the cornea stained with gold. Here, as well as there, the cells and their processes form a network the meshes of which are filled up with basis-substance; here, as well as there, the basis-substance is produced from the peripheral zones of the bodies of the cells. But bone is distinguished from the other analogous tissues in that lime-salts are deposited in the basis-substance. More difficult than in the case of bone has been the inquiry into the rela- tion of things in cartilage. And yet cartilage is the very tissue which has the greatest interest for us. This interest is in the first place historical, because the earliest observations on inflammatory metamorphoses of tissues were made on cartilage by Goodsir and Redfern. \ irchow s theory, that disturbance of the nutrition and function of the cells was the main criterion of inflammation, likewise found considerable support from an observation of cartilage. This tissue interests us, furthermore, because in certain portions, at least, it lacks bloodvessels and nerves. How are the cartilage-cells nourished? How, moreover, is the inflammatory process propagated in cartilage if vessels and nerves are wanting—if the cells besides (each com- pletely isolated) are deposited in firm capsules of basis-substance ? k irchow 1 This has been proved under my supervision by Dr. Ravogli of Rome. See Mediz. Jalir- biicher, 1879. 2 Archiv f. mikr. Anatomie, Bd. I. 3 Beitrage znr Lehre von der Knoclienbildung. Halle, 1875.