499 FIXED BANDAGES. to escape through the water from the upper end of the roller; it is then taken out. of the water and firmly squeezed between the hands, to remove the excess of liquid, when it is ready for application. When two or more bandages are to be used, a dry bandage should always be put in the water before the satu- rated one is taken out; if this be done, there will be no unnecessary delay in the application of the dressing. As a roller is applied, the surface of the turns should be gently smoothed by the operator or by an assistant, in order that the plaster may be uniformly spread over the surface of the dressing. Three or four thicknesses of bandage are usually sufficient. Plaster bandages should never be applied directly upon the skin. The best protective for an extremity is a flannel roller, or a light woollen stocking; for the trunk, a closely fitting knitted shirt or vest. If bandages with dry plaster well rubbed into their meshes are evenly applied to a part after being thoroughly saturated with wafer, there will be no need of smearing the successive layers, or the outer surface of the dressing, with plaster cream. Under favorable circumstances, a plaster bandage becomes perfectly firm in from fifteen to thirty minutes, and, unlike the other fixed dressings, it expands a little as it hardens. A small quantity of size, or stale beer, put in the water, will retard the setting of plaster; on the other hand, the addition of a little salt will hasten it. The removal of a plaster bandage, as well as other fixed dressings, may be accomplished by slitting it up with a stout-bladed knife, or with Seutin’s or Yon Bruns’s pliers. (Pigs. 71, 72.) The writer has recently had made Fig. 71. Seutin’s pliers. Yon Bruns’s pliers. a plaster-bandage saw, of the shape represented in Fig. 73, which greatly facilitates the division of these bandages. It is necessary that the teeth Fig. 73. Saw for removing plaster-of-Paris bandages. should be widely set, so that a wide groove may be cut in the bandage for the free passage of the saw.