235 ORIGIN AND NATURAL HISTORY OP TUBERCLE. tissue. As with the elements of which tubercles are composed, so with the manner of their combination, there is an absence of uniformity; nay, I might almost say, what appears to be almost an absence of design, save that we can often distinguish a relation between tubercles of a certain structure, and the tissues in the midst of which they lie. There is indeed one feature in the structure of these bodies which, I believe, is admitted by all observers, the absence, namely, of vessels in their interior. Whether a tubercle be large or small, whether it be degenerate or organized, whether it be formed of endothelium or of leucocytes, in every instance it is absolutely non-vascular. Origin and Natural History of Tubercle.—As long as uncertainty pre- vails on the fundamental proposition of what is a tubercle, it seems idle to discuss its origin and natural history. Yet no paper on the subject would be complete which did not discuss these points, and the only question is how they can be considered here with most advantage. Perhaps by making an arbitrary definition of a tubercle, and using the definition thus formed as a basis on which to build a history of the disease. We need not, however, make a purely arbitrary definition, but may assume that the word tubercle, employed most exactly, signifies what is perhaps the commonest form of the disease—those tiny bodies which often cannot be distinguished with the naked eye, but which are discovered by the microscope to consist of a central giant- cell surrounded by lymphoid and epithelioid (or endothelioid) cells, contained in the meshes of a delicate reticulum. No vessels are present within them. These bodies may be found within the coats of small vessels (as in the pia mater), or in the various connective tissues. Indeed, with the exception of cartilage, of the connective tissue of the external musculature, and of the coats of the large vessels, in which they have not yet been discovered (Friinkel),1 tubercles may occur in every part of the body. They are found, too, com- monly in connection with endothelium, growing for example about the trabe- culae of the omentum; but apparently they do not grow in the midst of epi- thelium. As with the situation, so with the origin of tubercles. They may arise from the coats of the smaller vessels, from connective tissues, and from endo- thelium ; but not from epithelium, although Cornil and Ranvier2 have ex- pressed a contrary opinion. They may originate too from colorless blood corpuscles or wandering cells, as the glass disks of Ziegler proved. Ziegler’s disks indeed proved more than this, for they showed that there was nothing specific either in the elements of the tubercle which we have described, or in the combination of those elements. For the body formed between these disks corresponded in all its characters with tubercle. Tubercles, once formed, may remain unchanged for a considerable time; or they may enlarge, and still for a time retain their form and structure; but more' often they become trans- formed. Sometimes the transformation is degenerative or destructive; the central portion slowly becomes caseous, or dies, probably from insufficient nourishment incidental to the crowding of its cells, and to the absence of ves- sels within it; the caseation may spread until the whole tubercle is involved, and wide areas of caseation may be produced by the degeneration of many tubercles in close proximity, and of the intervening tissues. Sometimes the transformation is towards organization; fibrous tissue is developed; indeed it is not uncommon to find tubercles of the smallest size surrounded by a kind of fibrous covering. ' Tuberculose; Handbucli der Kinderkrankheiten (C. Gerhardt). Bd. 3. S. 153. Tubingen, 1878. 2 Manuel d’Histologie pathologique, p. 199. Paris, 1869.