AMPUTATIONS. 608 mutilated arm itself. The accompanying illustrations (Figs. 154-157) show the mechanism of the artificial arm and hand manufactured by Mr. Kolbe, of this city (Philadelphia), which are among the best in the American market. Fig. 158 shows an ingenious artificial hand, made of India-rubber by Mr. Marks, of New York. Prothetic Apparatus for the Lower Extremity.—Artificial legs are of much more value in a practical point of view than artificial arms, wThich are indeed not seldom voluntarily laid aside by those who possess them, or are only worn upon special occasions. The simplest form of artifi- cial leg is the “ box-leg” (Fig. 159), adapted for the reception of the bent knee after amputation at what was formerly called the “ point of election,” a short distance below the tubercle of the tibia. This apparatus is, as already remarked, almost identical with the “ poor-man’s leg,” described by Ambroise Pare more than three centuries ago. An improvement over this is the “bucket” or “socket-leg,” which is adapted to the extended limb, and is so arranged as to prevent pressure upon the cicatrix at the end of the stump. For amputation below the knee, a socket closely fitting the limb is employed, with a leather thigh-band or lateral straps, or, which is much better, a limb with two buckets, one for the leg and the other sur- rounding the thigh, thus completely taking off the weight from the end of the stump, and, at the same time, greatly facilitating the act of throwing the leg forward in walking. For amputa- tions above the knee, the bucket should be so arranged as to transfer all pressure to the tuberosity of the ischium. Care must also be taken so to adjust the artificial limb that the centre of gravity of the body shall fall within its base, as in the normal con- dition. Ingenious artificial appliances for amputations of the foot or ankle (Chopart, Syme, Pirogoff, etc.) are supplied by Big<y, of London, Marks, of New York, and Kolbe, of Philadelphia, while Charriere, of Paris, has devised a limb for use after amputation at the hip-joint, in which motion is permitted at points corresponding to all three articulations of the lower extremity. Among the more elaborate forms of artificial leg which have acquired popularity in modern times, may be mentioned the “Anglesey leg” (so called from having been adopted by the Marquis of Anglesey, who lost his leg at Waterloo), and the “Palmer leg,” manufactured by B. F. Palmer, of Phila- delphia, which, from its lightness, and the facility of walking which it affords, has always been a favorite in this country. Fig. 160 shows the me- chanism of a leg made by Mr. Blanck, of Philadelphia, which closely resem- Fig. 159. Box-leg.