339 GENERAL EXAMINATION: HISTORY OF THE CASE. Unless absolutely necessary, no exposure of the person should be made in conducting examinations ; nor should the use of instruments be repeated oftener than the nature of the case demands. In tine, the strictest formality and absence of familiarity ouglit to be maintained between the surgeon and his patient, alike with the poor and unlettered, as with the rich and cul- tured. In the examination of a case, whether medical or surgical, the inquiry will be both general and special. In the former, or general examination, the ques- tioner endeavors to obtain, from the patient or his friends, a history which will include the particulars of age, sex, social condition, habits, occupation, residence, family antecedents, etc. The special inquiry will be confined to obtaining such information as may be learned by a personal examination. General Examination: History of the Case. Age.—The influence of age in giving shape to surgical inquiries, and in solving the problem of disease, is very important. The notable irritability of the nervous system in childhood and adolescence, impresses a peculiar physiognomy on most of the affections belonging to infantile life. For ex- ample, the irritation of a resisting gum, in dentition, may be reflected to the remotest parts of the body, and may cause the most disorderly and spasmodic action of the entire muscular system. Such phenomena, when occurring in an adult, would be referred to an entirely different source, and would excite ap- prehension of a much graver state of things than when the subject is a child. A pain in the knee, in a child, would immediately direct attention to the hip-joint. Abdominal pains and grunting respiration would suggest the pos- sibility of disease of the vertebrae. Cervical enlargements, which in the adult probably would be regarded as cysts, carcinomata, or sarcomata, would in the child be construed as adenomata. Vesical irritation in children suggests the presence of urinary calculus, while in a person advanced in life, the same symptoms would be referred to cystitis or to an enlarged prostate. In lesions resulting from violence, affect- ing the extremities of bones in children, the probability of a separation of the epiphysis, an accident which could not occur in an adult, would necessarily enter into the consideration of the case. A force which in a young adult would cause a fracture at the upper end of the femur, external to the capsu- lar ligament, would be likely, in an individual over fifty or sixty years of age, to produce a similar lesion within the joint. Finally, the diseases pecu- liar to childhood are the different exanthemata, as scarlet fever, measles, etc.; inflammatory affections of the upper part of the alimentary and respiratory passages—as, for example, tonsillitis, diphtheria, laryngitis, and tracheitis—• are also common in youti.. In middle life, inflammatory attacks affecting the thoracic, abdominal, and cranial viscera, are most commonly met with ; while in advanced life, the characteristic maladies are such as affect the genito- urinary organs, or cause structural degenerations in the bloodvessel system. Sex.—There exists such a radical difference between the physical and psy- chical nature of the two sexes in health, that it is reasonable to expect that their peculiarities should be intensified under the perturbing operation of disease. In the moral constitution of women, the emotional element prepon- derates, and in the physical organization, the sexual system. The reaction of the latter on the former imparts a coloring to all morbid phenomena—hence the hysterical convulsions, hysterical joints, fictitious blindness, irritable bladder, etc., which are encountered during the active period of the uterine