2G0 RACHITIS. Anatomical Characters in the Stage of Deformity.—Rachitic hone, when the disease has continued for some time and is still in its active period, presents a bluish or dusky-red appearance, from its increased vascularity. After a variable time, weeks or months according to the severity of the disease, de- formities begin to appear. Spiegelberg’s description of the appearance of the rachitic foetus corresponds for the most part with what I observed in the one whose skeleton is repre- sented in Fig. 9. According to this writer, the body and limbs are plump: the latter short and curved ; the abdomen large and prominent; and the head sometimes hydrocephalic. The skin is thick and loose, and the adipose tissue well developed; the liver large; the epiphyses swollen and soft; the short and curved diaphyses sometimes broken. The rotundity of the thorax is preserved, and the sternum is not carried forward, since there has been no respiration ; the ribs, in softness and liability to fracture, correspond with the long bones of the extremities. The sternum, most of all the bones, shows the delay in ossification; the clavicle is among those least affected. The cranium may be represented by a membranous bag with plaques of bone, or the cranial bones may be formed and in shape, but thickened and softened ; the sacral promontory is pressed forward and downward ; the sacral vertebra: flattened; the ilia flattened and widened ; and the pubic arch increased. It is interesting to compare these deformities with those in the child, since they occur under conditions so very different. Rachitic bone seldom retains its normal form or shape ; its projecting points are rounded, and, as soon as it softens, it begins to yield to pressure exerted upon it. Hence the curva- tures, so common and characteristic. The portion of a long bone which is formed after rachitis commences, contains so little earthy matter that it bends readily in its fresh state, either by muscular action or by the weight of the trunk, “ in the manner,” says Vogel, “of a quill or willow stick.” The in- terior of the bone, which was formed before rachitis began, and which con- tains nearly or quite the normal proportion of lime, is apt to break instead of bending, but, as it is surrounded on all sides by the soft tissue, the frag- ments are not displaced, and probably do not crepitate. So scanty is the calcareous deposition in typical cases, that, says Trousseau, “ the bones . . . . can be cut with a knife with as much ease as a carrot or other soft root,” and the dried specimen weighs but from one-sixth to one-eighth as much as normal bone. One writer states that the dried rachitic bone is sometimes so porous, from the small amount of lime which it contains, that it is possible to respire through it, as through a sponge. In ordinary cases, the bones which exhibit most strikingly the rachitic change, and which, therefore, should be carefully examined in making the diagnosis, are the cranial bones, the ribs, and the radius.—the sternal ends of the former, and the lower end of the latter. It is seldom that these bones do not give evidence of the disease, if it be present, and in greater degree than other bones. They are the first to be affected to an extent that is appreciable to the observer. Changes in the Cranial Bones.—In these bones interesting and important alterations occur. Their edges, which correspond with the epiphyseal carti- lages, undergo proliferation, and become thickened like the latter. This thickening, and the delayed union of the sutures, produce grooves, which can be traced by the fingers between the bones, and which are sometimes appre- ciable to the sight. Rachitis causes some enlargement of the cranium, but the enlargement seems greater than it really is, on account of the retarded growth of the facial bones. In a discussion on rachitis in the London Pathological