SCURVY. 292 cases of scurvy which proved fatal in the siege of Paris in 1871, and found nothing, with the exception of scattered fatty granulations in their walls.1 Analogous changes to those found in the cardiac muscles, also occur in the muscular structures of other localities. According to Leven,2 the first muscles to undergo fatty degeneration are those of the loins; in one of his cases, the fibres of the sacro-lumbar muscles had completely lost their striation, and the sareolemma had in great part disappeared ; there remained widely separated, longitudinal lines, with the intervals crowded with granular and fatty matter. The muscles of the calf of the leg showed the same advanced changes, while those of the thigh were less altered. The lungs present as varying changes as those in the heart. They may he collapsed and bloodless, but as a rule are infiltrated with bloody serosity, particularly in those cases which during life showed large amounts of albumen in the urine; ecehymoses on the surface of the lungs are not uncommon, and they are usually quite superficial. The posterior portions of these organs often show indications of hypostatic congestion or hepatization, and occasion- ally of gangrene. In the latter case, the gangrenous tissue breaks down easily under the finger into a pulp which emits an offensive odor. A fibrinous and bloody exudation is also found in various parts of the lungs, chietty interiorly and posteriorly. The bronchial mucous membrane is more or less maculated, and contains a bloody mucosity; and the same is true of the trachea and larynx. The digestive system is seldom or never free from post-mortem changes. The mucous membrane of the stomach and small intestine is often softened and thickened ; in places ulcerated, even to the depth of the muscular layers, the edges of the ulcers being everted and infiltrated with blood; and Dr. Ritchie finds the solitary glands in the lower part of the ileum enlarged. Similar lesions are found in the large intestines, and in some places, beneath a dark- red, pulpy material, easily removable by wiping, the subjacent tissues are found softened, infiltrated, or even destroyed. In other cases extensive folli- cular ulceration is seen, of a rounded shape, and with infiltrated borders. The entire length of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane is more or less stippled with sanguineous effusions, varying from a pink to a blackish-green tinge, and blood in greater or less quantity is poured out into the canal. The liver always presents more or less evidence of fatty degeneration ; it is sometimes enlarged, gorged with dark blood, and softened, with its surface marked with spots of hemorrhagic infiltrations. The spleen is occasionally found of greater magnitude than natural, filled with grumous blood, its surface discolored, and its structure lacerable. Or it may be the seat of wedge-shaped infarctions. Vernette found the spleen enlarged in only 8 out of 500 cases of scurvy. The pancreas presents also occasional evidence of hemorrhagic effusion and softening. The kidneys, although there may have been albumen in the urine during life, are usually found unaltered. Dr. Himmelstiern has observed, in a few cases, a yellowish-red layer upon the mucous membrane of the pelves and ureters, and Heyfelder reports having found the kidneys engorged with blood, and the lining membrane of the pelves, ureters, and bladder, here and there covered with bloody mucus. In those cases in which the urine during life had contained large quantities of albumen, and which had been complicated with dropsy, the kidneys presented the ordinary parenchymatous degenera- tions found in Bright’s disease. Opitz, in prolonged cases of scurvy, has seen atrophy of the kidneys. The renal capsule is ecehymosed at points, and Cajka lias reported in some cases the presence of small infarctions in the cor- 1 Archives Gen. de Medecine, Dec. 1871. 2 Leven, Une epidemie de Scorbut, 1862.