CARDINAL SYMPTOMS OF INFLAMMATION. 23 sufficient in the case of tadpoles to cause stasis and migration. In the fully- developed frog this is not produced so quickly. In the mesentery of that animal, we must continue the stasis several (as much as twenty-four) hours, in order to he sure of obtaining a view of the migration of corpuscles. Active hypersemia can lead to oedema under special circumstances, yet well-marked oedema does not belong to the regular consequences of active hypenemia. More frequently metamorphoses of tissue arise which must be regarded as commencing inflammation. True, we are taught that simple hypenemia does not lead to inflammation; that the appearance of inflam- mation presupposes the existence of another cause besides that of hypenemia. In fact, we must admit that temporary hypersemias do not produce any marked alterations in normal tissues. But when the normal condition has been disturbed—when, for example, an organ has just passed through an inflammatory process—then moderate hyperemias, such as accompany a moderate exercise of function, suffice to re-excite the inflammation. This is partly the reason why physicians are inclined to keep at absolute rest, during a considerable period, organs which have been inflamed, since a hyperemia accompanies the exercise of function in the case of every organ (see page 19), and hyperemia favors relapse. On the other hand, it seems that frequent and prolonged hyperemias can very well cause hypertrophies and chronic inflammatory tissue-metamorphoses. I say it seems, because, in all cases where tissue-changes arise (even if they are only simple hypertrophies), one can say it was no simple hypersemia. Cardinal Symptoms of Inflammation. Since the time of Celsus, the following have been regarded as the cardinal symptoms of inflammation, namely: Ileat, redness, pain, and swelling. In modern times, another sign has been added—that of impaired function. I believe, however, that we would do well to discontinue this mode of charac- terizing the process and adopt another. Inflammation is characterized by two features: (1) by an active hypersemia, and (2) by an active tissue-meta- morphosis. I call these changes active because the tissues take part in them as living constituents of the organism; as living masses. If an active hyper- semia occurs alone, we can evidently not call it inflammation. If the active metamorphosis of the tissue arises alone, without a trace of hypersemia, we again do not speak of inflammation, but of a new formation. Active hypersemia, when situated in the skin or in superficial mucous membranes, causes redness and increase of temperature, the latter having evidently suggested the name “inflammation.” The older physicians did not clearly understand that the increase of temperature could be produced by an accelerated circulation, that is to say, secondarily. They pictured to themselves that something must be burning in the part affected. Febris (from ferveo) and Inflammatio were therefore allied diseases for them. Inflammation, it was said, was local fever. In the case of fever it has now been ascertained that it is accompanied by an increased production of heat. But for inflammation this is not positively determined. It is possible, and even not altogether improbable, that the active tissue-metamorphosis of inflammation is accompanied by an abnormal local production of heat; but it is not proved. Accordingly, all that can be considered as positively established is that the elevation of temperature of inflamed regions of skin is due in great measure to the liypercemia ; to the accelerated blood-current. What I said previously (page 2) in regard to the heating of the tissue by the blood-current had reference only to the external skin and super-