ANATOMICAL CHARACTERS OF RACHITIS. 267 and usually at the point of insertion of the deltoid, in consequence of the powerful action of this muscle in raising and supporting the arm. The radius and ulna are bent outward and twisted. This deformity is attributed by Sir William Jenner to the fact that ricketty children support themselves, while in the sitting posture, upon the palms of the hands pressed upon the floor or couch. Supporting the weight of the body in this way, not only, in his opinion, causes bending of the ulna and radius, but also aids in producing the deformities of the humerus and clavicle. Changes in Bones of Pelvis.—The deformities of the pelvic bones, resulting from rachitic softening, are, in the female infant, the most important of any which the skeleton undergoes. They are produced by pressure from above of the abdominal organs, serving to widen the brim of the pelvis, and also by pressure of the spinal column, sustaining the weight of the trunk, shoulders, and head, pressing forwards the promontory of the sacrum, in the sitting pos- ture, and thus diminishing the antero-posterior diameter of the pelvic brim. There is, moreover, twofold pressure from below, that caused by the heads of the thigh bones, in standing, and that exercised by the tuberosities of the ischia, in sitting. Both these forms of pressure have a tendency to narrow the outlet of the pelvis. Hence the marriage of the female who has been rachitic in infancy, may involve serious consequences. Many of the tedious Fig. 14. ' Fig. 15. Fig. 16. Rachitic deformities of the pelvis. (From specimens in the Wood Museum.) instrumental labors in the families of the city poor, which severely tax the patience and endurance of young practitioners, are attributable to rickets in early life. Changes in Bones of Lower Extremity.—The curvature of the femur is usu- ally forward, or forward and outward. The neck of the femur sometimes Fig. 17. Fig. 18. Kachitic deformities of the femur. (Wood Museum.) bends by the weight of the body, or by use of the legs, so that the angle which it forms with the shaft is changed. The annexed wood-cuts show the