niSTORY OF SCURVY. 279 pitable, and unfertile fields of the Northmen, where the difficulties of pro- curing abundant and varied food would be greatly enhanced, and where, as gardens were not cultivated, the people lived on salted or smoke-dried meats and fish. This rarity of horticulture finds illustration in the fact recorded by Hume, that Catherine of Arragon, Queen of Henry VIII., sent a mes- senger all the way to the Netherlands for the materials of a salad. Following the current of history, a long period intervenes in which not a vestige can be found to indicate the occurrence of scurvy (unless we accept the rather doubtful story of the Norman hero Thorstein, who with a number of his fellows was supposed to have been destroyed by this disease in an expe- dition to Greenland in 1002) until the thirteenth century, when the religious agitation in Christian Europe led to attempts to rescue the Holy Land from the hands of the infidel. Hordes of undisciplined people, as well as regularly organized forces, then assembled for the invasion of Egypt and Syria. The lack of discipline, fatiguing marches, exposure to climatic vicissitudes, imper- fect quality and quantity of the water supply, uncleanly camps, and depress- ing moral emotions from defeat, furnished the necessary conditions for the development of scurvy, and enormous loss of life followed. The first and fullest accounts were given by Jacob de Vitry, who describes the sufferings of the troops under Count Saarbriicken, lying before Hamietta during the years 1218-19, after an overflow of the Nile, accompanied by heavy rains and the cold weather of December. He says:— Invasit praeterea multos de exercitu qusedam pestis, contra quam physici nullum ex arte sua remedium invenire poterant; dolor repentinus pedes invasit et crura, et con- junctim caro corrupta gingivas et dentes abducit, masticandi potestatem auferens ; tibias horribilis nigredo obfuscavit, et sic longe traetu doloris affiicti cum patientia multa migraverunt ad Dominum plurimi; quidam usque ad vernale tempus durantes, beneficio caloris evaserunt liberati. A still more terrible epidemic afflicted the army of Louis IX., besieging Damietta in 1249, and was graphically described by Jean, Sire de Joinville.1 The disease was attributed to the nature and scarcity of the army’s food, which was chiefly fish, and to the character of the water; and it increased, says the historian, “ to such a degree in our camp as to cause large masses of dead flesh to spring from the gums of our people. The barbers were forced to cut away the dead flesh to enable the patients to eat; the flesh of our legs shrunk up, and the skin was covered with red and black spots. Bleeding at the nose was a sign of approaching death.” Another gap, running over the period of nearly two centuries, and marked by total silence as regards scurvy, succeeded; Fabricius2 was the first to relate the occurrence in 1446, in the north of Europe, of a new and unheard- of disease presenting scorbutic symptoms, which proved extremely fatal at various places in Norway, Sweden, Siberia, Russia, and Germany. The social and material condition of the masses of the people was of the most deplor- able character; they inhabited foul, overcrowded, and closely-built dwellings, which exposed them to the worst consequences of impure air and bad drain- age, while poverty added the ills of scant and improper food, and the rigorous effects of exposure to atmospheric vicissitudes. Although the districts bor- dering on the North and Baltic Seas were more particularly affected by these evils, yet the largest cities then presented a squalid aspect in striking con- trast with the present spacious avenues, gardens, and imposing structures everywhere seen. Voltaire states that, about the year 1500, industry had 1 Histoire de St. Louis IX., par le Sire de Joinville. Paris, 1761. 8 Annales urbis Misnicae.