INFLAMMATION. 126 on in the tissues and fluids of our bodies, we should, doubtless, find many products derived from chemical changes in these unstable albuminous com- pounds, capable of acting as local irritants, and of causing these abscesses. Even thinner and paler than the pus of a cold abscess is that from cavities containing dead bone left behind after an abscess has failed to eliminate it; here we find sometimes drops of oil from dissolving marrow, as well as mi- nute granules of osseous detritus which can sometimes be felt between the fingers. Careful scrutiny may, therefore, in any case, aid in diagnosis. Pus from varicose and indolent ulcers, from ulcerated epithelial tumors, from the true syphilitic chancre, and also from phagedsenic ulcers, is thin, serous, and “ sanious,” and contains more or less detritus of tissue—qualities significant of the absence of healthy effort in the way of repair. The type of sanious pus, of what is called ichor, is found in the discharge from an open cancer ; it contains much already dead, or liquefying, cancer tissue. If, on the other hand, a cancerous tumor be removed, freely and entirely, and the wound left open, the surrounding healthy tissues will shortly eject cream-like pus, significant of active cell formation and rapid repair. Cancerous ichor is often excessive in quantity and exhausting to the strength of the patient; it is given off by the new vessels of the cancerous growth which are impotent to furnish true exudation, and simply exhaust vital force in the effort. Substances Mistaken for Pus. "We have said that pus in a solid form has been mistaken for tubercle, when developed under pressure in bone. Solid pus occurs also, habitually, in other localities: in the sulci between the convolutions of the surface of the brain and spinal cord, in meningitis; on the iris, where it can often he seen in the form of little rounded masses, in iritis; in the cornea; and in other tissues of the eye. On the other hand, there are fluids in the body, and even solids, which are often miscalled pus, in which the microscope fails to reveal its characteristic elements. As examples, we have the fluid effused in peritonitis, or pleurisy, called purulent, but often nothing more than the serum of those cavities with a few leucocytes in suspension. An exaggerated flow of mucus from any of the mucous canals, with an increase in number of the leucocytes which it normally contains, often forms an imitation of pus—as in the fluid of bronchorrhoea, and of some forms of gleet, and especially in rectal mucus when colored yellow by bile. The fluid found in the pelves of the kidneys after death, resembles pus, but is only urine holding in suspension epithelium from the urinary tubules. A similar explanation applies to the fluid which can be pressed out of the prostatic ducts. The secretion of the tonsils collected in its crypts, is not unfrequently mistaken for pus, and ulceration assumed to be present, when it is not. Clots of blood which form in arteries after ligature, or after embolism, are liable to break down into a soft yellowish fluid strongly resembling pus ;x and a similar puriform liquefaction is liable to take place in other tissues, as in lymphatic glands, sometimes in the tes- ticle, and, more rarely, in the interior of fibrous tumors. Injurious Consequences of Suppuration. The vital effort which results in the formation of pus amongst the solid tis- sues of the body, just as in wounds and on membranous surfaces, only in a 1 Virchow, Cellular Pathology. Translated by Chance. London, 1860.