113 DESTRUCTIVE INFLAMMATION—PUS FORMATION. pose, which is reparative, in accordance with which they are physically and chemically soft and bland; and that they are the product of the nutritive machinery of the injured part by a natural process analogous to embryonic growth and development. Granulation tissue, with the clinical aspects of which the surgeon must be, of necessity, familiar, consists of embryonic cells and a network of capillary loops which convey to it a steady supply of nu- tritive material from the blood. It is equipped, so to speak, for growth and development into a higher form of tissue, e. y., tissue of cicatrix ; but when this purpose is prevented, or when it becomes unattainable, the neoplasm is capable of supporting itself in an inchoate condition, as simple granulation tissue, for an indefinite time—of which we have an illustration in the walls :>f an old sinus. It is well to notice that, with this power of endurance, the original purpose manifest in the organization of this curious substance is lever lost sight of; it is ready to take on development into a higher form of :issue whenever favorable conditions arise. In its physical aspects, granulation substance has a pinkish color, variable ,n tint according to the quality of the blood circulating in its vessels, and is elly-like in consistence, with a certain degree of smoothness and firmness :o the touch. Its surface, when healthy, is covered with small conical emi- lences called granulations, not entirely uniform in size, in which, by the aid if a pocket lens, minute vessels can be distinguished. The latter are so near die surface that a slight touch of probe or needle brings a drop of blood, if el low pus is seen in the depressions between the eminences. These vary a rood deal in size and shape as well as in color, and, inasmuch as their aspect iffords an unfailing index of healthy healing power, and as they are found in all healing surfaces, these variations are worthy of close observation. When there is a lack of vigor in the tendency to grow into cicatricial issue, the granulations are large and translucent, and the pus between them s pale and thin. When there is excess of inflammatory action, as when the iart has been subjected to motion involving friction, or 10 irritating dressings, hey become abnormally small, and their color is vividly red. Subsequently, mder the persistent action of the same causes, the granulations may disappear it points, showing grayish spots in which they have died, or smooth patches in vhich they have ceased to grow. Usually, healthy granulations are not sen- Itive to the touch, for, although full of bloodvessels, they contain, as yet, no lervous filaments, although the contrary is asserted by Robin and others; it s undoubtedly true that in certain abnormal conditions they become exqui- sitely painful. Individual granulations vary in size and shape, even upon lie same surface. They are sometimes larger at the apex than at the base, md occasionally will be found cleft at their summits like a cauliflower. When cicatrization is about to take place, and its consummation is pre- sented in any way, granulations in some cases tend to increase in size, and ;o become overgrown: as around a seton, a group of ligatures, or a drainage ube; or in a wound involving the sheath of a tendon. Under these circum- itances, a number of overgrown granulations may coalesce and form a pouting nass, overhanging the edges of a wound, and constituting what is known lopularly as “ proud flesh.” These redundant granulations are generally more lallid and flabby than those of healthy type, and their presence always indi- :ates that some cause is obstructing the beginning of cicatrization. A surface of granulations undoubtedly possesses a considerable power of ibsorbing soluble substances brought into contact with it. This has been tlready asserted in connection with the capacity of granulations for absorbing >lood poisons. If a small fragment of iodine enveloped in cotton be placed ipon a granulating wound under a watch-glass, and covered in carefully, in t very short time chemical reagents will reveal the presence of iodine in the VOL. i.—8