SHOCK. 368 times, with conditions apparently similar, the reverse ; and, perhaps, some- thing of this kind may be suggested as an explanation of the extreme con- gestion of the portion of intestine above a strangulation, as compared with the condition of that below. It is to be feared that this theory, which has been adopted in its entirety by Fischer, and which must be regarded as an enormous advance upon all previous views, cannot yet be admitted as thoroughly sufficient. It cannot but be considered as most strange that injuries to the cervical spinal cord are not invariably followed by instant death ; for while the heart suffers under the general shock, there is absolute paralysis of every vasomotor nerve in the body, head and upper extremities included ; yet, though the shock is sometimes undeniably severe, it is certainly not in the majority of fatal cases the cause of death; and there are several instances on record of continuance of life with complete paralysis of motion and sensation in all parts below the seat of injury, the normal arterial tension being restored and maintained as usual by means of the peripheral mechanism, and perhaps of that portion of the great centre contained in the spinal cord. Nor can it be argued that the vascular tension is at once restored, even in part, by this por- tion of the vasomotor centre in the cord below the seat of injury; for it is well known from experiments on animals that, even after simple section through the spinal cord, no reflex movement of any kind can he excited for some time in any nerve that is dependent on the distal, severed portion. There is, further, an observation made by Weir Mitchell1 to the eflect that in the variety of the cerebral phenomena presented by cases of shock, there is evidence of a change, less constant in its effects than would be that of mere alteration in the amount of blood. Nor is there any improbability in the suggestion that the peculiar power of inhibition, in which, as far as is known, all nerve structures share, and which is probably brought into play during the co-ordination of every nerve impulse, instead of only indirectly causing the symptoms of shock through its action on the vascular system, may be the direct and immediate agent influencing the nerves that govern sensation, motion, and volition, as much as those that control the walls of the bloodvessels. It has been shown beyond the shadow of doubt that, as a consequence of injury, the molecular motion which constitutes nerve force may be interfered with, perhaps even inter- rupted, in certain centres that control the heart and the vascular system; may it not be that the paralysis of motion and sensation, and the impair- ment of reflex action, instead of being merely secondary effects produced through the agency of the circulation, are also due, wholly or in part, to a similar interference with the molecular motion in other centres? and that shock is to be regarded as an extreme and general manifestation of that inhi- bition, with the power of which, as regards a few organs, physiology has made us acquainted ? It is highly probable that many of the so-to-speak accessory consequences of injuries, the immediate dependence of which on the actual damage is not apparent, are due to some cause closely analogous to this ; and especially is this true of injuries to the nerve centres, and of conse- quences that make their appearance at once and gradually disappear. A powerful stimulus applied to a sensory nerve can entirely obliterate a slighter one. After laying open the spinal canal, irritation of the posterior roots is for some time followed by no result. After section through the spinal cord, reflex phenomena are not witnessed till the inhibitory influence is wearing off; and if when these have returned, and the animal has recov- ered as far as is consistent with the continuance of paraplegia, a second sec- 1 New York Medical Journal, 1866.