AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 667 The general death-rate, then, of these amputations at the knee-joint and knee, appears to be 47.7 per cent., or not quite one in two. Comparing this with the mortality of leg and with that of thigh amputations, as given in the Table on page 630, we find it almost midway between them, thus sustain- ing the general rule that the gravity of amputation increases as the opera- tion is done nearer the trunk. Amputation of the leg . “ “ knee thigh Cases. Deaths. Mortality per cent. 5247 1804 34.3 794 379 47.7 5606 3527 63.8 It is difficult to estimate the comparative mortality of the special forms of amputation which have been referred to, as authors do not distinguish clearly between them; thus Dr. Brinton includes cases of Gritti’s operation with ordinary amputations at the knee; Dr. Otis groups together all amputations whether of the knee or knee-joint; and Dr. Salzmann embraces in liis Table of Gritti’s operations, many cases in which the condyles were not touched. As a practical rule for treatment, I would advise that when there is ample tissue for the formation of flaps, and the joint itself is not involved, simple disarticulation should be preferred ; but that under other circumstances the condyles should be removed. The patella is, I think, best retained under all circumstances; if it is itself diseased, however, its articulating surface should be excised either with saw or cutting forceps. Amputation of the Thigh. The thigh may be amputated by almost any of the methods which are employed in other parts of the body, but those which I am in the habit of employing, and to which I give the preference, are the antero-posterior flap operation, for amputations in the lower third of the thigh, and for those in the middle and upper thirds, the modi fled circular. Amputation in the Lower Third of the Thigh.—This operation is often required in cases of injury involving the knee-joint, such as compound frac- tures and dislocations, and in cases of disease of that articulation, in which the femur is too extensively implicated to permit of amputation through the condyles. The double flap method is the best in this situation, and I much prefer to take the flaps from the front and back of the thigh (Fig. 195), rather than from its sides, because the femur being placed very near the front of the limb, its sawn end is apt to protrude through the wound when the operation by lateral flaps is adopted. In amputating by antero-posterior flaps, the surgeon introduces his knife on the side of the thigh, an inch or an inch and a half below the point at which he intends to divide the bone, and car- ries the blade longitudinally downwards for a space fully equal to half the diameter of the part, then crossing in front of the limb with a curved incision, convex downwards, and finally ascending to a point on the other side of the limb, opposite to that at which the incision was begun. There is thus marked out a rather square flap, with rounded corners, reaching usually to the upper border of the patella. This flap is dissected up with rapid strokes of the knife, including all the tissues down to the bone, and is then intrusted to an assistant, while the operator forms the posterior flap by transfixing the limb behind the femur, and cutting first downwards, with a sawing motion, and then almost directly backwards. The posterior flap should be made nearly as long as the anterior, the greater retraction of the muscles at the back of the