228 HYDROPHOBIA—GLANDERS—MALIGNANT PUSTULE. Malignant Pustule. Malignant pustule is a general disease which originates from contact with the blood or tissues of diseased animals, such as sheep or horned cattle, which are affected with murrain. It primarily affects the skin and connective tissue, appearing in the form of a vesicle, and rapidly developing gangrene. The disease at times appears as an epidemic with a very destructive tendency, and, as the virus is readily conveyed to horses, mules, and hogs, immense numbers of these animals are swept off by its ravages. The virus is readily conveyed to man, and the true test of malignant pustule is found in the fact that it is capable of being conveyed by inoculation from the human being to the sheep. AY hen the virus from a suspected case of the disease is inoculated in this ani- mal without effect, it may be assumed that the affection is not malignant pustule. From the nature of their vocation, herdsmen, butchers, tanners, and other persons who work among hides, and who skin and eviscerate the bodies of animals, are liable to inoculation ; the virus is also capable of being conveyed by flies and insects from diseased animals to man. The hands and face are the parts usually attacked, being most exposed. Stone, of Massachusetts, reported in 1868 seven cases which occurred to persons working in curled hair, and Bourgeois relates the case of a workman supposed to have been in- oculated while picking the hair taken from an old sofa. Prof. Gross speaks of three cases which occurred in persons who had contracted the disease while picking and eviscerating buzzards for the purpose of extracting oil from those birds. The hands and forearms of each individual were inoculated, and violent local and constitutional symptoms appeared at the end of two days. The parts became excessively swollen and painful, and covered with numerous vesicles, which, when ruptured, exposed ill-looking ulcers, which continued to discharge a thin, sanious fluid, and remained open for many weeks. The inflammation reached the axilla, and some of the glands of that region became enormously enlarged, and finally suppurated. Prof. Gross adds that recovery took place only after a long time, and after great suffering, which reduced the patient to the utmost degree of exhaustion. It could not be determined whether the poison was actually generated by these birds, or merely conveyed by them through their feathers being charged with carrion. Symptoms of Malignant Pustule.—Malignant pustule begins as a red spot followed by a vesicle, which soon becomes pustular, and of which the char- acteristics are the extreme smallness of its dimensions, its being surrounded by a vascular areola of leathery hardness, its constant itching, and its extreme sensibility. The vesicle soon becomes enlarged, and is filled with a thin turbid serum; when it becomes pustular, it assumes a yellowish-brown color, and, increasing in size, soon bursts, and exhibits a foul gangrenous ulcer, which discharges a fetid excoriating fluid. While the vesicle is undergoing these changes, the parts become greatly distended with serum and lymph, very heavy, numb, and painful. If situated on the hand, the whole extremity becomes inflamed as far as the shoulder, and the axillary glands become in- volved. The number of vesicles may vary. In one of the cases observed by Prof. Gross, there was only one; in another there were two, one on the hand and one on the forearm ; in another they were so numerous that the whole arm and hand were literally covered with them. When the disease appears on the face, the whole countenance becomes dark and greatly distorted ; the eyelids generally are closed, thick, and difficult to move, and the disease fre-