194 ERYSIPELAS. incurred, through the wounds made by leeching or cupping, of infecting the system anew with the erysipelatous poison, and of creating a starting-point for suppuration or gangrene. Such objections are still weightier against punctures and scarifications employed to relieve the congestion of the skin in simple erysipelas, inasmuch as they form wounds which, besides this special risk, answer their purpose as depleting agents very imperfectly indeed. The use of incisions in the treatment of phlegmonous erysipelas has special objects which will he considered hereafter. The most ancient treatment of erysipelas included, as has already been stated, the application of cold water and other lotions to the affected part, hut the dangers of the method, recognized even then, are more generally acknowl- edged now. We cannot therefore commend the practice of Luecke, who, fol- lowing the example of Hebra and others, advises the application of ice to the erysipelatous scalp, and declares that he did not lose a single patient out of a large number treated hy him in this manner.1 Whether the same result would not have been reached hy him, as it has been by others, with a purely negative topical treatment, may well be questioned. Indeed, it may he re- marked here, once for all, that apart from the surgical treatment of phlegmo- nous erysipelas, local applications have not the slightest influence upon the course or issue of the disease beyond that which they exert as protectives and palliatives. This influence should not he undervalued, but it ought not to be mistaken for a radical and curative action. As palliatives, then, may be employed a variety of astringent and stimulant applications, all of which protect the inflamed part from the irritating action of the air, and either repress the vascular action in it or overcome the stagna- tion of the blood by quickening its circulation. Of the former description are lime-water liniment, alum curd, fresh or sour cream, solutions of the salts of lead and zinc, or of the chloride or the sulphate of iron, or some of these salts, and especially the oxide of zinc, in powder. In France, a popular preju- dice regards all watery applications as injurious. The acetate of zinc has been prescribed internally, upon theoretical grounds, and without advantage. The carbonate of lead has been applied, mixed with linseed oil, as a paint; but if any lesion of the skin exists, it is apt to be poisonous. Flexile collodion has also been used to protect and constringe the affected skin, but is more painful than useful in all cases of erysipelas that really call for active treat- ment. Solutions of gutta percha and also of salicylate of sodium have been employed for the same purpose, and with analogous results. Mechanical com- pression of the affected part has been made by bandages, especially in surgi- cal erysipelas of the limbs. Velpeau, who was one of the flrst to make use of it, limited its application to cases in which the inflammation did not extend deeply beneath the skin, and perhaps, like the astringents already noticed, it tended to retard or limit the inflammation. But the impossibility of antici- pating the future course of any such affection, and the great danger of the parts swelling beneath their bandages so as to produce, as actually happened in several cases, not only excessive pain, but ulceration and gangrene, suffice to condemn this method which, in reality, was the product of crude theory and not of clinical experience. Another method of local treatment consists in the application of stimulants to the inflamed part. One of the first used of these was a blister, the extent of which was limited only by that of the erysipelas. Cases are on record in which it was made to envelop an entire limb ; and although, as usually hap- pens to medicinal agents, its novelty brought it some applause, and not a little false credit, its condemnation was not slow to follow, for the demon- 1 Neftel, Medical Record, vol. iv. p. 79.