INTERROGATION OF THE INTERNAL ORGANS. 847 movements. Excessive, or exaggerated, or involuntary movements are witnessed in tlie walls of the chest in cases of difficult breathing, either from pulmonary or cardiac disease. There are excessive movements which attend the loss of the governing or inhibitory power of the nervous system which regulates muscular action, as is seen in chorea, paralysis agitans, nystagmus or oscillat- ing eyes, epilepsy, hysteria, and ataxia. Constrained movements often reveal serious structural disease. Incipient spinal caries may be detected by the mechanical, cautious, and shuffling walk of the child, before any external deformity can be noticed. Eccentric move- ments are seen in cases of infantile paralysis, in which the loss of power in the extensors of the thigh compels the child to advance the limb by the action of the muscles placed on the outer aspect of the pelvis, in doing which the extremity is swung around in the segment of a circle, instead of being car- ried directly forward. Smell.—The sense of olfaction is as quick to appreciate odors of an un- pleasant as of a pleasant nature. In this way dissolution of the tissues, necrosis of bone, stereoraceous fistula, nasal catarrh, or incontinence of urine can be detected. The odor of hay, which often attends pyaemia, can frequently be so distinctly recognized, as to cause suspicion of the existence of this dis- ease, before anything is known about the history of the case. There is, also, a peculiar, earthy smell, which belongs to the soft parts when undergoing mortification, and which is detectable by the olfactories, in many instances, in advance of the exposure of the diseased tissues. As a final illustration under this head, I may mention the offensive odor discoverable on inhaling the breath of a patient laboring under obstruction of the follicles of the ton- sils, an odor which results from the decomposition of the retained secretion. Interrogation of the Internal Organs. In order to make a diagnosis thorough, the condition of the internal organs must be ascertained. This will include an examination of the organs of circulation, respiration, and digestion, as well as of those of the genito-urinary apparatus and the nervous system. Circulation.—Under this head, the attention of the practitioner will be directed to the state of the heart and of the bloodvessels, noting the strength, regularity of beat, and sounds of the former, all of which exeixiise no small influence in enabling the surgeon to decide as to the propriety of severe and tedious operations, and especially as to the administration of anaesthetics. "When the inquiry extends to the bloodvessels, the relation of atheroma to aneurism, and to senile gangrene, must be considered, as must also the pres- ence of a varicose condition of the surface veins of the chest and abdomen, indicative of obstruction in the deep-seated venous trunks of those cavities; the pulsation of the jugular veins in anaemia; and the relation between phle- bitis and embolism, and between varicose veins of the lower extremities and leg ulcers. In like manner, lividity of the surface is important, as revealing defective aeration of the blood from obstructive causes or from cardiac disease. The state of the circulation is usually determined by the pulse, and while the fingers rest on the artery, there should be observed the force of its beat, its regularity, its volume, and its compressibility. The influence of emo- tional causes, of age, and of sex, on the frequency of the pulse, must be noted. In the case of a person laboring under temporary excitement, or in that of a nervous woman, agitated perhaps by the visit of the surgeon, the pulse will