507 BLOODLETTING. always followed by scarring, hence wet-cups should never be put on the upper part of the chest or shoulders of women. Leeching is not often done by the surgeon himself; still its importance as a remedial measure renders a knowledge of its practical application of service to every practitioner. It is a convenient method of taking blood from cer- tain localities where it is impossible to employ cups. In this country, two varieties of leech are used, known respectively as the American, and as the European or Swedish leech; the former variety is estimated to draw about four grammes (one fluidrachm) of blood; the latter nearly four times as much. The quantity of blood abstracted may lie increased by applying warm fomen- tations to the leech-bites. In selecting leeches, preference should be given to those which are active and healthy; they should be taken from water an hour before they are applied, and should be dried in a soft, dry cloth. The part to be leeched must be clean and free from hair. If the leeches are slow in taking hold, their action may be hastened by smearing a little milk or blood on the skin ; immersion of the leeches in lukewarm water or small beer is said to stimulate them to bite more actively. When two or three leeches only are to be applied, they may be taken between the thumb and fingers and held with their buccal extremity to the part. If a larger number be used, they may be conveniently confined to the surface by covering them with an inverted tumbler, or a loose mass of cotton. By means of a leech-glass or a small cone of stift paper, a leech may be kept in contact with a particular part, as the inner canthus of the eye, the gum, the verge of the anus, etc., till it adheres; for the cervix uteri a speculum should be used. In cases of in- flammation, leeches should be applied to the parts surrounding the seat of disease, and not directly over it; nor should they be put on the eyelids or the scrotum, for here, in consequence of the large amount of loose cellular tissue and the delicate nature of the skin, un- sightly ecchymoses are almost sure to follow. Leeches should not be forcibly removed; when they show no dispo- sition to relax their hold, a little salt or snuff sprinkled on their bodies will cause them to let go and drop off. In- jections of tobacco smoke or solutions of common salt will facilitate the detach- ment and removal of leeches from the inside of the mucous outlets. Usually there is no difficulty in checking he- morrhage from a leech-bite; exposure to the air, or the application of -dry lint, is generally sufficient. Should the bleeding continue obstinately, it may be stopped by the application of dos- sils of lint wet with Monsel’s solution (liquor ferri subsulpliatis), or a warm, saturated solution of alum; or by touching the wound with a pencil of nitrate of silver, or the actual cautery improvised by heating the end of a darning needle to a dull-red heat. If all these means fail, the bleeding surface must be constricted by passing a threaded needle below it and winding the thread around beneath the ends of the needle. Fig. 81.