SHOCK. 366 being widely scattered all over the body as they would have to be if they were placed on the walls of their own vessels (as in the case of the heart), have been gathered together into one group and placed centrally, still, how- ever, leaving throughout the body some trace of independent control, or at least some power of developing it. Nor is this the only way in which the vasomotor centre may be compared with the cardiac ganglia, seemingly so unlike: for just as the latter maybe inhibited through some special nerve, either by direct irritation or retlexly, so also may the former, except that, from its central position, no other than a reflex path can be known. And thus the broad principle may be admitted, as a general statement, that the heart and the vessels are but co-ordinate parts of one system, and may be simultaneously influenced in the same direction by a single stimulus; and that while Travers regarded shock as the result of nerve action on the heart alone, there is nothing in the physiology of the circulation that would pre- clude the posibility of a much more general effect on vessels and heart together. But this is by no means all that the subject of shock owes to the recent extension of physiological inquiry: it is not enough that the action of the heart and the tone of the vessels (on which, with the resistance of the capil- laries, depends the blood pressure), may be suspended by the direct or reflex irritation of certain nerves; it has been shown in the clearest manner that this result with all its consequences may follow distant, external injury; and external injury moreover of that peculiar form which is more likely than any other to cause shock—abdominal contusion. This was shown by Professor Goltz,1 of Strasbourg, by a remarkable experiment:— A frog was taken and suspended in a vertical position, with the legs downwards, and the heart exposed. After waiting a short time, till the beats were fairly regular and sent the usual amount of blood into the aorta, the frog’s intestines (or the surface of the abdomen) were struck with some violence, and the result on the action of the heart and on its blood-supply noted. It was found at once that the heart had stopped; the irritation had been carried up to the medulla oblongata, and reflected thence down the vagus. After a little while, the heart seemed to recover and began to pulsate again. But there was a very remarkable difference between its appearance now and its appearance before the blow had been given. Instead of becoming filled with blood during each diastole, and assuming a deep red color in consequence, it remained quite pale and empty, and, although it contracted vigorously, the circulation remained stopped, for the heart had no blood to propel. The cause of this was not far to seek : the frog was hanging with its legs downwards, and the upper part of the vena cava was empty ; the veins of the intestines, generally kept in a state of semi-contraction by the vasomotor nerves, had become relaxed, and the blood which would have filled them completely up to the heart was not sufficient, so that they were only half full. Not only had the inhibitory nerves of the heart been called into activity, but that also which regulates in a similar manner the vasomotor centre; for this result did not fol- low when the animal was fully under the influence of an anaesthetic, or when the vagi or splanchnics had been interrupted. In the frog, recovery followed as soon as it had been placed in a horizontal position, so that the blood could reach the heart again ; in man, the stoppage of the heart in diastole would be instantaneously fatal; its weakened action, and the dilatation of the abdominal vessels, allowing the accumulation of such an amount of blood—all really as much withdrawn for the time from the general cir- culation as if there had been actual hemorrhage—would lower the general arterial pressure, and cause the symptoms of shock. There can be no doubt that experiments such as_ these, which do not vary in the hands of physiologists, have thrown a flood of light upon much that before was mere conjecture. The suggestions of Travers and others, that 1 Virchow’s Archiv, xxvi. und xxix.