519 ASPIRATION. other alkaloids, viz., atropia, strychnia, ergot ina, pilocarpin, etc., cannot he managed in this way, hence they are kept in solution ready for use. What- ever drug is injected beneath the skin, its solution should be free from for- eign matter, and as nearly neutral as possible, so that it will not excite undue irritation of the tissues. Of course, this caution does not apply to those in- jections that are sometimes employed for the express purpose of exciting irritation, as in the treatment of enlargements of the thyroid body, bursal enlargements, cases of neuralgia, etc. In giving a subcutaneous injection, the operator pinches up a fold of integu- ment between the thumb and first two fingers of bis left hand, and, holding the charged syringe firmly in his right, quickly thrusts the point of the needle into the superficial fascia parallel with the fold. (Fig. 89.) The needle Fig. 89. Mode of giving a hypodermic injection. should be carried fully two centimetres (three-fourths of an inch) into the tissue, and its point should be moved about, to make sure that it is not in the deeper layers of the true skin. The contents of the syringe should be forced out slowly, after which the needle should be quickly removed, and the puncture closed by the pressure of the finger for a few seconds, to prevent the escape of any of the fluid, and to arrest the slight bleeding which sometimes follows the operation. Should the patient be timid and dread the slight pain of an injection, the sensibility of the skin may be diminished by the use of local anaesthesia, or the same end may be accomplished with less trouble by firmly pinching the fold of integument as the needle enters the skin. As a rule, the fluid should be injected into the superficial fascia; in some cases of paralysis, however, in which strychnia is employed, the injection is made directly into the affected muscle, and deep injections of chloroform or ether are resorted to in some cases of neuralgia. The pain and redness which occa- sionally follow a hypodermic injection, may be allayed by the application of a cold compress, or of one saturated with lead-water and laudanum. Certain localities should be avoided in practising hypodermic medication; these are salient points of the skeleton, the immediate vicinity of large super- ficial veins, and parts which will be necessarily subjected to pressure. It is not well to give subcutaneous injections in parts that are inflamed. The places usually selected for the injection of anodynes are the outer surface of the forearm and the anterior surfaces of the arm and thigh. Aspiration. This operation, which consists in removing the liquid contents of a cavity without the admission of air, is performed by means of an apparatus called