188 ERYSIPELAS. 1 Lancet, January, 1878, p. 115. Diagnosis of Erysipelas. The direct or positive diagnosis of erysipelas may frequently be made before the actual appearance of the eruption upon the skin or adjacent mucous membrane. It rests primarily upon the swelling, redness, and tenderness of the lymphatic glands connected with the part about to be attacked. Those of the neck usually present such appearances in erysipelas of the face or throat; those of the axilla or the groin, in erysipelas of the upper or lower extremities. When the inflammation itself appears, it may be recognized by the uniform pink or rose color of the skin, which in the throat assumes a dusky hue; by the rapid swelling of the integument, accompanied with a burning heat of the part; and especially by the abrupt ridge that divides the inflamed from the unaffected skin, the rapid encroachment upon the latter of the inflammation, and the equally rapid rise of the temperature. These signs distinguish erysipelas from lymylxangeitis or angeiolcucitis, in which the swelling is less, and the redness, instead of being uniform, follows the trunks of the lymphatics, and is therefore streaked, and also presents limited and indurated swellings, and is not abruptly bounded by the sound skin. It does not follow, however, that the two affections may not coexist in the same case. Erythema, such as is at all likely to be confounded with erysipelas, is a much more superficial inflammation of the skin, and its edges are not abrupt and elevated as in the other disease. When it occurs, as it often does, upon cedematous or dropsical parts, this sign is distinctive, especially as the affec- tion is not attended with the febrile movement which accompanies erysipelas. When it is traumatic, it is more apt to arise from abrasions, from friction, etc., than from a division of the tissues. Yet it is not uncommon around certain more deeply seated lesions, such as old ulcers, especially of the legs. Volkmann has directed attention to the difficulty of distinguishing from phlegmonous erysipelas, a diffused inflammation of the connective tissue which results from severe injuries, and which presents an irregular and often dull red- ness and an oedematous swelling of the skin. He notes as distinctive marks of this affection, a slow development of fever, with a relatively rapid appearance of bluish-red or dusky, venous congestion, a doughy state of the swelling, and a peculiar sanious or gangrenous aspect of the original wound, while the gene- ral condition of the patient does not present any grave disorder. It is to these contrasts, in a particular case, that Erichsen probably alludes when he speaks of the difficulty of distinguishing between abscess of the scalp and erysipelas.1 But while in both there may be fluctuation, it is in abscess always limited by the attachments of the occipito-frontalis muscle to the occipital ridge and the zygoma, while in front the pus will be apt to gravitate towards the eyes, and form a puffy swelling of the eyelids. But in diffused erysipelas of the scalp, the ears are always involved, and become red, swollen, and covered with blebs. Prognosis of Erysipelas. The prognosis of erysipelas varies, according to the character of the attack, from almost absolute safety to as absolute fatality. The former estimate refers to the idiopathic, sporadic disease, the latter to the epidemic puerperal form. Between these two extremes lie the large number of cases of surgical erysipelas in which the mortality fluctuates indefinitely, and chiefly with the dominant type of the disease.