141 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. to provoke unhealthy or excessive manifestations. The phenomena attending the reparative act, although forming a part of the process of inflammation, are to be recognized and favored; not prevented. It is their excessive or perverted action which we have to guard against by our art. This subject will be more fully discussed hereafter. For the present, to avoid repetition, we may refer to the study of predisposing and exciting causes contained in the preceding pages, with the remark that the injurious action of certain amongst them is noticeably preventable. For example, if a patient is found to be under the influence of malaria, or if he is confined to a malarial locality, it would be eminently proper to place him under the prophylactic influence of quinine; in other words, to make a few grains of quinine a part of his daily diet. If he be found to be syphilitic, according to the stage of the con- stitutional poisoning—whether active or passive—it would be a judicious course for the surgeon to avail himself of the tonic and blood-making prop- erties of iodine, or of minute doses of the bichloride of mercury. But of all the preventive measures within our reach for the purpose of avoiding unhealthy inflammation in the treatment of open wounds, the pre- cautions and means which constitute the antiseptic method of treating wounds have of late years grown into proportions of greatest magnitude. Judging from results alone, without attempting a decision as to the theory on which it is based, placing himself on the legitimate ground of intelligent empiricism, and following the plan which promises most benefit to his patient, the sur- geon of to-day is forced by the logic of facts to adopt the method of Lister. The cicatrization of open wounds without pus and without delay, as if they were subcutaneous, or healing under a scab—a result which can be com- manded with as much certainty as attends any human enterprise, if the details of the antiseptic method are scrupulously observed—constitutes one of these facts. Another is the greatly diminished frequency, if not the entire absence, of the infective forms of inflammation and fever in surgical cases treated by the antiseptic method when it has been conscientiously carried out from the inception of the case. But it is to be remarked that in the doubt- ing allegiance of many, and their consequently feeble adhesion to the new method, and the carelessness as to details that comes from want of full faith, from prejudgment of the question, greater attachment to old methods, or un- willingness to learn new and troublesome details, there are impediments which interfere with its adoption. This will be arrived at ultimately, it is not un- likely, as a consequence of the greater material success, in the aggregate, of those surgeons who practise the antiseptic method in all its details, and pos- sibly by improvement in those details. Meanwhile, antiseptics are gradually taking the place of antiphlogistics; the latter cease to be thought of in pro- portion as the former grow in the confidence of the profession; and the opinion is, on the whole, steadily gaining ground that antiseptics constitute the best preventive measures against unhealthy inflammation. Popular experience is not an unfair test of the value of local remedies in preventing inflammatory complications. When surgery wras as yet unworthy to be called a science, the favorite applications to wounds were spirituous tinctures, balsamic substances, resins, and turpentines; and they undoubtedly owed their popularity as vulneraries to their antiseptic qualities. One of them, with a reputation of several centuries, the “ bay me da commandeur” praised by Ambrose Pare, known in England as “friar’s balsam,” in our country as “ Turlington balsam,” has a place in the IT. S. Pharmacopoeia as the compound tincture of benzoin. Many a fresh wound bound up with this vulnerary, which is still largely used in domestic practice, and afterwards left undisturbed through full confidence in its healing virtues, has got wTell without “ inflammation getting into it.” Basilicon ointment, ceratum resince,