552 AMPUTATIONS. out any treatment at all. Indeed, so far from the operation of amputation deserving to he spoken of in any opprobrious terms, or to be regarded as a brutal procedure, it may well be called, as it was by some of the older writers, u the humane operation and, abused as it may have been in some instances, it is doubtful if any other surgical manipulation has upon the whole afforded as much relief from suffering, or saved as many lives. Amputations have been variously classified by authors, but the division commonly employed at the present day, and that which has most practical value, is into amputations in the continuity of a limb, or through the bones of which it is constituted, and those in the contiguity, or through the joints the latter are also called exarticulations, or disarticulations. History of Amputation. The operation of amputation was known to the ancients, but was ordi- narily limited to the severing of gangrenous portions of the limbs by incisions through the parts already dead. Hippocrates, who lived four hundred years before the Christian era, in his treatise on the Joints, speaks of gangrene resulting from occlusion of the bloodvessels, or following fractures, and directs that in the latter cases the mortified parts should be allowed to drop off of themselves, as, the bones having already given way, the separation of the dead from the living parts will occur quickly; when, however, the bones are entire, the portion which is below the line of blackness is to be removed at an articulation, care being taken not to wound any part which still maintains its vitality, lest, if the operation should cause pain, the patient might faint away or even die in consequence.1 Celsus, however, who flourished in the reigns of Augustus and Tiberius Ctesar, directed that when a gangrenous limb was to be cut off, the flesh should be divided with a knife between the living and dead parts, down to the bone—taking care to avoid the articu- lation, and rather taking away some of the healthy tissue than leaving any part of that which was diseased; when the bone was reached, the healthy flesh was to be pushed back from it, and cut around the bone, so that a part of the latter should be left bare; this was next to be divided with a small saw, as close as possible to the adherent flesh, the sawn edge of the bone smoothed or polished, and the skin drawn down again over it.2 It is not improbable that Celsus understood the use of the ligature in amputations, as he certainly did in cases of vessels wounded in their continuity, though he gives no special directions for the restraint of hemorrhage either during or after the operation. It will be observed that in recommending the incision through living tissues, and the section of the bone at a higher point than that at which the soft parts were to be cut, this writer was far in advance of his contemporaries, as indeed of many of his successors, and in the latter particular actually anticipated one of the most important improvements in the manual procedure which has been introduced, or rather re-introduced, in comparatively modern times. Galen (A. D. 131-200) repeats the advice ot Hippocrates that no living part should be touched in an amputation, and gives as a reason for preferring operations through the joints, that the work will be done more quickly than if the bones have to be divided.3 The first attempt to prevent hemorrhage during an amputation appears to have been made by Archigenes (A. D. 81-117), who directed that the vessels 1 Hippocratis opera omnia, edit. cur. C. G. Kuhn, t. iii. p. 247. 2 A. C. Celsi Medicinae lib. vii. cap. xxxiii. Edit. L. Targae, p. 417. 3 Claudii Galeni opera omnia, edit. cur. C. G. Kuhn, t. xviii. pars i. p. 718.