118 INFLAMMATION. pus from the vicinity of diseased bone is liable to contain gritty particles of bone-earth. The core of an ordinary boil, which is an example of an acute abscess, consists of a little mass of iilaments of yellow elastic tissue, the re- mains of a portion of connective substance which for some cause has died and become liquefied—all but the more indestructible yellow elastic element. This, acting as a foreign body, like a splinter, has proved a local irritant, and caused festering, or pus formation, apparently to secure its escape by being floated out when, in its natural course, the contents of the abscess are discharged. - After the escape of its core, the boil promptly gets well. The little flocculent curdy masses often seen escaping from abscesses with the pus, especially from those of scrofulous or tuberculous subjects, where the general condition of the patient is poor, and the pus, consequently, thin and watery, are either little aggregations of pus-cells, or altered tissue—sometimes tubercular matter— little cores, in short, as of boils. The little abscess, or pustule, that forms in the substance of the skin in smallpox, has for its purpose the elimination of the disk-like slough of true skin which has been killed by the variolous poison in its effort to escape through the emunctories of the integument. The de- pression or “ pit” that follows marks the loss of substance. The circumstance of textural death, or of change in chemical or vital qualities under the multifarious unfavorable conditions which affect the blood and nervous centres, so as to disturb the equable interchange of material which belongs to normal nutrition, would seem to be a fertile cause of ab- scess. The influence of disturbed innervation as a cause of abscess is exem- plified in the occurrence of stye from fatigue of the eyes, and in the pustules of acne, symptomatic of sexual abnormity, which disappear after marriage. As to the mode in which pus formation takes place in the substance of the tissues, as in the occurrence of an abscess, it is as follows: (1) The exciting cause, whether textural injury from traumatism, or textural degeneration from local disturbance of nutrition begetting a source of irritation, provokes an afflux of blood to the centre of excitement. (2) The distended capillaries give forth liquid exudation, which coagulates, at the centre of excitement, into plastic lymph, distending the meshes of the immediately surrounding tissues with a more serous fluid. (3) In the plastic lymph cell, proliferation begins, and goes on to the formation of leucocytes, which, not being favorably situated for growth and development into tissue, accumulate ag pus. The pus, as it collects, forms a cavity for itself, as we shall see shortly, and the result is an abscess. These phenomena occur, most generally, in moderately rapid succession, and are attended by pain, heat, swelling, and redness—the latter not always showing itself upon the surface ; evidences of constitutional disturbance may also be present, most frequently in the shape of fever. With these attendant symptoms the abscess is acute; but, as in cold abscess, they may all be absent, with the exception of the symptom of swelling, which is caused by the accumulation of pus. The formation of a cold abscess in many cases resembles more the growth of a tumor than a result of inflamma- tion ; nevertheless the mechanism of the pus formation is identical with that already described, only the phenomena succeed each other more slowly. Thus, in a psoas or lumbar abscess, some local degeneration of bony or white fibrous tissue may serve as its starting point, and, as in the former instance, afflux of blood is provoked, and the result is exudation and cell germination. These are, in fact, the essential and peculiar changes which constitute inflam- mation ; and they are more constant than the cardinal symptoms they occa- sion, on which we mainly rely for its diagnosis. It is profitable to notice how closely the pathological changes which constitute inflammation approach, in some of their phases, to those which attend the growth of tumors; and