PREFACE. VI The Third and Fourth Volumes will conclude the Surgery of the Tissues, and the latter will also begin the consideration of Injuries and Diseases of Special Regions. Regional Surgery will be continued through the Fifth and Sixth Volumes, and the last will contain, in addition, a History of Surgery, which (his health permitting) has been promised by Professor Gross. An Appendix will embrace papers on Hospital Construction, and similar important topics of collateral interest to Surgical Science; and a full Analytical Index will, in connection with the Table of Con- tents and Subject Index in each Volume, serve to facilitate reference to every part of the work. For the plan of the Encyclopaedia, the arrangement of the material, and the general supervision of the whole, the Editor is responsible, as he is also for those Articles which bear his own name (in the present volume, the Article on Amputations), and for a few notes, chiefly in regard to practical matters, which may be distinguished by their being included within brackets [thus]. But for the facts and opinions in the various Articles, with the exceptions named, the entire responsibility rests with the individual authors. In a work of this character, some repetition is unavoidable, inasmuch as the subjects of the several Arti- cles necessarily overlap each other in many instances ; but this very circumstance is rather of advantage than otherwise, as enabling the reader to compare the independent views, upon questions of importance, entertained by different writers of equal eminence. In regard to the illustrations which accompany the work, it has been the aim of both the Editor and Publishers to supply whatever might be really serviceable in rendering the text more clear, while at the same time introducing none which were not truly illustrative. For some subjects, a large number are required, while for others, the use of any illustrations would be of at least doubtful value. In accordance with the Publishers’ preference, the plates and almost all of the wood-cuts (except some of instruments, etc.) are original, and have been executed