206 PYJEMIA AND ALLIED CONDITIONS. that the pus from healthy wounds sometimes contained rod bacteria, some- times no organisms; but that when micrococci were present, the wounds were uniformly unhealthy. In the blood of pyaemic patients, he found some- times nothing, sometimes micrococci in the plasma and in the white blood- globules. He also found that pus from pysemic patients was more infectious than putrefying fluids, when injected in animals, and that such pus was less infectious after it had begun to putrefy. He believes that the micrococci rather than the rod bacteria produce pyaemia. On the other hand, Ranke has found micrococci regularly present in wounds treated antiseptically. Cheyne found that no rod bacteria were present in the discharges from wounds treated antiseptically, but that micrococci were often present. He regards the presence of bacteria as causing pyaemia, while micrococci, he believes, are harmless. The committee of the London Pathological Society found that organisms were sometimes present in the blood, sometimes absent. Rods were found most constantly, but besides these, ovoid bodies measuring from 3 r- to 8 [micro-millimetre = millimetre]; other larger granules, sometimes in clumps; and dumb-bells. In the organs and tissues after death, the com- mittee found, in a large number of cases, micrococci; especially in the thyroid gland, heart, lungs, liver, kidneys, suprarenal capsules, spleen, lymphatic glands, and blood clot. They were nearly always in bloodvessels and usually in capillaries. Bacteria were only found in two cases, both somewhat doubt- ful. Many other observers have also found micrococci in the tissues. The general results of the examinations of the human subject are that, in the wound, both rods and micrococci are found, but that it is doubtful whether one or the other, or both,are the harmful agents; in the blood, both rods and micrococci are sometimes found, rods most frequently; in the tis- sues, micrococci are found frequently, rods but seldom. (2) The Experiments on Animals have consisted chiefly in inoculating animals with pus from pysemic patients; with putrefying fluids of different kinds, especially blood; and with blood from other animals. The inoculation of pus from the wounds of pysemic patients is usually fatal to animals; sometimes without any lesion, sometimes with metastatic inflam- mations (Birch-Hirschfeld). The inoculation of putrefying blood or other fluids acts in three ways. Large doses destroy the life of the animal after a short time. Small doses produce no symptoms, or transitory ones; or after some hours the animal becomes ill, emaciates, gradually loses strength, and dies. The putrefying fluids injected, always contained bacteria, and most observers hold that if the bacteria are re- moved, the remaining fluid is harmless. But Panum has shown that the fluid may be poisonous after the removal of the bacteria; and Hiller has shown that the bacteria, when isolated from the putrid fluid, may be harm- less. Davaine has shown that, in septicaemic animals inoculated successively one from the other, the blood becomes constantly a more virulent poison. Burdon Sanderson has shown that, if a peritonitis be first artificially pro- duced by some chemical irritant, the fluid from such a peritonitis will by successive inoculation become more and more virulent, and will contain bac- teria. There has been considerable diversity of opinion as to the constancy of the presence of organisms in the blood of animals thus inoculated. Koch, in his experiments on mice, found in the blood of those killed by large injections of putrid blood, a few rods of different sizes, and micrococci; but if the animals wTere inoculated with a very little septic fluid and developed septic symp- toms, then only the small rods were present in large numbers. Pasteur has endeavored to isolate the organisms peculiar to pyaemia by successive culti-