538 PLASTIC SURGERY. several sittings, the operator relying upon the cicatricial contraction produced by the healing of the successive burns, for the extinguishment of the distress- ing and unsightly aperture. Among the interesting documents which bear upon this subject, I would refer the reader to one by J. R. Marinus,1 entitled “Considerations upon Heteroplasty or Autoplasty by Heterogeneous Transplantation,” a compendium of remarkable cases of parts restored and replaced. This author quotes Reissiger,2 as being the first who proposed to replace an opaque human cornea with a healthy one derived from an animal [an operation which has been, of late years, successfully resorted to in several instances]; and after- wards Msesner, and subsequently Hietfenbach, who both attempted “kerat- oplasty ” upon animals, but whose experiments led them to the conclusion that, since the cornea when nearly separated did not reunite, transplantation to another eye ottered still fewer chances of success. And, on the other hand, Marinus assures us that Rudiman reports that in India belief is so strong as to the possibility of reunion of a cut-off nose, that the executioner is com- manded to throw the piece into a brazier, to prevent readjustment. In this country, as is well known, plastic surgery has heen much cultivated, and practised with remarkable success. The operations and most valuable contributions of Prof. Joseph Pan coast are guides and texts for surgeons, and the work and practice of Mutter are monuments in this department of the art of surgery, but we would regard this notice as incomplete without refer- ence being made to Prof. Gilbert,3 among whose successful cases may be men- tioned the construction of two noses by the Indian method; to Dr. Gurdon Buck,4 whose triumphs are familiar in the department of restorations; and to Dr. Detmold,5 to whom both the profession and the public owe so much. Skin Grafting. Under the fifth caption we have grouped, and therefore associated together, a number of facts which acquire relationship by reason of the complete sepa- ration of the parts re-applied and fixed by restitutive autoplasty, as of the nose, of which Hoffaclier, officially present at duels with rapiers fought at Heidelberg, reports several successful cases, and notably one in which the organ lopped off was seized by a dog, but being rescued, although cold and moist, was, after careful cleaning, re-attached. Bits of fingers, lopped off, have been known to adhere vitally after replacement, and teeth also have taken hold when transplanted; indeed transplantation of these ornaments of the mouth was, within a century, a fashion in some countries, in which, it is said, sound front teeth of fresh country girls were purchased by fading belles to replace their own carious incisors or canines. It is remarkable that with such experiences, which, perhaps, were not confined to the later centuries, surgeons so slowly recognized the facts, first, that portions of the living body might be sundered from it without immediately losing life; and, secondly, that these portions, so removed, could contract vital adhesion with another part of the same individual, or with some part of another person or creature. But, like the discovery of the circulation of the blood, the separate anatomical and physiological truths of which were known even from the time of Galen, the 1 Annales de la Societe de Medecine d’Anvers, 1842. 2 Baier’sche Annalen, 1824, Bd. i., Stuck 1, S. 209-215. 3 Med. Examiner, new series, vol. vii. Philadelphia, 1851. 4 Bulletin of the New York Academy of Medicine, vol. iii., and elsewhere. 5 Bulletin of the New York Academy of Medicine, vol. iii. Paper upon Plastic Surgery.