AMPUTATIONS. 602 Sloughing of the skin and connective tissue which cover the stump, is occa- sionally met with, and may be due to bruising of the parts by the injury which rendered the amputation necessary; to undue tension, from original insufficiency of covering, or from subsequent swelling conjoined with too tight closure of the wound by sutures, etc.; or to constitutional causes, as in cases of senile gangrene, or of that frightful affection which has already been alluded to, the true “ traumatic or spreading gangrene.” Sloughing is more apt to occur after flap amputations than after those done by the circular method ; but I have once seen the entire cuff of a circular operation slough oft' as cleanly as if it had been cut by a knife. The treatment of a sloughing stump consists in removing all sources of tension, by cutting stitches, etc., and apply- ing a fermenting or charcoal poultice till the dead parts are removed, when an attempt may be made to diminish the size of the remaining wound by the judicious use of strapping. Erysipelas or Diffuse Cellulitis may attack a stump, and either forms a serious complication. The treatment consists in removing all the sutures, applying a soothing dressing (such as diluted alcohol, or olive oil), -wrapping the limb in cotton, and administering full doses of the tincture of the chloride of iron, which may be conveniently combined with the solution of acetate of ammonium, as in the following formula:—R. Tincturce ferri chloridi f3j—f 3ij, syrupi f.?ss, liquoris ammonii acetatis fgvss. M. Sig. “ A tablespoonful every two hours.” Hospital Gangrene is a very serious affection when following a recent ampu- tation, but is fortunately not very common at the present day. The treatment consists in thoroughly cauterizing the whole surface of the wound with bro- mine or a strong solution of permanganate of potassium (3j to f,lj), and bringing the patient under the constitutional effect of opium. When the disease is arrested, the wound will often heal with great rapidity, but occa- sionally the destruction of tissue may have been so great as to necessitate a second operation. Spasm of the muscles of a stump is a painful complication, which is chiefly met with a few hours after the recovery from aufesthesia, and which, by causing the limb to be jerked off' the pillow on which it rests, tends to inter- fere with primary union. The treatment ordinarily recommended, is the application of a tolerably firm bandage, with or without a splint, and the internal administration of anodynes. As already mentioned, this complica- tion is very seldom met with when the laudanum dressing is employed. Cases of persistent and intractable choreic spasm of a stump, occurring some time after amputation, have been recorded by Dr. S. Weir Mitchell and Dr. H. C. Wood. Retraction of the muscles sometimes occurs and continues progressively for many days or even weeks after an amputation, and occasionally constitutes a really serious complication by interfering with the healing of the stump, causing troublesome ulceration of the cicatrix (if healing has already oc- curred), and giving the part a peculiar, pointed appearance which has sug- gested the name of conical or sugar-loaf stump, a condition which may also depend upon sloughing, or upon hypertrophy of the bone. The ulcer on the end of the stump, caused by muscular contraction, is called the mechanical ulcer, and is often very intractable. The treatment consists in the application of a firm circular bandage, from above downwards, so as to relieve tension by restraining the action of the muscles, and, as it were, coaxing the soft