134 INFLAMMATION. degeneration, and become transformed into a yellowish material with the appearance and consistence of soft cheese. This material has heretofore been regarded as tubercle; but it is now rendered exceedingly probable that it is, in the majority of cases, nothing more than a result of degeneration of the constructive materials contributed for a reparative purpose in the normal course of the inflammatory effort, but not sufficiently supplied with blood to secure their development into tissue. The real nature of the true tubercular deposit is not yet certainly deter- mined ; but there seems to be evidence that it is generated more readily and with greater frequency in the scrofulous, although by no means necessarily, or invariably ; and that, when thus generated, it tends to produce more rapid and mischievous results. Histology teaches at present, mainly on the autho- rity of Rindfleisch, that in the inflammatory process in the scrofulous, the exu- dation cells are unusually large; that the white blood corpuscles, after escaping through the walls of the capillaries, take on ampler proportions than in healthy subjects. It is asserted that, in consequence of their size, their ab- sorption by the lymphatics is rendered more difficulty as they cannot enter these vessels; and that this circumstance explains the slow disappearance of inflammatory induration in the scrofulous. Whether this be true or not, it has become sufficiently apparent why constructive inflammation is more slow and imperfect in its results in the individuals of this diathesis; and, also, that their tissues possess less power to resist destruction and waste in the way of suppuration; and that inflammation in them has a greater tendency, under all circumstances, to take on the chronic character. In consequence of the difficulty and delay that attend tissue formation, it is not easy to bring a suppurating surface to the point of cicatrization. The granulations are usually pale, flabby, and scanty; and they bear gently stimu- lating applications with advantage. Hence the benefit derived from the injec- tion of alcohol in the dermic abscesses of children. Hence, also, as regards the whole organism, with its equivalent defective qualities, comes the benefit derived from the purer air of the country, the more concentrated forms of food such as cod-liver oil and malt, and the drugs which increase the quan- tity of the nutritious constituents of the blood, such as iron and the hypo- phosphites. Inflammation in the Syphilitic. The permanent change impressed upon the blood, and consequently upon the whole organism, by the presence in it of the peculiar virus or poison of syphilis, is justly regarded as equivalent to a diathesis. Although the pro- cess of repair of injuries is usually effected in a normal manner in the syphi- litic, yet some uncertainty is always present as to the possible occurrence of irregular symptoms due to the presence of the poison in the system. A higher law, so to speak, seems to prevail in certain systemic diseases, which confers a paramount power upon the directly nutritive function as regards its con- structive manifestations. A patient suffering from cancer, is more liable, in some phases of the disease, to fracture of bone. This accident has occurred from simply changing the position of a patient in bed; and yet union of the fracture has followed in the usual time. Most of the manifestations of syphilis are inflammatory in their character. There is a tendency to local hypenemia or congestion, and also to exudation, provoked by the irritating quality of the poison present in the blood, and, also, to cell germination, and, in a vague, purposeless way, to the formation of fibroid tissue. These manifestations have the peculiarity of occurring in