92 INFLAMMATION. infusion, which have putrefied for a long time, appear to act less injuriously than fluids which have putrefied for a few days only. Of these latter fluids, as, for instance, of blood which lias not putrefied too long, five drops is sufficient to kill a mouse within a short time. In this case marked symptoms may be observed in the animal immediately after the injection. It becomes restless, running about constantly, but showing great weakness and uncertainty in all its movements ; it refuses food, the respiration becomes irregular and slow, and deatli takes place in four to eight hours. In such a case the greater part of the fluid injected is found in the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the back in much the same condition as before it was injected. It contains bacteria of the most diverse forms, irregularly mixed together, and as numerous as when examined before injection. No inflammation can be observed in the neighborhood of the place of injec- tion. The internal organs are also unaltered. If blood taken from the right auricle be introduced into another mouse no effect is produced. Bacteria cannot be found in any of the internal organs, nor in the blood of the heart. An infective disease has, there- fore, not been produced as the result of the injection. On the other hand, there can be no doubt that the death of the animal was due to the soluble poison, sepsin, which has been shown by the researches of Bergmann, Panum, and various other investigators, to exist in putrid blood. The animal has accordingly died not from an infective disease, but simply from the effects of a chemical poison.” This poison is, apparently, of the same nature as serpent venom, producing its deadly effect in a few hours by acting directly upon the nervous centres, without the intervention of bacteria. Subsequently when, in other experi- ments, a smaller dose of the putrid fluid was injected under the skin of a mouse, the symptoms made their appearance more slowly, and they were strikingly different in character, causing death in from forty to sixty hours, instead of from four to eight. Here the symptoms were evidently those of an infective disease, for the blood Avas found swarming with bacteria. When the blood of a mouse dying in this way was injected under the skin of a healthy mouse, death followed with precisely the same symptoms, namely, those of septicaemia. So that AATe are justified in concluding from these ex- periments that inoculation with putrid fluids may produce poisonous effects by a soluble chemico-vital poison analogous to serpent venom, acting in its peculiar way; and, also, by the slower action of living organisms, acting in an entirely different Avay. Modes in avhich Poisons are Absorbed.—It is proper that, as surgeons, we should be familiar with the modes by which the poisons last under considera- tion gain access to the organism, with the view of possibly aA’erting or pre- venting their effects. The human body enjoys a certain conservative protec- tion against the influence of noxious agents. The action of all poisons is incidental and exceptional, and, it maybe assumed, prex’entible, by the use of intelligence to supplement these conservative means. Foremost amongst them is the phenomenon of life itself, which has been defined as the power of resist- ing the tendency to chemical decomposition. It is matter of general belief that diminished vitality from any cause invites the invasion, and favors the development of parasites; and that the healthy and robust are more likely to resist causes of disease. Whilst this may be the rule, there are frequent ex- ceptions to it. These exceptions arise from personal peculiarities conferring immunity, or from other conditions not yet Avithin our grasp, which enable the organism to resist causes of disease at one time, Avhilst at another time it yields unaccountably to the same poisonous influences. Thus, the man who habitually handles dead bodies, as in the dissecting room, often enjoys excellent health, and the pathologist, in the daily habit of making post-mor- tem examinations, acquires an immunity from poisons derived from this source, which could not be counted on by another individual, eA^en in appa- rently better physical condition, and perhaps fresh from country life.