256 RACHITIS. Marchand, Ragsky, Lehman, Simon, and others have found free lactic acid in the urine of persons suffering from rickets and osteo-malacia. C. Schmidt discovered lac- tic acid in the liquid of malacic shaft-hones, which were transformed into globular cysts. Encouraged by these chemical researches, I undertook a series of experiments on the action of lactic acid, administered both by the mouth and by subcutaneous injection, upon the bones of living animals, which experiments were begun in April, 1872, and continued until the end of October, 1873. The experiments were made upon five dogs, seven cats, two rabbits, and one squirrel. On dogs and cats under one year of age, the lactic acid, given either by mouth or injection, in combination with restricted ad- ministration of calcareous food, produced swelling of the epiphyses of the shaft bones and of the anterior ends of the ribs, at their attachments to the costal cartilages. This result was plain in the second week after the beginning of the lactic acid treatment. Up to the fourth and fifth weeks, the swelling of the epiphyses and of the ends of the ribs kept increasing, and then was accompanied by curvatures of the bones of the ex- tremities. As accompanying symptoms, I noticed catarrhal inflammation of the con- junctiva, of the mucosa of the bronchi, the stomach, and the intestines, with emaciation and convulsive movements of the extremities. The microscopic examination of the epiphyses gave an image fully identical with that of the epiphyses of rickety children. Upon continuing the administration of the lactic acid, the swelling of the epiphyses of the shaft bones gradually increased, and so did the curvatures of the shaft bones. Af- ter four or five months of lactic acid treatment, under often repeated catarrhal inflam- mations of the above named mucous layers, the shaft bones became soft to such a degree that they could be bent like the branches of a willow-tree. After from four to eleven months of the same treatment, the microscopic examination of the bones gave a result corresponding with that obtained from the bones of women who have died with osteo- malacia. On the three herbivorous animals no swelling of the epiphyses was noticeable. One rabbit died three months and the other five months after the commencement of admin- istration of the lactic acid, but with symptoms of inanition. No marked evidences of rachitis or malacia were traceable in the bones of these animals. The squirrel, on the contrary, which died after thirteen months of treatment with lactic acid, gave all the features of osteo-malacia. My experiments yive the result that by continuous administration of lactic acid, at frst rickets, and afterwards osteo-malacia, can be artificially produced in flesh-eaters ; while in herbivorous animals, osteo-malacia sets in without preceding symptoms of rickets. Through these experiments I have proved the identity in nature of these two diseases, the differences in their course being due to the difference in the age at which the solution of the lime salts is established. . . Rickets can be produced on dogs and cats only under the age of ten or twelve months. Mr. Hess fed with lactic acid a dog of the age of one and a half years, and failed to produce rickets. This result is in full agreement with my experiments. I maintain that lactic acid, though not free in the blood, if in contact with the tissues producing bone, or with fully developed bone, owing to its great affinity for lime, either prevents the formation of bone (rickets), or dissolves ready-made bone (osteo-malacia). On the other hand, rachitis sometimes occurs in infants who present no history of indigestion or of intestinal catarrh, and in whom there is no ground for the belief that lactic or any other acid is produced in undue or injurious quantity. In a considerable proportion of such cases, inquiry elicits the fact of anti-hygienic conditions, hut there is no evidence of imperfect digestion, or of gastro-intestinal catarrh, such as produces lactic acid. In the cases oc- curring in the New York Infant Asylum, alluded to above, some of the chil- dren had manifest gastro-intestinal derangement; but others, who were wet- nursed, gave no evidence of faulty digestion, though the nutriment which they received was probably insufficient; for, as already stated, by providing a more liberal diet, by allowing among other articles the juice of meat, rachitis became much less frequent, and is seldom observed at present among the in- fants of that institution, unless in a very mild form. Virchow and others have suggested that the prime factor in causing rachitis