INTERROGATION OF THE INTERNAL ORGANS. 353 would, if their origin was not understood, assume the gravest significance in the mind of the practitioner. In studying the bearings of this division of the subject, the inquiry should commence at the mouth, and pass downward to the termination of the intestinal tube, including the different glandular organs contained in the abdominal cavity. In the tumid, fissured and pale lip, are to be seen the indications of struma, and of anaemia ; in the soft, spongy and bleeding gum, a scorbutic state of the blood, or the constitutional effects of mercury or of phosphorus. The inflamed and swollen gum satisfactorily explains the fretfulness, otalgia, startings and convulsions of the infant. The constitutional effects of silver, of lead, and not unfrequently of tubercular disease, are shown in character- istic lines upon the gums. Among the multiform manifestations of syphilis are the notched incisor teeth of the permanent set. The failure of a tooth to appear in the dental arch, if associated with enlargement of the jaw, suggests the probability of a dental cyst; while an inflammatory swelling and abscess of the face and neck, about the angle of the jaw in the adult, will direct the attention of the surgeon to the possible eruption of a wisdom tooth. The tongue constitutes an important index of both general and local dis- order. The dry tongue is a common attendant of febrile excitement, and is the result of arrested secretion. A similar appearance of the organ is seen in persons who sleep with the mouth open, and is due to evaporation of the natural moisture of the part. Habitual dryness of the tongue from this cause should lead the practitioner to examine the nasal cavities for polypi or other morbid growths. A dry tongue with rigidly prominent papillre, occurring in the course of traumatic and other fevers, is always a source of anxiety to the watchful physician. The dry, red, and glazed tongue is among the com- mon signs of gastro-intestinal inflammation, as is a similar condition of the fauces and pharynx. In anaemia the organ is pale, flabby, and soft. The mating which encrusts the tongue when it is furred, is made up of epithelial cells, the debris of the various secretions of the mouth, altered blood-corpus- cles, etc. A thin white coat is an evidence of debility, and demands tonics. A heavy white coat, tinged with yellow, implies derangement of the biliary function. A dark, pasty crust, adhering in strips, and found also attached to the gums, constituting sordes, reveals blood disorganization, and is the atten- dant of low forms of fever. It should not be forgotten that a catarrh of the throat will often cause a coated tongue, when the alimentary tract in all other portions is not implicated. The form of the tongue is not without diagnostic significance. In intra-cranial inflammations, when the brain is not subjected to too much pressure from transudations, the organ will be narrow and pointed ; in chronic derangements of the digestive organs, it will become broad, fissured, and rounded at the borders; and in inflammations of the respiratory organs, it not infrequently is seen to be transversely con- cave, from depression of its centre and corresponding elevation of its sides. The motions of the tongue are well worthy of observation. A tremulous state of the organ, or difficulty in its protrusion, frequently witnessed in low fevers, betokens great danger. When thrust out to one side, there is probably a brain-lesion on the opposite side. Avgeiomatous growths appear occasionally on the tongue, and cause, in the affected part, a blue, spongy enlargement. Mucous patches on the tongue disclose constitutional syphilis. The sublingual space, where the openings of the sublingual and submaxillary salivary ducts exist, should not escape inspection. Tumors occurring in this region are likely to be either ranuhe or salivary calculi. Difficult deglutition, imperfect or guttural enunciation, cough, and stiff- ness of the neck, will demand a critical examination of the fauces and pha- vol. i.—23