343 KNOWLEDGE OBTAINED BY PERSONAL INVESTIGATION. Residence.—The influence of local conditions in affecting surgical diseases must not be overlooked. Miasma contracted during a temporary residence in some unhealthy district, will often lie dormant in the system until aroused into activity when the individual is overtaken by some accident. It is, accordingly, a great relief to the mind of the surgeon, if, on the occurrence of a rigor after an operation or injury, it be ascertained that the patient has previously been exposed to malarial influences. The effect of location in impressing certain characters on disease is well seen in the nature of many of the maladies which befall large numbers of our metropolitan populations, whose residences, situated in lanes and alleys, are often damp and badly sup- plied with either sunlight or air, and who subsist on food the quality and preparation of which render it unsuited to the purposes of nutrition. The propriety of referring to the effect of residence, the ophthalmic, glandular, and other diseases incident to defective nutrition which are usually encoun- tered in persons living in such dwellings and under such surroundings, will be apparent. Duration of Disease.—The period over which a disease extends, has no small influence in determining the question of its nature. Thus, as regards morbid growths, a tumor which has existed for several years without causing any marked uneasiness, either local or general, will probably be regarded as benignant, while one of a few months’ duration, which has rapidly increased in size, will be deemed malignant. There are, of course, some exceptions to this rule. Special Examination: Knowledge Obtained by Personal Investigation. Posture or Attitude.—The eye, when educated in the school of experi- ence, will often be able to detect the nature of a disease in the posture assumed by the patient. Incipient coxalgia is disclosed in a flexed position of the limb, in eversion of the foot, and in obliteration of the gluteo-femoral groove; dislocation of the head of the femur on the dorsum ilii will be recognized by the shortening of the limb, by inversion of the foot, and by the salient position of the trochanter major ; while in intracapsular fracture of the thigh bone, the nature of the accident will be strongly suspected on seeing the foot lie on its outer side. In acute peritonitis, the inflammation is revealed by the dorsal decubitus, flexed limbs, and distended belly; while in colic, or spasm of the muscular walls of the intestines, the patient will often lie on the abdomen. A child, who, in walking, keeps the body rigidly straight and stiff" (Fig. 21), the shoulders elevated and the arms abducted, and who moves with a shuttling gait, furnishes the evidence of spinal caries; as he does also when he squats down instead of bending in order to pick up an object from the ground (Fig. 22). A large, inflammatory effusion into the thorax or into the abdomen, generally necessitates a sitting instead of a recum- bent posture. A patient who carries an uninjured arm flexed and sup- ported by the opposite hand, with the head inclined to the damaged side, will probably be found to have a broken clavicle. Sliding down in the bed be- tokens extreme exhaustion. In all cases in which persons are seen to fix the shoulders, either by resting the hands on the bed or by throwing an arm over the back of a chair, or any unyielding support, difficulty of respiration may be safely predicated. Indeed, almost every disease and injury will betray, to some extent, its nature in the posture assumed by the patient. External Expressions of Parts.—A correct knowledge of the normal appearance or form of different parts of the body, is of inestimable value to