269 ANATOMICAL CHARACTERS OF RACHITIS. may remain toothless for life: but I have never observed such a case. Ordi- narily, when the rachitic state ceases, and the health is fully restored, denti- tion goes on as before. The arrest of teething, so easily observed, has long been considered one of the most reliable diagnostic signs. The physician cannot justly pronounce on the nature of the disease in a case of suspected rachitis, unless he first carefully inspects the gums. Changes in the Soft Tissues.—Although the conspicuous lesions of rickets pertain to the skeleton, the soft tissues are also more or less implicated. The ligaments become relaxed and fiabby, giving unusual mobility to the joints, and unsteadiness to the movements. The fibrous bands which unite the ver- tebrae, as well as the ligaments of the extremities, participate in the relaxa- tion. In certain patients, the muscles throughout the system, partly, perhaps, in consequence of the gastro-intestinal disturbance, indigestion, and mal-nutri- tion; partly, perhaps, from want of use (for the rachitic are apt to be quiet), become shrunken and fiabby. The spleen is frequently enlarged, as ascertained by palpation and percussion. Ritter Von Rittershain found this organ deci- dedly enlarged in ten out of thirty-five cases which he examined after death. The enlargement is the result of cellular proliferation, common in diseases which are attended by dyscrasia. The liver in many patients undergoes no perceptible change, except that it may be pushed a little downwards. It is occasionally found enlarged from fatty infiltration, but no special significance attaches to this, for fatty liver is common in various forms of disease attended by innutrition and wasting. It is common in tuberculosis, and in protracted intestinal catarrh, and its pathological significance appears to be the same in these various diseases. There can be little doubt that Sir Wm. Jenner errs when he states that albuminoid infiltration of the liver is common in rachitis. Parry, Gee, Dickinson, and Senator agree that it is rare, and that if it does occur, it is by coincidence. In a discussion on rachitis, in the London Pathological Society, Dr. Dickinson1 spoke of enlargement of the spleen, liver, and lymphatic glands, which he had observed in rachitic cases. According to him, the spleen undergoes the greatest enlargement, the lymphatic glands the least, and, of the latter, “ the mesenteric glands show the most de- cided swelling.” Exceptionally, the spleen is so large that it occupied the greater part of the left half of the abdominal cavity, but a less degree of enlargement is the rule. The liver is apt to extend one or two inches below the ribs. The swelling, Dr. Dick- inson adds, is not amyloid. “ There is no new growth or deposit, only an irregular development of the proper tissues of the organs.” Both the corpuscular and intersti- tial elements are increased in the liver, spleen, and lymphatic glands. But other members of the society had observed this enlargement only in occasional cases, and they considered it due rather to the state of health which caused rachitis than to rachitis itself. Dr. C. Hilton Fagge stated that he had failed to find swelling of the liver, spleen, or lymphatic glands, in a large majority of cases.2 An undue development of the lym- phatic glands from hyperplasia is very common in children in various states of ill-health, and the mesenteric glands are especially apt to become enlarged from this cause in pro- tracted cases of intestinal catarrh or irritation. The abdomen is protuberant from various causes. The lateral depression of the thoracic walls causes the liver and spleen to descend a little lower in the abdominal cavity than natural. The enlargement of the liver and spleen, the feeble tonicity ot the intestinal muscular fibres, and consequent distension of the intestines with gas; and the rachitic shortening of the spinal column, which causes approximation ot the ribs and pelvis, necessarily produce ab- dominal protuberance. 1 Lancet, December 11, 1880. 2 Lancet, November 20, 1880.