CONTRACTILITY OF THE CAPILLARIES. 9 animals and in living man—for instance, liow quickly the face of a man can become as pale as death—we are very easily led to suppose that the capillaries of the adult can contract until their lumen has almost disappeared; for it is difficult to imagine that an organ can look perfectly bloodless unless the capillaries have been completely emptied. If my experiments with older animals were not always successful, this may have been due to the arrangement of the experiments themselves. Originally I made all my observations on curarized tadpoles,1 because experiments where stimuli are employed cannot he made under the microscope with living animals unless they are paralyzed; the stimulus applied to the vessel also makes the entire animal twitch, and the vessel under observation is removed from the field of view. Curare paralyzes the nerves of the voluntary muscles, and the animal lies perfectly motionless if the stimuli are not excessively powerful. But we now know that curare also weakens the vaso-motor nerves. The vessels of curarized animals do not react to stimuli as do those of the unpoisoned animal. As important, then, as these experiments may have been for the discovery of contractility in general, they are not altogether reliable for a complete and lucid representation of the subject. We must therefore remain satisfied, for the present, to accept the following as the doctrine of contractility of the capillaries: The capillaries, it has been demonstrated, possess in an embryonic state the property of responding to certain stimuli by a contraction of their lumen. With increasing age, however, they become more resistant; their irritability diminishes. We do not know if the irritability ever disappears entirely in the course of life. Fig. 3. The Contractility of the Capillaries compared to the Contractility of the Cells of Glands.—If we reflect, now, what contractions a tube must undergo in order to narrow its lumen, it appears that in form also the con- tractility of the capillaries cannot be compared with that of the muscles. When a muscle contracts it becomes shorter and thicker; but a capillary cannot diminish its length. How, then, is the narrow- ing of the tube brought about? Golubew2 (a pupil of Rollett) has found that protuberances are formed on the inner wall of capillaries when contracting. By the formation of these protuberances, the lumen becomes narrower. Such swellings, said Golubew furthermore, are formed in certain places only. The capillaries there- fore are contractile at these points only; here alone can they become narrower. I can confirm the statement con- cerning the formation of swellings, which, usually, are not exactly opposite each other. The condition is ordi- narily such that the swellings are somewhat displaced laterally (as represented in Fig. 3), and the narrowed lumen of the vessel thus acquires a slightly undulat- ing curve. But I must add that the tube becomes narrower, not only at the swollen places, but through- out its whole length, although the lumen is entirely closed at the swollen places sooner than elsewhere. Moreover, it has seemed to me as if the portions of the vessel which lacked these swellings also became thicker during the process of contraction. I say it has seemed so, because the confirmation of a minute increase in thickness is difficult. Besides it is self-evident that a tube which becomes narrower must either form folds or 1 I cannot here go into details and recite all the subsequent variations of the experiment. 2 Archiv fur mikrosk. Anatomie, Bd. V.