448 OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. Other Means of Producing Anaesthesia.—Allusion has already been made to the use of the vapor of bromide of ethyl as an anaesthetic agent. Its properties in this respect were first demonstrated by Mr. Eunnely, of Leeds, who, in 1865, used it in surgical operations. The difficulty of its prepara- tion and its great cost led, however, to its abandonment, especially as at that time it did not appear to possess any qualities which rendered its employ- ment more advantageous than that of other substances. In 1879, its use was revived by Drs. Levis and Turnbull in Philadelphia, and a wide application of its powers was speedily made. At a first view, it seemed that the long- desirecl anaesthetic had at last been found in an agent which was not disagree- able to inhale, which produced anaesthesia with great promptness and without much nausea or vomiting, and from the effects of which the patient recovered as rapidly as he had passed under them. More extended observation, how- ever, showed that the employment of the new agent was fraught with danger, and that its seductive qualities were more than counterbalanced by their attendant perils. Its exhibition wTas marked by rapidly developed anaesthesia, accompanied by much muscular rigidity and spasm, apparently of a tetanic character, and, at times, reaching almost to opisthotonos. While in the great majority of cases patients did well, still, instances occurred in which they were rescued from the combined condition of coma and asphyxia only by the most active measures, including the use of the nitrite of amyl. Excellent and powerful as the agent was in many respects, its continued use seemed to he undesirable on account of the certain peril which attended it. Its em- ployment has, therefore, been abandoned, and, as we think, wisely. The employment, .under the name of chloric ether, of a mixture of ether and chloroform, has been strongly advocated by many surgeons. It has been stated that, by the admixture of one part of chloroform to five of ether by weight, a compound agent is obtained which combines the advantages of ether and chloroform, and is yet free from the objections to both—the stimulating effects of the former counteracting the depressing influences of the latter. By some the proportion of chloroform in the mixture is greatly increased. There is no doubt that “chloric ether” acts promptly and effi- ciently, but it is questionable whether the dangers incident to chloroform do not still exist, since it is probable that the chloroform acts in its characteristic manner, unchanged by its combination, or rather mixture, with ether. Erom a prolonged experience with this compound agent, the writer believes that the alleged immunity to danger is not obtained, and that the chloroform still exerts its effects as chloroform per se. Nitrons oxide is occasionally employed, as an anaesthetic. Its use is, how- ever, greatly restricted by its transitory effects, and by the rapidity with which the patient emerges from its influence. It is only suitable for the slightest operations, and possesses no advantages over ether employed as already described. Mode of Conducting an Operation. In the performance of the operation itself, the skill, readiness, and self-com- mand of the surgeon are tested to the utmost. He should always be master of the situation, and should stand prepared for every emergency. Order must characterize all his arrangements, and every step must be well considered beforehand, and executed with promptness—free from hesitation, and yet de- void of all appearance of haste. The same deliberation should characterize the final as the initial steps of the operation. Sir James Paget, in his admi- rable chapter on the “ Calamities of Surgery,” has so vividly portrayed that