605 STRUCTURE AND DISEASES OF STUMPS. may place the patient’s life in jeopardy, and require re-amputation. Diffuse suppurative osteomyelitis is always a very grave affection, often ending in pytemia and death, and particularly when it occurs in the femur, a bone spe- cially exposed to this destructive form of inflammation when its medullary cavity is laid open, as it necessarily must be in most amputations of the thigh. Ivonig reports a cure, in a case of this kind, effected by scooping out the dis- eased" medulla and stuffing the cavity with cotton saturated with a strong solution of chloride of zinc; but, ordinarily, the best mode of treatment con- sists in re-amputating at the nearest joint—an operation which, though appa- rently of a desperate character, has proved very successful in the hands of Roux and Arlaud, and has been advantageously resorted to by Sir J. Fayrer, even after the development of pytemic symptoms. Necrosis is a very common affection of stumps. In most cases the death of bone is limited to a more or less perfect ring, corresponding to the line of section, and is apparently due to the bruising of the part by the teeth of the saw; when, however, the necrosis follows upon osteitis, subperiosteal suppu- ration, or osteomyelitis—or all combined—it is sometimes very extensive, and may involve almost all that remains of the shaft of the bone. Every patho- logical or surgical museum embraces specimens of the long, conical, and often tubular sequestra which are found under these circumstances, and which are simply the result of inflammatory action of a high grade. An ingenious attempt has been made to explain the occurrence of these sequestra by attri- buting it to injury of the nutritious artery, which is, of course, often divided in amputations; but it seems to have been overlooked that a precisely similar form of necrosis occurs as a result of osteitis in cases in which no operation at all has been performed. Rot only is the sequestrum often tubular, hut it is not unfre juently lined, as well as surrounded, with living bone—the medulla undergoing a retrograde metamorphosis into osseous tissue at the same time that an involucrum is being formed by the periosteum. This fact was long ago observed by Copland Hutchison,1 and more recent illustrations have been recorded by several writers, including M. Demarquay, of Paris, Prof. Markoe, of Row York, and Dr. Packard, of this city ; the first philosophical explanation of the occurrence appears to have been given by M. Ollier, of Lyons. The treatment of necrosis in a stump consists in removing the seques- trum as soon as it has become loose; this can usually be effected without difficulty by simply seizing the sequestrum with forceps, and drawing it out with a rocking or twisting motion; occasionally, however, the dead bone may be firmly held in place by the periosteal formation of new bone around it, or even by osseous bands extending from this to the ossified medulla— under which circumstances the involucrum must be cut away until the source of obstruction is removed. Under no circumstances can simple necrosis in a stump, no matter how extensive, necessitate re-amputation. This operation may, however, as already mentioned, be required by what is sometimes called acute, necrosis, but which should more properly be termed diffuse subperiosteal suppuration. Caries is sometimes met with in the bone of a stump, usually when the am- putation has been performed for scrofulous or syphilitic disease, or, if for injury, wdien the patient is a subject of one of these diatheses. The treatment, be- sides the adoption of suitable constitutional measures, consists in injecting the sinuses which lead to carious bone, with tincture of iodine, one of the mineral acids properly diluted, or, which I have sometimes used with advan- Some Practical Observations in Surgery, illustrated by cases, page 130. London, 1816.