AMPUTATIONS. 594 Fig. 153. wag Very extensively employed during our late war. The stump is simply laid upon a pillow protected with a piece of oil-cloth and a towel or fold of linen, and then another piece of linen, or lint, wrung out of cold water, laid over it, and constantly moistened by an attendant, or, if practicable, by the adjustment of an irrigating apparatus (Fig. 153). There is no better or more soothing application to a recent stump, in hot weather, than this simple cold-water dressing; it, how- ever, requires constant supervision on the part of the attendant, and, unless care be taken to arrange the pillow and oil-cloth so that the drip may fall into a bucket or basin suitably placed, the water will flow backwards into the bed and keep the patient constantly wet, thus exposing him to great discomfort, as well as to the risk of becoming chilled, and, perhaps, falling a victim to pneumonia or other internal inflammation. Hence while recognizing the advantages of this mode of dressing in army practice, or in cases of emergency, I do not recom- mend its general employment. In connection with the cold-water dressing of ampu- tation wounds, I may briefly mention the continuous bath of Langenbeck and Lefort, recently revived by Prof. Hamilton, of Hew York, and, with the modification of carbolizing the hath, so as to make if antisep- tic, by Prof. Yerneuil, of Paris. Irrigating apparatus for cold-water dressing. Air Dressing.—I would venture to propose this name for the plan of treat- ing amputation wounds recommended by Mr. Teale, of Leeds, and Prof. Humphry, of Cambridge, and advocated with the great ability and eloquence which characterized all his writings, by the late Sir J. Y. Simpson, of Edin- burgh. Mr. Teale, after directing that the wound should be closed with sutures, says :—1 “ After the patient has been carried to bed, the stump is laid on a pillow, over which a large sheet of gutta-percha tissue has been spread. No dressing whatever is required in the early part of the treatment. A light piece of linen or gauze is thrown loosely over the stump and pillow, and these are protected from the pressure of the bedclothes by a wire-work guard. . . . The attendants and nurses must be strictly enjoined not to lift the stump from the pillow without the authority of the surgeon. As there are no dressings to be soiled, and therefore to require removal, the stump generally need not be raised from the pillow for many days, or .even for two or three weeks. When there is a discharge of matter, the nurse must remove it frequently by a soft sponge from the subjacent gutta-percha without lifting the stump.” Prof. Humphry,2 refering to the well-known fact that wTounds of the face not unfrequently heal by the first intention, says:— “ This is due, in great measure, to the vital qualities of these parts, and, in some degree, also, I apprehend, to the fact that they are usually exposed to the air, their edges being held in contact merely by sutures. For some years we have adopted this plan after amputations, and all, or nearly all, other operations. The integuments are united by sutures placed at intervals of about an inch ; and the wound, as well as the adjacent surface, is left quite exposed to the air ; no plaster, bandage, or dressing of any kind being placed upon it.” 1 Op. cit., page 9. * British Medical Journal, October, 1860, p. 840, quoted by Simpson, Acupressure, page 130. Edinburgh, 1864.