208 PYJ3MIA AND ALLIED CONDITIONS. are seen after childbirth. A woman, after a natural labor, is doing perfectly well, until on the fourth day she is seized with rigors, a febrile movement, and vomiting. The temperature runs up to 104°, there is great prostration, the woman looks very ill. She remains in this condition for 48 hours ; then, after repeated syringing, a small piece of putrid membrane is discharged from the uterus. Within half an hour the temperature has fallen to the normal, and the patient has no other bad symptoms. The cases may be even more serious than this; J. Matthews Duncan reports the following:— A. E. was delivered naturally of her second child on June 8. Flooding occurred after the birth of the child, and slight loss of blood continued for seven days. Then the lochia became fetid. On the eighth day, she had rigors, which were repeated daily. She was brought into the hospital on the tenth day, and was delirious that night. On the eleventh day, she complained of no pain, was pale, sick, frequently vomiting, with diarrhoea, the uterus tender, breath sweet, respiration 44, pulse 146, temperature 104°, copious flow of stinking lochia. A piece of placenta was removed from the vagina. Under the influence of chloroform the hand was introduced into the uterus, and adherent placental masses were removed. The whole genital tract was then washed out with a solution of carbolic acid. That night the delirium ceased; the pulse was 100, the temperature 101°. After this, the recovery was uninterrupted. Similar symptoms are seen in some persons who have received wounds. A man, 19 years old, was shot in the popliteal space. On the same day the bullet was extracted, and the wound dressed antiseptically. The wound discharged so freely a sero-sanguineous and sero-purulent fluid, that the antiseptic dressings were renewed on the 1st, 2d, 4th, 5th, and 6th days after the injury. On the 2d day, the tem- perature was 100° F. in the evening. On the 4th day, the temperature was 101° in the evening; on the 6th day, 102° throughout the day. But, except for the febrile movement, the patient was feeling well. On the 7th day, the dressing was renewed; and it was found that the edges of the wound were dark-colored and sloughing; tempe- rature 100°-102°. On the 8th day, the dressing was again renewed; the wound was unhealthy and smelt badly, temperature 100° ; general condition of patient con- tinued good. On the 13th day, there was so much bleeding that it was necessary to 1 istate the popliteal artery; this was done antiseptically, temperature 98°-102°. On the 14th and loth days, the dressings were changed; there was a good deal of bad smelling discharge from the wound, temperature 100°-101°. On the 16th day, the wound was foul and sloughing, temperature 101°-103°. From the 17th to the 25th days, the patient had repeated rigors, followed by sweating, temperature 98°-102°, wound continued unhealthy; patient lost flesh and strength ; there was apparently a thrombus in one of the superficial veins of the leg. After the 25th day, the condition of the wound improved, the temperature fell; the rigors and sweating gradually ceased. By the 46th day, the wound had healed, and the patient was well. In this case, notwithstanding antiseptic dressings, the wound became un- healthy and contained putrefying tissue and fluids. While the wound remained hi this condition, there was a febrile movement of moderate inten- sity, and a gradual loss of flesh and strength; the rigors and sweating may have been due to the venous thrombosis. When the wound became healthy, and the putrefying substances had disappeared, the symptoms ceased and the patient recovered. If the amount of putrefying tissue is sufficiently large, and if it is not re- moved, the symptoms of poisoning continue, and the patient dies. A man, 38 years old, who had suffered for several years from disease of the knee, submitted to resection of that joint. On the day after the operation, there was some fever. The wound was not dressed antiseptically, a thin sanious fluid exuded from it. There was no attempt at repair until the 7th day, when the superficial portions of the wound commenced to granulate. The fever continued, the patient emaciated, and on