587 OPERATIVE METHODS EMPLOYED IN AMPUTATION. although it is a fact that the true muscular substance gradually disappears from a stump, the fibrous sheaths of the muscles remain, and, becoming condensed into a thick and resisting mass, form a useful pad for protecting the sawn extremity of the bone. (4) Langenbeck’s method, which has already been incidentally mentioned, consists in cutting double flaps from without inwards. This plan presents the advantage of enabling the surgeon to shape his flaps more accurately, and to better insure their symmetry, than when they are formed by transfixion. In making antero-posterior flaps by this method, the posterior flap, contrary to the rule before given, should be cut first; the reason for this is that if the hinder flap were left to be formed last, the line of incision would be obscured by the blood flowing from the anterior portion of the wound. Langenbeck’s method may sometimes be advantageously combined with Vermale’s, one flap being cut from within outwards, and the other by trans- fixion ; in some localities, as the leg, this is the plan ordinarily adopted, the subcutaneous position of the tibia rendering it very difficult to cut an ante- rior flap here except in this way. This combination-flap method is also very well adapted for amputations of the thigh just above the knee. Another combination of these two methods was practised by Dupuytren and Larrey, who cut through the skin from without inwards, and then completed their flaps by transfixion.1 (5) Teale’s Method,, or Amputation by a, Long and a Short Rectangular Flap.— This mode of operating, which unquestionably affords a most admirable stump, Avas first practised by its inventor, the late Mr. Teale, of Leeds, in June, 1855.2 There are tivo flaps cut from without inwards, as in Langen- Fig. 151. beck’s method, but Avitb the peculiarity that they are rectangular, and that Avhile they are equally wide, one is just four times as long as the other (Fig. 151). The long flap is taken from the side of the limb on which there is 1 Lisfranc, op. cit., tome i. p. 733. 2 On Amputation by a Long and a Short Rectangular Flap. By Thomas P. Teale, F.L.S., F.R.C.S., etc., page 13. London, 1858.