254 RACHITIS. fourth 'week.1 This should not, however, he regarded as a sign of rachitis, unless the enlargement be so great that it can be readily appreciated by ex- amination through the' integument, or by sight, for in young children, with the bones in the process of normal development, these joints usually have a diameter a little larger than that of the ribs. Rachitis, with few exceptions, begins within the first eighteen months of life. Though first detected and diagnosticated at a later date, it will ordinarily be ascertained, on inquiry, that its symptoms had an earlier beginning. Still, according to certain ob- servers, it may have a considerably later commencement. Glisson, Portal, and Tripier state that they have seen it commence in children who were well on towards the age of puberty. Sir Wm. Jenner states that he has seen children of seven and eight years, who were only beginning to suffer from rachitis.2 Tlie following are the aggregate statistics of Bruennische, von Rittershain, and Ritsche, relating to the age at which rachitis occurs :— During the first half year, .... “ “ second half of first year, “ “ “ year, .... “ “ third year, .... “ “ fourth year, .... “ “ fifth year, .... Between the fifth and ninth years, Aggregate, Causes of Rachitis. Inheritance.—In some infants there is an undoubted hereditary predispo- sition to rachitis. Feeble digestion and defective assimilation in the infant, which are, as wTe shall see, important factors in producing the rachitic state, are often traceable to disease or cachexia of one or both parents. The offspring of a tubercular, syphilitic, or otherwise enfeebled parent, is more likely to become rachitic than those of healthy and robust ancestry; and it appears that disease of the mother is more apt to entail a rachitic predisposition than that of the father. Among the parental causes may be mentioned poverty, hardships, and defective nutrition of either parent; age of the father, and exhausting discharges of the mother, such as purulent, hemorrhoidal, or uterine fluxes. Food.—Of the exciting causes, the most common is the use of food not sufficiently nutritive, or, if nutritious, not suited to the age and digestive powers of the child. Thin and poor breast milk, and artificial food of poor quality, or not suitable for the stage of growth and development, are common causes of rickets. Those children who have been prematurely weaned, and who have been given a food which is not a proper substitute for the natural aliment, and those too long wet-nursed and not allowed the additional aliment which they require, are especially liable to this disease. Those whose di- gestive power is feeble, from whatever cause, are more apt to become rachitic than those who, in a state of robust health, have a hearty digestion. Hence we meet with rickets as a sequel of various protracted and exhausting mala- dies during infancy. No. of Cases. . 99 . 259 . 342 . 134 . 31 . 17 . 21 . 903 1 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. iv. 2 Lancet, December 11, 1880.