192 ERYSIPELAS. all that tend to assume a typhoid type, the sagacity of a physician is dis- played less in the general plan of treatment he pursues, than in the modifica- tions by which he adapts it to the peculiarities of individual cases. He will keep constantly in mind that he is not treating an abstract disease with ab- stract remedies, but human beings, whose health or life may depend upon his use of agents that may be mischievous or salutary, according to the manner in which they are employed. In no disease more than in erysipelas, have greater errors been committed by overlooking its natural history. Internal medicines, the most diverse in their nature and the most opposite in their effects, have, at different times, or by different physicians, been equally vaunted as cures for this disease. At one time depletion, at another stimulants, now sedatives, and now tonics, have been in vogue, while external applications, as opposite to one another as oil or mucilage, on the one hand, and mercury, iron, and nitrate of silver, on the other, have alike enjoyed a temporary or local favor. One acquainted with the history of therapeutics must regard the claims constantly and con- fidently put forward in favor of successive remedies, as exhibiting a very in- sufficient acquaintance either with this particular disease or with the laws which should govern the search after truth. The instructed pathologist and therapeutist knows that the majority of the cases of acute disease tend, under favorable circumstances, to recovery, and therefore require only a palliative and expectant treatment; and he also knows that under exceptional circum- stances, as during certain epidemics, death is the necessary end of most of the cases. Only on the middle ground between these two extremes is it that the physician is of much avail to determine the issue; at either extreme his influence is limited to smoothing the way to death, or rendering easier and more pleasant a return to health. To abstain from interference when it is needless, is as high a duty as to interfere when it is necessary, and rightly to judge how far the intervention should proceed. It may be laid down as the law of non-epidemic erysipelas in general, when it occurs in a previously healthy person, and is not complicated with septicaemia in traumatic cases, that it tends spontaneously to recovery; and that in simple, or so-called idio- pathic cases, such a result may be looked for within a week. Even if it be possible to shorten this duration by the use of certain medicines, the gain is a gain of time rather than of life over death. Such is the verdict of experience, and no ingenuity of scientific pleading can set it aside. “ When,” said Trousseau, “ a patient suffering from erysip- elas is placed under my care, my rule is to abstain from every kind of treat- ment,” and he adds that such had been his plan for twenty-eight years, and that, thanks to it, he could not remember losing more than three persons from erysipelas during that period. lie insisted on the importance of keeping patients in bed, both "in the acute stage and during convalescence, to prevent their catching cold and suffering relapse; he prescribed acidulated drinks, laxatives if the bowels were confined, and purgatives if the vomiting were violent. But he insisted also on the necessity of giving food, in spite of fever and even of delirium, and of avoiding whatever would debilitate, such as low diet, depletion, purgation, or the use of sedatives. In a like spirit with Trousseau, that very accomplished English physician, Latham, said “ erysip- elas is a disease that may be treated, but not cured;”1 and Gosselin, the eminent French surgeon, declares that “ erysipelas can be arrested by no treatment whatever.”2 In ordinary cases, then, of erysipelas, that is to say, in cases of average 1 Works, New Sydenham Society’s edition, vol. ii. p. 461. 2 Nouveau Dietionnaire, t. xiv. p. 30.