SHOCK. 360 these, the severity of the resulting shock may he much reduced. In all, the danger is great in proportion to the proximity of the injury to the trunk, a fact that is conclusively shown by the results of amputations on the lower limbs; and it would seem as if the injury to the bone itself had some special influence, for Pirogotf1 saw two men die on the table during amputation through the thigh (one for injury, the other for chronic disease of the knee- joint), at the instant that the hone was being sawn through; a spasmodic contraction passed over the muscles of the body, the face became pale, the eyes lost their lustre, the pupils dilated, and death followed at once—in neither case Avas an anaesthetic administered. Furneaux Jordan2 too', watch- ing a thermometer placed in the axilla, while an amputation AATas being per- formed, observed on several occasions a drop of as much as one-fifth of a degree during the application of the saAV. There is a special gravity attached to those cases of shock which result from railway accidents, probably in no small measure OAving to the part taken in their production by mental causes, and to the general concussion sustained by the body in its suddenly suspended motion; for instances of severe and lasting shock, often assuming most insidious forms, are met with from time to time in occurrences of this kind, without there being any definite or marked bodily lesion, and, indeed, are often the more severe when this is quite absent, and there is no other expla- nation than a general or mental cause. Simple concussion of the brain would present a frequent and good example of shock, if it were possible to eliminate and set aside the symptoms that depend upon the injury inflicted on the brain-substance itself, probably present in all, even the slightest cases, and productive of indirect as Avell as of direct results, if any reliance is to be placed on experimentation.3 As accidents involving the extremities are folloAved by shock, other things being equal, in proportion to their proximity to the trunk, so it might rea- sonably be supposed that injuries inflicted on the trunk itself would present cases of the greatest severity; and this is true not only of accidents that iiwolve considerable damage to organs or textures—damage that might of itself render difficult the continuance of functions necessary to the mainten- ance of life,—but also of slighter injuries, blows or contusions, that in other parts of the body would scarcely be noticed, but which here are often, and sometimes unexpectedly, followed by results of the gravest character. Few can have passed through school-life without having experienced the effect of a bloAV on the scrotum, or on the fit of the stomach: the intense collapse and complete prostration that supervene at once, and may even terminate fatally, as cricketing annals unhappily shoAv. Fischer4 relates a case of death with all the symptoms of the deepest shock, following a few hours after a testicle had been crushed; and Erichsen mentions as a frequent occurrence in castra- tion, the sinking of the pulse at the moment of division of the spermatic cord, even when the patient is fully under the influence of an anaesthetic. But it is not a little singular that, in spite of the generally received tradition on such matters, and of the undeniably graATe symptoms which are so notori- ously produced, there should not be recorded one single case in which death has followed in a healthy man immediately upon a blotv on the abdomen, without injury to any of the subjacent viscera. Even the classical instance given by Sir Astley Cooper, and always quoted as an example, of the laborer who Avliile Avheeling a barroAV, received a slight blow in the epigastrium and fell down dead, cannot be admitted,5 though it is supported by such authority; for it did not occur within his OAvn practice, and in the account left of it 1 Kriegschirurgie, S. 89. 2 Hastings Essay on Shock. 3 Goltz, P Auger's Archiv, 1876. 4 Volkmann’s Sammlung klinischer Vortrage, No. 10. 6 Pollock, Holmes’s System of Surgery.