189 PROGNOSIS OF ERYSIPELAS. First, in regard to medical erysipelas occurring primarily and confined to the skin, the prognosis is generally favorable. One of the greatest of French clinicians, Chomel, declared that he had never seen a fatal case of primary erysipelas of the face ; and Trousseau, whose immense experience gives his statement great weight in such a matter, stated that of the large number of cases of this affection which he had seen, not more than three had proved fatal. During a period of four years he met with but one death in fifty- seven hospital cases, and in it the hairy scalp was involved. Indeed, he was disposed to regard this most ordinary form of the disease as benignant in its character, and even less fatal than bronchitis; and he charged that where recoveries had taken place after the use of bleeding or purging, or the em- ployment of emetics, blisters, or cauterizations, they had occurred not in con- sequence of the treatment, but in spite of it.1 Our own experience coincides perfectly with this, for we have never yet met with a fatal case of primary, idiopathic erysipelas of the face in hospital or in private practice, where the disease was submitted to a palliative or a supporting treatment. But we have seen it fatal under the use of evacuant, sedative, and so-called alterative measures. If, however, we take all the accessible reports of the mortality from idio- pathic erysipelas of the skin, which have emanated from hospitals, especially in Europe, a different result is obtained. For instance, in the Parisian hos- pitals, in 1862, there occurred 759 cases of various forms of non-traumatic erysipelas. Of these, nearly 17 per cent, terminated fatally, while in the fol- lowing year the mortality was only 8.5 per cent. In still stronger contrast with the usual mortality of the disease, as it is seen in this country, the fur- ther statement may be made that during the two periods just mentioned, in Paris, the mortality of surgical erysipelas was, for the former, nearly 78 per cent., and for the latter nearly 77 per cent. In this country no such lament- able results have ever been observed, not even during our civil war. It has been stated elsewhere that erysipelas occurring within the first month of life, is nearly always fatal; but once this period is passed, the issue of the disease depends upon the same general conditions as in the case of older persons, and especially upon the original vigor of the patient, and the appropriateness of the hygienic and medicinal treatment. It is proper to state once more, Avhat has been already mentioned, that the decline of an attack of erysipelas of the skin is always to be expected when the inflamed area shades off gradually into the sound skin ; while, as long as it is abrupt, a further extension may be looked for. But even after the com- plete subsidence of the inflammation, a relapse may take place, and in some persons the attack recurs repeatedly, even after long intervals. It appears that this tendency has been exaggerated by confounding together erythema and erysipelas. However this may be, the liability of erysipelas to relapse is most apt to be exhibited in hospitals and other places where a number of cases of the disease have been brought together. In his account of one hos- pital epidemic, Miller states2 that out of twenty cases, six suffered relapse, four of them once, one of them twice, and one five times; and that on almost every occasion the fresh attack could be traced to infection by a newly ad- mitted patient. According to Gosselin,3 the secondary eruption usually oc- cupies the same seat as the primary, extends more rapidly than it, runs its course in a shorter time, and always ends in cure. Erysipelas commencing distinctly in the fauces, or invading them by exten- 1 Clinical Medicine, vol. ii. p. 263. 2 Edinburgh Medical Journal, vol. xxv. p. 1095. 3 Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratiques, t. xiv. p. 25.