851 INTERROGATION OF THE INTERNAL ORGANS. nerves may be due to reflex impressions, or to organic changes in the spinal cord, or other ganglionic masses of neurine. The absence of certain reflex movements, as those proceeding from tapping the patellar tendon, the tendo Achillis, or the cremaster muscle over the spermatic cord, are supposed by some writers to indicate serious changes in the structure of the spinal marrow, though there are other authorities who attach little importance to such tests. Significance of Pain.—It is frequently found to be the case that parts which in their normal state exhibit little sensibility, become exquisitely sensi- tive when inflamed. The entire muscular system of a child is frequently thrown into violent paroxysms from an inflamed gum, which, in the healthy condition, is quite insensible. Inflammation of the hard, callous tissue of the heel, so admirably constructed to endure pressure, occasions intolerable suffer- ing. Pain, of which we are only conscious through certain impressions trans- mitted along special tracts of the medulla spinalis to the brain, thus pos- sesses diagnostic value. Pains differ in quality, location, and duration. (1) Quality of Pain.—Shooting, darting, or shuttle-like pains belong to carcinoma; burning pains to injury of the nerves and inflammation of the skin ; itching pains to poisoned wounds; dull, heavy pains to rheumatism ; gnawing or boring pains to disease of the bones; throbbing pains to inflam- matory transudations occurring in and beneath dense or unyielding struc- tures, as in whitlow and palmar abscess ; and sickening pains to contusions of the testes. (2) Location of Pain.—Disease is not always situated at the point where pain is experienced. Pain is very commonly felt at the knee, in coxalgia; at the extremity of the urethra, in vesical calculus ; along the ureters or down the thighs, in renal calculus; and at the inferior angle of the scapula, in inflammatory disorders of the liver. Disease at the root of the fifth pair of nerves will excite pain in the jaw and face. Many serious errors have been committed in locating disease by the misleading influence of local pain. (3) Duration or Constancy of Pain.—Constant pain is usually inflammatory in its origin ; intermittent pain, neuralgic. In peritonitis, the extreme sen- sibility or pain continues without abatement; in colic, it is paroxysmal; the pain of peritonitis is aggravated by pressure, while that of colic is relieved by the same means. Fixed pain, that which never shifts its position and is con- tinuous for a long time, even though not severe, should never be treated as a light matter. Fugitive pains are usually rheumatic or neuralgic. The sud- den cessation of pain in an inflamed part often announces the commencement of gangrene. The importance to be attached to pain must be regulated in some degree by the temperament of the individual suffering it. There are persons whose nervous system and whose mental and emotional natures are so constructed, that the slightest pain is followed by extravagant or exaggerated manifesta- tions of suffering; while there are others, heavy and phlegmatic in their organization, or possessing an iron will, who either do not feel pain as much as others, or who endure it with singular fortitude and stolidity. Motility.—Many obscure morbid conditions are unravelled by studying the behavior of the muscles. There are three sources from which eccentric phenomena of the muscular system may be derived: (1) the cerebro-spinal centre ; (2) the nerves which supply the muscular fasciculi; and (3) the sar- cous cells. Among the most common morbid disturbances of muscles are loss of power, tremors, spasms, twitchings, contractions, choreic movements, and wasting or atrophy. Loss of power may affect one muscle or a number of muscles; one or both