441 ANAESTHESIA. case, where the happy results of serious operations have been attributed to mere skill at the time of performance, when in truth they were not a little due to the previous painstaking and repeated examinations of the patient, and to the careful and watchful study of his idiosyncrasies. Preliminary Treatment.—Deferring for a moment the subjects of the risks of operations, and the causes influencing their results, it may be well to inquire what preliminary steps must be taken to put the patient in the best condition for the operation, when the latter is imperative, or when it has been decided upon as judicious. If the operation be one of emergency, such as herniotomy, or tracheotomy for urgent cause, preparation in a general way can scarcely be attempted. The surgeon must do his best to save life already endangered, and the patient must take his chances, such as they are. On the other hand, if the case be one of a chronic nature, certain useful precautions before opera- tion may be attempted. If the patient is in poor condition, and if time admits, the requisite diet, stimulus, and tonics may be employed, and the rest already referred to enjoined. The secretions may be attended to, and the bowels regu- lated as demanded. All previous medication,which maybe inappropriate to the time of operation, should be stopped ; and a sufficient interval allowed for the elimination from the system of such drugs as digitalis, arsenic, the iodide of potassium, and the like. If the case is one of injury demanding amputation, and the patient has not yet reacted, the bleeding should be con- trolled, and such stimulus administered as will bring about reaction, and re- lease the sufferer from the state of shock. The advisability of administering stimulus just before operation is a ques- tion which has been much discussed, and on which different opinions are now entertained. By some, a parallelism has been affirmed between the effects of alcoholic stimulus and those of the anaesthetic, especially sulphuric ether; both being regarded as agents which secondarily depress the action of the heart. Yet it is probable that the great majority of practical surgeons look favorably upon the administration of whiskey a short time prior to operation, especially if with the stimulus a small amount of opium is ad- ministered, either by the mouth or hypodermically. Clinically speaking, this conjoined exhibition of alcohol and opium is probably judicious, since it would seem to exercise a triple influence: In the first place it appears to lessen the shock of operation ; in the second it tranquillizes the patient after the operation, and prevents or soothes the subsequent pain ; and in the third place it expedites anaesthesia, and lessens the amount of ether necessary to be given. The testimony of many excellent sul'geons seems to be conclusive in this direction, and in such a matter mere theoretical opinions cannot have weight when opposed to the direct results of clinical experience. In admin- istering stimulus, care should be taken to give it three-quarters of an hour or an hour before operation. If given later than this, it may cause nausea and vomiting as the inhalation of the anaesthetic progresses—always an annoying complication, and peculiarly so at the beginning of an operation. Anaesthesia. It would be out of place in this article to enter upon the history of surgical anaesthesia, or to discuss the priority of claim of those with whom it origi- nated. It is sufficient to say that its discovery originated in Hartford, Con- necticut, in 1844, and that its first practical application for surgical purposes was made in Boston about the year 1846—the agent then employed being sul- phuric ether. In the following year the anaesthetic qualities of chloroform