313 CANCER. in the gouty may probably have for their effect the development of certain neo- plasms, especially epithelioma. Subcutaneous lesions and sprains are more liable to be followed by manifestations of the diathesis than open wounds. The traumatism in its turn, lias an effect upon the disease. There is hardly any example known of an injury contracted during an attack of gout, or which has excited the first attack of a previously latent gout. In the cases observed, the injury occurred in the interval between two attacks, in a gouty patient who had previously suffered more or less often. As a rule, the attacks thus provoked by main force develop quickly (from the first to the fourth day for example), are of but moderate intensity and brief duration, and appear to he excited preferably by slight injuries. I have, for instance, twice seen gout follow puncture of a liydrocelq. with a very fine trocar. In one case in which an injection of iodine had been made, the attack appeared to act as a derivative, for the inflammation of the tunica vaginalis was to a great extent wanting, causing extreme slowness of recovery. In cases of chronic gout or gouty cachexia in gouty subjects affected with renal or he- patic lesions, the prognosis is rendered grave. More or less serious compli- cations may invade the seat of traumatism, but must be especially attributed to the visceral changes, rather than to the gouty dyscrasia. IIerpetism.—I give this condition a place here, although I do not consider it either a distinct diathesis, or a separate constitutional disease. To my mind herpetics are simply arthritic subjects in whom the predominant manifesta- tions are on the part of the mucous membrane and the skin. IIerpetism then acts upon injuries only after the manner of rheumatism, and especially of gout, by producing at the site of the injury early or late neuralgias, either intermittent, remittent, or continuous; and, in the integument near the seat of traumatism, congestions, fluxions, and, finally, various cutaneous affections, among which herpes occupies the first rank, as shown by the numerous observations of traumatic herpes which have already been recorded. Trau- matism is undoubtedly a determining cause of herpetic manifestations; it produces cutaneous eruptions at places in which they have never appeared before, brings back with the greatest facility those which have disappeared, and prolongs the existence of those which are already present in the wounded region. Wounds, properly speaking, act much more effectually in this respect than deep-seated injuries, whether or not involving the great cavities. Cancer. Surgical operations are so frequent in cancerous individuals, that it is natu- ral to inquire whether or not cancer influences injuries, and in the event of an affirmative answer, what changes it produces in the reparative process. How it must be remembered in the first place that cancer, in spite of what has been said on the subject, is not a distinct constitutional disease; that it is included in a much more extensive diathesis, the neoplastic diathesis, or the tendency to produce neoplasms spontaneously, or under the action of a deter- mining cause; that the neoplastic diathesis itself is strictly dependent upon arthritism—which is equivalent to saying that neoplastic and cancerous sub- jects are merely arthritic patients suffering from a special manifestation of the constitutional disease. We might therefore simply refer to the preceding paragraphs; but a few special remarks will perhaps not be useless. Cancerous subjects belong to various categories. In some, the disease is latent, in a condition of predisposition; in others, it already exists in well- defined manifestations. Some present only a single tumor, others have seve-