( 357 ) SHOCK. BY C. W. MANSELL-MOULLIN, M.A., M.D. Oxon., E.R.C.S., FELLOW OF PEMBROKE COLLEGE, OXFORD ; LATE RADCLIFFE’S TRAVELLING FELLOW, UNIV. OXON.; SURGICAL REGISTRAR TO THE LONDON HOSPITAL, LONDON. Originally employed in any ease of sudden death or collapse following injury or mental emotion without discoverable lesion, the term Shock has, step by step with the increase in knowledge of physiology and the extension of experimental inquiry, become more and more definitely associated with the conception of a sudden check to the circulation brought about through the agency of the nervous system, and resulting either in a death so immedi- ate as scarcely to have a parallel, or in a condition of prolonged prostration with or without a more or less successful reaction. Such a result can only take place through the .direct influence of the nervous system. Long ago, Travers1 pointed out that frequent instances of sudden death, consequent upon injuries which left no trace of their destructive operation upon the texture of the vital organs, and that other instances of death after the lapse of a few hours or days, and some even of weeks, from the injury, admitted of no other explanation according in any degree with the history and symptoms of the malady, than a suspension or failure of the nervous power. Nor is it less clearly proved by the spontaneous disappearance of all symptoms in cases of recovery, sometimes almost as rapid as their onset (for patients left pulseless and apparently moribund, without external injury, may be found on the succeeding day restored to the tone and tranquillity, comparatively speaking, of health), that there can be associated with it no serious structural lesion. Of course it must not be inferred that no change at all has taken place, but simply that it is not within range of perception by means of our present methods of investigation ; and, indeed, it is to be expected that, with increas- ing knoweledge of the conditions under which the manifestation of that form of molecular motion known as nerve-force is possible, we shall some day be able to form an idea of the way in which its action may he modified or sus- pended, without the production of any visible alteration of structure. Causes of Shock. Whatever may be the immediate cause of shock, whether it result from a purely mental source or from a serious bodily hurt (for probably either alone is sufficient, although in general each bears a share), everything denotes dimin- ished energy of circulation: the pallor and coldness of the skin, the weak- ness and small volume of the pulse, the difficulty of respiration, the languor 1 Treatise on Constitutional Irritation, p. 431.