660 AMPUTATIONS. The results of these various amputations at the ankle are quite satisfactory. The statistics ot Syme’s and Pirogoff’s methods have already been referred to, but a more compendious view of the subject can be obtained from the follow- ing Table:— Table showing the Results of Amputations at the Ankle. Nature of operation. S. Deaths. Mortality per cent. Authority. Syme’s method . 338 33 9.7 Hancock, Spence, Fayrer. Pirogoff’s method 273 28 10.2 Pirogoff, Weber, Kestnor, Hancock, Gross, Pasquier. Not specified 358 101 28.2 Legouest, Otis, Larger. Aggregates 969 162 16.7 Amputation of the Leg. Amputation of the leg may be performed at any part of the limb, the best operation being, I think, the circular or modified circular, in the lower third, and Sedillot’s or Lee’s flap method in the middle and upper portions. As a rule, the stump should be made as long as the circumstances of the case will permit, but we still are occasionally requested by patients to amputate at what used to be called the “ point of election” (two or three inches below the tuber- cle of the tibia), so as to allow the use of a “ peg” or “ box leg,” without the annoyance of the stump projecting backwards. Amputation in the Lower Third of the Leg, or the supra-malleolar (sus-malleolaire) operation of French writers, is best performed by the circular method, the cuff of integument being slit upon its outer (fibular) side,1 in order to obviate trouble in turning it up when the limb is a conical one; or by the modified circular method, in which case the skin flaps maybe made either antero-posteriorly or transversely, according to the fancy of the operator. M. Guyon practises the elliptical method in this situation, taking the lower seg- ment of the ellipse from the tissues covering the heel. Amputation in the Middle or Upper Third of the Leg may be done by almost any of the operations which have been described, but the best, I think, are two varieties of the flap method, known respectively by the names of M. Sedillot and Mr. Henry Lee. Teale’s method is less applicable in this situation than in the forearm, the long flap containing the anterior tibia! artery, and being very thin where it overlies the tibia, and consequently liable to slough. The objections to the ordinary operation, in wrhich a large flap is cut by transfixion from the calf, are that on the one hand, from its weight, it is apt to fall away from the anterior flap, and that on the other hand, the skin retracting more than the muscle, unless this is retrenched before the wound is closed, it is unduly compressed by the sutures which are employed, and great tension of the part, causing much discomfort, is almost sure to ensue. External Flap Method,, or that of Sedillot.—This is the operation which I pre- fer to all others for amputation in the upper part of the leg. It is performed as follows: the circulation having been controlled in the ordinary way, a preliminary longitudinal incision through the skin is made along the inner 1 The operation known as Lenoir’s is simply a circular amputation with the cuff slit in front instead of at the outer side, as I have advised.