SCURVY. 304 Lind1 recommended a preparation of this sort, many years ago, under the name of “Rob.” The very concentrated juice may also he preserved in gly- cerine, or in a solid form as a lozenge or biscuit. Malt, originally proposed by Dr. MacBride, on theoretic grounds, was highly esteemed by Captain Cook as a preventive, under the form of sweet wort. So, too, did he think well of the Scotch dish called “ sowens,” prepared by concentrating the liquid result- ing from the fermentation of oatmeal. Cider is also possessed of acknowl- edged anti-scorbutic power. It is a matter of importance not to fail in issuing good potable water to the crew, and fortunately this desideratum is now fully secured on war vessels by the distilling apparatus with which they are supplied. In the mercantile marine, the dependence is chiefly upon the shore supply, which should be in- spected as to quality before being received. The general qualities of water as to potability may be roughly tested by an intelligent person by simple chemical means. An important adjunct in preserving health in long voyages, is a good wardrobe of clothes suitable to the sudden and severe atmospheric vicissitudes; warm woollen underclothing and stout cloth suits, for stormy weather and the cold of high latitudes. The greatest care should be exer- cised to avoid sleeping in wet garments, and when these have been removed, they should be dried without delay. The sleeping apartments of the crew should always be kept scrupulously clean and dry, and at the same time sup- plied with the requisite quantity of pure respirable air, and, if possible, abund- ant sunlight. It is unnecessary to do more than cursorily remark that all possible means should be adopted to sustain a cheerful disposition among the crew, encouraging the use of musical instruments, games, and social gatherings on proper occasions. Attention to the foregoing circumstances: varied diet, wholesome water, suitable clothing, and comfortable, well-ventilated quarters, will assure the utmost security against the occurrence of scurvy, either on shipboard or on the land. There is really no difference in this respect, as the same hygienic provisions apply equally to the soldier and sailor, and to the occupants of crowded eleemosynary and penal establishments. Curative Treatment.—In the management of the disease therapeutically, the first consideration is to amend the diet, if possible, supplying fresh meats, soups, or other nitrogenous food in a readily assimilable form, and recent vegetables; the chief of the domesticated varieties of these are cabbages, beets,radishes,turnips,carrots,and potatoes; others, growing wild, are sorrel, cresses, taraxacum, nasturtium, mushrooms, garlic, mustard, scurvy and com- mon grass, and the tops of the spruce. These are attainable almost everywhere, and some even in the hyperborean regions. The ancient Celt used the com- mon shamrock as food. The useful fruits are those of an acescent character, and the juices of the lime, lemon, and orange, hold deservedly the first rank. When these are not attainable, apples, pears, grapes, cherries, and currants will be of decided advantage. The vegetable acids, citric, tartaric, and acetic, their combinations with potassium, and the acescent wines will be of service. Dr. Perin2 found in his experience the expressed juice of the Maguey, or Agave Americana, superior to all other anti-scorbutic remedies, not excepting lime- juice. Nitrate of potassium, either alone or mixed with vinegar, has been lauded as an anti-scorbutic. It is remarkable how rapidly the most painful and even threatening symptoms melt away, as it were by magic, under this dietetic treatment alone. In cases associated with debility, or tardy in con- valescence, the bitter and aromatic tonics, quinine, gentian, etc., either alone or combined with ferruginous preparations, and the mineral acids, will be 1 Treatise on the Scurvy. z Medical Statistics, U. S. Army, 1839-54, p. 362.