PROGNOSIS OF HYDROPHOBIA. 221 (9) As Fleming remarks, while physiologically tetanus is a disease of the true spinal system of nerves, rabies involves the brain also, as is evinced by the disorder of the intellectual functions and special senses even early in the disease. To distinguish hydrophobia from oesophagitis, Dr. Holland points out these essential differences:— In (Esophagitis. 1. Pain in the pharynx, throat, or along the spine occurs as the earliest and invariable symptom. 2. The attempt at swallowing solid food causes intense pain, and in aggravated cases swallowing of even fluids is.accom- panied by pain, or may be totally impos- sible. 3. Horror of fluids reported to have occurred in one case. 4. The amount of difficulty in swallow- ing is in direct proportion to the extent and intensity of the pathological appear- ances found in the oesophagus. 5. Saliva abundantly secreted, expec- toration difficult, and the time of the occurrence of these phenomena not fixed. 6. Urgent thirst in perhaps all cases. 7. Average duration of the disease seven days. 8. Generally terminating in recovery. 9. Death caused by oedema of the glot- tis, gangrene, or rupture of the oesophagus. In Rabies. 1. Pain in the pharynx, throat, and along the spine, occurred in forty-two out of one hundred and twenty cases, or about once in every three cases, and not as the earliest symptom. 2. The attempt to swallow fluids, though not generally accompanied by in- tense pain, causes dyspnoea, convulsions, etc., while solids can be in most cases taken with comparative facility. 3. Horror of fluids the most prominent symptom in one hundred and nineteen out of one hundred and twenty cases. 4. No direct relation exists between the pathological state of the oesophagus shown after death, and the intensity of the dysphagia. 5. Saliva secreted in great quantity, often flowing spontaneously from the mouth ; these symptoms often occur among the last phenomena. 6. Thirst was urgent in about one-third of the cases. 7. Average duration of the disease seven days. 8. Invariably terminating fatally. 9. Death most probably resulting from asphyxia, coma, or relapse. Fleming says: Indeed it is not possible to mistake hydrophobia for any other malady, or to doubt its existence when it is present; for if, during the stage of incubation, doubts and fears exist, all uncertainty comes to an end when the disease really appears. Prognosis of Hydrophobia.—Hydrophobia is regarded as one of the gravest of all the maladies which afflict humanity. It has been asserted that we have no well-authenticated instance on record of a cure of this disease. Yet, Dr. Dolan says that the evidence of the recovery of cases of hydrophobia is as conclusive as the evidence that such a disease exists. “ To deny the exist- ence of such records of recovery, is simply to deny the existence of the dis- ease. We can only know rabies by the symptoms, and by the description we have furnished by those who have had cases under treatment. If the evidence is satisfactory and conclusive that rabies has existed, and, unfortu- nately, been too fatal, it is also equally satisfactory and conclusive that Dr. Offenburg has described the disease, and attended a patient who recovered, and that Dr. Austin Flint has offered similar testimony.” Dr. Bigelow says: “ The experiments made with oxygen hy two Russian physicians, Drs. Schmidt and Zeliender, with a well-authenticated cure of a case of hydrophobia from its administration, reported in the Lyon Medical, inspire the hope that at last science has struck the physiological key-note,