301 DIAGNOSIS AND PROGNOSIS OF SCURVY. Diagnosis of Scurvy. The recognition of scurvy is not surrounded by any embarrassing difficul- ties, as its exclusive etiological character, the altogether special circumstances of its occurrence, the peculiar location of the disease in the various tissues, and the establishment of the preliminary cachexia, with the peculiar dull, earthy hue which subsequently merges as it advances into a deeper and cya- notic tint, point with unerring certainty to its identification. It is rarely re- stricted to isolated cases, but invades groups of individuals, or communities living under similar or identical hygienic conditions, as occurs on hoard ships, in prisons, in armies, in places closed by siege, or in districts of country afflicted with common calamities. Single cases arc, however, occasionally met with, and I have myself observed one, in the person of a man who from penu- rious motives had abstained from all but the cheapest and coarsest articles of diet, subsisting chiefly on refuse food of an animal character, purchased in the markets and made up into soups. The disease was at first supposed to be purpura hemorrhagica, until the above mentioned facts were discovered and a closer inspection made of the variously colored spots; the persistent and severe pains in the limbs and back, the swollen joints, ulcerated gums and fetid breath, then led to a correct conclusion, and the man soon recovered under dietetic treatment. The same conditions, in individual cases, will enable the observer to make a correct discrimination of scurvy from other pathological states involving hemorrhagic extravasations into the tissues, such as occa- sionally occur in anaemia, chlorosis, leucocythaemia, pseudo-leucaemia, perni- cious anaemia, and haemophilia. These never occur except in isolated instances, while scurvy, as stated before,’ is rarely seen except as afflicting numerous persons at the same time. In the former diseases, also, the gums never pre- sent, although they may be tender' and disposed to bleed, the peculiar color and sponginess characteristic of scurvy. An error might, however, creep in here if we were to depend solely upon this phenomenon, for cases of scurvy have been reported in which this condition did not exist, and it does not occur, as already remarked, in edentulous persons. The state of the gums in leucoeytlnemia, it has been said, occasionally approximates this condition, but the other associated symptoms would suffice to differentiate that disease from scurvy. The rapid improvement of scurvy under fresh vegetable diet, will also pre- sent a striking feature not encountered in anaemic and purpuric cases. In the commencement of an outbreak, the rheumatoid pains, so common in the back and limbs in the severe cases, have caused them to be confounded with rheu- matism ; inquiries into the condition of the gums and skin will readily dispel this error. Finally, in none of the diseases with which it is possible to confound scurvy, do we meet with the same complications of vital organs: fibrinous and bloody effusions among the muscles, and into the pleura, pericardium, peritoneum, and synovial sacs of the joints; deformities of the limbs from contraction of tendons ; and distorted joints from the plastic outpourings about them. All of these features are special to scurvy, and serve to complete a clinical picture altogether characteristic and distinctive. Prognosis of Scurvy. The prognosis of scurvy will depend upon the stage of the disease, its grade of intensity, its complications, the constitutional power of the patient, and the