SCURVY. 268 2 Anson’s Voyage around the World, edited by Walter. played alterations in still deeper structures. Effusions occur between tlie periosteum and the bone, forming painful, hard, and resisting nodes of vary- ing dimensions, especially along the course of the tibiae, upon the scapulae, and upon the maxillae. In young persons the epiphyses are separated from the shafts of the long bones, and in other cases the ribs become necrosed and disarticulated from the sternum, producing a creaking noise during respira- tory movements, as related by Poupart.1 This occurs mostly on one side and about the middle of the series, yet it has been noted to occur on both sides, so that the sternum and attached cartilages, deprived of support, were perceptibly sunken. Recently repaired fractures have been known to recur under the influence of scurvy, from destruction of the callus.2 The articula- tions as well as the bones in very severe cases of scurvy present evidences of disease, consisting in periarticular effusions which involve the surrounding soft parts, producing impairment of motion, enlargement, and false anchylosis, and even destroying the normal anatomical relation of the osseous surfaces so as to determine deformities. These changes are usually attended with severe pain, and most commonly occur in the ankle, knee, shoulder and hip joints, and disappear tardily, requiring perhaps months for their recession, if indeed this takes place at all. The symptoms manifested by the circulatory organs are prominent from an early period of the disease. The pulsations of the heart are slower, feebler, irregular, and often intermittent; its impulse is decreased, or becomes quite imperceptible ; and when the associated anaemia has progressed to a certain extent, a systolic murmur may be audible. The arterial and venous channels are of diminished calibre; the pulse becomes soft, of less volume, and tardier; and a venous murmur may sometimes be heard in the cervical veins. The remarkable nutritive changes in the capillary walls, in part account for the numerous hemorrhages which occur both by rliexis and cliapedesis. The most frequent is epistaxis ; the slightest blows, sneezing, or blowing the nose, will often determine it, or it may occur spontaneously, and in severer cases with such profuseness as to threaten impending dissolution, requiring nothing less than timeous introduction of the tampon to rescue the victim. Hemorrhage from the lungs is of rare occurrence, and when it does occur is rather indicative of pre-existing pulmonary disease, such as phthisis, or of the approach of a complication such as an infarction or gangrene, than a constituent feature of scurvy. Idsematemesis is less uncommon, but is by no means frequent; the blood ejected from the stomach is usually limited in quantity, but in isolated examples the bleeding is profuse, producing great exhaustion and a sense of cardiac depression which preludes speedy death. Hemorrhage from the bowels is also an ill-omened feature, completely blanching the patient, and presaging early exhaustion and death. Blood may also appear as a product of a complicating dysentery which determines abundant, offensive discharges that may run on for several weeks before the patient is finally exhausted. Hsematuria sometimes occurs, especially in broken-down and cachectic sub- jects, and in an advanced stage of scurvy. All of these forms of hemorrhagic effusion, now mentioned as localized in the mucous membranes, are to be deprecated as exercising a pernicious influence, seriously aggravating ordinary cases, and fatally jeopardizing the issue of severe ones. Effusive and inflammatory complications are also encountered in the serous structures, and usually in cases of great severity, though they occasionally present themselves when the more common localized phenomena of scurvy are not particularly prominent. These complications may be marked by a 1 Mdmoires de l’Academie des Sciences, p. 237, 1699 ; and Philosophical Transactions, vol. xv.