PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. G2 Amyloid Degeneration undoubtedly depends, as was first asserted by Vir- chow,1 on a metamorphosis of the tissue to that peculiar substance which we call amyloid. Amyloid indicates that it is related to amylum. This suspicion is based on the reaction with iodine, discovered by Meckel and Virchow.2 The reliability of the iodine reaction has been questioned, but Bottcher reasserts that it is the best of all. He employs a mixture of 25 centigrammes of iodine, 50 of iodide of potassium, with 100 cubic centimetres of water, and adds dilute3 sulphuric acid. More recently, methyl compounds have been recommended. This reagent stains the amyloid substances red,- but the healthy tissue blue. But this test has also been reported as unreliable by Ivyber.4 5 With regard to the chemical composition of the amyloid substance, E. Ludwig has favored me with the following data:— According to the analyses of’ Friedreich and Kekule, as well as those of Kiihne and Eudneff, it shows a composition very nearly approaching that of the albuminous bodies. It is soluble in concentrated hydrochloric acid, from which water precipitates a body having the properties of syntonin hydrochlorate. Amyloid substance is soluble in potassa or soda lye, and the solution has the properties of an alkaline albuminate. E. Modzejewski obtained tyrosine and leucine as products of decomposition of the amyloid substance, by acting on it with boiling dilute sulphuric acid; he supposes that the amy- loid substance gives the same products of decomposition as albuminous bodies. From the putrefaction of amyloid substance Th. Weyl obtained the same products that fibrin yields in putrefaction. It is apparent from all of these observations that the amyloid substance is very closely allied in its chemical properties to albuminous bodies. These data are still too meagre, however, to permit of conclusions being drawn as to the nature of the process. But we may be sure of one thing. The amyloid degeneration cannot be compared to the inflammatory meta- morphosis of tissue. The amyloid constituents of tissue are lifeless. The cell, the capillary wall, or the basis-substance which has become entirely changed into amyloid matter, can no longer take active part in the functions of the organism. The same, it is true, also holds good for those constituents of the tissue which have undergone fatty degeneration. But it is important to lay stress upon the difference between the two. Fat can be more easily dissolved and absorbed. The amyloid substance, however, seems to burden the tissue permanently. Hence a cure (restitutio ad integrum) of amyloid organs is hardly to be thought of. Calcareous Degeneration.—Just as the tendency to produce fat resides in certain tissues, so other tissues again have the property of depositing lime salts. Bone and cartilage belong to this class. Inasmuch as cartilage is converted into bone,® it must deposit lime salts in its basis-substance. But cartilage calcifies sometimes (as for example under the influence of slight inflammatory stimuli) without being converted into bone. Of pathological calcifications of other tissues, too little is known besides the mere fact that they do occur, to warrant my considering them here. Colloid Degeneration.-—In conclusion, I present some remarks with regard to colloid degeneration, for which I am likewise indebted to E. Ludwig. The colloid-substance in its chemical properties approaches most nearly to mucin, but differs therefrom by its solubility in acetic acid. Eichwald regards the colloid 1 Charite Annalen, 1853. 2 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. viii., 1854. 3 Said to he seven per cent. 4 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. lxxxi., 1880. Kyber also praises the reaction with iodine and sul- phuric acid. 5 The occurrence of a direct transformation of cartilage into bone is now probably quite certain : but this is not the only method of its formation.