MINOR SURGERY. 494 ance, forward under the ear and in front of the chin, and thence hack to the point from which the roller started. Continue to make the tigure-of-eight turns over the head and the circular turns around the base of the skull till the bandage is exhausted. Each turn should completely cover the preceding, so that the bandage when applied should look as if it were formed of suede turns. In order that the bandage may not be easily displaced, the different intersections should be pinned. (Fig. 64.) Fig. 65. Crossed or oblique bandage of the angle of the jaw. The Crossed or Angle of the Jaw- (2 inches) wide and 4| metres (5 yards) long. Make fast the initial end of the bandage by two circular turns around the vault of the cranium, going from left to right, if it is designed to cover the left angle of the lower jaw, and vice versa if the right angle. On reaching the back of the head, conduct the bandage obliquely across the nape of the neck, under the ear and the jaw on the sound side to the angle on the affected side, thence up over the face in a line half way between the eye and the ear, obliquely across the top of the head, and down behind the ear of the sound side ; from this point carry the bandage again under the jaw and up over the side of the face, making it overlap the posterior two-thirds of the preceding turn, thence obliquely across the top of the head, down behind the ear of the sound side, and again under the jaw and up over the face, covering the posterior two- thirds of the second upward turn. When the intersection of the circular and the descending turns is reached on the sound side, reverse the bandage and terminate it by two circular turns around the head. (Fig. 65.) This bandage will be found useful for retaining dressings on the side of the face in cases of wounds of the parotid region. When employed in the treat- ment of fracture of the ramus and neck of the lower jaw, an oblong compress should be placed between the seat of fracture and the ascending turns of the bandage. Oblique Bandage of the -A roller 5 centimetres Fig. 64. Barton’s bandage. The Recurrent Bandage of the Head.—A roller 5 centimetres (2 inches) wide and 4| metres (5 yards) long. Secure the initial extremity of the roller by two circular turns around the forehead and occiput; on reaching the middle of the forehead or the occipital protuberance, reverse the roller and carry it over the top of the head to a point directly opposite, where it is again reversed or turned back, and conducted back over the vertex to the point of commence-