672 AMPUTATIONS. The single flap operation may be suitably resorted to when the destruction of the soft parts, by injury or disease, has extended much further on one side of the limb than on the other; and it may even be proper, under such cir- cumstances, to employ a posterior flap; but when the surgeon can choose his operation, he will, I think, do better to adopt either the oval or modified cir- cular, or the double-flap method after the manner of Guthrie, which will be presently referred to. Antero-posterior Flap Method.—We may recognize three varieties of this operation, which I shall designate respectively by the names of Liston, Bec- lard, and Guthrie. Liston’s Method.—This form of the operation is very generally adopted in England and in this country, and is, perhaps, the best of the transfixion methods. The point of a long knife is introduced between the great tro- chanter and the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; made to graze the anterior surface of the neck of the femur; and, finally, brought out just in front of the tuber ischii, very much as in Manec’s procedure. An antero-internal flap, about five inches in length, is then cut from within out- wards, and, after disarticulation, a corresponding flap is cut from the buttock and tissues on the back of the thigh. Bedard’s Method.—In this procedure the posterior flap is cut first. The point of the knife is introduced a little above the trochanter; pushed across the limb, grazing the hack of the femoral neck ; and made to emerge at the innermost part of the gluteal crease. A flap is then cut from the tissues of Fig. 196. the buttock, and the knife, being re-introduced at the same point as before, is made to traverse the limb, this time in tront of the joint, and to cut the anterior flap from the front of the thigh. Disarticulation is in this method the last step of the operation. (Fig. 196.) Guthrie’s Method. This is, I think, upon the whole, the best mode of am- putating at the hip-joint, and it is that which I have myselt employed in the four cases in which I have had occasion to perform this operation. The flaps are similar in shape and size to those made by Beclard s method, but thej are