PPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. 440 are nervous and timid; they dread the future, and shudder at the thought of an operation. Delay in these cases often makes matters worse; the mind re- acts upon the body ; and, for them, the sooner an operation can be performed with safety the better. Other patients may be less fearful of results, and may seem to be stoical, almost indifferent. These not unfrequently ask time for consideration, and, having reflected, come calmly to a decision, and place themselves in the hands of the surgeon with quiet confidence and bravery. Preparation of Patient.—The general bodily health of one who is to undergo an operation must always be most carefully looked to, and all pre- cautions taken to bring it into the best possible condition. Every operation, no matter how slight it may be, presupposes some extra strain upon the con- stitutional powers, and the resources of our art should be taxed to meet this demand. Unfortunately, it often happens that the very occasion for surgical interference is in itself a cause of impairment of vital strength, and unneces- sary delay in operation is therefore to be deprecated. In hospital practice this is especially the case. Patients enter the wards with impaired nutrition, enfeebled by pain and suffering, and exhausted by chronic suppuration. The effort to improve their general state seems to he a laudable one; but even here mistakes may be committed; for it is undoubtedly true that too pro- longed a residence in hospital is often productive of injury rather than of benefit to the patient. For the first week or ten days, he may seem to im- prove, but it is a matter of common experience that after that period much change for the better is, as a rule, scarcely to be looked for. It would seem therefore wise, in such cases, not to defer unduly an inevitable operation, but to proceed to its performance, in the absence of positive contra-indications, as soon as the secretions have been brought into tolerable condition. The re- moval of a source of irritation, or of a drain upon the constitution, will often do more to bring up a patient than any prolonged course either of dietetics or of therapeutics, and that this is true, is amply shown by the success which proverbially follows secondary operations. Rest.—The influence of rest of mind and body, in fitting the latter to pass safely through the perils of an operation, must not be overlooked. The quiet of a day or so in bed permits the patient to recover from the fatigues of his daily work, and to obtain that necessary sleep which has sometimes been cur- tailed by the exigencies of labor. Overworked organs, and notably the heart, pass into a condition of repose ; excited or perverted functions are soothed or corrected; local congestions are relieved; and, in short, body and mind are alike benefited by the state of true physiological rest thus brought about. Tain, which may have been aggravated by locomotion, becomes less, or disappears; and the patient acquires that custom or ability to remain tranquilly in bed which may become essential to his future welfare. Nothing is more detri- mental to the success of an operation than after-restlessness and jactitation, and the exercise of patience, and practice in remaining still in bed, is a matter of more importance than it is usually considered. During this period of rest, too, the medical attendant has ample opportunity for familiarizing himself with his patipnt, and for acquiring that knowledge of him which may have a direct bearing on the after-treatment. He is enabled also to judge of his con- stitutional condition, by repeated physical examinations, and to form that cor- rect estimate of his strength or weakness which may prove of so much value in the future conduct of the case. It is a matter of everyday observation that where operations are hurriedly undertaken, without due investigation of the patient’s condition, they are apt to be attended by perils which might have been avoided by more careful examination. The writer can recall case upon