384 TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM AND DELIRIUM TREMENS. four or five days afterwards, came on to Philadelphia, and walked to the hospital. He was perfectly conscious and very intelligent. Soon there was paralysis of the left arm, with retraction (position of palm not noted), and then paralysis of the leg of the same side followed. On dressing the wound, two pieces of bone respectively a quarter by half an inch and three-quarters by three-eighths of an inch in size, were found under the anterior right margin of the sound bone, and precisely, it is fair to say, in the position which Dr. Ferrier pictures. Upon removing these pieces, the paralysis at once disap- peared from the arm, and by the next day it was gone from the leg. There was no active delirium at any time after the patient’s admission to the hospital. I recall the fact that 1 ordered him to the basement of the building, fearing that he would throw himself from the window should delirium come on. After having been there one night, he protested against it; said he was perfectly himself, and begged to be removed to his room up stairs. His request was complied with, and he remained quiet and rational until a day or two before death, when coma came on without antecedent delirium. As the brain became more and more disorganized, the paralysis returned and became general. He lived twenty-four days after the removal of the pieces of bone, and forty days from the time of the original injury. The lesion here was in the middle lobes; a very extensive abscess had formed, and the softening had extended as deeply as the corpus callosum. Immediate traumatic delirium, it might be reasonably inferred, would be among the symptoms following the bites of poisonous serpents. Besides the specific virus, there are the elements of horror and fright to aid in its pro- duction. Experience, however, does not at all confirm such an inference. Deaths from snake-bite are preceded by stupor and coma,but delirium rarely exists, even for a short time. This is true not only as to fatal cases, but also as to those which end in recovery. A very large number of cases of snake-bite are reported by Sir J. Fayrer, in his splendid work, “The Thanatophidia of India.” I have looked carefully over these reports, and have not once detected the word delirium; yet there was everything to suggest it. The words fright, depression, lethargy, stupor, coma, and unconsciousness, are continually used in the descriptions. But, until these last phenomena occurred, the intelli- gence of the victims appears to have been remarkably good. In some cases it took a few minutes to kill, and in others hours; in one doubtful case, nine days; and yet no delirium is mentioned. As Sir J. Fayrer says, the poison “kills by annihilating the source of nerve force.” He mentions the fact that pyaemia may arise, when the patient lives long enough to have a suppurating wound from the bite. Then of course delirium might exist as a consequence of this affection, but' I do not think that any case in which it occurred is given. Fright is sometimes so excessive as to bring the patient near unto death, and we are told to encourage and cheer him as a part of the treatment. This of course would be useless if he were in a state of delirium. The same may be said of cases of rattlesnake poisoning. Dr. R. M. McClellan, who lived for some years in a part of Georgia where rattlesnakes are very common, tells me that he has seen from ten to fifteen cases of persons bitten by them. The nervous symptoms, as from the bites of the Indian serpents, were those of stupor and coma, but there was no delirium. Even enormous amounts of whiskey, used as a remedy, would not occasion the excitement of drunken- ness. Dr. E. B. Shapleigh treated a case of rattlesnake bite which occurred in this city (Philadelphia). The patient was rational throughout his brief illness, and made his will twenty minutes before his death. Dr. Weir Mit- chell, who made some years since an exhaustive study of the effects of rattlesnake bites, also confirms these views. These observations are of prac- tical value. If intense hysterical excitement, approximating delirium, or even delirium itself, should follow in the case of a person supposed to have been bitten by a poisonous snake, there would be almost a certainty that the