187 SYMPTOMS OF ERYSIPELAS. the erysipelas is distinctly traumatic, and takes its starting-point from the divided umbilical cord ; but it as distinctly coincides with epidemics of puerperal fever, and must be attributed to the same essential cause as that affection. Trousseau, at an early period of his career, pointed out this rela- tionship between the two diseases, and in 1855, Lorain stated that under the same conditions infants also perished with peritonitis, abscesses, septicaemia, and gangrene of the limbs, and that in the greater number of such cases the mothers had died of puerperal fever. Is unneley followed Underwood in noting the extremely sudden onset and rapid development of the inflamma- tion, and Trousseau insisted upon the same point, and also upon the almost inevitable fatality of the disease within the first two or three weeks after birth.1 It generally begins to show itself at the pubes, extending rapidly upward on the abdomen, and downward upon the thighs and genitals, which grow exceedingly red, swollen, hard, and cedematous, and then purplish; phlyctense form, and the skin is attacked with gangrene. The infant at the same time falls into a state of prostration, yet has scarcely any fever at first; but as the inflammation spreads and grows more intense, fever comes on with pain, and there is great restlessness, sleeplessness, and debility, with vomiting and diarrhoea, which rapidly exhaust the strength and bring on a fatal issue from the fifth to the seventh day. This termination is sometimes due to gangrene of the erysipelatous parts, and sometimes to the formation of abscesses, although, according to Trousseau, the latter occurrence is, on the whole, a favorable sign. Erysipelatous Peritonitis.—This form of erysipelas was first described in 1828, by Abercrombie,2 who alludes to its symptoms as being sometimes slight and insidious, though sometimes very severe, but as chiefly distin- guished by the rapidity with which they run their course, and by a re- markable sinking of the vital powers, which occurs from an early period, and often prevents the adoption of any active treatment. In one of the cases related by this author, an erysipelas of the leg abruptly subsided, the patient was seized with symptoms of peritonitis, and died in a little more than twenty-four hours from the time of the attack. In another case, the primary attack was an erysipelas of the throat, but during convalescence the patient was suddenly seized with violent pains in the abdomen, followed by collapse and death in about forty-eight hours from the commencement. In the Merchants’ Hospital (a charitable institution for the education of girls), and while an epidemic of erysipelas of the throat prevailed in Edin- burgh, a number of the inmates were attacked with the disease in a similar form; but, after a week, one of the girls who seemed to be entering on con- valescence, was suddenly seized with symptoms of peritonitis, including vomiting, diarrhoea, pain, and collapse, of which in a few hours she died. A second fatal case occurred with nearly identical symptoms; and in both of them inspection after death revealed the lesions of peritonitis, including an exudation which was puriform rather than fibrinous. Abercrombie makes the following commentary: “ This affection differs from the usual forms of peritonitis; and, without speculating further upon the nature of it, we may add that its alliance to erysipelas appears to be an obvious and remarkable character of the disease.” 1 Lectures on Clinical Medicine, New Sydenliam Society’s edition, vol. ii. p. 271. 2 Pathological and Practical Researches, etc., p. 181.