OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. 476 Air in Veins.—Another accident from which death has been recorded is the entrance of air into a vein, following upon its incision during an opera- tion. This circumstance ought to be borne in mind when large veins are involved, particularly in the deep portions of the neck, and when the tissues are infiltrated and indurated by disease. If a vein of any size be opened un- der these conditions, the lips of the wound may, on account of the tissue-con- nections of the vein, gape sufficiently to permit the entrance of air, and death may ensue, sometimes almost instantly. Whether the presence of air in the right heart paralyzes cardiac movement, or whether the air entering the branches of the pulmonary artery causes cessation of the circulation, is a mat- ter for discussion; yet the great clinical fact remains, and enforces upon the surgeon the greatest caution in operating in these dangerous regions. Gangrene and Sloughing.—Death after operations may occur, particularly in military practice, from the formation of sloughing sores, or the develop- ment of true hospital gangrene. The latter, in this country, has, however, been more rare than it is generally believed to have been; many of the cases described as such being in reality sloughing sores, not possessing the property of contagiousness. This was shown in a remarkable manner in our late war, where not a few cases of gangrene from the Libby and Andersonville prisons reached the northern lines. These possessed apparently all the destructive tendencies and evidences of hospital gangrene, but yet when placed in beds in general hospitals, under favorable hygienic conditions, the disease evinced little tendency to spread from bed to bed, or at all events to attack men who had not been exposed to the same predisposing causes, imprisonment, starva- tion, and exposure. The most effectual treatment for such cases consisted in ventilation, diet, and active cauterization of the sloughing surfaces with pure bromine, as suggested by Dr. M. Goldsmith, late Surgeon U. S. Volunteers. Tetanus is another cause of death after operations. It may occur after slight operations as well as after those of great magnitude. Yet, in propor- tion to the whole number of cases, it is, at least in our climate, so infrequent that it may practically he disregarded in deciding upon the propriety of ope- ration. Almost every imaginable circumstance has been advanced as an ex- citing cause of this terrible affection, as injuries, wounds, the presence of foreign bodies, verminous irritation, the arrest of natural or existing dis- charges, and exposure to heat or to dampness and cold. It has been the custom to lay stress upon the latter condition as a powerful causative agent in mili- tary practice. This is, however, probably incorrect. It is not the degree of cold which acts, but rather exposure to trickling or changing draughts of air, or, as Ilennen has put it, to air in motion. The writer has known of instances where large numbers of wounded have at the same time been exposed to severe cold, without the development of a single case of the disease, while on the other hand, an instance was reported to him where two, it not three, consecutive cases of tetanus occurred in the same bed, every other one in the ward being exempt. The fatal bedstood in the direct draught of air between a window and an opening door, and on its removal to a less exposed position no further instance of the disease appeared. Tetanus at times almost seems to be epidemic, or at all events to affect many who are the victims of casu- alties of a given nature. Thus in the summer of 1880, frequent deaths from this disease occurred in Philadelphia, and during 1881, in Baltimore, from the use of a toy pistol, which exploded metallic powder cartridges.. This dangerous plaything was the means of injuring numerous children by its pre- mature and imperfect explosion. In almost every such case admitted to hos- pital, and in others treated in private practice, tetanus ensued and was followed