59 REGENERATION. tice to transplant only epidermis cells in place of the entire cutis, I do not know. The rationale of transplantation is to he found in the fact that epi- dermis is more readily developed from epidermis than from the granulation tissue which arises from connective tissue. Hence, if the ulcer be very large; if the pushing forward of epidermis from the margins have become insutfi- cient; we transplant epidermis to the central portions of the ulcer in order to furnish new starting points from which the healing process can spread. Healing by the formation of granulation tissue is also called healing by sup- puration^ or by second intention, in contradistinction to healing by first intention (John Hunter). In the process of healing by first intention, there is no sup- puration; the margins and surfaces of the wound unite directly. Notwith- standing this, however, the old tissue must soften again, and become capable of growth, else a definitive union would never occur. Investigation has also taught that new processes are sent out by the cells from one surface of the wound into the other; and, besides, that in the very small space between the surfaces of the wound there are young cells to be found. Accordingly, from a theoretical standpoint, the difference between healing by first intention and second intention is only quantitative. From a practical point of view, the matter is indeed different. For in healing by first intention the loss of sub- stance is almost imperceptible, and the wounded organ need, therefore, suffer no disturbance of function worth mentioning. But healing by suppuration always presupposes a loss of substance, and the tissue which replaces the old one is of a new kind, is different; is cicatricial tissue, and cannot assume entirely the function of the former one. In the cutis, it is true, the replace- ment of certain small regions by cicatricial formations is of slight import- ance; but in the cornea, for example, if suppuration have occurred, the loss is irreparable. For cicatricial tissue is not cornea tissue; cords, fibrilhe, and cells, are indeed present in cicatricial tissue, but not that homogeneous mass which I have described as existing in the cornea. Regeneration. A real regeneration as regards form and function, is known to us (in man and mammalia) only in the case of nerves and muscle.1 Divided nerves heal under favorable circumstances in such a manner as to completely restore the connection between the central nervous system and the periphery. In view of new researches made by Jul. Wagner2 on this subject, I must pronounce the older statements on nerve-regeneration inaccurate. Regeneration of the nerves depends on a chronic inflammation. The medullary layer disappears. Axis-cylinder, network of the medullary layer, and Schwann’s sheath, are converted into new morphological elements. This change occurs in the cen- tral as well as in the peripheral extremity. By the growing together of these new morphological elements (just as in healing by first intention), new nerve- tissue originates. The regeneration of nerves gives us probable proof that tissue-genesis can be influenced by the central nervous system. For a return to the normal condition, as it occurs in the case of a nerve, proceeds apparently only under the influence of the central nervous system. If the union of the two extremi- ties be prevented by the excision of a sufficiently large piece, then it is pre- sumed that the formation of new nerve-tissue in the peripheral extremity 1 I do not dwell farther on the regeneration of muscles. It is only a matter of the develop- ment of the old fibres. 2 Not separately published by him ; I have reported thereon in my Lectures.