AFTER-TREATMENT OF ETHER ANAESTHESIA. 445 to one side, so that the mouth may be dependent, when the vomited matters may easily be gotten rid of. In using ether at night, care should be taken to keep the lights above the level of the patient’s body, so as to prevent ignition, the ether vapor being heavier than air. So also in operations demanding the application of the actual cautery, the possible ignition of the ether vapor should be carefully guarded against. By practical experience, it has been shown that this acci- dent may be prevented by fanning the air in front of the patient’s mouth for a moment or so before the approach of the hot iron. Nevertheless, the utmost care in this respect must be observed. The same remarks apply to the careless use or too great proximity of the spray-producer in Lister’s method, which has also on more than one occasion set fire to the ether. Indeed, it may be questioned whether, in operations where ether is employed, the steam atomizer should be used at all, unless in those upon the trunk or extremities. The powerful atomizer arranged by Dr. J. Solis-Cohen is free from this objection, since in it the spray is produced under atmospheric pressure, without the employment of a fiame. The exhibition of ether by means of a large sponge, once so universally adopted, is not now generally resorted to. It accomplishes the purpose well enough, but is attended by wasteful expenditure of the anaesthetic, and by too great an impregnation of the air of the room. The amount of ether which it is proper to use in an operation, of course varies greatly. When it is judiciously administered, when its effects are carefully watched, and when its exhibition is relaxed from time to time upon the appearance of too marked a lividity of face, its influence may be continued for a very considerable time. In the treatment of a subclavian aneurism by compression exerted by a tourniquet, to the extent of cutting off all arterial impulse, the writer has, on several occasions, kept the patient well etherized for six, seven, or eight hours at a time. But it must be remembered that no anaesthesia is altogether safe, and the risks in such a case must be deliberately weighed against the possible advantages to be gained. Occasionally patients are met with who seem to have an intermittent respiration, with a tend- ency to lividity. With such persons extraordinary care must be used in the administration of an anaesthetic, and atmospheric air must be freely admitted. After-treatment of Ether Anaesthesia.—A matter not to be overlooked in the use of anaesthetics, ether as well as chloroform, is the after-care. A patient should not be left by himself, or unwatched, until lie has regained his consciousness, or until the respiration, circulation, and color of the skin have been fairly established. Very frequently, anaesthesia is followed, particularly in children, by prolonged sleep, but the surgeon will feel more comfortable in his own mind if the patient has once fairly reacted into consciousness, before being allowed to pass into slumber. Sponging the face with cold water, or slapping the face and chest gently with a wet towel, will usually bring the patient to himself, and when once he has been sufficiently aroused to answer questions put to him, immediate danger may be regarded as having passed away. In etherization, however, there is always the possibility of the subse- quent pulmonary complications already alluded to, and it is difficult to say what precautions can be adopted to prevent the development of the acute oedema of the lungs, which, once established, is usually so destructive to the patient. Fortunately, however, looking at the vast number of cases in which ether is given, with an almost absolute impunity, this accident is very rare; yet it is still a contingency which may occur. In cases in which prolonged etherization is necessary, Dr. John Ashliurst directs the subsequent adminis- tration of carbonate of ammonium in doses of five grains every half hour,