HEPATISM NEPHRISM CARDISM. 325 Thus we speak of iodism, mercurialism, and saturnism, and we shall soon speak of phosphorism, arsenicism, etc. The list will become very markedly extended as soon as shall he included in the pathology of artisans all the special morbid conditions produced by the constant employment of this or that toxic substance. These poisons naturally bring into the chemical composition of our fluids, and into the histological constitution of our tissues and organs, modifications, some of which have already been well described. Naturally, also, these dys- eras he and these peripheral or visceral lesions, modify the reparative process in cases of wounds. Unfortunately, we can here only form conjectures and hypotheses, surgeons not having hitherto concerned themselves with the manner in which injuries act in individuals poisoned by phosphorus, arsenic, mercury, etc. More anxious to mark a place for these investigations, than capable of illustrating the subject by my personal experience, I have made a short section on saturnism, as I have already collected some observations on wounds occurring in individuals suffering from lead-poisoning. In one, a contusion gave rise to a renewed attack of lead-colic; in another, an insignificant wound of the great toe was followed by lymphangeitis of rapid course; in a third, the onset of saturnism caused the reopening of a focus of suppuration which had been closed for ten years. Two amputations, one of the leg, the other of the arm, performed in patients of this class were not followed by any complications. No conclusions can be reached until we are in possession of a larger number of facts. IIepatism; Nephrism; Cardism. "We have already laid down the principle that every old or serious lesion of an important viscus, whatever may be its origin and causes, produces, after a longer or shorter interval, a change, first in the chemical composition of the fluids, and then in the anatomical constitution of the solids; creating, in a word, a general morbid condition, imperfectly defined perhaps, but as dan- gerous to life as a well-determined disease. Such changes inevitably occur in patients suffering from affections of the liver, kidneys, heart, spleen, lungs, intestines, and doubtless also the brain. It is true that, in many of these individuals, the lesions of the liver, kidney, heart, etc., are neither primary nor isolated, and that they form part, on the contrary, of a pre-existing mor- bid entity—so that, for example, a patient suffering from hepatic disease is an alcoholic, one suffering from kidney disease is gouty, and one from heart disease rheumatic. Nevertheless, while taking the general disease into con- sideration, great interest attaches to an examination of the peculiar influence exerted upon it by the marked alteration of this or that viscus. In fact, constitutional diseases do not always implicate the same organs, and do not always affect them with the same intensity; not all rheumatics suffer from cardiac disease; not all alcoholics have a diseased liver; and a patient may be gouty though the kidneys are in good condition. Clinically there is room for investigating (1) what differences would be presented by three rheumatic patients, one of whom had a mitral lesion, a second biliary lithiasis, and the third albuminuria; and (2) the differences noticeable in three cases of hepatic disease, in which the causes of the lesions were alcoholism, syphilis, or pro- longed suppuration of bone. In the field of surgery these researches are no less important, experience having shown that injured persons are exposed to serious complications whenever one of the important viscera has been previously affected, and that