114 INFLAMMATION. urine.1 "Where an animal poison, or virus, as, for example, that of hospital gangrene, or of the contagious venereal ulcer known as chancroid, has been brought to bear upon a granulating wound, or ulcer, then the whole process of healing by granulation is blighted. The granulations themselves melt away, or die, and their substratum of tissue is converted into what is called a slough, which is a layer of dead tissue—a moist eschar. When somatic death takes place during the healing of an open wound, its granulating surface will be found, on post-mortem inspection, to have mainly disappeared. It is re- placed by the glazed surfaces of the original wound. When the heart ceases to beat, and their blood supply is thereby cut off, the granulation cells shrivel and dry up, or melt away by liquefaction. The latter is the most usual mode of death of the leucocyte, and of all organic cells. Thus far we have considered the physical aspects of granulation tissue, but little has been said concerning the formation and discharge of pus, which constitutes so prominent a feature in the healing of open wounds. A flow of pus goes on uninterruptedly from all parts of the surface of every open wound during healthy healing, as a part of the normal process. The first appearance of pus in an open wround marks the successful organization of the plastic lymph, the first stage in healing ; it coincides with the heat and ten- sion of the wound, and the febrile movement affecting the whole organism which has been already mentioned. As soon as suppuration has fairly made its appearance, the swelling, tension, and heat of the wound are sensibly re- lieved, and the increased temperature of the body and frequency of the pulse, if present, generally subside. After an amputation, where the wound has remained open, and its progress has been favorable, the soft connective and muscular tissues are covered with granulations in from three days to a week; but the harder white fibrous aponeuroses and the tendons require more than double this time ; and the bone may remain bare and white for three weeks or longer. But, unless there is a dead portion to be cast off, even these unpromising-looking parts become in time invested with a rosy film of organized lymph, and now the whole surface of the wound presents an uniform expanse of granulations. If the granulations are healthy, this is the propitious moment for attempt- ing union by “ secondary adhesion.” It is a property of granulating surfaces to adhere promptly and permanently if brought together accurately and held in quiet contact; and this property of healthy granulations is taken advan- tage of by the surgeon in many ways in order to expedite healing. Now, when secondary adhesion is successfully attained thus instantaneously, what, in this event, becomes of the discharge of pus ? In order to answer this question satisfactorily we must first study somewhat more closely the inti- mate nature of pus, and learn what is to be known concerning its source and its significance. Physical Qualities of Pus.—In its most usual form, healthy pus is a cream-like fluid of a yellowish-white color, tending sometimes to assume a pale greenish tint; it has a mawkish, faintly animal odor; a slightly saltish and rather sweet taste; an unctuous, soapy feel; no viscosity or stringiness; and an alkaline reaction. Pus is constantly presenting variations from these normal characteristics according to the circumstances under which it is gene- rated, the tissues at the expense of which it is produced, and its freshness or age. It manifests little disposition to putrefaction, even at the temperature of the body, as long as the air has no access to it; and, when removed from 1 Legouest. Dictionnaire Encyclopedique. Art. “ Cicatrice.”