26 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. excite a keratitis after the injection of the coloring matter, and cut out the cornea when the inflammatory process is at its height, we shall also see, in occasional instances, similar amoeboid bodies which contain pigment granules. Now if the cornea-corpuscles do not become changed in inflammation, and do not generate pus-corpuscles; if the pus-corpuscles always penetrate the cornea from the border, where the bloodvessels are situated; if the pus-cor- puscles are similar to the white blood-corpuscles; if this white blood-corpus- cles really migrate, who would doubt any more that the pus-corpuscles origi- nated from the blood? However, in the year 1869,1 I had already found out, in conjunction with W. F. Norris, that Cohnheim had examined the cornea imperfectly; that the cornea-corpuscles in fact did change; that their nuclei increased; that they became amoeboid in the course of the inflammatory pro- cess. True, we said, they do not all change at once; they do not change everywhere in the entire cornea, but only where a centre of suppuration is forming. But in the rest of the cornea we see the old cornea-corpuscles at the side of single new cells which look like pus-corpuscles. But inasmuch as at that period we likewise could not observe movements in the branched cornea-corpuscles (in their normal condition);2 and inasmuch as we had learned that they became amoeboid (like white blood-corpuscles) during in- flammation, we said that the newly-formed corpuscles had passed into this neighborhood, and had become visible beside the unchanged branched cornea- corpuscles. Norris and I have furthermore shown that the suppuration does not always begin at the edge of the cornea, as Cohnheim asserted, but that it begins ichere the irritation has exerted its influence. Finally, we have shown that the experiment with the pigment is no argu- ment in favor of the migration theory. After the injection of coloring matter into the blood, pigment-granules can also be found in the branched (supposed fixed) cells. Therefore, the presence of pigment-granules in the amoeboid cells of the cornea cannot be regarded as a sign of their originating from the blood. Even a single consideration teaches us how deceptive this sign is. In consequence of the inflammatory hyperaemia, an increased nutri- tive current flows into the focus of inflammation. The vascular wall is, as we know, permeable ; red and white blood-corpuscles can pass through it; why should not the much smaller pigment-granules likewise be carried through the wall of the vessel and into the cornea, by the nutritive current? Once arrived in the cornea, they can adhere to the soft and sticky pus-cor- puscles, and reach their interior. Of the arguments in favor of the migration theory there only remained the fundamental fact, that the blood-corpuscles in general could migrate. But, as already remarked, nobody has proved that they migrate in the course of a keratitis, or that they pass into the cornea. Properly speaking, the state of the question was now as follows: It was certain that the pus-corpuscles in the cornea were produced from pre-existing elements. It was uncertain whether, in addition, pus-corpuscles penetrated it from without. I and several of my pupils had likewise observed the genesis of pus-corpuscles from the cells in other tissues, and thus, in 1869, I could already say that I knew of no tissue in which the inflammation and suppuration were to be referred solely to migration. But at that time I laid the greatest weight upon the alterations of the capillaries. In the case of all other tissues, one might object (and the objection 1 Studien aus dem Inst. f. exp. Path. Wien, 1869. 2 New researches, of which I shall speak hereafter, demonstrate that these bodies, too, are movable.