328 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. injuries, and, in its turn, receives from them the most disastrous aggravation. We must restrict ourselves to the statement that the coincidence of an injury and a renal affection (even if but slightly serious) gives occasion for a very unfavorable prognosis. The local complications of wounds in these cases are very similar to those which have been observed in patients suffering from hepatic diseases. Thus we note secondary hemorrhages, diffuse inflammations of the connective tissue or lymphatics, severe erysipelas, sphacelus, osteo-myelitis, pyaemia, and, as less serious complications, persistent oedema, extreme slowness of the reparative process, interminable serous suppuration, a puffy, bleeding, grayish appearance of the granulations, etc. The bad appearance of wounds is espe- cially noticeable when they affect tissues which have been already infiltrated, as occurs in cases of albuminuria. To these unfavorable conditions of the traumatic centre are naturally superadded general phenomena, and especially more or less active fever, often accompanied by chills. Such symptoms must not always be attributed to the existence of pyaemia. In fact, the attack which makes us fear the invasion of this terrible complication may be simply of renal origin; that is to say, produced by the reaction of the injury upon the pre-existing disease of the kidneys. At the approach of death, it is not rare to find a very marked fall of temperature. If local complications of wounds carry off" a certain number of patients with renal disease who have been wounded or operated upon, death occurs perhaps still more frequently from the inverse action; that is to say, from the rapid or progressive aggravation produced by the traumatism in the pre- existing renal lesions. Among operations, we must particularly mention those performed on the urinary apparatus itself, such as lithotomy, lithotrity, and urethrotomy, and also the incisions rendered necessary by hemorrhagic or urinary infiltrations. If we suppose them to have been properly per- formed, and the after-treatment judiciously conducted, these operations are benign when the kidneys are sound or but slightly changed; hut things are very different when any form of nephritis is present. The mortality then becomes considerable; those operated upon usually succumb in a few days- with the general lesions which characterize the last stages of renal affections abandoned to themselves, to wit, diffuse inflammations, gangrene, serous effusion into the pleural and pericardial cavities, pulmonary oedema, and uraemic accidents, such as coma, dyspnoea, eclampsia, etc. Peripheral wounds and operations may also lead to rapid death, even though the seat of traumatism does not appear abnormal; but the progress of the compli- cations is usually less violent; a latent albuminuria becomes evident or is aggravated ; nephritis declares itself, with fever, dyspeptic disorders, vomit- ing, dryness of the tongue, etc.; anasarca appears or becomes more extensive. All may then do well; but it is not rare to find that the renal affection thus excited assumes a progressive course, and increases continually until it pro- duces death, a longer or shorter period after the healing of the wound. An injury has more than once given rise to the first appearance or sudden return of nephritic colic. Traumatisms affecting certain regions of the cen- tral nervous system have produced albuminuria and polyuria, usually, how- ever, only temporary. Wounds of the kidneys themselves are serious when they give rise to oliguria, and especially to anuria; for these symptoms, though accidentally produced, imply a condition of the economy which is as serious as if they resulted from an old renal lesion. We shall not thoroughly understand the reciprocal influence of injuries and of nephrism until it shall have been demonstrated that all wounds modify the composition of the urine, .that every modification of the urine implies a corresponding change