CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 81 or death of tissue—superficial, or deep. The inflammation following simple burns, or scalds, if no eschars have been formed, is limited to simple repair, especially if the air is excluded from the seat of injury. When there is death of tissue, the separation of the eschars, as a rule, involves suppuration. Re- pair by the second intention, that is, by granulation and suppuration, often fails, in extensive burns, through lack of cicatricial power, and from other causes; but, if we except pyaemia during suppuration, inflammation, as such, rarely leads to a fatal result in burns. ’ There is an opinion prevalent amongst practical surgeons that the unhealthy forms of inflammation are less likely to follow in wounds to which the actual cautery has been applied, or where incisions have been made by the incandes- cent knife. It is also a common belief that healthy reparative inflammation is promoted by the application of the caustic acids and alkalies. This is probably founded, at least in a measure, upon their efficiency in destroying poisoned surfaces, e. g., venereal and phagedsenic ulcers, and parts attacked by hospital gangrene. Of the escliarotics in vogue of late, the chloride of zinc enjoys much reputation through its reputed antiseptic quality; and there is evidence that the liberal application of an eight per cent, solution, which is decidedly escharotic, to a recent wound, does not interfere with its subsequent union by the first intention—certainly under antiseptic dressing. The mode which we have adopted of studying inflammation, by scrutiniz- ing the causes which have been proved to be capable of producing this condi- tion in our tissues, and the manner in which these causes act, has led, thus far, to the recognition of two well-marked grades of the inflammatory pro- cess. One of these is the simple form of repair which constitutes Hunter’s union by the first intention; the other is the process of healing by the second intention, or by suppuration and granulation. It has also been recognized that tissues which have been damaged by injury sometimes die in the effort at repair, and apparently in consequence of it. The exciting causes which next present themselves for examination, namely, the sources of poisonous in- fection, are more various in their nature, and also, in some of their forms, more obscure in their mode of action than those heretofore under considera- tion. Although the existence and the noxious influence of some of these sources of injury has long been suspected, they have, until recently, escaped general recognition. The effects of the inflammation-producing poisonous agents upon the organism cover a wider range than those exciting causes which act only mechanically, or chemically. In addition to their action upon the tissues generally, some of these poisons exert a specially noxious influence directly upon the nervous centres. Many of them possess, also, the peculiar power of perpetuating their poisonous influence, after their introduction into the organism, by a process allied in its nature to that which causes fermen- tation. The poisonous agents capable of producing inflammation fall naturally into several distinct classes, according to their origin and nature: (1) the mineral poisons; (2) those elaborated by the vital chemistry of plants; (3) the poison- ous secretions of animals; (4) the poisonous infection arising from the action of microscopic cryptogamic parasites; and (5) putrid substances. The Poisonous Action of Certain Minerals—arsenic and mercury, for example —gives rise to inflammation in a manner quite different from the chemical irri- tation produced by the primary contact of these metals, or their salts, with the living tissues. The peculiar nature of the inflammation is generally con- veyed by the use of the term specific, and its action is only developed after the mineral poison has entered the blood-current and is circulating, to all ap- vol. i.—6