361 CASES ATTENDED BY SHOCK. there is nothing that is inconsistent with the idea of sudden failure of the heart’s action, from the combined effects of degenerated structure and over- exertion. Death may, however, occur at a later period; a boy after being crushed by the end of a costermonger’s barrow against a wall, was admitted to hospital in a state of collapse, from which he partially rallied towards evening, only to sink again gradually before twenty-four hours had elapsed; nor was there anything found after death that could account for this; only a little redness and stickiness of the peritoneum in one small spot behind, 'against the vertebrae, as of commencing peritonitis. It often happens that penetrating wounds of the abdomen, and still more frequently that injuries or operations involving the handling of the viscera, such as ovariotomy, are followed by results of this nature, though exceptions are more frequently met with in this class of injuries perhaps than elsewhere. Death within five minutes has occurred after such a simple operation as tap- ping the liver for hydatid disease. The patient, a man 49 years of age, to all appearance perfectly healthy, and temper- ate, presented himself on account of an enlargement of the abdomen which had been noticed some ten months. It was plainly a case of hydatid disease of the liver ; and was of such inconvenience that the man wished something to be done. After some days in the ward, a fine aspirating trocar and canula were introduced without any anaesthetic, and a few drops of clear fluid evacuated ; as no more followed, a canula somewhat larger, about the size of a small goose-quill, was inserted through the same opening immedi- ately on withdrawal of the smaller one. A few drachms of blood-stained fluid came, and then all of a sudden the patient’s face became pale and livid, his arms sank down by his side, and, with the exception of a few faint irregular beats, the pulse ceased. At the post-mortem examination, on the following day, the puncture was found on the convexity of the liver, and a probe was passed through it into a small cyst lying by the side of a much larger one ; there was no great distension of the abdominal veins, and the only sign of visceral degeneration was a slightly granular condition of the kidneys. Bryant1 relates a very similar case, except that the amount of fluid removed was considerably greater, about nine ounces (though much more than this has frequently been withdrawn without damage), and that, while the inferior vena cava was considerably obstructed by the pressure of the tumor, a large branch of the portal vein had been perforated by the trocar. Injuries to other abdominal viscera offer examples no less frequent and quite as characteristic. The strangulation of a portion of small intestine, whether in a hernial sac or by some band within the abdominal cavity, is attended at once by symptoms of the most complete prostration, and may of itself, if left unreduced, be sufficient to occasion death, without the production of perito- nitis. Many more instances are on record of this result having followed the application of taxis, with or without the administration of chloroform, espe- cially in the case of umbilical or ventral hernise in corpulent subjects reduced by long-continued vomiting. The same effects are produced by large doses of corrosive poisons, such as sulphuric and other mineral acids, or arsenic, the immediate effects of which are intense local pain, coldness and pallor of the surface, sighing respiration, and a weak, perhaps imperceptible pulse. Similar results" follow when per- foration takes place in the stomach or intestines, and their contents escape into the peritoneal cavity. The occurrence of shock after parturition, espe- cially in the case of bearing twins, is probably partly due to nervous influence, and partly to the removal of pressure from the abdominal vessels by the loss of such a large portion of the abdominal contents, which must almost un- avoidably occasion more or less relaxation of the vessels.2 Lancet, June 8, 1878. 2 Lauder Brunton, Shock and Syncope.