SYMPTOMS OF ERYSIPELAS. 177 be accurately estimated. The tumor sometimes continued even for a fort- night after the subsidence of the febrile symptoms. This was particularly noticed in erysipelas of the scalp.1 Even in cases presenting brain symptoms, whether active or passive, no cerebral lesions corresponding to them are found; no exudation of lymph, and not even a large effusion of serum ; but the veins, both of the meninges and of the brain, are sometimes engorged with blood. In erysipelas of the throat and bronchia, the mucous membrane of these parts is apt- to be darkly congested and coated with tenacious mucus; occasionally ulcers are found upon it. They have also been met with in the intestinal canal. Larcher2 met with them near the opening of the ductus communis into the duodenum, or on the opposite surface. The ulcers were about the size of a split pea, and did not penetrate the mucous coat. The analogy of these ulcers with those that have been found after burns of the skin, and also after scarlatina, is in- teresting. Malherbe3 met with such ulcers in the jejunum and ileum; but they were not seated in the glands. In many, if not in most cases, the lymphatic vessels and glands are in- flamed, or at least structurally altered, and the veins may be the seat of a similar change. This may lead to coagulation of the blood in the veins (thrombosis), and the clots so formed may be carried into the vessels of the lungs, constituting embolism in those organs. Or the coagulation may obstruct an artery, and lead to gangrene of the parts beyond. Such accidents appear to be more frequent in persons of feeble constitution or impaired physical con- dition than in those of average health. The local lesions found in fatal cases of erysipelas consist of an infiltration of the connective tissue with a sero- purulent fluid, which renders the parts soft and pulpy, and dissects out, as it were, the muscles, bloodvessels, and nerves. The parotid gland may lie quite disorganized by purulent infiltration in cases of facial erysipelas, and the periosteum of the ramus of the lower jaw may be separated from the bone. The small muscles are often reduced to a pulp, and the lymphatic glands are enlarged and suppurating. Similar destructive effects arc observed in cases of phlegmonous erysipelas of the extremities. Symptoms of Erysipelas. Like other diseases in which the local phenomena are subordinate, although essentially due, to a vice of the system, the first symptoms of erysipelas depend upon the condition of the blood. The material cause of the disease, circulating through the system, occasions phenomena analogous to those which introduce other febrile affections. These phenomena include general discomfort, muscular aching, pain in the head, loss of appetite, a chill, and, above all, nausea, with a bitter taste in the mouth, and vomiting, which is often bilious. Sometimes, a convulsion is among the earliest phenomena of the affection. The chill is apt to be prolonged and severe, and may often be taken as an indication of the gravity of the subsequent attack. It is fol- lowed by fever proportioned in severity to the chill, and the temperature may rise in a few hours to 104° F., or even higher. If the patient is already suffering from fever, these phenomena may not be present, or the rise of tem- perature may be unnoticed. The pulse becomes frequent, and is usually full and strong, especially in cases which are rapidly developed and in previously 1 German Clinical Lectures, New Sydenham Society’s edition, 2d series, p. 8. 2 Archives generates de Medecine, Dec. 18ti4, p. 689. 3 Ibid., Dec. 1865, p. 725.