633 AMPUTATIONS OF THE FINGERS. tlie oval method of Scoutetten, or, which is better, its modification, the ope- ration “ en raquette” of Malgaigne ; by the double (lateral) flap method; or, in the case of the thumb, by taking a single flap from either the dorsal or the palmar surface. The circular and elliptical operations have also been em- ployed in this situation, but are less desirable than those above mentioned. (1) Oval Method.—The simple oval method, or that of Scoutetten (see Fig. 149, A, page 584), has the disadvantage of often not affording a sufficient covering for the head of the metacarpal bone, and I shall, therefore, describe Malgaigne’s modification only, which is not open to this objection. In per- forming this operation (Fig. 149, b), the hand of the patient should be pro- nated, and the surgeon begins by making a longitudinal incision of half or three-quarters of an inch over the head of the metacarpal bone; from the lower third of this wound, the knife is carried obliquely downwards on the right side to the interdigital web, then transversely across the base of the finger, and finally obliquely upwards to again join the longitudinal incision. All the tissues down to the bone should be divided, when, the joint having been exposed by a little dissection, the extensor and flexor tendons, and lateral ligaments, are severed, and, disarticulation being thus completed, the sides of the wound are finally brought together in an antero-posterior direc- tion. In the case of the forefinger, however, the point of the oval should be on the radial, and in the case of the little finger, on the ulnar side of the joint; and in these cases the wound should be closed transversely. (2) Doable Flap Method-.—In this operation (Fig. 168), lateral flaps are cut from without inwards, from either side of the finger which is to be removed. This plan, which is known as Petit’s, is I think better than either that of Rossi, who made both flaps by transfixion, or that of Lisfranc, who cut one flap from without inwards, before disarticulating, and the other subsequently from within outwards. Sharp’s and Ga- rengeot’s methods, in which antero-posterior flaps were employed, are also less desirable than Petit’s. The ad- vantage of this operation over the oval method, is that is does not leave a pocket of palmar tissue, in which pus may accumulate; but, on the other hand, the oval method leaves the palm entirely free from the cicatrix, and thus gives at last a better result, though the wound may not heal as quickly as after the flap operation. (3) Single Flap Method.—This operation, which is known as Chassaignac’s, seems to be less advantageous than either the oval or double flap method, except in the case of the thumb. The'flap may be taken from either the dorsal or palmar surface, the latter plan being, I think, preferable. The joint is opened at the back, and, after disarticulating, the flap is cut from within outwards as in the case of the interphalangeal amputations which have already been described. Some surgeons advise that the head of the metacarpal bone should be removed, in these amputations, in order to render the loss of the finger less apparent by permitting the others to come more closely together; but what is gained in symmetry, is no compensation for the loss of strength in the hand, thus entailed; there is, moreover, a positive risk in thus opening the deep structures of the palm, suppuration in that part being extremely painful, and apt to extend upwards along the planes of connective tissue in the forearm, thus causing prolonged disability and even endangering life. Fig. 168. Amputation of entire finger by double flap method.