OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. 4(38 Mexican or malarial dysentery, succumb to a fresli attack on the receipt of some slight injury, or the performance of some comparatively trilling opera- tion. Cachexia.—The influence of the different caehexiae upon operations may be regarded from a twofold point of view. In the first place, as to the chances of immediate recovery from operations and the healing of wounds, and, secondly, as to the ultimate result. In regard to scrofulous patients, it is a matter of daily observation that they do well after operations. The removal of the source of irritation, the doing away with their chronic dis- charges, the; relief from pain which they experience, all contribute to an improvement in their general health. If they are carefully watched and well nourished, and if their general hygiene and the ventilation of their rooms be attended to, their wounds of operation will heal—possibly slowly, sometimes not altogether perfectly, but still in some sort or other they close. The cica- trices of the scrofulous, as one would naturally suppose, are poorly organized, and have a tendency to open, if the diathesis continues to exert its force; the latter, too, may give fresh evidence of its power in other parts. The pre- vious training of suffering which scrofulous patients have undergone stands them at this time in good stead. They bear confinement well if it is not too prolonged, and seem to be exempt from the influence of septic poisons which sweep away healthier persons. The influence of tuberculosis has already been alluded to in the remarks upon pulmonary disease. The general rule there laid down, that operative interference should be confined to cases of quiet and suspended phthisis, is equally applicable, with a change of terms, to the general diathesis. In short, operation should only be attempted when with- out it the patient must die, and when the removal of the source of irritation is attended with less immediate danger to life than its retention. Constitutional syphilis undoubtedly in many cases influences unfavorably operative results, but, at the same time, it need not be considered as absolutely forbidding operation. There is probably in such cases a tendency greater or less to secondary hemorrhage, in consequence of the predisposition to disease of the walls of the larger arteries ; and this must be borne in mind in apply- ing the ligatures. The wounds made in syphilitic subjects do not always heal kindly; primary union is sometimes difficult, or, if partially effected, the adhesions may break up suddenly and apparently without sufficient cause. Hence it happens that plastic operations, particularly on parts in the vicinity of the genital region which have been the seat of previous destructive processes, are often unsuccessful, and that attempts to close fistulse and losses of substance are commonly of no avail. Operations upon cancerous patients are constantly performed where neces- sity commands, and there is no reason why they should not be done. These wounds heal readily, and there is no evidence to show that the constitutional condition of the patient is rendered more unfavorable. The question in such cases is simply one of expediency, and the surgeon must decide from a careful consideration of the circumstances surrounding each individual at the time. The gouty and rheumatic diatheses are supposed to act in a measure as contra-indicating operations. As far as they impair the strength of the patient, this is so; and no one would willingly select the period of an attack of gout, or of the acute febrile stage of rheumatism, as the time of operation. As is well known, in gouty persons, any constitutional disturbance may give rise to a fresh attack. In rheumatic patients, the tendency to cardiac com- plications, and the possible exacerbations of existing disease by operative interference, must always be borne in mind. The lithic acid diathesis is like- wise unfavorable to operation, since it is usually accompanied by impaired