12 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. an incomplete portion. Remembering the practical tendencies of the physi- cian, I shall not in these pages give more than is necessary for the compre- hension of the influence of the nervous system on hypersemia and ischaemia. The vaso-motor nerves come from the spinal cord, as was first recognized by Waller and by Budge.1 They pass out with the roots of the spinal nerves, and then reach their peripheral terminal expansions by various routes. We can arrange these routes into two main groups:— A. First Main Group.—A large majority of the vaso-motor nerves leave the spinal nerves with the rami communicantes, and with the latter enter the great sympathetic. They run a short distance upward or downward in the great sympathetic, and then leave it in two ways: (1) As independent branches of the great sympathetic, as they are represented, for example, by the splanchnic nerves, which, I may remark, contain the principal mass of the vaso-motor nerves for the abdominal organs. (2) After they have ascended or descended a distance in the great sympathetic, they return again by means of rami communicantes to the spinal nerves, and together with these reach the parts which they supply. This arrangement holds good for the skin, the muscles, and the bones. Thus, for instance, the vaso-motor nerves of the foot leave the spinal cord with a series of roots of the dorsal and lum- bar nerves, descend in the great sympathetic, leave it deep in the pelvis, and reach and enter the sciatic nerve by means of a small communicating filament. B. Second Main Group.—A considerable number of vaso-motor nerves do not enter the sympathetic at all, but go directly into the corresponding spinal nerves, and reach their terminal expansions with them. Thus, the hind-paw of the dog receives both the previously mentioned nerves, which enter the sympathetic, and, on the other hand, the last-mentioned nerves, which come directly from the spinal cord with the roots of the sciatic, and reach the paw with the branches of that nerve. It will be convenient for the further dis- cussion of this subject to designate the last-mentioned class as the direct, and the first-mentioned as the indirect supply. The circumstance that a peripheral region of the body receives its vaso- motor nerves from many spinal roots, plays a part (as I shall show imme- diately) in the recovery from hypereemia. In order to illustrate my meaning for the present by a comparison, we need only consider the case of a man who draws his income from many sources; such a man need not suffer hunger though one or several sources be exhausted. To support this comparison by another (imaginary) case from practice, let us suppose that the lumbar por- tion of the spinal cord has been completely separated from the dorsal portion by a projectile, but that the projectile has remained in the spinal canal, and has done no further damage, the great sympathetic being accordingly unin- jured. The lower extremities will now be completely paralyzed and insensi- tive, because all the nerves which give them sensation and voluntary motion have been divided. This condition is incurable. After the injury, moreover, the lower extremities are warm (hypersemic), since a considerable number of nerves have been divided, which formerly gave a certain tone to the blood- vessels. But these divided vaso-motor nerves were not the only ones which maintained the vascular tone in the limbs, for I have said that the sympa- thetic was uninjured. How, as before, vaso-motor nerves from this penetrate the sciatic vaso-motor nerves which have not been at all injured by the pro- jectile. In fact, the hypersemia of the lower extremities passes away; they 1 1853. Quoted from Vulpian’s Lemons sur l’appareil vaso-moteur, t. i. p. 23.