ANAESTHETICS AND ANAESTHESIA. 416 lungs with air; hut if performed in the ordinary way, it is likely to distend the stomach rather than the lungs. If a flexible tube be passed through the glottis into the trachea, or, more easily, through a tracheal opening, the lungs may then be easily filled with air. But such manoeuvres consume valuable time. Complete inversion of the body, so that the head shall be thoroughly depressed, affords the most speedy and, certainly, one of the surest means of relief when cardiac syncope is exhibited. Tested in the physiological labora- tory upon the lower animals, in whom chloroform had produced apparent death, this method of resuscitation has in numerous cases yielded very con- spicuous results. Unfortunately, however, the energy of certain anaesthetic substances is so great that no degree of vigilance can obviate danger, nor can the most scientific methods of relief always effect a restoration when the patient has ceased to breathe. The only real approach to safety, the only irreproachable course of action, lies in complete abstinence from these potent drugs. The administration of atropine previous to the commencement of in- halation has been recommended with a view to protection against syncope by its stimulant effect upon the heart. Though it be a fact that the drug serves to accelerate the cardiac contractions, it certainly has a paralyzing effect upon the pneumogastric nerve connections of the heart; so that, while it may theo- retically protect that organ from violent inhibitory shocks transmitted through the vagi, it is doubtful whether, in medicinal doses, it can effect any benefit greater than may result from the action of the anaesthetic itself. Employment of Anaesthetics. Artificial Anaesthesia in Surgery.—Briefly, it may be assumed that every painful and long-continued operation, upon a patient who presents none of the contra-indications already considered, constitutes an occasion for the induction of artificial anaesthesia. By the aid thus procured, many ope- rations in surgery are rendered feasible which otherwise could rarely be pro- posed. It has, moreover, been asserted that by the use of anaesthetics the mortality after surgical operations has been considerably reduced. Without undertaking the discussion of a question into which numerous other elements must in fairness be admitted, it may safely be conceded that the removal of that dread of pain which was always so formidable an obstacle to early ope- ration for the relief of disease, and the diminution of the danger of exhaus- tion by pain during the time of operation, have largely contributed to an in- crease of safety in surgery. It should not be forgotten, however, that loss of blood may be favored by the action of anaesthetics. The depressing effect of the more powerful anaesthetic substances may sometimes exercise a prejudicial effect upon the convalescence of exceptional individuals. Death may occur during the act of inhalation. But, notwithstanding all these possibilities, it can scarcely be doubted that the sum of human misery has been considerably reduced by the employment of anaesthetics in surgery. Artificial Anaesthesia in Obstetrics.—The employment of ether for the relief of the pains of child-birth soon followed its introduction in surgery. Sir J. Y. Simpson became at once a most enthusiastic advocate of the new method, which soon became naturalized throughout the greater part of the civilized world. Objections to the practice have been raised on the ground of inter- ference with a natural process. It may be conceded that in all truly natural labors the use of anaesthetics is superfluous; but, since the abnormal condi- tions of a partial civilization have introduced so large an element of pain into a naturally laborious, but not necessarily painful, process, the employment of