48 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. stitute the axis-cylinders of the medullated fibres. In addition, tlie network of neuroglia in the gray matter is continuous with the network of neuroglia in the white matter. In the white matter, however, the network is not filled up with a granular mass, but the meshes of the network adapt themselves to the nerve-fibres. The cells in the neuroglia of the white matter are sparse and very small. Besides the network of neuroglia, another network is found in the white matter, namely in the medullary layer of the nerves. This network was dis- covered by Kiiline and Ewald.1 The medullated fibre consists of the axis- cylinder, of the medullary layer, and of a structureless sheath (Schwann’s sheath)2 which limits the medullary layer externally. Now it is the medul- lary layer which contains the aforementioned net. T he meshes of this network are here filled with the peculiar substance that we call medullary substance. This is a substance rich in fat, which lends to the entire nerve its opacity. If we wish to see the network, we must extract the fat with alcohol and ether, or with alcohol and turpentine. Having deprived a peripheral nerve (for example, the sciatic nerve of the frog) of its tat, we recognize with a magni- fying power of 300 diameters, or better still, with a higher power, that the space between the axis-cylinder and Schwann’s sheath is traversed by a knotted network; by a network whose meshes now (after the extraction of the fat) are light and transparent, thus making the trabeculae of the network very plainly visible. This network is inserted on one side into the axis-cylinder, on the other side into Schwann’s sheath. Similar networks, though not as sharply defined, are also contained in the medullary layers of central nerves, and in the white matter of the brain and spinal cord. But not all the nerve-fibres of the white matter are medullated. We have, in this respect, the most varied gradations, from nerves with a very thick medullary layer down to nerves with a very thin one, and even axis-cylinders which do not show the presence of a medullary layer at all. Transverse sections of the spinal cord of man, or of the dog, which have been hardened in a two per cent, solution of chromic acid, and then in alcohol, show these relations very plainly, especially if they have been washed well and stained in carmine. For the network of connective tissue as well as the axis-cylinders are stained red by carmine, whilst the me- dullary layers remain almost colorless. If we cause inflammation and suppuration in the spinal cord of a dog, by means of injury, and then prepare it in the manner described, we learn as follows: In the immediate neighborhood of the suppurating spots, the axis-cylinders are thickened. This thickening is very unequal. We find axis-cylinders which are about as thick as a connective-tissue cord of the cutis, and all gradations down to the thinnest axis-cylinders of the normal spinal cord. The markedly thickened axis-cylinders have no longer a medullary layer. The medullary layer is destroyed by the thickening of the axis. Here the relation is exactly the same as it is between cell and basis-substance in the cornea, in cartilage, and in other tissues. The axis-cylinder of the nerve takes the place of the cell; the medullary layer represents the basis-substance. The medullary layer as basis-substance is distinguished from all other basis-sub- stances in that the meshes of the network in the medullary layer are filled with medullary substance, rich in fat; it is distinguished, furthermore, in that the network of the medullary layer is easily demonstrable in fresh nerves; and finally in that this network is as firm and resistant as elastic tissues, as has been shown by Kiiline and Ewald. But this network is firm and resistant, only in a normal condition. In the coui’se of the inflammatory process, it 1 Verliandl. d. naturhist. mediz. Vereine, Heidelberg, 1877. 2 Equivalent to tubular membrane. [Note of the Translator.]