AMPUTATIONS. 656 ence, and the records of British surgery and of the late American war show a very low rate of mortality ; but the French statistics are much less favora- ble ; the figures are shown in the following Table:— Table showing Results of Amputations of the Toes and Partial Amputations of the Foot. Toes. Partial of Foot. Authority. Cases. Deaths. Mortality per cent. Cases. D eaths. Mortality per cent. Reference. Otis 790 6 0.7 119 n 9.2 Circular No. 6. S. G. O., 1865, p. 45. Hancock ... 70 .... 174 13 7.4 Op. Surgery of Foot and Ankle- joint, pp. 205, 386. Legouest 370 18.9 255 97 38.+ Chirurgie d’Annge, pp. 726, 731. Larger • • • * * * # * * 80 23 28.7 Revue des Sciences Medicales, Oct. 15, 1880. Aggregates 1160 76 6.5 628 144 22.9 Amputation at the Ankle. Removal of the entire foot at the ankle-joint was somewhat vaguely referred to by Hippocrates, and subsequently by Fabricius Hildanus, and appears to have been occasionally resorted to by various surgeons, among whom may be particularly mentioned Sedilier, of Laval, Rossi, and Baudens; but the ope- ration did not obtain general acceptance as a recognized procedure until the late Prof. Syme, of Edinburgh, introduced a new mode of performing it in the year 1842. Rossi had employed two lateral flaps, and Baudens a single dorsal flap, while Velpeau advised semi-lunar incisions over the heel and in- step, the edges of the wound being brought together from before backwards, so that its angles should cover in the malleoli, which, in all of these methods, were allowed to remain. Various modifications of Syme’s method have been suggested and practised, the most important being those of Roux, Pirogotf, Fergusson, and Le Fort. Syme’s Amputation.—As I quite agree with Mr. Hancock and Mr. Syme himself, that, in estimating the value of any particular operation, we should take care that the operation itself is performed in the manner directed by its . ! introducer, and not confuse it with the modifications, or so-called “ improve- ments,” of other surgeons, I shall quote Mr. Syme’s own description of his mode of procedure:—1 In performing the operation, the foot being held at a right angle to the leg, the point of a common straight bistoury should be introduced immediately below the fibula, at the centre of its malleolar projection, and then carried across the integuments of the sole in a straight line to the same level on the opposite side. The operator having next placed the fingers of his left hand upon the heel, and inserted the point of his thumb into the incision, pushes in the knife with its blade parallel to the bone, and cuts down to the osseous surface, at the same time pressing the flap backwards until the tuberosity is fairly turned, when, joining the two extremities of the first incision by a transverse one across the instep, he opens the joint, and carrying his knife downwards on each side of the astragalus, divides the lateral ligaments, so as to complete the disarticula- tion. Lastly the knife is drawn round the extremities of the tibia and fibula, so as to 1 Observations on Clinical Surgery, p. 47. Edinburgh, 1861.