658 AMPUTATIONS. Table showing the Results of Syme’s Amputation at the Ankle. Authority. Cases. Deaths. Mortality per cent. Reference. Hancock. . 219 17 7.7 Operative Surgery of Foot and Ankle-joint, p. 152. Spence . . 107 8 7.4 Lectures on Surgery, vol. ii.; Med. Times and Gaz., 1875 and 1876; Edin. Med. Journal, 1879. Fayrer . . 12 8 66.6 Hancock, op. cit., p. 155. Aggregates 338 33 9.7 Roux’s Amputation.—In this operation, the flap is derived mainly from the inner side of the foot. The surgeon begins his incision at the posterior edge of the external face of the os calcis, carries it below the external mal- leolus, and then over the dorsum of the foot, in a curved line, convex forwards, half an inch below the articulation. This incision ends a little in front of the internal malleolus, and a second, starting from the termination of the first, crosses the sole somewhat obliquely backwards to the point whence the first took its origin. An irregularly oval wound is thus made with the point of the oval on the outer side of the foot. The malleoli are removed in this as in Syme’s operation. I have no personal experience with this particular form of operation, but should not suppose that the stump would be as serviceable as that obtained by Syme’s method. Pirogoff’s Amputation.—The peculiarity of this operation consists in the removal of all the foot except the posterior part of the calcaneum, which is brought forward and placed in apposition with the sawn ends of the tibia and fibula, the articulating surfaces of the latter, with the malleoli, being removed as in the procedure of Syme and Roux. The operation is done as follows: The surgeon makes first a somewhat oblique incision, with an ante- rior convexity, across, the plantar surface, from one malleolus to the other, coming a little further forward on the inner than on the outer side, so as to avoid the posterior tibial artery. The flap thus marked out is dissected back- wards for about a quarter of an inch, and the extremities of the wound are then united by a second incision, also with anterior convexity, over the dorsal surface, and crossing the Fig-190- ankle in such a way as to expose the joint. This be- ing opened, disarticulation is effected, and the surgeon then, slipping a narrow- hladed saw, or the blade of a “ Butcher’s” saw behind the astragalus (Fig. 190) saws through the os calcis, obliquely downwards in the line of the first incision. The ends of the tibia and fibula1 are next removed, and, hemorrhage having been checked, the wound is closed with sutures. If Amputation by pirogors method. Butcher’s saw be used, the 1 It is somewhat uncertain whether Pirogoff himself removes more than the malleoli (see Han- cock, op. cit., p. 161), but it is customary in England and in this country to remove the whole articulating surface.