396 TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM AND DELIRIUM TREMENS. tremens is sometimes produced by opium and tobacco, and cases may be found in medical works in proof of the fact. I have seen one case of poisoning with stramonium. There were hallucinations and much severe delirium, with visual anomalies, but, the cause being well known, the symptoms soon sub- sided under treatment with emetics. Overdoses of belladonna produce like effects, and sometimes there is furious delirium. It is not common for either of the two last-mentioned drugs to be used habitually ; a necessity, it would seem, for the production of delirium tremens by any substance capable of causing it. Cannabis indica is habitually used in the East, mostly in the form of the well-known haschish. It is said “ to pervert the natural perception of objects and their normal conditions and relations, more than any other agent.” If so, one would think that in time phenomena like those of delirium tremens might readily follow its use. I have one observation to record as to its curious power of producing double consciousness, an alter ego. I was giving it to a patient for some chest trouble. He was wholly ignorant of what he was taking. One day he said to me : “ Doctor, you will have to stop giving me that medicine; I don’t know what it is, but here am I, John, on this lounge, talking to myself, John, sitting on that chair. I can’t stand it, and if you keep on I shall be wild.” The symptom disappeared on discontinuing the medicine. Had one side of the brain the power to so project an ego, that the other side could take cognizance of it ? Singleness as to both external objects and ideas, seems to be the result of the actions of our double cerebral organs, or centres, in a normal condition. When perverted by disease or intoxicating agents, this particular property might be disturbed, and such curious results as that just related might be produced. Anaesthetics, such as ether and chloroform, it is well known sometimes cause violent delirium. This may occur at the start, and not return, but now and then a case is met with in which delirium persists after an operation has been performed. I have known it to so continue, and to be apparently the exciting cause of an attack of de- lirium tremens, of which the remote and continuing occasion was an under stratum of rum. It is not my intention to consider here all substances that might possibly cause delirium tremens. The above-mentioned are the most prominent. For practical purposes, delirium tremens caused by the habitual use of alco- holic drinks is what demands the attention of the surgeon. The disease, as proved from post-mortem examinations, and also from the results of various modes of treatment, is one of depression of the organic forces, although it may express itself by intense animal excitement, and hence the source of those mistaken views already alluded to, which regarded it as a true phrenitis. It is thought by many to be caused by the withdrawal of accustomed stimulus. This may sometimes be so, but the truth more likely lies in the fact that, at the time of the attack, there is a rebellion of the overtaxed digestive organs. The stomach becomes sickened, the liver refuses to act properly, the bowels are torpid, the kidneys are irregular in action and, with “ old stagers,” are often so altered by disease as to give rise to temporary suppression of urine. Thus the various results of vicious tissue-metamorphosis, besides those of alcohol, to which they also are due, poison the blood, and produce through the circulation, and probably by direct contact with the cortex, the peculiar form of delirium under consideration. There is no doubt that in many acci- dent-cases, the sudden stopping of the drinking habit will develop the disease. That is to say that, without the accident, the patient would not have had the attack; but here the casualty may itself have been a prime cause of depres- sion, and thus have produced that state which allows the effects of the habit to declare themselves and to gain the upper hand.