253 AGE AT WHICH RACHITIS OCCURS. sembling it, occurs in the fetal state, causing deformities, such as are present in typical cases. In the Kinderspital Museum, at Prague, is a specimen shoAving this, and described by Ritter. Hink and Winkler also describe such cases, and Virchow alludes to a specimen in the Wurzburg Museum, which exhibits such deformities as characterize Fig. 9. rachitis. Bednar even regards foetal rachitis as not uncom- mon (Hillier, Parry). In the Wood Museum of Bellevue Hospital, is a skeleton which is probably similar to those in the Prague and Wurzburg Museums. It shows in a striking manner the deformities of this congenital disease. The case occurred in my practice, and the dissection was made by Prof. Francis Delafield. The infant, born at term, died a few hours after birth from atelectasis, apparently produced by the contracted state of the thoracic walls. The parents were hard working English people, whose mode of life and surroundings were such as are known to conduce to rachitis. They were free from syphilitic taint. The accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 9) represents this skeleton. The following remarkable case of supposed fetal rachitis was related to me by Heitzmann, whose interesting experi- ments will be presently detailed:— A woman who had frequently inhaled the vapor of lactic acid, each day, for many months, as she was employed to feed animals with this agent, gave birth to an infant, at term, which died imme- diately after it was born. It exhibited the signs of congenital rachitis in a high degree. The skull bones were completely absent; in the cartilages of the bones of the extremities, and in those of the ribs, there were scanty depositions of lime salts, and numerous infractions. The death of the child was evidently due to the absence of the skull bones, inasmuch as the pressure of the womb during delivery bad caused cerebral hem- orrhage. All the organs of the chest and abdomen were found in full development and healthy. Skeleton of a rachitic infant, which died a few hours after birth. AVe will see, hereafter, that the theory which attributes rachitis, in certain instances, to a chemical irritant, is proved by experiment, and that it has already been shown that two such agents, phosphorus and lactic acid, may cause this disease. How, as the irritating action of phosphorus on the osse- ous system occurs when it is inhaled in the form of vapor, as well as when received in the ingesta, so lactic acid, if the above case be rightly interpreted, produces its special effect upon the bone-producing tissues when inhaled, as decidedly as when received in the ingesta or generated in the system. These remarks seem necessary for an understanding of this unusual case, although they anticipate \\diat will be said under the head of etiology. In the New York Journal of Obstetrics for November, 1870, Prof. Abraham Jacobi also pub- lished the description of a case of congenital rachitic craniotabes. Whether or not we accept as genuine all the reported cases of foetal rachitis, there can be little doubt, from the number of observations already made and carefully recorded, and from the opinion of high authorities like Virchow, that such cases do occur. Enlargement of the costo-chondral articulations, known as the “ rachitic rosary,” which is one of the earliest and most reliable signs of rickets, has been observed, though rarely, in infants only a few Aveeks old. Dr. Parry saAv it as early as the sixth week after birth,1 and Dr. Gee at the third or 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1872.