INFLAMMATION. 128 the tendency to self-limitation was noticeably absent. It lias since been ap- plied by English surgeons to the diffuse and spreading suppuration attending erysipelas when this disease affects the parts beneath the surface. The French surgeons speak of this variety of inflammation as diffused phlegmon. The relation it bears to erysipelas has always been vaguely defined; but our ideas are clearer since modern surgical pathology has recognized that each of these forms of spreading inflammation, as well as simple cutaneous erysipelas, has for its cause a peculiar infective poison analogous to that discovered by Koch, by which he produced spreading gangrene in mice. The common effect of these poisons, in man, is to cause more or less rapid death of the connective tissue when brought in contact with its meshes by the lymphatics, or other- wise. The effect produced by putrid or altered urine, when extravasated into the connective tissue, illustrates the liability of this structure to die promptly in consequence of such noxious contact. It is the putrid element in this case that kills, for experience has demonstrated that the contact of healthy urine with the tissues does not necessarily impair their vitality.1 A contused wound of the hand in a mechanic, in which prompt healing has been prevented by neglect or exposure, is liable to become complicated by a diffuse swelling of the forearm, with purulent infiltration of its muscular in- terspaces. This complication has been described as “ subfascial inflammation in reality it is a connective-tissue necrosis from poison brought by the lymph- atics from the festering wound of the hand. Dr. Weir Mitchell, in his study of the effects of the venom of the rattlesnake, describes in detail the influence of this poison upon the tissues at and near the wound. When the victim sur- vives the first effects upon the nerve centres, the suppuration that follows a snake-bite is of the diffuse variety—the half-poisoned tissues in the neighbor- hood seeming, for a time at least, unequal to the task of getting up a barrier of healthy granulations to limit its advance and serve as a basis for repair; and, before final healing, sloughy masses of dead tissue are always thrown oft’. This latter phenomenon is mentioned by Dr. Duncan in those of his cases of “diffused cellular inflammation” in which the patients survived; and it is a well-known feature in phlegmonous erysipelas, and “ subfascial inflam- mation.” In a word, then, the pathology of the present day does not clearly recog- nize any especial significance in any of these terms, and tends to substitute for them death of tissue from contact of a poison, and pus formation for the pur- pose of eliminating dead tissue. The effort at pus formation is weak and dif- fuse, simply because the influence of the poisonous contact impairs in a greater or less degree the vitality of the neighboring tissues, and weakens their capacity for prompt and healthy repair. As soon as the poisonous influence ceases, more vigorous and healthy granulations are formed, and the production of new connective tissue goes on as in ordinary constructive inflammation. The characteristic symptoms of this variety of inflammation are a peculiar doughy, boggy feel, attended by deep soreness on pressure, but rarely a dis- tinct sense of fluctuation, with a variable amount of surface redness, perhaps a brawny thickening of the skin over the affected part, and a tendency to surface gangrene, in patches, from cutting off of the vascular supply of the skin. Thus, one of the best remedies of the surgeon is to save surface sloughing, and fever, by liberal incision of the integument, in order to facilitate the early escape of deeper sloughs. In these incisions he recog- 1 In a patient shot through the distended bladder, recovery followed without any sloughing. (Van Buren. New York Medical Journal, May, 1865.) Subcutaneous injections of fresh healthy urine made experimentally by Keyes in man, were followed by no irritation or trouble whatever. (Van Buren and Keyes, Diseases of the Genito-urinary Organs, p. 144. New York, 1874.)