GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL DIAGNOSIS. 346 placing t-lie patient in a darkened chamber, and hy supporting the part to be examined between the surgeon and a lighted taper or candle, the hand at the same time being placed vertically above the tumor in order to intercept the upper rays of light, which otherwise would confuse the vision. A less satis- factory mode of demonstrating translucency, which may he practised hy sun- light, consists in using a hollow cylinder of paper, one end of which is placed on the swelling while the eye of the surgeon is applied at the other end. It is in this way that, either by artificial illumination or hy sunlight, we are enabled to recognize a hydrocele, a spina bifida, and various forms of cyst. Mensuration.—The measurement of parts also serves to enlighten diag- nosis, the standard of reference being, in the case of the extremities, the corresponding sound limb. The metallic or the linen tape-line, accurately graduated, is best adapted for obtaining measurements. In cases of fracture and of dislocation, a resort to mensuration is often necessary before any reli- able conclusion can be reached. Much care is required to render this mode of investigation valuable. For example, in applying the tape-line to the lower extremities, the patient should be laid on a level, unyielding surface; the limbs placed side by side; and the body in an exact line with the ex- tremities, so that the pelvis shall not incline to the right or to the left. Any deviation from this position will so Vitiate the measurements as to render them nugatory and unreliable. It is also necessary that the measurements shall be made between points of the skeleton which are stable and unvary- ing ; in the lower extremities, from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium or the spine of the pubic bone above, to the internal malleolus below; or, in case of dislocations of the coxo-femoral articulation, from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the trochanter major and the tuberosity of the ischium. In the upper extremity, the points of reference, in fracture of the humerus, are the acromion process of the scapula and the condyles of the humerus; and, in elbow dislocations, the condyles and the olecranon process of the ulna. By the tape-line, any irregularity between the two sides of the thorax, such as is likely to occur in effusions into the cavity of the pleura, can be determined, as can also the growth of an ovarian cyst or the enlargement of a dropsical joint. Deviations of form from the perpendicular can be easily determined by the plumb-line. When it is desired to obtain an exact trans- cript of the angles or curves of the vertebral column, this can be done either by laying over the spine a malleable metallic ribbon, and pressing it into the irregularities, or by running up and down the vertebrae two or three times a wet plaster-of-Paris Toller, and, after it hardens, removing it from the back, when it will be found to retain the exact shape of the column. Sound.—Through the educated ear, the physician and the surgeon discover pathological conditions which are going on in parts and organs far out. of sight. By the sense of hearing, the crepitation of a pneumonia, the friction sound of a pleurisy, the fegophony of thoracic effusions, murmurs attending defects in the mitral and semilunar valves of the heart, the bruit of an aneu- rism, the fly-buzz of arterio-venous aneurism, the click elicited by the contact of a sound with a calculus, and the crepitus of fracture, can all be ascertained. Movements.—These may be less or greater than normal, or they .may be constrained, or eccentric. Examples of diminished mobility are seen in cases of fractured ribs, or of collapsed lung—where the walls of the chest, on the injured side, become almost quiescent. An inflamed joint immediately seeks rest, and a broken arm or leg enforces a suspension of voluntary muscular