BANDAGES FOR THE HEAD. 493 The Suspensory and Compressor of both Breasts.—Two rollers, each 6|-7f centimetres (2|-3 inches) wide and 6| metres (7 yards) long. Secure the initial end by two oblique turns of the shoulder and the axilla, as in the pre- ceding bandage; then carry the roller transversely across the back, up under the breast and over the shoulder, thence obliquely downwards over the back and towards the other side, and transversely around the front of the chest (covering the lower part of both breasts) to the point of beginning on the back. Continue the application of the roller first by an oblique turn of one shoulder and the opposite axilla, then of the other axilla and the opposite shoul- der, followed by a circular turn of the front of the thorax. Each turn, both of the oblique and of the circular series, should overlap one-tliird of the pre- ceding in an ascending order, till both breasts are covered by oblique and circular turns. (Fig. 62.) Velpeau’s Bandage.—Two rollers, each 6 J centimetres (2J inches) wide and 6f metres (7 yards) long. Let the patient place the hand of the affected side on the opposite shoulder, then apply the initial end of a roller on the body of the scapula of the sound side, and secui’e it by two turns made by conducting the roller over the shoulder of the affected side, down the outer and posterior surface of the arm of the same side, behind the point of the elbow, thence ob- liquely across the front of the chest and through the axilla of the sound side to the point of be- ginning. From this point, carry the roller in a transverse direction around the thorax, pass- ing over the flexed elbow of the affected side, thence through the axilla to the back. Carry the roller again over the shoulder, down the outer and posterior surface of the arm, behind the elbow, obliquely across the front of the chest, through the axilla of the sound side, and thence around the chest and arm. The application of the oblique and circular turns is continued in like manner till the flexed arm is firmly bound to the anterior surface of the chest. The turns running over the shoul- der and winding round the outer and posterior surface of the arm, should advance towards the point of the elbow by each overlapping two-thirds of the preceding turn ; the circular turns should ascend the arm and chest from the point of the elbow by each covering one-third of the preceding turn. (Fig. 63.) Bandages for the Head.— The Figure-of-eight Bandage of the Head and, Jaw. —This bandage is commonly called Barton’s bandage. A roller 5 centimetres (2 inches) wide and 4| metres (5 yards) long. When this bandage is used for fracture of the lower jaw, its initial extremity is placed on the "head just be- hind the mastoid process of the sound side, and is carried under the occipital protuberance, obliquely upwards, under and in front of the parietal eminence, across the vertex, down the side of the face on the sound side, beneath the jaw, thence up along the side of the face, over the top of the head (passing over the other turn in the median line), under the parietal eminence to the point of commencement. It is then conducted under the occipital protuber- Fig. 63. Velpeau’s bandage.