HYDROPHOBIA—GLANDERS—MALIGNANT PUSTULE. 218 Symptoms of Hydrophobia.—The symptoms vary with the peculiar idio- syncrasies of the person inoculated, and hence no detailed account of them can be given, which shall apply accurately or even approximately to each in- dividual case. Dr. Dolan says that there exist but two periods in this disease: (1) that of incubation, and (2) that of development, including all the phenomena between the first symptom and death; but Virchow lias divided the symptoms of the second period into several distinct stages. Symptoms of the First Stage.—In the first stage of the period of develop- ment, there are uneasiness and restlessness, with stiffness around the neck and throat, often nausea and vomiting, and cerebral symptoms, consisting of headache and mental excitement. These symptoms, however, are not of invariable occurrence, for the patient is sometimes suddenly seized with dif- ficulty of swallowing liquids. Local symptoms are sometimes observed, but in other cases may be entirely wanting. Irritation of the scar and of the tis- sues in the vicinity of the wound, accompanied by darting pains of a rheu- matic character, is one of the most persistent symptoms. The cicatrix often becomes red and inflamed; and if the wound is still open, it presents an un- healthy appearance, and the discharge becomes thin and ichorous. The mental and moral condition is at the same time changed, the patient being in some instances troubled and anxious about the wound, and very commonly becoming irritable and ill-tempered. Poland remarks that there often exists a characteristic anxiety, attended with pain in the prsecordia and a sense of weight and pressure on the chest. The sleep may be disturbed and broken ; the patient suddenly starting up in a frightful dream, and again sinking back in a state of mental depression and gloom. There is loss of appetite, no desire for swallowing, a feeling of clamminess in the mouth, with sighing and oppression, the patient breathing with unusually deep inspirations. There are attacks of chilliness, with a highly impressible state of the system; there is a feeling of having taken cold ; the voice is rough ; there is a sensation of languor and lassitude, with great weakness and heaviness, and sometimes slight convulsive movements of the face and limbs; there is a remarkable susceptibility to atmospheric im- pressions, the slightest contact of cold air being a source of great torture by producing a feeling of suffocation. The poison is now fairly at work, and in a few hours, generally from ten to twenty-four, explodes with frightful vio- lence. The period of latency is now past, the disease has reached its second stage ; the difficulty of swallowing and the dread of water fully establish the presence of hydrophobia. Symptoms of the Second Stage.-—The second and specific stage usually follows the first, but sometimes occurs without any preliminary warning; it begins with stiffness and pain in the muscles of the jaw, throat, and base of the tongue. Hypersesthesia of the parts supplied by the eighth pair of cerebral nerves, is now manifested by the convulsive spasms of the muscles of the throat, which cause every attempt at deglutition to be attended with pain and diffi- culty. Hence the great dread of food, and particularly of fluids. There is a distressing dryness of the mouth and throat, often accompanied by a sensa- tion of extreme thirst which cannot be relieved. The secretions of the mouth and pharynx are at first frothy, but soon become viscid, and cannot be ejected without great trouble, a hawking and barking noise being often produced in the attempt. The violence with which the patient spits is a striking phe- nomenon. Before long the disease involves the muscles of the general sys-