585 OPERATIVE METHODS EMPLOYED IN AMPUTATION. surgeon should take his flap from the sound part exclusively, and will thus probably be enabled to preserve a greater length of the affected limb than he could in any other way. The circulation being controlled in the ordinary manner, the surgeon, with a strong and rather short knife, begins his incision on the lower surface (so that the path of his knife may not be obscured by the flow of venous blood), and marks out a tolerably square, or at least not a ■pointed, flap, which should embrace, beside the skin and fascia, part or all of the subjacent muscular layers, according to the thickness of the part. This flap is rapidly dissected up, and the section of the soft parts completed by making a transverse or slightly curved incision, convex forwards, through the tissues on the other side of the limb. The bone is next cleaned by a few touches of the knife, the muscles pushed upwards and the retractor adjusted, and the amputation then completed as in the circular method. The single flap operation may also be done by transfixing the limb with a long knife, and cutting from within outwards; but the flap can be better shaped by pur- suing the other plan, and where there is no superabundance of available tissue, as in the cases which I have supposed, it will certainly be preferable. The single flap operation is thought by Prof. Spence, of Edinburgh, to be in most cases preferable to any other. It is also employed by Carden, of Worcester, and by Wharton, of Dublin. Double Flap Operation.—Of this method we may recognize several varie- ties, as Ravaton’s, Vermale’s, Sedillot’s, Langenbeck’s, Teale’s, and Lister’s. (1) Ravaton’s method consists in making a circular incision down to the bone, and then adding a longitudinal incision on either side, so as to make two flaps, each half the thickness of the limb. In this form, the operation is seldom if ever resorted to at the present day, the flaps being unwieldy, and the protruding muscles causing an undesirable degree of tension when they are brought together. (2) Vermale’s method is the ordinary double-flap operation of modern times. In employing this mode of amputating, most writers, following Liston,1 advise that the surgeon should stand with his left hand towards the part to be removed; my own practice, however, has been to adopt the same position as that which I have recommended for the circular operation, entrusting the entire care of the limb to an assistant, and keeping the left hand towards the patient’s trunk, ready to grasp the artery if by any chance the tourniquet should slip. This plan is in accordance with the advice of Malgaigne,2 and I feel sure that it will be found the most satisfactory. The patient having been prepared for the operation in the way described when speaking of the circu- lar method, the surgeon with his left hand grasps and slightly raises the tissues of which the flap is to be formed, and then, keeping (as advised by Lisfranc)3 bis right elbow close to his body, introduces the long pointed knife at the side of the limb which is nearest to himself; then pushing it around and across the bone with a firm but gentle movement, and somewhat elevating the handle of the instrument after the point has passed the bone, he completes the transfixion of the limb by bringing the knife out at a point diametrically opposite to that at which it entered. Keeping the blade now in a plane cor- responding to the long axis of the limb, he forms his first flap by cutting with a rapid sawing motion, at first in a longitudinal direction, and then obliquely towards the surface. The flap thus made, which should have a 1 Op. cit., p. 637. 2 Op. cit., p. 295. 3 Precis de Medecine operatoire, tome i. p. 737. Paris, 1845.