275 TREATMENT OF RACHITIS. entirely, by allowing a more generous diet, a part of which was the daily use of a little beef-tea. No absolute directions can be given, however, as regards the diet. Variation must be allowed according to the season of the year, and individual peculiarities. Cow’s milk disagrees with some infants, and in hot weather with many; so that it is necessary to substitute for it some farinaceous food, with perhaps juice of meat, or the white of egg. Medicines which improve the nutrition and general health are all more or less useful in the treatment of rachitis, but, from the nature of the disease, lime is specially indicated. I have not, like some observers, discarded the use of cod-liver oil, believing that it answers a good purpose in improving the general nutritive process. The following prescription will be found useful in most cases: R. Olei morrhuee, fjiv-viij ; Aqme calcis, Syrupi calcis lacto- phosphatis, aa l-3iv.—M. Of this, one teaspoonful may be given four or five times daily to an infant of one year. It may be too laxative in the summer months, when lime-water in milk, which is constipating, should be used instead. Fleischmann recommends the fluorine compounds in order to increase and harden the enamel of the teeth. I have had no experience with these remedies, but the theory of their use appears to be sound. lie recommends the employment of fluorine between the tenth and eighteenth months, in the form of the tooth pastilles of Ehrhardt or Hunter, which con- tain the neutral fluoride of potassium. One of them is administered daily. Among other agents which may be found useful may be mentioned the compound syrup of the phosphates, the citrate of iron and quinia, wine of iron, the various preparations of cinchona, calomba, etc., since such tonics when judiciously administered aid in the restoration of healthy nutrition. When complications arise, the treatment should be modified to meet the exigencies of the case. Most of the diseases which complicate rachitis require similar treatment to that which is appropriate in their independent form, but all measures of a depressing nature must be uniformly avoided.