617 MORTALITY AND CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER AMPUTATIONS. The mortality after amputation has been steadily diminishing since the early days of our art, as a result no doubt of the use of anaesthesia, the liga- ture, simple dressings, and other improvements in operative surgery in gene- ral. From a death-rate of two in three, which was considered a favorable exhibit by the pioneers in this operation,1 the mortality, even in city hospitals receiving a fair share of accident-cases, has fallen to one in three or four;2 and when we consider that a large proportion of our operations are now done for injuries of the gravest character, such as were simply not known in the days of our ancestors, it will be seen that the improvement has been still more marked. And while it, of course, cannot be denied that the death-rate of the operation is still a very high one, it will be found, by an analysis of the causes of death after amputation, that most cases which terminate fatally, do so in consequence of circumstances totally unconnected, if not with the operation, at least with the particular form of the operation, and with the special mode in which the after-treatment is conducted. Thus, taking my own Table of one hundred cases, the deaths are twenty-eight; rather less than the average of hospital practice, but still a large number. But upon looking further, we find that six patients died shortly after the operation,3 as a direct result of their injuries, and that these six cases included one amputation at the hip, one at the shoulder, and two high up in the thigh. Four cases died in from two to twenty hours, from the shock of the operation, these four including one hip and one shoulder-joint amputation, and one high up in the thigh ; two of the four were more- over intermediate operations, which are well known to be especially apt to prove fatal. Three deaths occurred from secondary hemorrhage ; one of these was after amputation of the forearm by the double flap method, the bleeding coming from the interosseal artery ; the brachial was ligated, but gangrene followed, and hemorrhage recurred and ended fatally eight days afterwards. In a second case, one of amputation of the arm, death occurred on the third day from hemorrhage from the brachial artery which had been secured by acupressure, a mode of treatment which, under the fascination of Sir James Y. Simpson’s eloquent writings, I was then using. The third case was one of thigh amputation for acute destructive inflammation of the knee, resulting from syphilis in its worst form, such as we seldom witness at the present day ; the ligatures had come away safely, and rather early, and the patient had been out of bed for about a week, when bleeding from the femoral artery occurred on the 28th day, and death followed in a few hours. Two deaths were from tetanus (existing, in one case, before the opera- tion), two from delirium tremens, and one from acute mania. Eighteen of the twenty- eight deaths in my Table are thus accounted for, and of the remaining ten, six are put down as from exhaustion, and four as from pycemia. Of the six patients who died from exhaustion, three were over 50 years of age, and all over 35 ; five cases proved fatal in from four to six days (three thigh and two leg amputations), and one, a forearm-ampu- tation which had been complicated by secondary hemorrhage, on the 23d day; this death might have been attributed to pyaemia, or other form of septic poisoning, but that a careful autopsy failed to reveal any lesion significant of such a condition, while it did reveal advanced visceral disease of the heart, liver, and kidneys. All of the six patients were persons in feeble health, and five of them obviously unfavorable subjects tor any operation. The first of the four deaths from pycemia occurred on February 2, 1869, and the last on February 2, 1871, the two others having occurred on February 3, and February 7, 1870. Thus, for more than ten years, I have not lost a case of ampu- tation from pyaemia. These four deaths all took place in the same ward of the Epis- 1 Benjamin Bell says: “ Before the invention of the tourniquet, this operation [amputation] was attended with so much hazard, that few surgeons ventured to perform it: nay, long after the introduction of this instrument, the danger attending it was so great, that more than one-half perished of all who had resolution to submit to it.” (Op. cit., vol. vii. p. 254.) 2 I am, of course, aware that statistics giving a much smaller death-rate have been published by various hospitals ; hut on examining these cases in detail it will generally he found that they embrace a small proportion of amputations for injury, and a large proportion of amputations for disease. 8 One in 2 hours, one in 7 hours, one in 8 hours, one in 18 hours, one on 2d day, one on 3d day.