INFLAMMATION. 116 simply obese pus-cells which have been overtaken by fatty degeneration-- one of the diseases to which pus-cells are liable. Minute drops of free oily substance, also, as well as granular debris, are almost always present in pus, derived from the breaking down of the overgrown granular corpuscles just mentioned, or from neighboring adipose tissue. More rarely the delicate needle-shaped crystals of the fatty acids—the margaric and stearic—may be detected. It is the presence of this small amount of fatty matter in pus that gives it the odor, when boiled, of boiled milk. A certain portion of this fatty matter enters into combination with the salts of potassium and sodium which are always present in the serum of pus; and this explains its soapy feel. Cholesterine, recognizable by its broad rhomboiclal crystalline plates, is also sometimes seen in pus, especially in that from the testes, broad ligaments, and ovaries, and from pelvic and psoas abscesses. Amongst the accidental elements sometimes recognized in pus are vibrios and bacteria. Here, these organisms have usually this simple signification, and no other, namely, that the pus in which they are found is about entering into decomposition; that its vital quality is at a low ebb, and that chemical forces are in the ascendant. Red blood-globules are constantly met with in- termingled with the cells of pus; they come from the rupture of capillary vessels, from inflammatory over-distension. The admixture, in larger propor- tion, of both blood and oily matter with pus, is often apparent to the naked eye, as when the contents of an abscess have been evacuated by incision through vascular and fatty tissues. In pus which has formed in contact with diseased bone, minute granules of bone-earth are sometimes found. Under all circum- stances, the debris of the tissue at the expense of which pus is formed, is liable to be present in it, in larger or smaller masses. The Liquid Portion of Pus.—Liquor puris, when separated from the solid materials of pus by careful filtration, is a clear, slightly alkaline, albuminous liquid containing no solid particles whatever. Its alkaline reaction is due to the presence of salts of sodium with excess of base; it also contains chloride of sodium, and the phosphates of sodium, lime, and magnesium—more of the two latter when the pus has formed in contact with bone. The addition of nitric acid will, therefore, always cause a precipitate of albumen from the filtered serum of pus. In decomposition, or whenever ammonia is present, the well- known large prisms of the triple phosphate of ammonium and magnesium can be detected in pus. They are generally present in the dried pus that collects about a wound. In the exceptional cases in which pus reddens litmus paper, there is rancidity in consequence of the generation of butyric and other fatty acids. When liquor pot.assoz or aqua ammonice is added in a very moderate proportion to pus in a test-tube, and the two substances are shaken together, a curious semi-solid translucent mass results, which has the aspect and consist- ence of dense mucus. The pus-cells are dissolved by the alkali, which also reacts upon the albuminous compound in the liquor puris. The slimy sub- stance that forms when, the parts around an open wound are washed with soap and water, is a result of this peculiar reaction of pus with the alkali of the soap. It also explains the characteristic ropy mucoid discharge from the bladder, in cystitis, whenever ammonia is set free in the urine. The Sources of Pus.—We have next to consider the source of pus. The first question that presents itself is this: What is the force that brings leuco- cytes to the surface of a granulating wound to be discharged thence in the form of pus? This force seems to be found in the liquid exudation, the supply of which from the capillaries, both newly formed and old, is copious and con- tinuous, until arrested by the cicatrization of the wound. The afflux of blood