TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM AND DELIRIUM TREMENS. 392 where the cellular tissue besides the skin is the seat of great inflammation and destruction, the blood no doubt becomes loaded with septic materials. Delirium, often very wild at first, is not uncommon. If the case is to end fatally, a state very like that of pyannul is developed, and, as the patient grows weaker, the disordered brain expresses itself in low, indistinct and unmeaning mutterings. Epileptic patients, becoming the subjects of injury, are not, according to my observation, more prone to delirium than others. In fact, I have seen some cases in which the brain irritability appeared to be arrested or suspended for a time by reason of casualty. Whilst writing this article, a rare and curious case came under observation in the Pennsylvania Hospital. A man was admitted for an accident requiring excision of the right elbow-joint. A few mornings after the operation, he was found to be having an attack of catalepsy. His eyes were open and fixed; his head was motionless ; no answers to questions were given. One leg was raised : it remained fixed and rigid in the air. The same was the case with the other leg, and also with the left arm. Where they were placed, the limbs stayed until they were put down on the bed. The mouth also could be opened and fixed in any position which it was capable of taking. The patellar tendon-reflex was present in a limited degree, but the groin or scrotal reflex was marked. There was complete anesthesia ; no notice was taken of pins or pinchings. While I was in the ward, the man was observed to turn his head ; I went to him ; he was awake, but in delirium. This delirium expressed itself in delusions as to place. He could give a true account of his injury, and the name of the railroad on the line of which it hap- pened. He himself, however, was on top of a pole ; then in a churchyard; then in the building of the Pennsylvania Insurance Company; then on top of a railing. His occupation had nothing to do with these places. Being in the insurance company’s building might have been suggested by his being told that he was in the Pennsylvania Hospital. The attack soon passed off, and on the third day the patient was entirely himself. He said that he had been subject to vivid and troublesome dreams, but both he and his wife declared that he had never before had a cataleptic fit, at least to their knowledge. In hectic, there is no delirium. Its absence, indeed, is the great fact that serves to distinguish hectic from other febrile troubles which occur in the course of surgical, as well as of medical cases. Why the cerebral system is so exempt from contamination in hectic is difficult to explain. There are continuous febrile conditions with exacerbations, many constant and morbid tissue changes giving rise to products that would seem to have all the ele- ments about them necessary to poison the blood, and so to work damage on the delicate cells of the cortex ; there are exhausting discharges; excruciating pains often, as of the joints; colliquative sweatings and skin irritations enough to set a giant mad, and yet never an approach to delirium. This fact is so generally recognized, that when delirium arises in a hectic patient, some accidental cause, as for instance an intercurrent erysipelas, will be found to explain it, and when this is over the usual course is resumed. The freedom from delirium cannot be explained by assuming that tubercular and allied products are non-irritating in their character, for when, as in tuberculous meningitis, the cortex becomes directly concerned, there is marked, often violent and continuous, delirium, of a character that suggests something pecu- liar as its cause, and that is not explained merely by the local congestion. In this disease also, there is rarely time for the development of hectic. In hectic it is said that there is no materies morbi introduced into the blood from without, and that the products of tissue waste are carried off by the emunctories with such regularity and rapidity, that there is no accumulation of deleterious material in the circulation. This is an ingenious explanation, but not alto- gether satisfactory. It certainly favors the theory that causes giving rise to