233 TUBERCLE. and a sallow complexion. But his lashes w'ere not long, his bones were small, and his temperament was only dulled by the severity ot the disease. The middle of the dorsum of his tongue was occupied by an extensive ulcer of irregular shape, not deep except in front, where it formed a long fissure or deep cleft; its surface was pale and smooth ; its border slightly raised, not undermined ; and no induration was present, of either the border or the base. There were several superficial ulcers of the hard palate, and the cervical glands were, many of them, enlarged. During the following two months the ulcer continued, at first slowly, then rapidly, to enlarge, and its surface became foul and sloughy. The patient became more and more emaciated, and, quickly sinking, died at length on July 23, 1879. On post-mortem examination, it was found that in addition to the ulceration of the tongue and palate, and the affection of the glands, the soft palate was swollen, ulce- rated, and eaten out by numerous cavities containing caseous matter. The epiglottis was ulcerated, and thence the ulceration extended along the aryteno-epiglottidean folds and down the larynx to the true vocal cords, at which point it was arrested. The upper part of the right lung was adherent, and hollowed out by cavities many of which w’ere filled with blood. In the tissues of the lung, around these cavities, were numerous bodies of small size and gray or yellow color, or gray with a yellow centre. In the left lung existed collections of caseous matter varying in size. The other organs of the body were normal. The diagnosis of tubercle in this case rested upon the characters of the ulceration in the mouth, and upon the enlargement of the lymphatic glands: it was confirmed by the presence of cavities in the lung, and of typical tubercles around these cavities. Case IY This series of cases may be well concluded by that of T. S., a farm laborer, 46 years old, who came to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital in March, 1877, com- plaining of certain symptoms of stone by which he had been distressed for upwards of a year. During that period he had experienced constant difficulty and pain in micturi- tion, and had often passed water mixed with blood. His symptoms had increased in severity during the last two months, and the urine had become turbid; and for three weeks before admission his testes had grown larger, and had been painful. Previous to this illness the patient had always enjoyed good health. No member of his family had suffered from consumption. He was a strong-looking countryman who preserved the appearance of health in spite of the distress occasioned by his disease. He suffered continual pain over the region of the bladder; was obliged to pass water at least every half-hour, by day and night, and each attempt at micturition was attended by straining and severe pain. His urethra w'as exquisitely sensitive, so that he could scarcely bear the passage of an instrument, however gently introduced. But there was no stricture, and no stone. Each testis was enlarged, and the epididymis especially was hard and nodular. His symptoms rapidly became more urgent, and to the rest were added others indicative of cerebral disease. On the 13th of April he died, as it appeared, from inflammation of the brain or of its membranes. But no inflammation was discovered after death, nor were any tuber- cles observed on the membranes of the brain. Indeed, to all outward appearance the contents of the skull were normal. The bladder wall was thickened, the mucous mem- brane generally inflamed and ulcerated. The right ureter was dilated, and its mucous membrane inflamed ; and the inflammation extended into the dilated pelvis of the kid- ney, the secreting substance of which contained large caseous masses. The pelvis and calyces of the left kidney were widely dilated, and scarcely any of its secreting struc- ture still remained. The epididymis of each side contained caseous masses, and in the body of each testis were numerous gray and semi-translucent bodies, from the size of a millet-seed to that of a pea. The liver, spleen, and lungs contained large numbers of bodies bearing similar characters, but in the lungs many of these bodies were of large size and yellow, and softening in the centre. Examined with the microscope, the smallest bodies generally contained a giant-cell, and around it lymphoid tissue or larger epithelioid cells in a delicate reticulum. In the larger bodies the giant cell was re- placed by granular debris, which often extended far beyond the area which might for- merly have been occupied by the giant-cell. No vessels could be distinguished in any of these bodies.