PHYSIOLOGY OF ANESTHESIA. 409 The time during which anaesthesia may persist after the cessation of inhalation, is quite variable, being dependent upon the volatility of the agent. It is usually three or four minutes after the use of ether, and a little longer after that of chloroform. Recovery is almost immediate after the employment of nitrous oxide or ethyl bromide. When the patient has been made insensible, the condition of anaesthesia may be indefinitely main- tained by the continuous administration of relatively small quantities of the drug. A condition in which the patient continues to moan and to cry, per- haps even resuming a feeble struggle with the attendants, is an evidence that the anaesthetic is either not properly inhaled, or that the individual is in a situation not wholly free from danger. Careful administration will generally overcome the difficulty, but certain patients are especially refractory. Drunk- ards, by reason of long established tolerance of the anaesthetic effects of alcohol, require large and sometimes dangerous quantities of ordinary anaesthetics to effect resolution and insensibility. Mental agitation may produce a temporary tolerance. Operations about the anus and genitalia generally require an unusual quantity of anaesthetic vapor for the production of complete anaes- thesia. The phenomena of recovery ordinarily consist in a regular inversion of the manifestations which have marked the process of induction. If the patient has been previously exhausted by any cause, the period of recovery may be greatly prolonged, and symptoms of prostration may appear. After a long and difficult operation, it may be difficult to distinguish between the effects of shock and those of the anaesthetic. Brief operations, on the contrary, seem to produce less depression when the element of pain is abolished. Physiology of Anesthesia. The action of anaesthetic substances is exerted through the blood upon the nervous system. They operate by contact, rather than by chemical union or decomposition. This mode of action is exhibited by many of them in connection with non-vital processes of a chemical character. A taper will be extinguished in a jar containing one part of carbonic anhydride mixed with seven parts of oxygen, just as readily as in an atmosphere deprived of oxygen. The anhydride effects an arrest of the process of oxidation by its mere presence, without in any way taking the place of either oxygen or oxidizable substance. In like manner, the luminous oxidation of hydrogen phosphide may be arrested by the presence of a very small quantity of the vapor of ether, or turpentine, or naphtha. The luminous glow that is visible around a stick of phosphorus in a darkened room, will at once disappear if a drop of ether or chloroform be introduced into the container. As the ethe- real vapor is dissipated by evaporation, oxidation begins again, and the phos- phorus glows once more as perfectly as at first. Upon the more complicated processes of vegetable life, these substances exert a similar inhibitory influence. The addition of ether to an infusion containing yeast, at once arrests the pro- cess of fermentation. On removal of the anaesthetic, by evaporation or by filtration, the activity of the yeast fungus is renewed, and fermentation is again resumed. If an aquatic plant be placed in a watery solution of ether or chloroform, its absorption of carbonic anhydride and its exhalation of oxygen cease. The plant does not die ; it merely sleeps. On replacing it in pure water, its natural respiration is immediately resumed. The germination of seeds may also in a similar manner be arrested by surrounding them with an anaesthetic atmosphere. The irritability of the protoplasm in the cells at the base of the petiole, in the leaf of the sensitive plant, is in like manner