THEORY OF INFLAMMATION. 25 tung) we must possess information regarding tlie apparatus itself. This sketch of general histology will likewise he in place here, inasmuch as it will also include the doctrine of growth and nutrition of the tissues, as well as the doctrine of regeneration and cicatrization. O Historical Remarks concerning tiie Theory of Inflammation. From about 1855 down to 1867, Virchow’s theory of inflammation, the so-called suppuration-theory, was almost universally accepted. The pus- corpuscles were said to he formed from the connective-tissue cells. At first the nuclei of the cells, and then the cells themselves, were supposed to sub- divide, and by means of these subdivisions the pus-corpuscles were believed to be produced. In the year 1867, Cohnheim1 contradicted this theory. The pus-corpuscles, he said, are migrated white blood-corpuscles. This assertion was partly based on a study of the inflamed cornea, stained with gold. In spite of the fact that the inflamed cornea appeared tilled with pus-corpuscles, the cornea-corpuscles were, as he asserted, entirely unaltered. The source of the pus-corpuscles had, therefore, to be sought elsewhere than in the cornea- corpuscles. The branched cornea-corpuscles, Cohnheim said, are fixed cells; they change neither their locality nor their form. The pus-corpuscles, on the other hand, are amoeboid ; they change their position and their form. It was known, long before this, that the pus-corpuscles were similar to the white blood-corpuscles, and that the white blood-globules were amoeboid, and it was therefore natural to consider them identical. In addition, Recklinghausen now made the discovery that amoeboid cells could migrate into the lifeless cornea, and wander about in its tissue. Row, stimulated by my discovery of the diapedesis of red blood-corpuscles, Cohnheim and liering (independently of each other) came to the conclusion that white blood-corpuscles could also migrate. Cohnheim observed the migration in the mesentery of the frog, after exposure to the air. The influ- ence of the air could be regarded as an irritation capable of producing inflam- mation. In such cases the mesentery soon became covered with amoeboid cells. Accordingly, we had before us inflammatory products, pus-cells; one was therefore apparently justified in saying, “Here is inflammation; and the products of inflammation, the pus-corpuscles, originate from the blood.” Whether the changes in the expanded mesentery were really to be regarded as inflammation and suppuration, or not, was indeed not known. First of all, the most important sign, the inflammatory hardness, was missing. Moreover, nobody had observed a destruction of the tissue, by suppuration, in the spread out mesentery. Finally, only a migration out of the vessels of the mesentery was known. Whether in the case of keratitis wandering cells really passed into the cornea, was not known. But the boldness with which Cohnheim positively affirmed that the cloudiness and suppuration always began on the borders of the cornea, even if it was injured in the centre, gave his theory a substantial support; for such an observation would speak directly in favor of the fact of the pus-corpuscles penetrating the cornea from without (from the periphery). Then came the experiment of the so-called “ feeding of the cells.” If we introduce finely divided coloring matter (cinnabar, aniline) into the circula- tion of the frog, the granules of pigment are absorbed by the white blood- corpuscles within the general circulation. If we now examine a drop of blood, we shall see amoeboid cells containing granules of pigment. If we 1 Virchow’s Arcliiv, Bd. 40.