(161) VOL. l—11 ERYSIPELAS. BY ALFRED STILLE, M.D., LL.D., PROFESSOR OF THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MEDICINE AND OF CLINICAL MEDICINE IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, PHILADELPHIA. Synonyms. English, Erysipelas, the rose, St. Anthony's fire ; French, Erysip'ele, la rose, feu sacre,feu St. Antoine; German, Rose, Wundrose, Rothlauf; Italian, Risipola. Erysipelas was originally a Greek word, but there is no general agreement respecting its etymology. That most generally adopted is that it is derived from Ipxifiv (to draw) and *ts%as (near), “to draw near,” because the name is supposed to indicate the spreading or wandering character of the eruption. Others derive it from ipvdp6s (red) and 7ti\6s (livid), “ livid redness,” or from ipvOpos and newm, “red skin.” But an objection to the last etymology is that the Greek word nirra does not mean skin. Erysipelas may be defined as an acute, specific, and contagious fever, tend- ing usually towards a typhoid type, and characterized locally by a peculiar inflammation of the skin or mucous membranes. It may attack the same person more than once. History of Erysipelas. Erysipelas has been known from the earliest periods of medical history. Hippocrates gives a very particular account of it.1 He relates that during a certain cold spring, many cases of erysipelas occurred with sore throat and loss of speech, adding that they were malignant and fatal. In many also, as from an accident, and sometimes even from a small wound, and especially in old persons, or if the wound were neglected, a great inflammation took place, and the erysipelas spread all over. In most instances, the inflammation ended in abscesses, and the flesh, tendons, and bones sloughed. It is particu- larly noticed that the discharge was not like pus, but a sort of putrefaction, or, as it would now be described, a sanious and ichorous discharge. When the scalp was attacked, we are told, the hair was apt to fall, and even the bones of the skull to exfoliate ; and, it is added, bad as these symptoms were, they involved less danger than when the disease was determined inwardly. In some cases, it is said, the whole arm might drop ofi", and the bones of the'thigh, leg, and foot be laid bare; but the most formidable cases were those which involved the pubes and the genital organs. This author briefly states the case of a man who had erysipelas of the foot and leg, with phlyctense, 1 Epidemics, Book III.