204 PYJEMIA AND ALLIED CONDITIONS. same or another source.” Mr. Savon-, speaking in the debate on pyiemia at the Clinical Society of London in 1874, classes septicaemia and pyaemia to- gether as but different degrees of effect of the same poison. The London Royal College of Physicians defines pyaemia to he “ a febrile affection result- ing in the formation of abscesses in the viscera and other parts.” Ordinary usage, at the present day, applies the term pyaemia to those cases in which infarctions, abscesses, and local inflammations are present ; while the term septicaemia is employed to designate cases in which similar clinical symptoms exist, but in which no lesions are found. But, as Koch says, the names pyaemia and septicaemia no longer express what was originally meant by them. For pyaemia does not arise, as was for- merly supposed, from the entrance of pus into the bloodvessels, nor is septi- caemia a putrefaction of the living blood. These have only remained in use as general names for a number of symptoms, which most probably belong to a series of different diseases. In this article the word pyaemia will be used as a general term to designate the entire group of cases. Nature of Pyaemia. There are three theories which have been held as to the nature of pyaemia:— I. That pus is absorbed, circulates in the blood, and acts as a poison; II. That a chemical poison is evolved from pus and the other matters which are found in wounds, and that the system is poisoned by this; III. That microscopic organisms are introduced into and developed in the wound, find their way into the blood and tissues, and there multiply. I. The Theory of Pus Absorption.—The idea that pus can be absorbed and act as a blood poison, is a very old one, dating from the times of Ambroise Pare (1561) and Boerliaave (1720). Hunter, in 1784, modified the prevailing views by declaring that the pus was derived from the interior of inflamed veins, and found its way from thence into the circulating blood. The idea that the symptoms and lesions of pyaemia were due to the presence of pus in the blood, whether absorbed from wounds or from inflamed veins, continued to prevail, based partly upon clinical observation, partly upon the results of injections of pus into the veins of animals, until there appeared, in 1846 and in subsequent years, the studies of Virchow concerning thrombosis and embo- lism. He showed that the changes in the veins which had been regarded as due to phlebitis, were caused by the coagulation of the blood, and by sub- sequent degenerative changes in the thrombi thus formed; that the infarc- tions and abscesses seen in the viscera were due to emboli which had become detached from the softened thrombi; that, as the white blood globules and pus globules were identical in appearance, they could not be distinguished; and that it was improbable that pus globules made their way into the blood. These researches afforded a mechanical explanation of some of the lesions of pyaemia. But there was still a tendency to ascribe to the absorption of lauda- ble pus a certain number of the lesions and symptoms. Sedillot, Weber, Billroth, and others, have held that laudable, fresh pus, was capable of being absorbed, and of producing a febrile movement. This opinion has, indeed, been controverted, but the doctrine of the absorption of laudable pus has hardly yet disappeared from pathology. II. The Chemical Theory.—Gaspard (1822), one of the earliest investiga- tors of septiciemia, suggested that the poison might be one of the chemical products of putrefaction. This opinion was sustained during subsequent