OPERATIVE METHODS EMPLOYED IN AMPUTATION. 589 bored, the flaps were rectangular, and of equal length ; in Teale’s operation, they are likewise rectangular, but the outer or anterior flap is four times as long as the other. Prof. Lister’s suggestion is that the flaps shall be so pro- portioned that the line of cicatrix shall come just beyond the edge of the bone, while this can be left considerably longer than in the Teale operation ; for the thigh and leg, he directs that the principal flap shall have a length of one-third of the limb’s circumference, and that the length of the smaller flap shall be one-half that of the larger. He also rounds oft", somewhat, the angles of the flaps, and makes the posterior flap of skin and fascia only. I have employed this form of amputation, or at least one embracing the same prin- ciples, in the upper extremity, and with excellent results; I have preferred, however, to keep the rectangular form of the flaps, as in Teale’s method, and to make both flaps include muscle as well as skin and fascia. Relative Advantages of Different Modes of Amputating.—In the writings of the older surgeons may be found frequent controversial disquisi- tions on the alleged superiority of one or another mode of amputating over all other plans, and it is within my own recollection that some distinguished operators never resorted to any but the circular incision, while others as invariably employed some variety of the flap method. For my own part, I have long been convinced, both by individual experience and by operations which I have seen done by others, that the particular form of operation chosen, is of comparatively slight importance: provided that sufficient cover- ing be secured for the bone, it matters little whether that covering be in the form of a circular or oval cuff, or of one or two flaps, or whether the corners of the latter be angular or rounded. I shall not dispute, with Liston,1 the judgment of those “philosophers of the modern Athens,” who provoked his wrath and sarcasm by asserting that the wound-area of a cir- cular amputation was less than that exposed by the flap operation; -nor shall I deny that the arteries are apt to be cut obliquely in removing a limb by the' latter method; but, though I confess to a growing fondness for the old- fashioned circular incision, and find myself employing it more commonly year by year, when the special circumstances of the case do not render it less desirable than some other procedure, yet I cannot conscientiously say that I think that the form of operation adopted exercises any marked influence upon the result. The judgment manifested in determining whether an ampu- tation shall or shall not be performed, and the care taken in the after-treat- ment of the patient, are of much more importance. At the same time, the operation which may be best adapted to one parti- cular case, may be less well suited to another; and the surgeon should be sufficiently familiar with all the methods which have been described, to enable him to choose that which is most appropriate in the special circum- stances with which he is concerned. If I were to give any general rule, I should say that for the forearm, the circular operation was the best, and for the upper arm, either that or the modified circular; the latter operation I should prefer for the upper part of the thigh, and either it or the simple circular for the lower part of the. leg ; for the lower part of the thigh, and for the upper part of the leg, I should recommend the flap method—antero-posterior flaps being chosen in the former, and an external flap in the latter situation. The oval and elliptical operations are particularly well fitted for amputations at the joints, while the single-flap and Teale’s or Lister’s methods will serve a useful purpose where the disease or injury involves less of the tissues on one side of the limb than on the other. 1 Op. cit., p. 642.