AMPUTATIONS. 600 the part moist for at least forty-eight, hours. After the second dressing, I renew the applications every day, and the waxed paper (which is much cheaper than oiled silk) may conveniently be substituted. As long as wet dressings are employed, no pads of charpie or oakum are necessary, but the dressing, with its impermeable envelope, may be simply held in position by the turns of a light, loosely applied, recurrent bandage. In the later stages of the case, when the wound is dressed with zinc ointment, a little oakum may be loosely applied externally, as a means of mechanical protection. After-treatment of the Stump.—"When the dressings are to be removed, the bandage should be cut, and the oiled silk and lint laid off from the stump before this is raised from the pillow; the surgeon at the same time examines the sutures, untwisting or cutting any that are too tight, and, if a plug of wax has been applied to the medullary Cavity of the bone, gently withdraws it by pulling on the wire to which it is attached. An assistant then slips his hand under the stump, carrying it well down towards the end, and then firmly but gently lifts the part, and supports it while the soiled dressings are removed, the stump washed and dried, and the new dressings adjusted. This is not a painful process; patients often dread the manipulation beforehand, but it is very seldom that they complain at the time, and they almost in- variably experience a decided increase of comfort when the dressing is com- pleted. The washing of the stump is to he very gently effected with a clean soft sponge, or bunch of tow or oakum—the late Air. Callender employed a camel’s hair brush—and tepid water, colored with a little Condy’s fluid (solution of permanganate of potassium), which is an excellent deodorizer and disinfect- ant. As far as possible, the water should b<* allowed to flow over the stump without touching this with the sponge itself. The part is then gently sopped until it is dry, with a clean, soft towel, and the new dressings adjusted. When the wound has fairly well healed, and the stump is no longer sensitive, the washing may be more thorough—a little oil of turpentine being employed to remove the adhesive plaster which sticks to the skin, and the whole well douched afterwards with soapsuds and water. If silk sutures have been used, they may be properly taken away on the third or fourth day ; metallic sutures may be allowed to remain much longer, indeed often until the wound is firmly healed. The ligatures should be allowed to drop of themselves, but the surgeon may gent\y feel them, to ascertain if they are loose, after a week in the case of the smaller, and after ten days in that of the larger vessels. Under no circumstances should a ligature he ruddy pulled away. Apart from the risk of hemorrhage, I have more than once known the somewhat forcible withdrawal of a ligature, attended by slight bleeding, showing that the granulating surface had been broken, to be fol- lowed in a few hours by a chill and the development of fatal pyaemia. If short cut animal ligatures have been employed, they are commonly dissolved in the fluids of the stump, and are not seen after the operation. If acupressure has been used, the pins or needles may be taken from the smaller vessels on the second, and, from the larger, on the third, fourth, or fifth day, according to circumstances. If drainage tubes have been employed, they may be withdrawn about the end of the first week. I have called this the simple dressing for stumps, but, it may he asked, is not the air-dressing simpler still? ISTo doubt it is—inasmuch as nothing is less than something—but I do not think it as satisfactory. Prof. Humphry’s remark as to the rapid healing of face wounds is certainly true ; but it is also true that face wounds heal quite as rapidly, and with much less discomfort to