VACCINATION. 517 the udder and teats of the cow, and is made available by being allowed to dry on slips of ivory, quill, or whalebone. Humanized lymph in either form must be free from blood and pus, and, when kept for use, must be preserved from the action of heat and moisture; otherwise its employment may be pro- ductive of serious results. In this country, the suppliers of animal virus en- velop the charged ivory and quill points in antiseptic cotton, which is sur- rounded with water-proof material. The only instrument needed for effecting vaccination is a common lancet, one which is somewhat dull being usually preferred, as drawing less blood. By means of this simple instrument, the operation may be done quite as satis- factorily as with any of the many ingenious devices which have been sug- gested for the purpose. That the lancet may not be the means of carrying contagion, it should be kept perfectly clean. The place usually selected for the insertion of vaccine virus, is on the outer side of the left arm, near the attachment of the deltoid muscle, although the operation may be performed on almost any part of the body. Whenever practicable, arm-to-cmn vaccina- tion is to be preferred to all other methods. In this mode of proceeding, fluid lymph is takeu directly from a well-formed vesicle on the eighth day, when its contents are probably the most effective, and inserted into the skin. If ivory or quill slips be used, the dried lymph must be softened by holding the points in the steam of hot water, or by dipping them in warm water; or, if the crust be employed, it must be reduced to a semi-liquid condition with a little water or glycerine. There are several ways in which vaccine virus may be inserted into the skin, any one of which, if carefully practised, will undoubtedly prove suc- cessful. Probably, the one most commonly employed in this country is that of abrasion or “ cross-scratch it certainly seems to be the method most usu- ally successful when dry lymph is used. In making the abrasion, the ope- rator grasps the left arm of the patient in such a manner as to put the skin overlying the insertion of the deltoid muscle on the stretch, lie then with the lancet scratches off the epithelium and exposes the absorbing surface of the cutis vera ; the appearance of bloody oozing is an indication that the cutis has been sufficiently denuded. On this surface, after the blood has been wiped off', the lymph is smeared, either with the flat surface of the^lancet- blade, or with an ivory or quill point. The part is to be left uncovered till the lymph dries. There is no need of making any topical application subse- quently ; the only precaution necessary is to keep the part from being chafed or scratched till the scab falls off. Another plan, peculiarly suited to arm-to-arm vaccination, is to insert the lymph into small punctures made in the skin with the point of a lancet. These punctures should be made obliquely from above downwards, and should extend well into the cutis. The virus is introduced on the point of a lancet, or on an ivory or quill point. The valvular character of the wound favors the retention of the lymph. Instead of making four or five punctures as above described, multiple punctures may be made, and the lymph' rubbed over the wounded surface; or the lymph may he first smeared on the surface and then pricked in, as in tattooing. Revaccination is imperatively called for in cases in which primary vacci- nation has entirely failed, or has been modified by causes not apparent. It is also advisable to revaccinate at or shortly after puberty, even when there are unmistakable evidences of a successful and thorough primary vaccination. Some authorities go further, and advise a repetition of the operation once in seven years, and likewise whenever an epidemic of smallpox is prevailing. The methods by which revaccination is effected differ in no way from those adopted for the primary operation.