2 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. Let us suppose, furthermore, that the water in Fig. 1. naked eye. Accordingly, when this capillary network is filled with a colored fluid, the entire organ is diffusely colored. Mow, since liypersemia is charac- terized hy a diffuse coloration of the entire hypereemic region, we may con- clude wTith certainty that in hypersemia the capillaries are dilated. Active Hyperemia.—In the skin, and in the mucous membranes which are accessible to inspection, active hypersemia is characterized hy a diffuse, bright-red (arterial) coloration. The reddened parts are also warmer to the touch than those around them. We know already what the diffuse coloration denotes. It is the expression of the fulness of the capillaries. The color is bright red, because the capillaries are filled with bright-red, arterial blood. But whence originates the elevation of the temperature? When the skin becomes bloodless, it cools off’; it assumes the temperature of the surrounding medium. The instant it becomes colored bright red, in consecpience of a dilatation of the bloodvessels, it also becomes warmer. It is therefore probable that the skin is heated by the blood; that the blood- vessels behave here like a system of pipes in a steam-heating apparatus. When warm water circulates through these, the air in the neighborhood of the pipes becomes heated; when the fluid which has entered is removed, the surrounding air cools off’. In view of this state of affairs, we are led to sup- pose that the more quickly the blood circulates through a portion of the skin, the warmer the latter will become. And manifestly this increase of heat can proceed until the temperature of the hypenemic territory has reached that of the blood. On the other hand, we may conclude, from the increased warmth at the seat of fluxion (or active hypersemia)—a condition the exist- ence of which is readily demonstrated—that the blood-current is accelerated in the congested part. As we shall see hereafter, the fact of such an accelera- tion has been actually shown by experiment. Our experience with regard to the acceleration of the blood-current leads us to still further conclusions. Let R and t (Fig. 1) represent two rivers. These rivers are to be connected by a canal a b. R has a greater descent than in t, and conse- quently flows through the canal in the direction of the arrows from r to t. If now the canal a b be widened at a place c—let us say by in- troducing a reservoir at c—at the moment of widening, the current will flow somewhat more rapidly from a to c, and the acceleration will continue until the reservoir c is filled. But as soon as this is accomplished the water will not flow more quickly than before, either at a or at b, while at the seat of the widening c, it will even flow more slowly than at other points. If the current in the narrow parts of the canal a b, on either side of the reservoir c, is to be accele- rated, this canal must he widened in its entire extent from one mouth to the other. Let us now suppose that r is a large artery, t a large vein, a a small artery which goes into a hyperjemic portion of the skin, c its capillary plexus, and b the small vein which carries back the blood of-the congested region into the large vein. Now it is easy to understand that a dilatation of the capillaries alone is not sufficient to produce a permanent acceleration of the blood-current, and a permanent elevation of the temperature. For the pro- duction of this result the entire vascular system of this region must be dilated —the small artery, the capillaries, and the small vein up to its entrance in the