155 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. and similar articles of sick food is indicated where the appetite of the patient is greater than his power of digestion; they are momentarily satisfying, hut innutritious. Milk, as a rule, is the most valuable of all articles of diet in sickness. It is the best vehicle for stimulus in the form of spirit, when this is indicated, sheathing it like an emulsion and protecting the stomach from irritation. It is to be remembered that milk coagulates as soon as it is swallowed, and is equivalent to solid food. The addition of gelatine renders its clot less solid, and lime-water or mineral waters. containing lime salts, like Seltzer water, make it more soft and digestible. A little solid food that can be chewed and properly insalivated is more acceptable to the stomach than a uniformly liquid diet. As to digestibility, sweet-bread, if not fried, ranks high, or soft boiled egg with bread crumb, and beef even raw, grated, or reduced to a pulp and placed between thin slices of good stale buttered bread, are examples of nutritious and digestible solid food. The intervals at which food is given should rarely exceed two hours, with one longer interval, if possible, for rest. As for stimulus, if it is administered with judgment, alcohol is eminently useful, both as a cardiac stimulus and as concentrated food. Its main quality is its fitness, in concentration and ready assimilation, to tide the organism over an emergency; but it is not usually beneficial when employed for a long period as a constant article of food, for it tends to exhaust the irritability of the heart, and is provocative of inflammation, as a chemical irritant, in the tissues of the stomach and liver. A pure spirit given in small quantity, with milk, is the best and most available form of stimulus for prompt effect; it acts most certainly and directly upon the heart. Wine-whey is agreeable and serviceable. Of wines, champagne is grateful in an emergency ; for regular use those containing tannin, of which pure Bordeaux of an ordinary quality is the type, are the best blood-makers. Nursing, at the present day, has taken a very prominent attitude as the executive or administrative element in the treatment of surgical cases of dis- ease ; it has been reduced to an art, of which the students are subjected to regular training, with the result of producing a positive diminution of mor- tality, in the aggregate, of surgical cases treated by their aid, as shown in hospital practice. A trained woman is always preferable to a man as a nurse, wherever her physical capacity is equal to the duty, and no other consideration forbids. There should be but one nurse in charge of a patient at one time, and this nurse should be held responsible for all the minuter details of the patient’s management, and should exercise paramount authority, under the surgeon’s in- structions. Any divided allegiance on the part of the nurse imperils the safety of the patient. A nurse should be competent to take the patient’s temperature and pulse, and record them, as well as the hours at which food and medicines are administered. Nature’s processes are conducted in accord- ance with a system ; and if we assume the office of ministering to them in the way of aid, or of attempting to modify or control them, our efforts must be conducted not only intelligently, but systematically. Medicines Employed in the Treatment of Inflammations.—In discussing the virtues of drugs, we are entirely in the domain of empiricism. They are to be judged of by evidence derived from observation, and this, as is proved by the conflicting opinions held by men otherwise equally reliable, is often faulty. As in regard to the value of blood-letting as a remedy, the general and apparently established sense of the profession may undergo a radical