501 REVULSION AND COUNTER-IRRITATION. extent of their action varies from the production of superficial redness to the complete destruction of the vitality of the part to which they are applied. Rubefacients.—These agents, in consequence of their irritating properties, excite, when applied to the surface of the body, intense redness and con- gestion of the skin, which are of temporary duration only. When it is desirable to make a quick impression on the skin, flannel cloths wrung out of hot water and laid upon the part, will answer the purpose if they are frequently renewed. Oil of turpentine is not unfrequently used as a counter-irritant, in the form of stupes. These are made either by sprinkling the oil of turpentine over flannel cloths that have been wrung out of hot water, or by dipping these hot cloths into warm turpentine ; in either case the excess of turpentine should be squeezed out of the stupes before they are applied. A turpentine stupe ought not to be left on longer than twenty minutes. A few drops of chloroform, on a piece of flannel or folded napkin, confined to the skin by oiled silk, will quickly excite a rubefacient effect. Mustard-flour is probably more often employed as a rubefacient than any other substance. Of the two varieties of mustard, Sinapis alba and Sinapis nigra, the latter is the more powerful—a fact that ought not to be lost sight of in the use of these substances as revulsives. The advantage attending the use of this material is the ease with which its specific action may be regu- lated. The usual method of preparing a sinapism is to mix the mustard-flour with warm water, and spread the paste on muslin or paper. The surface of the sinapism should be covered with some thin material, such as gauze, to prevent any of the mustard from sticking to the skin when the application is removed. The intensity of the irritating effect of mustard may be dimin- ished by diluting the mustard-flour with wheat-flour, Indian-meal, or linseed- meal ; the usual proportions are, for the black variety about one-half, for the white one-third. A sinapism of this strength may he allowed to remain for a period varying from fifteen to thirty minutes, according to the texture of the skin and the sensations of the patient; its action should never be allowed to extend to vesication, for a blister produced by mustard is excessively painful, and slow in healing. After the removal of a mustard poultice, the irritated surface of the skin should be protected by a piece of lint smeared with oxide of zinc ointment or Goulard’s cerate. A mustard foot-bath, made by putting a tablespoonful or two of mustard-flour into a bucket or foot-tub of water at a temperature of 105° F., is an efficient method of quickly exciting revul- sive action. In the employment of counter-irritants with patients who are in a comatose state, or deeply under the influence of a narcotic, care must be observed that the applications are not too long continued, lest troublesome consequences should arise as a result of the impaired vitality of the tissues, or of a temporary loss of the sensation of the patient. Vesicants.—These substances are employed when it is desirable to make a more decided and permanent counter-irritant effect than that produced by the use of rubefacients. By their specific action on the skin, they cause an effusion of serum, or of serum and lymph, beneath the cuticle, giving rise to vesicles or blisters. When there are indications for rapid vesication, it may be produced by the application of the aqua ammoniac, fortior, or of chloroform confined to the surface of the body by an inverted watch-glass; or by the employment of iron heated in boiling water. The substance most commonly resorted to for producing vesication, is cantharis, or Spanish fly, which may be used in the form of a cerate, or in combination with collodion. There is still another form, the cantharides paper (charta cantharidis), which is considered