319 SYPHILIS. degree convinced that there is such a special condition, deserving a special place in nosology and a special name, and because, if haemophilia really has an existence, I shall wait for it to he a little better demonstrated. Syphilis. During its always prolonged, if not indefinite, duration, syphilis may show itself or disappear several times, or be, in other words, alternately manifest or latent. The first condition is common in the beginning of the disease, during the first two or three years or even later, when treatment has been wanting or imperfect. In the opposite condition, the syphilitic may enjoy excellent health for a long term of years without any apparent symptoms. Syphilis may, therefore, be recent or old, evident or masked, when the injury occurs. In the immense majority of cases, the wound progresses naturally without appearing to be influenced by the constitutional disease, but the reverse sometimes occurs, so that the work of repair is more or less interfered with. It will not be useless, in order that the modifications undergone may be appreciated, to recall the circumstance that the pathological processes of syphilis strongly resemble those of scrofula. In fact, we find here the same proliferation and connective-tissue new formation—abundant, but useless, superfluous, even hurtful, as the new tissue strangles the old and finally replaces it by fibrous or cicatricial products. We also observe the tendency to obstinate ulceration and indefinitely delayed repair. It is to be remarked that the two constitutional diseases attack the same systems: the external or internal tegument, osseous system, lymphatic system, etc.; and that, finally, in their last stages or their grave forms, they generate products which are to a certain extent special and closely related, the tubercle on the one hand and the gumma on the other. We should, however, remember to the credit of syphilis, the much more pronounced tendency of its local manifestations to disappear spontaneously, or to yield to treatment, though ready to return on the slightest occasion, under the same form, or even under a different aspect. These facts enable us to understand what sometimes occurs at the seat of injury: in cases of fracture—delay or complete absence of consolidation, the repair being restricted to the formation of fibrous callus which does not undergo ossification; in cases of simple contusion of bone—osteitis, periostitis, exostosis, periostosis, suppurating gummata, subperiosteal abscesses, osseous denudations, necroses which are interminable on account of the non-forma- tion of natural sequestra. A contusion, even if confined to the soft parts, sometimes gives rise to indolent phlegmons which pursue a chronic course, with scarcely any suppuration, and which leave behind them either fistulee, or indurations, or ulcerating wounds. If the contusion be severe and circum- scribed, the skin may become gangrenous, and, upon the separation of the eschar, we find a wound which possesses all the characteristics of ail ulcer- ating syphilide or gumma. , Wounds made by cutting instruments may also suffer the influence of the diathesis, although this is of rarer occurrence. A failure of immediate union has in the first place been noticed, and, as a consequence, an unsuccessful result of autoplasties ; then again there may be early or late modifications in the course of the cicatrization. Sometimes the wound assumes the appear- ance of an ulcerating or perhaps even of a serpiginous syphilide; sometimes it ulcerates without assuming a specific appearance, and does not heal; finally, it may retain the appearances of an ordinary wound, but persist indefinitely, or it may cicatrize after a certain time only to break open again in a short