129 HECTIC FEVER. nizes a soft-solid condition of the subcutaneous layer, the meshes of which seem distended with fluid exudation of varying consistence, with softer portions of evidently dead tissue resembling wet tow and bathed in pus, and sometimes softened and dead muscular substance. Hectic Fever. As most frequently encountered in connection with the waste and conse- quent vital exhaustion from pus production attending lesions beyond repair, Hectic Fever is properly treated of as a symptom of destructive inflammation. It is a persistent, teasing, low form of continued fever, characterized by morning remission and nocturnal exacerbation ; manifesting a pretty con- stant and regular succession of chill, fever, and sweating, in the course of every twenty-four hours; and characterized by progressive emaciation, with a tendency to a fatal termination unless its cause be removed. The immediate or exciting cause of hectic, like that of the other surgical fevers, is, as far as we know, the absorption into the blood of some of the fever-producing products of inflammation, by small quantities—instalments, as it were—day by day, never sufficient to raise the temperature of the blood high enough to produce immediately fatal results, but keeping up a steady persistent drain upon the system in the way of combustion of the tissues. As to its remoter causes, hectic is neither an essential nor yet an eruptive fever; it is universally regarded as symptomatic, and, as already suggested, symptomatic of some lesion of the organism, generally attended by suppura- tion, with which the reparative powers are unable to cope. Chronic diseases of the larger joints, and compound fractures with ineffectual drainage, are common examples of the surgical lesions which cause hectic. It may exist where there is no actual suppuration, but such instances are rare. The occurrence of hectic in phthisis is regarded as an indication that soft- ening of tubercular deposit has taken place. A cold abscess may have been growing for many months without any evidence of fever; but if its contents be suddenly discharged, and the air has access to its cavity, a chill almost invariably occurs within a day or two, followed by fever and sweating; and the daily repetition of these phenomena marks the inauguration of hectic. If the vomica of the lungs, under exceptionally favorable circumstances, should heal, or if the walls of the abscess, instead of sloughing piecemeal, should unexpectedly granulate and adhere, the first evidence of this happy occurrence in either case would be cessation of the hectic fever. A case has been already mentioned in which the amputation of a thigh for chronic joint disease was followed by immediate and marked improvement; this was due to the cure of hectic by removal of its cause. One of the very common occasions of secondary amputation in hospital practice is irremediable injury of a limb, most frequently through the consequences of compound fracture, for the purpose of preventing death by hectic fever. The fatal result is brought about surely and steadily by the waste of vital resources through combustion of tissue material to keep up the fever heat. Patients with hectic often consume a good deal of nourishment, but it seems to do them but little good; emaciation goes on in spite of the beef and the porter and the cod-liver oil. The eyes of the patient become more deeply set, the ears more transparent, and the outlines of the skeleton more dis- tinctly visible. So in the dogs who were the subjects of Weber’s fever experiments ; the animals in a state of fever who were fed to the extent of their capacity, lost weight more rapidly than those without fever who were simply deprived of all food and dying of inanition. The slow progress of vol. i.—9