342 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL DIAGNOSIS. of a nervous temperament, those restless individuals with quick movements, whose circulation is easily excited, and who endure pain badly. Their excessive sensibility and easily extorted complaints must he largely discounted. There is another aspect in which personal, antecedent history should he considered, and which must influence diagnosis. Thus if a joint should suddenly become swollen and painful, the disorder, aside from any previous history, might be attributed to very different causes; but if it were ascertained that, immediately before the occurrence of the trouble, the patient had met with a fall or a violent wrench of the limb, all the phenomena would be referred to a sprain. If it should be known that an attack of epilepsy had been pre- ceded, at some interval, by violence applied to the head, it would not only be logical to refer the convulsion to a traumatic origin, but a knowledge of the fact would be of the utmost value in determining the propriety of operation. In a case of facial paralysis, both the diagnosis and the prognosis would be modified by learning that the loss of power had followed a blow below the ear. A person picked up in a state of coma, and with the smell of liquor on his breath, might be subjected to a damaging and unjust criticism; one which would be quickly recalled if it should afterwards appear that the patient had fallen or been precipitated headlong from his carriage or his horse. In certain cases of convulsions resembling those of tetanus, hysteria, or mania, how much light is shed on the disease, when it is known that the patient has been bitten by a rabid dog! iSTot infrequently information on some of the above conditions can only be obtained from some person other than the patient himself. Mental and Moral States.—The influence of the mind and emotions over the functions of the body, is perhaps too often under-estimated. Such influences are notably concerned in causing disturbances of the various secre- tions. Under the feeling of fear, the action of the salivary and other glands of the mouth and pharynx may be for a time entirely suspended, and the throat rendered so dry that nothing solid can he swallowed. A marked suppression of urine will occasionally occur as a result of great mental anxiety or distress. Profound grief, which no formula of words can express, is often denied the relief of tears, from the operation of the lachrymal glands being completely arrested. The harass and worry of business cares will sometimes beget an irritable bladder. Permanent impotence has been produced by fright. The shock following the communication of unwelcome tidings has developed a heart murmur; and the effects of fear, of remorse, or of disappointment from the miscarriage of cherished plans at the moment of their expected consumma- tion, are always unfavorable to the reparation of surgical injuries. Then there is an ardent temperament, which, when associated with a highly wrought imagination, tends to impart an unreal or fictitious coloring to the disease or injury of its possessor, and is well calculated to mislead the unsuspecting prac- titioner. Hope is a mighty element in the cure of disease, and it is the duty of the surgeon, whenever he can conscientiously do so, to avail himself of this powerful cordial and stimulus, which constitutes so efficient an antidote to the effects of sickness and injury. Social Condition.—This will also become a subject of investigation, which should include an inquiry into the state of the patient, whether single or mar- ried, active or idle; his sexual indulgences, whether occasional or frequent, lawful or illicit ; and, in the case of a woman, the number of her pregnancies, of her miscarriages, and of any irregularities or complications which may have taken place during or after parturition.