259 ANATOMICAL CHARACTERS OF RACHITIS. brittle.”1 It seems, however, from the experiments of Heitzmann, that this opinion should be modified, at least as regards rachitis produced by lactic acid. Moreover, in rachitic cranio-tabes, occurring in infancy, there is certainly bone absorption, for portions of the occipital and parietal bones are absorbed to cause the soft spaces. We must, therefore, believe that there is in rachitis more or less absorption of lime salts in the bone, in addition to that required in the normal growth of medullary cavities and canals for vessels. In healthy bone, the earthy salts are in excess of organic matter, nearly in the proportion of two to one; but in rachitis the proportion is reversed, the organic matter being much in excess. The following table gives analyses of rachitic bones by Marchand, Davy, Boettger, and Friedleben:— Femur. Radius. Vertebra Inorganic. Organic. Inorganic. Organic. Inorganic. A Organic. Case i. 20.60 79.40 21.24 78.76 18.68 81.32 << ii. 37.80 62.20 (conval.) 20.00 80.00 32.29 67.71 a hi. 20.89 79.11 < i IV. 52.85 47.15 As might be expected, the relative proportion of organic and inorganic matter varies greatly in different cases, and at different stages of the same case. In severe rachitis many bones are affected. It is stated that there is no bone in the entire skeleton that may not suffer, but in mild cases only a few are involved, at least to such an extent as to produce structural changes, appreciable to touch or sight. Pathology of Rachitis.—In this connection, it is proper to consider the pa- thology of rachitis. What is its nature? Niemeyer in my opinion expresses the correct view, when he says “ it seems to me that the most probable hy- pothesis regarding the cause of rachitis is that which refers it to inflammation of the epiphyseal cartilages and periosteum.” The increased vascularity of the periosteum, the proliferation of periosteum and cartilage, the tenderness and pain on motion, and the febrile movement in acute forms of the disease, indicate inflammation rather than any other recognized pathological state. The rachitic inflammation as it affects the osseous system, appears to be of a chronic or subacute character, presenting an analogy with certain other well- known inflammations, such as cirrhosis and certain forms of chronic ne- phritis, in which proliferation of connective tissue and sclerosis occur. The eburnation rather than normal ossification, which terminates the rachitic process, may properly be considered an osteo-sclerosis. Conformably with the theory of the inflammatory nature of rachitis, the periosteum is found infiltrated and thickened, and of a reddish hue from hypersemia, and from the presence of the newly-formed capillaries underneath, which have been described above as forming a layer of considerable thickness, known as the “ germinal, vascular tissue.” Moreover, as in inflammations, a secretion or exudation occurs over the bone from the under surface of the periosteum ; it has a reddish, gelatinous-looking appearance. The various interspaces in long, short, and flat bones, the diploe, cancelli, and inter-lamellar openings, contain a substance similar to that exuded under the periosteum, resembling, says Trousseau, “red, pale gooseberry jam.” It appears, like that under the periosteum, to be an inflammatory exudation. 1 Cellular Pathology, Chance’s Translation, Lecture xix.