83 CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. thus incited, we will speak farther under the head of “varieties” of inflam- mation ; but it is as well to remark here that although the subcutaneous in- jection of pus in the lower animals is capable of inducing febrile action of the simple inflammatory type, with great certainty, the fever thus produced, as a rule, subsides spontaneously; and the local inflammations excited by the con- tact of inflammatory products, when the latter are fresh and unmixed with other sources of poison, are, for the most part, of the simple catarrhal variety, and neither unhealthy nor destructive.1 The practice of inoculating pannus of the conjunctiva and cornea with fresh pus to provoke inflammation for a curative purpose, employed on a large scale in Germany, illustrates at the same time the contagiousness of fresh healthy pus, and the comparative liarm- lessness, in a general way, of the inflammation thus excited. The poisonous qualities of certain living insects, not to speak of dead insects such as cantharides, find their most common examples in the mosquito, the bee, the wasp, etc. The introduction of the poison of the mosquito into the substance of the skin of a person who has not acquired an immunity from its action, is followed within a few minutes by all the cardinal symptoms of in- flammation in miniature. The pain takes the form of itching; the redness forms a well-marked areola produced by the afflux of blood from every direc- tion .towards the point of puncture—with an appreciable increase of local heat; and the swelling, from rapid exudation, is often so tensive as to arrest the capillary circulation at the centre of the affected area by its pressure, causing a distinctly pallid spot, or wheal, at its apex. After a short time all these symptoms disappear, leaving a point of ecehymosis, recognizable with difficulty on account of its minuteness. This gradual and entire disappear- ance of the symptoms of inflammation affords an example of the phenomenon generally described as “delitescence” or “ resolution.'” Not unfrequently a little thickening of the tissues remains at the seat of the injury just described, and, from time to time, a slighter degree of itching may recur. In persons of an irritable habit an ulcer may possibly be established by the repeated scratching thus provoked. There is, in fact, a certain amount of persistent impairment or degradation of vital quality incurred by the nerves and other textural con- stituents of a part by the contact of an animal poison—which is a noteworthy characteristic of this form of injury. The apparent reluctance to heal, and the tendency to ulceration, manifested in some cases after vaccination, is an example of the effects of local tissue poisoning; and the same phenomena are still more frequently noticeable in the behavior of the contagious venereal ulcer usually called u chancroid.” Thus the lesson is to he learned from so trifling a poisoned wound as a “mosquito bite,” that a poison is a noxious agent capable not only of directly exciting the condition of inflammation in our tissues, to a degree of intensity apparently out of all proportion to the injury as regards its magnitude or gravity, but, also, of leaving after it a more or less permanently damaging effect upon those tissues, by which their vital quality is invalidated. In addition to the general conclusion that this source of injury is competent to cause a local derangement of the nutritive machinery, which manifests itself by the phenomena of inflammation, it may be remarked that this development of ‘the inflammatory condition has, apparently, no reparative purpose. It is an extravagant outbreak, on a limited scale, of excessive action on the part of the local nutritive apparatus, by which, as far as we can see, no object is 1 Simon concludes “that the contagiousness of communicable inflammation seems to be in some special way relative to corpuscular development, and the contagium to be inherent in grow- ing forms ; whereas, the contagiousness of the specific inflammation seems rather relative to their destructive acts, and the contagium to reside in defunct and dissolving organic compounds ” (Loc. cit. ed. 1870, p. 51.)