417 EMPLOYMENT OF ANAESTHETICS. artificial means of relief is thoroughly justified. Painful parturition is as proper a subject for relief as painful menstruation. The proper stage of labor for the use of anaesthetics may be allowed to depend upon the degree of pain by which it is characterized. Inhalation may be employed during any stage of confinement. It is, however, desirable to avoid the induction of profound insensibility during the earlier portion of a labor which may be prolonged for many hours. A parsimonious use of the drug should be the rule, in fact, during the whole course of parturition, unless instrumental interference be- come necessary for the purpose of completing the delivery. For the produc- tion of anaesthesia, any one of the numerous substances used for this purpose may be employed; but the obstetrical anaesthetic par excellence is chloroform. Its convenience, its agreeable properties, and the remarkable degree of safety which has attended its exhibition under such circumstances, have all com- bined to give it the preference before all other anaesthetics. For the graver operations of midwifery, however, when complete insensibility is desired, sulphuric ether should be used. When administered for the purpose of mitigating the severity of painful uterine eft'orts, it is not necessary to reduce the patient to a condition of silent insensibility. A few drops of chloroform vaporized from a handkerchief, and inhaled at the commencement of each pain, are usually sufficient. Thus employed, it is no unusual thing to hear a woman declare, at the close of a tedious labor, during which her complaints have been most volubly uttered, that the whole period has not seemed longer than fifteen minutes. By this intermittent method of inhalation, the stimulant effect, of the drug is main- tained. If complete insensibility be induced during the expulsive stages of labor, it may happen that muscular contraction is diminished, or even com- pletely arrested. This is the consequence of over-saturation of the reflex spinal centres with the anaesthetic. The voluntary muscles are the first to yield; then follow the muscles which are employed in semi-voluntary expul- sive acts; finally, the purely involuntary muscular fibres of the uterus. Fx- cepting only cases of operative interference, it is desirable that during the concluding eft’orts of parturition the patient should sufficiently possess her senses to assist the involuntary uterine efforts by those powerful voluntary exertions which are most efficient in a state of consciousness. If, however, the sufferings of the patient combine with the effects of partial anaesthesia to render her uncontrollable, it is better to produce complete insensibility at the moment of delivery. With the birth of the child, inhalation should cease, unless some unusual operative interference should be required. The patient soon recovers consciousness, and ordinarily suffers very little pain or discomfort during the succeeding day. For the relief of after-pains, chloroform is un- necessary, opiates and chloral hydrate usually sufficing for that purpose. The new-born infant rarely exhibits any unfavorable consequences from inha- lation by the mother. It is, nevertheless, possible for chloroform to enter the blood in the placenta, and to find its way into the foetal circulation. Hoppe- Seyler has demonstrated the presence of chloroform in the urine of a new- born child. Long-continued inhalation of large quantities of chloroform are, therefore, not without danger to the life of the infant. Puerperal convul- sions require the induction of complete insensibility, in connection with other appropriate medical treatment. Chloroform is ordinarily employed for this purpose, but when prolonged anaesthesia is required, ether should be given. The contra-indications to the use of anaesthetics during labor are the same that should preclude their use under other circumstances. Artificial Anaesthesia in Dentistry.—The search for means of obviating the pain attending the extraction of teeth, was the prime cause of the utiliza- vol. i.—27