6 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. Fig. 2. examined in the aqueous humor, changed their lumens; that in certain places they alternately narrowed and widened. These observations, however, were merely accidental In some of these membranes I saw the change; in many others I did not succeed in observing it. But, as it was already known at that time that the cells of embryos were distinguished by their contractility, I chose the tadpole for a further examination of the subject. For the tadpole is the embryo of the frog, and has this advantage, that the bloodvessels can he examined in its transparent tail in vivo—that is, as long as the circulation continues; and I found, indeed, that the capillaries of the tail1 contracted under the influence of powerful irritation, as, for example, under the influence of strong induction currents. But I was not sure of the matter; at times I obtained a favorable result, at others not. I could, therefore, give no positive answer regarding this property of the capillaries. A number of additional circumstances, however, gave me an insight into certain other properties. I discovered on this occasion that the walls of the vessel were pierced by red blood-corpuscles2—a discovery on which Cohnheim subsequently based a new theory of suppuration (migration theory). I found, furthermore, that the walls of capillaries were not structureless; that here and there they were granulated, like protoplasm; that their outlines were irregular; that here and there they had points and nodules. Then I noticed that the walls of the capillaries had processes ;3 that various phases of growth of these processes were recognizable up to a junction with the processes of neighboring capilla- ries. It appeared that these processes became hollowed out, commencing at the root (at the inner wall of the older capillary), and were thus transformed into new capillaries. "Walls of vessels, I argued, which resemble protoplasm, which send out processes, are living walls. The capillaries are protoplasm in the shape of tubes. Just as protoplasm is permeable for foreign bodies, so, too, are the walls of capillaries. My statement concerning the penetration of the vascular wall was soon generally accepted, but its contractility, and even its permea- bility (my view of it), were contested. The blood-corpuscles, it was said (in opposition to my assertions), passed through openings (stomata) of the vascular walls. At the same time, Eberth, Aeby, and Auerbach, discovered (hut each one independently of the other) that by the injection of a solution of nitrate of silver4 into the vascular system, a series of brown lines (Fig. 2) could he produced in the capillaries, and in the intima of arteries and veins; lines similar to those ob- tained on the surface of serous membrane by staining with silver. The lines on the serous membranes are regarded as the outlines of cells, and it was accordingly said that the brown lines of the capillaries were also outlines of cells; and the more so, because nuclei were recognizable in the fields that- were bounded by the lines. (See Fig. 2.) Well, then, the capillaries were composed of flat cells—cells of the same kind as those which cover the serous membranes. They were the continuation of the intima (endothelium) of the arteries; the capillaries them- selves were endothelial tubes. At the borders of the cells 1 All bloodvessels, whether large or small, whether afferent or efferent, are here capillaries as regards structure. They all consist merely of an intima. There is not yet a muscular coat or an adventitia present. 2 Studien iiber Bau und Leben der capill. Blutgefasse. Wiener Sitzungsberichte, 1866. 3 The mere fact that the capillaries had processes was known previously. 4 The method itself had already been made known by Recklinghausen.