596 AMPUTATIONS. “ ... in submitting the stump of the amputated limb to continued suction (vacuum), so as to draw off all the liquids as fast as they are formed, and to convey them away before they have had time to putrefy. This is how the process is carried out; after having stopped the hemorrhage in the usual way, by means of ligatures to the vessels, I clean the wound with the greatest care, wash it with alcohol, and wipe it with a dry cloth. I bring the edges together with a few strips of diachylon, but with- out opposing an obstacle to the flow of the secreted liquids. I then apply a layer of lint soaked in antiseptic liquids, such as tincture of arnica, solution of carbolic acid, or other suitable substance, and finally I fold the whole in a few bands of linen soaked in the same preparations. It is only after this preliminary dressing that the apparatus for exhausting the air is applied. The apparatus consists (1) of an extremity of India-rubber, shaped like a lady’s muff, and intended to embrace the stump, and a tube of the same sub- stance ; (2) of a vessel of four or five litres (3^ quarts to one gallon) capacity, provided with a mouth-piece pierced with two holes ; and (3) of an exhausting pump, fitted with a flexible tube. The stump covered with its bandage is first placed in the ‘ India- rubber muff,’ whose orifice embraces exactly the integuments of the limb, and the tube is placed in connection with one of the holes in the mouth-piece of the vessel. To the other aperture I adapt the tube from the exhausting pump, and then I work the piston. In a short time the air of the vessel is in great part drawn off, and the remainder is rarefied. The liquids of the dressing, mixed with those which proceed from the wound, follow the air, and flow into the vessel. The ‘ India-rubber muff,’ deprived of the air it had contained, applies itself closely to the limb. The pressure of the atmosphere exercises—through the intervention of the India-rubber—a considerable compression of the stump, and thus keeps the divided surfaces in contact, and, combined with the continued exhaustion produced by the rarefaction of the air in the vessel, prevents all accumulation of liquid, and thus promotes and favors rapid cicatrization.” Could any systems of dressing be more unlike than those which we have just considered, and the “air-dressings” of Teale, Humphry, and Simpson; and yet the advocate of each mode deplores the great mortality of amputa- tions in the hands of other surgeons, and confidently puts forward his own method as that which by clinical experience he has proved to he the best. It has for many years been the boast of modern surgery that it had aban- doned the old doctrines of “digestion” and “mundification” of amputation- wounds, and that it now endeavored to promote the quick healing of stumps by primary union. And yet in two of the most highly lauded methods of dressing employed at the present day, no attempt is made to close the wound for days after the operation; I allude to the perchloride of iron dressing of M. Bourgade, of Clermont-Ferrand, and to the open method of dressing stumps employed by Prof. J. R. Wood, of Hew York. Perchloride op Iron Dressing.—The practice of cauterizing an amputa- tion-wound is an old one,1 but the principle upon which M. Bourgade founds his method, first brought before the International Medical Congress of Paris, in 1868, differs from that upon which the older surgeons acted. Re- calling the well-known facts that recent wounds are more prone to absorb sep- tic materials, whether from their own secretions or from the atmosphere, than granulating surfaces, and that septic poisoning is less common after ope- rations performed with the caustic than after those accomplished by the use of the knife, M. Bourgade2 endeavors to render the latter as inoffensive as the former, by applying to the whole cut surface a strong solution of perchlo- ride of iron (Pravaz’s solution, sp. gr. 30° Baume). Hemorrhage having been arrested, and the wound carefully washed, the whole surface is covered with charpie saturated with the solution in question, care being taken that the action of the drug is exerted equally on all parts, bones and vessels, as 1 See the quotation from Vigo, supra, page 554. 2 Fort, Cours de medecine operatoire, p. 150. Paris, 1880.