123 THE SIGNIFICANCE OF SUPPUPvATION. abscess following a dissecting wound. The pus from buboes of the plague is described as smelling horribly, and that from the pustules of smallpox is peculiarly disgusting. Under other circumstances, when pus gives off a fetid odor, if this is not caused by the admixture of dead and sloughy material foreign to its own sub- stance, it is the result of actual or approaching decomposition. In decompo- sition, the sulphates of its albumen become sulphurets, and free sulphuretted hydrogen is extricated, which combines with the ammonia given off at the same time. There is also a trace of phosphuretted hydrogen present which contributes to the odor. Decomposition of pus often takes place around a wound, where it collects and dries upon the surface in consequence of the high temperature of the body. When lotions containing lead are employed under these circumstances, the dressings are liable to be colored black by deposit of the sulphuret of lead. Poisonous Qualities of Pus.—Opinions have varied strangely as to the possession of poisonous qualities by pus. Less than half a century ago, all the fatal surgical fevers were habitually ascribed to its reabsorption into the organism from wounds. After the old theory of pyaemia had ceased to pre- vail, pus was regarded, under the influence of the chemico-vital teachings of Pobin, as a positively innocent substance. More recently a belief has become general that it possesses “infective” properties, the intimate nature of which is still under judgment. Thus we may say that norm’al pus, unless some virus or poison may have been accidentally introduced into it, has been usually re- garded as a bland, innoxious, unirritating fluid. But experiments upon ani- mals, first made as early as 1849, by Sedillot, and more lately by Billroth and Weber, Chauveau, Senator, and others, have demonstrated that not only pus, but other products of healthy inflammation, when introduced into the organism, possess the power of exciting inflammation in the form of abscess and fever. In the experiments of Senator, made for the purpose of studying fever, per- fectly fresh healthy pus was injected beneath the integuments of healthy dogs, wfltli the invariable effect of producing a rise of temperature within an hour or two; but a large proportion of the dogs thus treated died in a few days with symptoms of septicaemia. Chauveau has proved that the fever-pro- ducing quality of pus resides in its solid elements; for injections of filtered liquor puris were found to be innocuous. These facts, and many others of similar import and equal interest, are to be kept under advisement; but inferences from them, as applicable to the human organism, are hardly as yet justifiable beyond the general admission that, in a certain degree, the products of healthy inflammation possess the infective quality. Where a wound, or an ulcer, is partly gangrenous, or phagedtenic, in fact, up to the time when a complete layer of healthy granulation has formed upon its surface, its pus will always contain more or less dead or dissolving tissue —detritus, as it is called. The yellowish-gray flocculent or leathery adherent material which cannot be washed away from the bottom of a wound or ulcer, in this condition, is simply dead tissue not yet cast off, because granulations are not as yet completely organized beneath it—the organization of a healthy layer of granulation tissue upon the living surface being absolutely requisite to insure the safe separation, in the normal order, of dead from living parts. But there are certain circumstances under which pus does acquire poisonous properties which do not belong to it per se, as when it becomes, accidentally, the vehicle of a virus, as, for example, the virus of the contagious venereal ulcer called chancroid. Under these circumstances it is properly denominated “virulent pus.” Here there is no difference whatever demonstrable by the