5 CONTRACTILITY OF THE CAPILLARIES. distended in consequence of every systole; but it is not proved that the so-called elastic substances of the arterial wall are involved in this distension. In general, we do not know whether the elastic substances of the organism possess any elasticity worth mentioning. We must not be deceived by the name “ elasticthe fibres have been called elastic, because the filaments of a torn end curve inward like elastic springs; but we do not know if these fibres are distensible like caoutchouc; I do not even consider it at all likely. The researches of Spina1 show that the elastic fibres are cells which have become old and resistant; cells (or processes of cells) which, in inflammation, again become as soft, as mobile, and as capable of proliferation, as young cells of the embryo. There is no reason for considering the cells which have become resistant to be more distensible than the other tissues. I regard it as more likely that the artery, as a whole, possesses a certain degree of elasticity, and that it in toto possesses the power to contract after a certain distension, as soon as the pressure or tension relaxes. The walls of veins likewise have smooth muscular fibres, but not circularly arranged, as in arteries. And yet the veins are contractile in a marked degree. If we irritate mechanically the exposed jugular vein of a rabbit, it contracts until its lumen almost disappears. The contraction of veins is the more striking because they are also very distensible. As soon as the blood- current, is obstructed in the jugular vein, the vessel swells, although the blood flows in it under a very low pressure. We know very little about the mechanism of this contraction; it is not clear how muscular fibres which run lengthwise can produce a narrowing of- the lumen. The bloodvessels, however, have other arrangements besides the muscular fibres, by means of which their lumen can be contracted. These arrangements are presented by the Intima. The intima of the bloodvessels lines the entire vascular system. In the heart, it is represented by the endocardium. The endocardium leads directly to the intima of the arteries, which is continued in the capillaries, and beyond the capillaries again becomes the intima of the veins. In the capillaries the intima lies in immediate contact with the surrounding tissue, or is only accompanied by the rudiment of an adventitia. In other words, the wall of the capillaries consists of nothing, or almost nothing, but the intima. Now the capillaries possess a certain degree of contractility; they can actively contract and dilate, although they have no muscular fibres. In this state of affairs we might even suspect that the veins were capable of contraction and dilatation, in consequence of the contractility of their intima. But the contractility of the capillaries has not the same character as muscular con- tractility. The doctrine of the contractility of the capillaries is not at all generally accepted, and only a portion of those who accept it have actually observed the phenomenon. Therefore we must not blindly admit this doctrine, and build up theories upon it. We must first familiarize ourselves more closely with it, and, as it is a subject of very great importance in pathology, and especially in respect to the theory of inflammation, I shall devote a separate section to its consideration. The Contractility of the Capillaries.—In the year 1865,1 for the first time advanced the assertion that the walls of the capillaries were not, as was at that time supposed, mere lifeless, structureless,2 elastic membranes, but that they consisted of a contractile substance. I had observed that the capillaries of the freshly-prepared membrana nictitans of the frog, when 1 Mediz. Jahrbucher, 1873 und 1875. 2 Nuclei had indeed been ascribed to them, but with this single exception they were considered structureless.