303 TREATMENT OF SCURVY. higher moral life and increased happiness. These circumstances have limited scurvy to a restricted prevalence on board of badly-equipped merchant vessels, in long passages ; among exploring parties in high latitudes ; in armies during time of war,cursed with an incompetent commissariat; and occasionally among the inhabitants of besieged towns. It has been attempted by legislation, with, more or less success, to enforce on board merchant ships the adoption of the proper hygienic measures. Such laws are in force in the United States, in Great Britain, and in other countries, and require that all ships shall carry certain articles of acknowledged anti-scorbutic power, and that the quarters of the men shall possess a requisite amplitude. In the equipment of arctic vessels, proper prevision is always displayed to avert the invasion of scurvy during such service. The greatest import attaches to an unsparing storing up of fresh vegetable and animal food, which should always be provided at the commencement of any voyage likely to be prolonged for several months. It is often possible to carry live animals for days together, and the stock may often be replenished at the different ports touched at. By the various processes of canning, pre- serving, drying, etc., fresh provisions of all sorts can be obtained, that may be relied on as capable of supplying good, wholesome animal food. Eggs form a most desirable article of diet, and may be kept good for months by simple methods of packing; and their nutritive value will be appreciated when it is considered that a single egg contains as much nourishment as two ounces of fresh beef. Another excellent animal food, on account of its nutri- tive qualities and reported efficiency as an anti-scorbutic, is milk, which, when properly prepared, can be preserved in its original purity and with undimin- ished nutritive value, indefinitely. Vegetable food of the most varied cha- racter can now be obtained almost anywhere, and a ship should not leave port without laying in a stock of potatoes, beets, carrots, cabbages, and fruits, which should be regularly served out as part of the ration. With a very simple contrivance, quickly growing vegetables may be successfully cultivated on shipboard. The plants most suitable for this purpose are the mustard, cress, radish, turnip, etc.; cresses and mustard are the most rapid growers. Almost as efficient representatives of these fresh products of the garden are the same articles prepared in various ways, and put up in tin and glass vessels, and when the former are not procurable these should be substituted in the ration. Sauerkraut can be kept indefinitely in any climate, and has deserv- edly enjoyed reputation as a good anti-scorbutic, while it is cheerfully received by the sailor in his ration. Desiccated potatoes have been found, after several years’ trial in the navy, to possess neither much food value, nor to be at all palatable, and, when served out, have as a rule been thrown away, so that other preparations should be preferred. Canned tomatoes are, on the other hand, eagerly accepted, and are much esteemed by the men. Cheese and oat- meal would also be desirable additions to the ordinary allowance. The value of lime-juice as a preventive of scurvy was long since known, yet it was not made a part of the English navy ration until 1795, when it was regularly served out. The merchant shipping act of England requires a. supply to be carried by all merchant vessels, and it is ordered to be served out daily after the crew has been ten days on salt food. The juice readily under- goes change, if not prepared with the greatest caution, and particularly on exposure to the air; on this account it ought to be carried in glass receivers of from one to two gallons each, instead of casks or large vessels, so that one or two servings may exhaust the contents. Ordinarily the juice is mixed with 10 per cent, of spirit. These circumstances have rendered it desirable to have a preparation of the juice in some more concentrated and permanent form. Dr.