184 ERYSIPELAS. 3 Lancet, January, 1878, p. 115. renal and vesical disease which is generally present. In regard to the treat- ment of the swelling itself, it may he mentioned, in passing, that it has been usual to make free incisions into the distended parts. In 1791, Dr. Percival, of Manchester, England, described a peculiar affec- tion of the vulva in a girl five years old; and in 1815, Mr. Kinder Wood related the history of twelve similar cases that had occurred in his own prac- tice. Like erysipelas, it usually had prodromes of two or three days’ dura- tion, when the difficulty of passing water drew attention to the genitals of the little patients. It was then found that the labia first became swollen, and afterwards inflamed, blistered and ulcerated, while the inflammation ex- tended to the thighs. There was no spontaneous tendency to gangrene.1 The reporter of the cases discusses the question whether this disease was erysipe- latous, and decides in the negative ; hut the analogies of the affection with erysipelas render some notice of it in this place appropriate. Erysipelas of the Face and Scalp.—Of the local and external varieties of the disease, erysipelas of the face, and that of the scalp, demand a few special remarks. The former affection is by far the most common form of the disease unconnected with surgical affections. Preceded by the general phenomena already described, the eruption usually makes its appearance upon the bridge of the nose, in which case it almost always spreads symmetrically to either side, involving by turns the eyelids, the nose, the forehead, the ears, the cheeks, and the upper lip, but usually stopping at the junction of the skin of the forehead with the hairy scalp. It does not often descend beyond the middle of the neck. Sometimes it begins on one side of the nose, and, indeed, Mr. Bird2 affirms that its starting point is most frequently the right side of the face. Kot uncommonly it first affects one ear. Each of these cases is adduced in favor of the doctrine that the idiopathic disease always takes its rise from a direct infection ; and in these instances it is held that the first impression of the poison is upon the nasal and pharyngeal mem- branes, whence its effects extend through the lachrymal canal to the face, or through the Eustachian tube to the ear. As the inflammation spreads over the face, the skin is at first of a scarlet, and then of a crimson or almost pur- plish color, and its surface is tense and shining. The ears especially are dark red. The swollen eyelids close the eyes, and obliterate entirely the depres- sions of the orbits, while from between them tears flow abundantly; the tumid nose and lips complete the disfigurement, and no trace of the natural ex- pression of the face is left. The deformity is exaggerated when the scalp is involved as well as the face, and not only is the pain singularly increased by the unyielding nature of this integument, but cerebral symptoms of excite- ment or stupor are often present. The swelling of the ears renders hear- ing dull, and the obstruction of the nostrils compels the patient to breathe through the mouth. Very commonly phlyctenre form upon the cheeks, and their escaping contents are apt to irritate the skin. Erichsen3 lays much stress on the fact that the erysipelas which is so apt to follow injuries of the scalp, seldom arises unless the tendon of the occipito- frontalis muscle is divided. In that case, the products of inflammation accumulate between the pericranium and the bone, causing a cellulitis with profuse suppuration, the pus from which undergoes putrefaction and sets up erysipelas. This surgeon denies that a wound of the scalp, or the use of sutures in treating it, has any special tendency to induce erysipelas, w'hich 1 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. vii. p. 84. 2 Ranking’s Abstract, No. xxix. 1859, p. 85.