549 SKIN GRAFTING. ever, that after four, five, or six days the epidermis fell away, and left the graft bare as if it had been blistered; and concluded, from what had occurred, that “perhaps grafts, called epidermic, succeed only when containing a lamella of dermis.” And that these procedures were successful, may he inferred from the fact that, in 1873, Poncet gave in the Lyon Medical1 an account of the “ presentation of a patient hearing autoplastic cutaneous grafts introduced a year before by M. Ollier.” In America also, in 1872, Dr. M. Donnelly, in a paper already referred to, advocated the use of grafts as large as a quarter of an inch, claiming such to be superior to smaller ones; and declared that he regarded the source of supply as indifferent, except that the graft should be taken from a point of least motion, as the insertion of the deltoid. In conclusion, we may summarize what is known as to skin grafting as fol- lows :— I. It affords an admirable means of accelerating and facilitating cicatriza- tion. II. The pellicle produced by its aid is less prone to contraction, and con- tracts less than an ordinary cicatrix. III. The deeper layer of the epidermic elements are the chief factors of growth. IV. The growing cicatrix is formed at the expense of the embryonal cells of the granulating surface, stimulated into activity by the presence of the living cells of the graft. V. This stimulus, first showing energy in and around central islands of new growth, induces similar activity at the hitherto dormant margin of the ulcer. VI. Grafts may retain vitality and be effective long after separation from the body. VTI. Small grafts, of the size of millet seeds, for example, are, in general, preferable to larger ones ; although larger grafts, as of one-fourth inch square (Donnelly), or even eight square centimetres (Ollier), have had their advocates and successes. VIII. Grafts should he obtained from the patient himself, if possible, but in all cases the danger of specific inoculation ought to be present in the mind of the surgeon who borrows grafts from one subject for application upon another, or who practises heteroplasty. IX. Grafts furnished by the aged are less disposed to adhere than those procured from the young, and oftentimes fail entirely. X. Grafts obtained from one race of men may be successfully used on indi- viduals of another race; and animal grafts may be transplanted upon human beings, adhere, and provoke cicatrization. XI. Foul surfaces, or those of persons in bad health, will refuse to accept good grafts; but with improvement or establishment of the health of the indi- vidual bearing an ulcer, and the appearance of healthy granulations, a favorable result of skin grafting may be anticipated. XII. Finally, the great benefits accruing from successful skin grafting far outweigh its drawbacks, which are the pain of the operation, and, unless amputated limbs be utilized, the consecutive pain in the parts yielding the grafts, whether, of course, these be autoplastic or heteroplastic. Note.—The author desires to express his acknowledgements to Surgeon J. S. Billings, U. S. A., for his personal kindness in the matter of collecting authorities, and through him to the Library of the Surgeon-General’s Office, for the invaluable aid which it has afforded. Lyon Medical, t. xiv. p. 293, 1873.