ERYSIPELAS. 172 ful deglutition, and swelling of one tonsil and of the neck externally. These symptoms, subsiding, were followed by laryngeal obstruction which required tracheotomy. The wound was attacked with erysipelas which spread over the skin, but the patient made a good recovery. Not to prolong unduly this enumeration, a case of more recent occurrence may be noticed. Strauss1 relates the history of a man who, during convalescence from an attack of erysipelas of the face and scalp, was seized with pain and swelling in the right side of the throat, while the corresponding lung was dull on percussion, and gave a crepi- tant rale in the lower lobe. But there was neither chill, cough, nor expectoration. In four days death occurred ; the pharynx and right bronchia were congested, but con- tained no fibrinous mould or filaments, and the alveoli were crowded with leucocytes. With these examples before the reader, the hearing of the following remarks will be more apparent and intelligible. As long as erysipelas was regarded as merely an inflammation of the skin, the unity of the disease and its dependence upon a special poison were not readily recognized. Hence the artificial, although apparently practical, disjunction of medical and sur- gical erysipelas, which deluded learners, misled practitioners, and em- barrassed authors. Continued observation, however, showed that the disease sometimes arose idiopathically, and was sometimes of traumatic origin, and that in both cases it could, on the one hand, be traced to certain definite causes, such as putrefaction, and yet might fail to occur when such causes existed in great activity, or might prevail fatally where no similar conditions could be detected. From such facts the rational conclusion could only be that beneath all the immediate and apparent causes of the disease, lay certain essential conditions of its production. But the time was not yet ripe for a demonstration of this proposition. Later, it began to be assumed that in all cases of erysipelas a positive lesion must exist to admit the poison, and, very frequently, minute inspection revealed, upon the skin, a pimple, a scratch, or a patch of herpes or eczema, which formed the starting-point of the erysipe- latous inflammation, and sometimes an analogous lesion of the mouth or throat. However necessary it may be, and probably is, that a lesion of the skin should exist before erysipelatous infection can take place through that channel, for the sound skin- is an exhaling and not an absorbing organ, the reverse is true of the mucous membranes, which are all, in various degrees, absorbing surfaces. If, therefore, erysipelas is disseminated by a materies morbi, it is only in accordance with a general law that it should frequently make its first impression upon the mouth, throat, and nostrils, as the poisons of smallpox, scarlet fever and measles, usually do; for if the poi- son is inhaled, it necessarily comes first in contact with these parts, and in its most concentrated form. In traumatic or surgical erysipelas, the mode of entrance of the poison into the system hardly needs demonstration, for it is in wounds of all grades, from the most trifling abrasion to the most extensive removal of the integu- ment by accident or by the surgeon’s knife, that the starting-point of the disease is to be sought. Its characteristic phenomena are, indeed, not always first manifested at that point, for, as is more particularly set forth elsewhere, remote lymphatic ganglia are quite frequently the first parts to become swollen and painful; and in other cases, a febrile movement of a seemingly idiopathic nature sets in before the local phenomena, whether traumatic inflammation or glandular swelling, are developed. It is evident, then, that it is not erysipelas as an inflammation, which alone occasions redness over the lymphatic vessels and swelling of the corresponding glands, but that some- thing is absorbed by those vessels from an infected wound or mucous mem- ' Medical News, Feb. 1880, p. 93.