KNOWLEDGE OBTAINED BY PERSONAL INVESTIGATION. 3-15 Information Derived from Touch.—While in most instances the form of a swelling can he determined by the eye alone, yet occasionally it becomes necessary to call into requisition the sense of touch, in order to obtain a cor- rect idea of the exterior of an enlargement. Thus a tumor within the abdo- men, or in the neck, or in the groin, may present a uniform surface to the eye, but, when examined by the lingers, may be found to be irregular or lobu- lated. It -is possible, in some cases of extra-uterine pregnancy, to trace the outline of the foetus through the abdominal walls or through the vagina, and thus to establish the diagnosis. In this way, also, the convoluted form of a varicocele, and the irregularity or knobbed surface of a mammary tumor, will be disclosed. The lenticular form of the inguinal glands, discoverable by the touch, serves to distinguish an adenitis from a hernia. Independent of the external configuration, we learn, from the touch, the density of tumors and other enlargements—whether liquid or solid, hard or soft, elastic or doughy, fluctuating or tremulous. By tact, also, wTe recognize the peculiar crepitation or crackling which indicates a collection of air in the subcutaneous connective tissue (emphysema). By the same sense, the crepitus of fractures and the crackling of inflamed bursas can often be distinguished when their sound cannot be heard; and it is through the touch that the physician measures the force, frequency, and regularity of the arterial pulse. Weight.—Closely related to the exercise of touch is the estimation of weight. The diagnosis of a tumor is influenced in no small degree by its weight. Disproportion between the weight and the bulk of a morbid growth located in the testis or mammary gland, affords considerable ground "for re- garding the neoplasm as either a carcinoma or a fibroma. Mobility is also determined by an exertion of the sense of touch. External growths which admit of being extensively moved are usually superficial; while those which are fixed are, as a rule, deeply situated. In fracture there is preternatural mobility, while in luxation there is unnatural rigidity. Temperature, although only to be correctly measured by thermometry, may often be estimated by the touch with sufficient accuracy to enable the practitioner not only to form just deductions in regard to the nature of the disease, but to prescribe the-proper line of treatment. Too much attention cannot be bestowed on the cultivation of the sense of touch. It is susceptible of being educated to a degree of extreme delicacy, as is witnessed in the readiness with which, in the blind, it is made to sup- plement the deficiencies of vision. Many fatal blunders in surgery have resulted from an untrustworthy touch. Color, also, is to be considered in forming a diagnosis. Thus we have the bright scarlet blush which belongs to acute inflammation ; the dusky red which accompanies low forms of erysipelas ; the dull red or mottled hue of chronic inflammation, indicating also venous obstruction; the blue or livid color of the lips in some cases of croup, or in asphyxia; and the purple and red intermingled which mark the skin overlying malignant growths. To these may be added the varying shades of color—blue, blue-black, olive, and yellow—which follow ecchymoses or extravasations of blood, generally venous, into the subcutaneous cellular tissues ; the black of mortification; the unnatural white of anasarca; and, finally, the sallow and waxy hues which attend advanced cases of carcinoma. Translucency.—The true nature of many swellings is ascertained by the translucency of their contents. The existence of this condition is revealed by