PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 18 which accompany the root of that sensitive nerve are distributed. Further- more, it has become known by the researches of Baerensprung,1 which have since been frequently corroborated, that in herpes zoster the intervertebral ganglia are diseased. Since the intervertebral ganglia are situated on the posterior sensory roots, and since, moreover, I have likewise caused hyperte- mias by an irritation of these ganglia, this discovery of Baerensprung is easily understood. It is quite comprehensible that neuralgia and an inflammatory eruption may he connected with a pathological process in the intervertebral ganglion. This fact of the common course of sensory and vaso-dilator nerves is finally suited to explain the connection between local inflammatory irritation on the one hand, and the inflammatory hypersemia and the pain which accom- pany the process on the other. It was formerly supposed that the inflam- matory irritation, inasmuch as it implicated the sensory nerves, caused pain by means of their centripetal conduction, and at the same time excited reflex action. Accordingly, it was said, inflammatory hypersemia is produced by reflex action. But this assumption had no solid foundation. If every inflammatory irritation must first be conducted to the central nervous system in order to produce hypersemia (by reflex action), I cannot see why this hypersemia appears just where the irritation acts. If powerful irritation produces reflex action, the reflex movements are not confined to the seat of the irritation. But inflammatory hypersemia always appears at the seat of irritation only. “ Ubi stimulus ibi ajfluxus” is the old rule, which holds good for weak as well as for powerful inflammatory irritation. It is therefore probable that inflammatory hypersemia is a direct local consequence of the local irritation. It is probable that the local irritation excites at the same time both the sensory nerves and the vaso-dilators of the implicated region. "Whilst the former cause pain by means of centripetal conduction, the latter produce a dilatation of the vessels by means of centrifugal conduction.2 IIypeejemia of Irritation and of Paralysis. Hypersemia of irritation is distinguished from hypersemia caused by paralysis of the constrictors, in the first place, by its duration. The hypersemia of irritation lasts but a few minutes after the irritation. Ex- periment teaches us that the organs, after interruption of the irritation, soon become pale again. The hypersemia of paralysis, on the other hand, lasts until the vessels have again acquired tone, and this may require several days or weeks, according to the number of paralyzed nerves. More than that, as already remarked (page 16), I consider it questionable whether hypersemia of paralysis can be recovered from at all in older animals, and after division of all the constrictors. Meanwhile we must not consider every prolonged hypersemia as one caused by paralysis. If, as in the case of inflammatory foci, the irritation continue, the hypersemia of irritation can also continue. It is, moreover, possible that vessels which remain very widely dilated for a long time, in consequence of repeated or lasting irritation, can become nar- rower again only slowly and gradually. Observations on man permit us to suspect that the hypersemias of irritation ’ The literature of this subject may he found in Kaposi’s article, Zur Aetiologie des Herpes Zoster. Wiener mediz. Jahrb. 1876, S. 55. 2 A problem as yet unsolved is the hyperfemia which accompanies keratitis. The cornea has sensory nerves ; it may, therefore, also have vaso-dilators. But we should have to assume that these vaso-dilators penetrated the cornea with the sensory nerves, and did not terminate there, but returned to the vessels of the margin. For this, however, we have as yet no proof.