PROTHETIC APPARATUS AND THE ADAPTATION OF ARTIFICIAL LIMBS. 607 in all essential particulars the same as the “ box-leg,” which we still often see at the present day. The chief objection to the iron arm made by u le petit Lorrain” was its weight, which was so great that it could only be worn for short periods; and it is told to the praise of the 1STuremberg mechanic who about the same time, or possibly earlier, made the iron hand worn by Goethe’s hero, Gotz von Berlichingen, that the artificial member supplied for that gallant soldier’s use weighed but three pounds. Very ingenious substitutes for lost limbs are available at the present day, and the mechanic’s art is enabled to supply any deficiency, from the loss of a single finger to that caused by an amputation at even the hip or shoulder-joint. Protiietic Apparatus for the Upper Extremity.-—The simplest form of artificial arm for an amputation above the elbow, consists of a neatly-fitting sheath of leather terminating in a block to which can be attached a hook, a knife, a fork, or, for show purposes, a wooden hand; by curving the arm, as suggested by Mr. Bigg, at a point corresponding to the missing elbow, the appearance of the artificial limb is very much improved, while a joint, allow- ing of motion at the elbow by means of a concealed wheel and ratchet, moved by the other hand, makes the limb still more useful. In cases of amputation at the shoulder-joint, apposition is effected by means of a leather cap covering the shoulder and side of the chest. For stumps below the elbow, a similar apparatus is applicable, of course without the joint. Such a contrivance as that above described is usually all that patients ask for, and I have known great use made of even a simple sheath and fixed hook: indeed, the large majority of men who lose an arm, do not employ any artificial substitute, finding that, with a little practice, one arm can reasonably do the work of two. For special cases, however, something more is required. The natural motions of the wrist can be imitated; a spring placed within the artificial thumb allows a pen to be held between that and the forefinger, and thus enables the patient to write; and finally an ingenious arrangement of levers, springs, or pulleys, concealed in the hand, permits the fingers to be moved as in the natural member. With M. Bechard’s artificial arm, two hands are furnished—one naked and one gloved—to replace each other according to the needs of the occasion. Among the most ingenious forms of artificial arm which have been devised, may he specially mentioned, besides that of Beehard, those of Van Petersen and Charriere, and, among less expensive appliances, that invented by M. de Beaufort, which has been further usefully modified by Mr. Heather Bigg. The power, in cases of amputation above the elbow, is derived from the opposite arm, through the medium of cords of catgut, but in Bigg’s apparatus for amputation below the elbow, is derived from the Fig. 154. Fig. 155 Artificial arm.