TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 151 counteract a tendency to renewed afflux, and thus to secure all the benefit it is capable of conferring. Leeches are not properly applied to the scrotum, nor to the front of the neck, nor to any part where pressure' may not he readily applied in the event of protracted oozing of blood after they have dropped ; nor is their applica- tion judicious, as a rule, in the inflammations of children, in view of their liability to subsequent hemorrhage, and of the fact that loss of blood is badly borne in early life. Incisions.—Incision in the treatment of inflammation is often a remedy of the first importance. It is required to meet two distinct indications: (1) as a means of relieving tension, and, with it, pain; and (2) for the purpose of evacuating pus, or allowing the escape of dead tissues. Tension of the tissues, however produced, directly tends to provoke inflam- mation, and also to increase its destructiveness—as where the opening of an acute abscess is delayed. The redness and heat of skin that often occur in swelled legs, in dropsy, form another example. Tension is, therefore, one of the causes of inflammation; and incision is the remedy required in most cases for its relief. It is not unfrequently indicated for this purpose, let it be noticed, even where pus is not suspected to exist; and it is employed simply as a pre- ventive of suppuration, and especially of ulceration. Superficial incisions have been advocated to relieve the tension of the skin in simple cutaneous erysipelas; hut in such a self-limiting disease they are rarely required to meet this indication, although sometimes necessary to give issue to pus which may form at points where the connective tissue is lax, as in the eyelids. When the presence of pus is suspected, hut not rendered certain by fluctu- ation, then deeper incision, with the double view of relieving tension and also of liberating pus, if present, is very often a judicious measure. When incision involves only the thickness of the skin, it is a very simple proceeding ; but when pus is to be sought for deeply, it becomes an operation of some delicacy, and the knife is to he supplemented by the director and finger, in exploration, in order to avoid possible danger to arteries and nerves. For the double purpose of relieving tension and evacuating pus, very long incisions have been advocated by high authority in phlegmonous erysipelas; but here, and under all similar circumstances where this remedy is indicated, a number of short incisions, according to the necessity of the case, are to be preferred. Long incisions are hut little more effective, and they require a much longer time for healing; they are, also, less easily manageable where it is desirable to avoid loss of blood. This may be a point of importance in phlegmonous erysipelas, in which depletion is illy borne. But by adopting the plan of making short incisions completely through the skin in rapid succession, and having an assistant ready to crowd a fragment of sponge or a wad of absorbent cotton into each instantly, and to make temporary pressure, loss of blood can be rendered very trivial. Where the integument is thick- ened, brawny, and intensely congested, there may he a free gush of blood from the distended surface vessels for the moment, hut it subsides at once as the parts contract. There is no one of the minor operations of surgery more immediately beneficial than this. In phlegmonous erysipelas, and in all the spreading and diffuse inflammations, incision is the remedy of paramount utility, because death of subcutaneous tissue occurs early—sometimes, indeed, as the initial lesion of the case—and, until an avenue of escape is provided for the sloughs, pus formation tends to advance progressively beneath the skin, where it is liable to be attended by indefinite destruction of tissue. When timely and sufficiently ample openings have been provided, the de- structive process is in most instances arrested at once. Incisions save the