281 HISTORY OF SCURVY. recognizes its more frequent occurrence during famines and sieges: “ est enim morbus castrensis, qui vexat inelusos et obsessos.” Two of the most important treatises were by contemporaries of Echfhius, both based upon actual observation of the disease as it occurred in Holland. One was written by Ronsseus,1 in 1564, and the other by Wierus,2 in 1567. The former fell into the error of attributing the disease to splenic disorder. He regarded its prevalence in Holland as due to the peculiar damp air of the country, the use of impure water, and the perpetual diet of sea-birds and salt meats. Allusion is also made to the fact that seamen on long voyages cured themselves of the disease by eating oranges. On the other hand, Wierus adopted the views of Echthius as to the nature of the disease, and rightly attributed its cause to dietetic errors, and recommended for its cure the expressed juices of antiscorbutic herbs, or fresh herbs boiled in cows’ or goats’ milk, or whey. He regarded the disease as peculiar to the inhabitants of the countries bordering on the North Sea, and had never seen it in Spain, France, or Italy, nor in Asia or Africa. The treatise of Wierus was the standard authority until the end of the sixteenth century. The publications that followed — the chief of which were those of Langius,3 Lommius, Dodomeus,4 Brucseus,5 Albertus,6 and Forestus7—added little if anything to the information therein contained, but at the same time they rendered service by disseminating the knowledge already gained of the disease in those coun- tries—Holland, Flanders, Brabant, etc.—where it was habitually present, and often epidemic. The most ample opportunities were furnished during the seventeenth century for the attainment of correct notions of the nature and causes of scurvy, by the frequent wars and sieges on land, and by the maritime adven- tures and naval operations afloat. Among the most memorable may be noted the recital of Van der Mye,8 of the suffering of the garrison of Breda during the siege by the Spaniards in 1624. The soldiers and the inhabitants of the town were generally affected, 1608 of the former having been attacked by the disease up to the fourth month of the siege, and the numbers increasing daily until the place surrendered in the following June, after an investment of eight months. The weather had been very wet, and the sufferers had been compelled to live on rye thirty years old, on cheese, and on dried fish. After the fall of the fortress, and the return of warm weather, the disease disappeared with the use of better food and a supply of vegetables. On the sea, the disease was rife everywhere. Sir R. Hawkins9 relates, in the account of his voyage to the South Sea in 1593, that, during his twenty years of service afloat, upwards of 10,000 mariners had died of scurvy under his own observation. And, in 1609, three of the four ships that left England to establish the East India Company, lost nearly a fourth of their men by the time that they arrived at the Cape of Good Hope ; while the fourth ship, the Commodore’s, escaped almost entirely, in consequence of the men having been served each with a daily allowance of lemon-juice. On other occasions, the mortality of the East India Company’s ships amounted to half1 of their effective force, and this devastation continued as late as 1775, when the hygienic reforms that had been introduced from time to time culminated in a better state of affairs, so that one ship made the entire voyage with the loss of but one man. 1 De magnis lienibns, etc. Antuerp. 1564. 3 Medicinal, epist. misc. 6 De scorbuto propositiones. Rostock, 1589. 7 Obs. et curat, medic. s Hakluyt Society’s Publication. 2 Observationes med. Basil. 1567. 4 Medic, observationes, etc. Lugd. 1585. 6 Scorbuti liistoria. Wittbg. 1594. 8 De morbis, etc., 1627.