TREATMENT OP ERYSIPELAS. 191 nor even in the same building, and the attendants in one should hold no com- munication with those of the other. V. During general or local epidemics of erysipelas, all cutting operations should be, if possible, avoided, it being remembered that the danger of the erysipelatous infection of wounds is in direct proportion to their extent. VI. For the reason just mentioned, it is held by some surgeons that subcu- taneous incisions should, under such circumstances, be preferred, and that the surface of recent wounds should be protected by a nitrate of silver film. 1 Treatment of Erysipelas. The most ancient treatment of erysipelas, as described by Hippocrates, consisted in the application of cold water, provided that no ulceration of the skin existed.1 According to Paul of rEgina,2 if the patient’s strength per- mit, blood-letting and cholagogue medicines should be employed, with the topical use of ointments overlaid with cooling lotions. This writer also re- commends emollient poultices made from various mucilaginous plants, with the addition of anodynes, and, at a later stage of the disease, cooling or astrin- gent applications, some of the former containing vinegar, and some of the latter saturnine solutions, potter’s clay, and various astringents, including copperas and alum. lie also refers to the necessity of incising the skin when mortification threatens (a recommendation made also by Galen and his suc- cessors), and speaks of the virtues of hot or salt water in chronic states of the affection. It is worthy of remark that he and nearly all medical authors from the most ancient times, dissuade from depletion in this disease, although some Arabian authors are exceptions to this statement. Another point upon which there is a general agreement, is the administration of certain purga- tives supposed to be cholagogue. Whether this practice rested on the fact, that epidemic erysipelas was apt to be attended with jaundice, or upon the authority of Galen, who enjoined it upon grounds that now seem quite futile, it is unnecessary to inquire. Beyond a doubt, the practice itself is good at the commencement of an attack, especially when it is associated with the use of emetics, which the ancients do not appear to have employed in this disease. Celsus3 gives the same qualified advice respecting venesection, and directs the use of cooling and astringent applications, especially ceruse and solanum (dulcamara ?), or chalk. He adds that whatever topical remedies are used, should be applied cold, and kept covered to prevent their getting dry. But he is by no means prejudiced in favor of this refrigerant method, for he enjoins, if its effects should not be favorable, that stimulants and astringents infused in wine should be substituted for it, and, if the part should still re- main indurated, that anodyne ointments and cataplasms should be applied. The history of erysipelas illustrates the general truth in therapeutics, that modes of treatment, and especially of acute febrile affections, should be de- termined by their type, rather than by their essential nature. In a large number of cases, it is so far local and superficial that its treatment may be confided to protectives and palliatives; in many more, an active antiphlo- gistic method will be tolerated, even if not really indicated ; but in a still more numerous class, and especially during epidemics, whether nosocomial or more widely spread, and whether idiopathic and primary or puerperal or traumatic, a general treatment at once stimulant, supporting, and tonic, is the only one from which favorable results can be expected. In this disease, as in 1 Works, Sydenham Society’s edition, vol. ii. p, 741. 8 Sydenham Society's edition, vol. ii. p. 06. 3 Lib. v. cap. xxvi. sect. 33.