369 PROGNOSIS OF SHOCK—REACTION. tion is carried through, higher up, only those parts of the hody are affected which are indebted for their innervation to the portion of cord above the original section—showing that it is only along nerve paths that the influence of shock can make itself felt; the lower limbs, in an experiment of this kind,1 severed from all nerve connection with the part of the cord that has sustained the most recent injury, manifest no diminution whatever of reflex excitability, none of the symptoms of shock, only a contraction of their blood- vessels, secondary to and consequent on the loss of pressure in the rest of the hody. More recently, Lewisson2 has established, by means of experiments, that in a frog it is quite possible to suspend the activity of the reflex centres by the irritation of sensory nerves; that if the irritation be sufficiently pow- erful, this inhibition may be extended to the voluntary movements ; and that finally, in a rabbit, by crushing the kidneys, uterus, bladder, or intestine, all control over the lower extremities may be abolished, the paralyzing influence continuing for some time after the cessation of the irritation, and lasting the longer in proportion to its violence. It is possible that these results, of such importance in this question, may be due to a condition of spinal anaemia; some experiments of Brown-Sequard,3 showing the contraction of the vessels in the pia mater of the cord, resulting from such an injury to the abdominal viscera as passing a ligature round the hilus of a kidney, would point in this direction; hut the result is not one which is material to the cause at issue, and the experiments are of such difficulty and have been repeated by subse- quent observers with such slight success, that Yulpian at least considers it more than doubtful if the conclusions are justified. It remains that, as a result of injury, either directly involving the__ nervous centres or indirectly influencing them by the effect produced on distant organs (especially those of the abdomen), there may be produced in animals a condition which, after due allowance has been made for the difference in cerebral organization, cannot be distinguished in many of its features from that known as shock; and which not only finds in physiology its nearest and best known parallel in the effect produced on the circulation by the irritation, direct or reflex, of certain nerves, but actually presents this effect as one of its best marked symptoms. In short, shock is an example of reflex paralysis in the strictest and narrowest sense of the term—a reflex inhibition, probably in the majority of cases gene- ral, affecting all the functions of the nervous system, and not limited to the heart and vessels only. Prognosis of Shock.—Reaction. Shock may be fatal within the space of a few seconds, as in the example given above, or, as frequently happens in severe and extensive injuries, the patient may sink gradually, after a longer or shorter time, without any at- tempt at recovery. Even if reaction does set in within a reasonable period, and the longer the delay the greater the danger, all fear from this cause must not be laid aside; sometimes, it is true, recovery is gradual and uninter- rupted ; more often its course is much less uniform, fluctuations more or less alarming often being present; and sometimes, when all seems progressing favorably, the heart fails suddenly as if its reserve of strength had become exhausted, and the patient dies in very much the same way as in secondary asphyxia. It is difficult to define the precise moment when reaction commences. 1 Goltz, Pfluger’s Archiv, 1875. Quoted by Fischer, loc. cit. 3 Archives Generates de Medecine, 5e serie, tome viii. 1856. vol. i.—24