SCURVY. 284 United States forces1 also suffered to some extent in the Florida and Mexican wars. Among the troops in Texas, between the years 1849 and 1854, of an aggregate force of 4450, 510 cases of scurvy occurred, of which three proved fatal. The disease was due to the frequent movements of the troops, and to the fact that the sandy and sterile nature of the soil in the vicinity of some of the posts offered insurmountable obstacles to the cultivation of gardens. The disease also prevailed at posts in the northwestern territory. Dr. Day remarks that during the winter of 1848-49, the disease appeared among the Indians. Their diet was poor and insufficient, but the scorbutic tendency among them was not nearly as great as among the whites; their powers of digestion and assimilation (when they have anything to digest and assimi- late) being certainly better than those of almost any other people. Dr. Coale2 reports the occurrence of scurvy in 1838, among the crew of the United States ship Columbus, in a cruise around the world. The ship left Norfolk, Virginia, in January, 1838, with a crew broken down in health, and, after leaving Rio, smallpox ran through the vessel. Off the Cape of Good Hope, a few weeks later, during a spell of cold weather in which the decks were almost continually kept wet, the first cases of scurvy appeared ; and others continued to appear until January, when the ship reached the East Indies, where dysentery first, and afterwards diarrhoea, were added to the miseries of the crew. Dr. Coale remarks that the most fatal cases occurred among the most vigorous men; there were three cases of nyctalopia. The provisions served out contained only the ordinary navy ration, defective in fresh vege- tables. Dr. Foltz3 gives the history of an outbreak of scurvy in the United States squadron cruising in the Gulf of Mexico, during the summer of 1846. On board the Potomac, with a crew of 500 souls, 350 were disabled, and symp- toms of the disease were present in most of those who remained on duty. The other ships suffered to a greater or less extent, particularly those that had been long in commission in the West Indies. The Mississippi, a steamer, made short passages at sea, and the crew, being enabled to procure fresh vege- tables, suffered only to a trifling extent. In the British Navy,4 between the years 1837 and 1843, there were 93 cases of scurvy returned from the East India squadron, 5 from the east coast of Africa, 13 from the West Indies, and for the other squadrons a still smaller number. Since that time the disease has had but a nominal existence. The allied armies of England,6 France, Sardinia and Turkey, during the Crimean war of 1854—56, underwent hardship and suffering of the most aggravated description, from vicissitudes of weather, physical fatigue, and deprivation of wholesome food and vegetables. The result was that in the British army there were reported during the whole period, 2096 cases of frankly expressed scurvy, while the taint was widespread, complicating other diseases, such as diarrhoea, dysentery, and malarial fevers, and greatly exagge- rating their mortality, especially during the first six months of the siege. Of the total number, 178, or 8.4 percent., died, the mortality having been almost entirely confined to the winter and spring of 1854-5. The disease began in October, 1854, gradually increasing during the following year, 1855, and in February reached its height, viz., 641 admissions. From this time it gradu- ally subsided, so that by August the admissions were only three. In Septem- ber of the same year it again increased, until January, 1856, when it reached its maximum, and then again it rapidly declined. The increased and ! Statistical Report of the U. S. Army, 1839-54, p. 369. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, N. S., vol. iii. p. 68. 3 Ibid., p. 59. 4 Statistical Report of the Health of the Navy. 5 Medical and Surgical History of the British Army, 1854-56.