LOCAL ANESTHESIA. 447 The occurrence of stertorous breathing indicates that the administration ot the chloroform should cease. The exhibition of chloroform is often followed by effects of an annoying character. Thus gastric irritability, accompanied by nausea and vomiting, may supervene; this does not happen as often as after the inhalation of ether, but, when it does occur, it is apt to he severe and depressing. Slight congestion of the lungs is also met with, as in the ease of ether administra- tion, hut it is not so common, nor, as a rule, so irritating. Cephalic troubles also occasionally take place. The evil effects of chloroform are, however, not to be found so much in its secondary consequences, as in the liability to death at the time of administration, or during or after an operation. When death thus occurs, it is usually immediate, and cannot be prevented; and it may he charged either to asphyxia, to coma, or to syncope. It has taken place not unfrequently in those who seemed to he the most healthy, and after the performance of the slightest operations and surgical procedures, such as the amputation of a finger or the passage of a catheter. It is impossible from any previous examination to predicate with certainty the chances of danger, and it would seem also equally difficult to treat them when once fairly developed. As we have already said, in all anaesthesia there is some danger, and in the anaesthesia from chloroform the chances of danger are greater than those attendant upon the use of its rival—ether. Should it unfortunately happen, during the administration of chloroform, that any of the dangers referred to are present or threatening, the most active measures must be adopted to check them or ward them off. The chloroform should be immediately withdrawn; fresh air admitted; cold water dashed upon the face; the tongue, if retracted, drawn forward ; and prompt efforts at artificial respiration instituted. If the etfect of the drug fall chiefly on the heart, as evinced by the state of syncope, its action should be stimulated by electro-galvanism, the poles of the apparatus being applied on the chest and diaphragm and over the spine. Mr. Erichsen, in his valuable remarks on this subject, speaks of the use of nitrite of amyl, referring to the experiments of Dabney. From what I have seen of the effect of this drug as an antidote to an overdose of bromide of ethyl, an agent which is certainly as sudden and fearful in its action as chloroform, and probably much more so, it would seem that the nitrite of amyl exercised a most powerful influence in raising the patient from a condition of syncope or asphyxia, and in establishing reaction. The quantity employed in the cases referred to was twenty or twenty-five drops, and its action was immediate. Local Anesthesia, the result of extreme cold produced by different methods, may sometimes be advantageously employed in slight operations, such as the opening of abscesses or the removal of a toe-nail. It is, however, not applicable to operations in which deep tissues are divided, but is limited to skin-deep incisions only. It can be conveniently brought about by the appli- cation of a piece of ice on which a little common salt has been sprinkled, covered by a single layer of a towel, and kept steadily upon the part for three minutes. It can also be obtained more perfectly by the spray of pure ether, or by that of rhigolene. The latter will freeze the tissues to some depth, but perfect congelation, at times, renders it difficult to distinguish, during operation, abnormal from healthy tissues. This excessive freezing is also sometimes followed by too great a reaction, and by sloughing. For these minor operations, when merely a temporary and, as it were, local insensi- bility is desired, the transitory effects of the inhalation of ether already described may be preferably substituted.