661 AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. edge of the tibia; the tissues being then drawn to the fibular side of the limb, the longitudinal incision gapes sufficiently to allow a slender catlin to be introduced close to the outer edge of the tibia, made to graze the fibula, and to be brought out posteriorly, transfixing the limb on the outer side of both bones. The knife is then carried downwards close to the bones, with a sawing motion, and then made to cut its way outwards, forming a broad, rounded flap. (Fig. 191.) The tissues 0T1 the inner side of the limb are next divided by an incision somewhat convex anteriorly, and the bones then cleared by a circular sweep of the knife. The interosseous membrane being divided, all the tissues are pushed upwards with the hand or the handle of the knife, so as to expose the bone about an inch higher up before the application of the saw. It is usually recommended that, in sawing the bones in any leg amputation, the instrument should be held vertically, and both bones cut through on the same level; but I am disposed to prefer the plan advised by Roux and Mal- gaigne, to wit, a separate division of the bones, and the removal of half an inch more from the fibula than from the tibia. Mr. Syme and other writers have directed that the sharp, anterior edge of the tibia should be removed by an oblique section either with saw or cutting pliers, to prevent its perforating the skin on the anterior face of the stump; but this precaution is hardly necessary if the flaps be sufficiently ample to prevent undue tension, while the oblique section of the bone rather increases, I think, the risk of necrosis and subsequent exfoliation. A better suggestion, in my judgment, is that of Ollier, of Lyons, who preserves a short flap of periosteum which is allowed to fall over the sawn end of the bone. Besides the anterior and posterior tibial and peroneal arteries, there are usually two or three muscular and cutaneous branches which require ligation, and, in cases of secondary amputation, sometimes a great many more. Diffi- culty is sometimes met with in securing the anterior tibial artery, on ac- count of its retracting above the point at which the interosseous membrane has been divided; under these circumstances the patient may be simply turned over on his face, when the weight of the stump will bring the knee into an extended position, thus straightening the vessel and making it more accessible. In applying the tourniquet for a leg amputation, the pad should be placed on either the femoral or the popliteal artery; if on the latter, a some-