554 AMPUTATIONS. with a Sawe of sliarpe teeth. Which done, ye must cauterise the cutte place, unto the whole parte, and afterwarde ye must cauterise the hone, and then cure the Wounde as other burned Woundes be cured. And because that some command to attoine [anoint?] the member before incision, by application of a medicine wherein Opium entereth, or by the smelling of a Spunge wherein Opium is, that the whole bodie may bee brought a sleepe. Yee shall understand (the reverence saved) they enterprise a daungerous businesse, for this disease sometimes chaunceth of a medicine made with Opium, as writers affirme. Neverthelesse the member may be bound afore incision, in the upper part, because of y® course of y® bloud.”1 Although, as has been seen, Celsus clearly indicated the importance of dividing the bone at a higher level than the soft parts, his teaching in this respect was soon forgotten, and we find, until comparatively recent times, surgeons of authority recommending that the whole limb should be severed at one stroke. Thus Leonard Eotal, of Asti in Piedmont, a military surgeon of the sixteenth century, devised an instrument like powerful shears,2 by which an amputation could be effected by a single blow—an instrument de- nounced by J ules Cloquet3 as more worthy to have been invented by a butcher than by a surgeon—and Purmannus, of Brandenburg and afterwards of Bres- lau, writing more than a hundred years later, speaks of having seen amputa- tion performed in a similar manner. Indeed in the works of Scultetus,4 and even of Ileister5 (whose volumes formed the most popular surgical text-book of the last century), may he found illustrations of the severing of parts of the hand or foot with powerful forceps or with chisel and mallet. (Pigs. 99,100.) Fig. 99. Amputation of a foot with cutting forceps. (After Scultetus.) The use of the ligature, in amputations,6 was first clearly taught by the illustrious Ambroise Pare (A. D. 1509-1590), in the middle of the sixteenth 1 The whole worke of that famous chirurgion Maister John Vigo : Newly corrected, by men skilfull in that Arte. The fourth booke of Ulcers, Chap. 7. At London. Printed by Thomas East, 1586, fol. 252. 2 Dionis, Cours cooperations de chirurgie, p. V56. Paris, 1740. 3 Dictionnaire de medecine, edit. 1821, tome ii. p. 240. 4 Armamentarium chirurgicum. Tab. xxvii. xxviii. pag. 64, u8. Amst. 166... 5 Institut. chirurgicse, P. ii. sect. i. cap. xxxiii. (tab. xii. fig. 17). Amst. 1739, t. i. pag. 491. 6 The use of the ligature for vessels wounded in their continuity had been familiar to surgical writers from the time of Celsus, and was particularly referred to by Lanfranc, an Italian surgeon who removed to Paris A. D. 1295 (Ars completa totius chirurgi*. Iract. i. doct. iii. cap. ix.), bv Gui de Chauliac (Chirurgia. Tract, iii. doct. i. cap. iii.) and his follower and commentator Jean Tagault (Institut. cliirurg. lib. ii. cap. xii.), by Vigo (Op. cit. fol. 135), and by Marianus ganctus (Compend Chirurgise. Tract, de ulceribus. De Chirurgia Soriptores, etc. [ed. Conrad Gesner], Tiguri, 1555, fol. 161).