418 ANESTHETICS AND ANESTHESIA. tion of nitrous oxide and of ether. The defective apparatus employed at that time was doubtless one of the causes which led to the disuse of Dr. Wells’s discovery. It was nearly twenty years after the experiments of the Hartford dentist, before nitrous oxide was dually established as the dental anaesthetic. During the interval, ether had been introduced into the operations of den- tistry by Dr. Morton, but its place was soon taken by chloroform. The great mortality consequent upon the use of this agreeable substance, produced a reaction of feeling against its use, but it was only after Colton had shown the superior safety of laughing-gas that chloroform was finally abandoned by the dental profession. The brevity of the period of insensibility produced by nitrous oxide, especially commends its employment for all operations as short as the extraction of a tooth. For the major operations of dentistry, ether is generally preferred. Local Anesthesia. Numerous attempts have been made to escape from the dangers of general anaesthesia, by the substitution of local anaesthetic and refrigerant applica- tions, for inhalation of generally stupefying vapors. The well-known effects of cold were thus utilized by James Arnott. Freezing mixtures of ice and salt (two parts of pounded ice and one of salt), applied to the surface of the body, soon produce congelation of the part. The skin turns white and tal- lowy, and the part becomes completely insensible. It is necessary to apply the mixture in a gauze bag, to permit the free escape of the resulting liquid. Unfortunately, the great difficulty of limiting the extent of refrigeration must always serve to restrict the usefulness of this method. If it be desired to produce insensibility extending to the deeper parts of a limb, it will be difficult to dispense with a degree and a duration of cold which must en- danger the vitality of the superficial tissues. Arnott’s method, therefore, has found comparatively little favor, and local anaesthesia was not generally em- ployed until B. AY. Richardson (in 1866) introduced to English surgeons the method of producing local anaesthesia by the concentration of an ethereal spray upon the part to be deprived of sensibility. This operation is easily performed with an ordinary hand-ball atomizing apparatus. The rapid evaporation of ether thus pulverized, produces refrigeration of the tissues with which it is brought in contact, by abstraction of the heat which they contain. For this reason the more volatile ethers are to be preferred. Richardson employed a mixture of anhydrous ether, sp. gr. 0.720, and amylic hydride. Henry J. Bigelow, of Boston, recommended the use of rhigolene, one of* the products resulting from the distillation of petroleum. Its specific gravity is only 0.625, and the liquid will boil in the palm of the hand. Com- plete congelation of the tissues renders it difficult to operate upon them in the usual way. Richardson finds it necessary to discard the knife, and to supply its place with curved scissors. It is not easy to discover the severed bloodvessels in a mass of frozen flesh, and their ligation after the parts have thawed is always painful. For all the graver operations of surgery, general anaesthesia must therefore be preferred. Carbonic acid gas has been used from time immemorial as a local anodyne. The stone of Memphis, and the familiar yeast poultice, owe their virtues to the local anaesthetic effect of this gas. The good effects of aerated waters, etfervescent wines, kumyss, and fermenting paste, in irritable conditions of the gastric mucous membrane, are in great measure due to the carbonic acid which they contain. For a brief period the pains of uterine cancer have been alleviated by injection <©f water charged with this gas.