3 ANiEMIA AND ISCELEMIA. nearest large venous trunk. Only under these circumstances can the blood flow more rapidly through the part, and cause an elevation of its temperature. Passive Hyper.emia.—The condition of Passive Hyperaemia is, in the skin, characterized by a diffuse, venous coloration, and by a temperature which is relatively low. The diffuse coloration here, too, points to a dilatation of the capillaries, hut the low temperature makes us presume that the blood-current in the capillaries is retarded. In the same way, too, we can explain the venous color. When the blood flows more quickly than usual through the capillaries, it is not so deeply venous as it ordinarily is when it reaches the veins, or, in other words, it is of a brighter red. When it flows more slowly than usual, it is, on the other hand, more intensely venous. It is thus quite consonant with what has been said that an actively hypersemic skin should be colored bright red, and that a passively hypersemic skin should be, on the contrary, of a venous color; and it is therefore proper to designate an active hypememia as a fluxion, and a passive hyperaemia as a stagnation. If a hyperaemia of stagnation is to be produced, the blood must meet with a hindrance in its course. Furthermore, if the direction of the blood-current is a normal one, this hindrance must be located on the side of the vein. For an obstruction in the arteries would prevent the filling of the capillaries, and an obstruction in the capillaries themselves would likewise diminish their contents; in either case Ischaemia and not Hyperaemia would be the result. The obstruction can produce an overfilling only when it is located on the venous side of the circulation; for under such circumstances only can the capillaries become filled and overfilled with blood streaming in from the arteries. There is, however, one exception to this general rule, viz., in the case of the reflux from the veins. To avoid repetition, this exception will be considered on a subsequent page (p. 20). Anemia and Ischemia. The word Anaemia is ordinarily employed in contradistinction to Plethora. Anaemia accordingly means an abnormal diminution in the amount of the blood. But this definition is not to be accepted literally. We call a person anaemic when his face, his lips, his gums appear pale; but the paleness is not necessarily due to a diminution in the total amount of blood. The individual may have the normal amount, or even an abnormally large amount, of blood, and still look pale, because of the number of red blood-corpuscles being decreased, and of their being replaced by something else. In leucocythcemia, for example, we have a marked decrease of red blood-corpuscles and an increase of white ones. The blood of a person suffering from leueocythaemia is not in fact of so deep a red as normal blood, but not so much because it has too many white corpuscles as because it contains too few red ones. The blood would be just as pale even if the white globules were replaced by any other colorless mass, such, for example, as blood plasma. The pale look of a person who has the normal number of red blood-corpuscles may, moreover, be due to a deficiency in the amount of their red coloring matter, each red blood- corpuscle, under such circumstances, appearing less intensely colored than is normally the case.1 In regard to the condition itself, however, it is of subordinate importance to know which of the aforesaid causes lies at the bottom of the paleness, since under any circumstances it depends mainly on the deficiency of red coloring ‘ Duncan, Wiener Sitzungsberichte, 1867.