INFLAMMATION. 84 to be attained. Heretofore, the inflammatory changes provoked by the ex- citing causes which have been under consideration, have had an unmistakable purpose, namely, of healing a breach of continuity, or of getting rid of a foreign body; and when this purpose was attained, the abnormally axcited nutritive action subsided. But in the examples of inflammation provoked by poisonous contact or influence, there has been no such object discernible— either reparative or eliminative—as far as we have evidence. The honey bee, we are told by Huber, often leaves bis serrated weapon in the little wound through which the poison has been injected in the act of stinging; and here a foreign body is to be got rid of; but there is no such cause for eliminative inflammation apparent in the “mosquito bite.” We may adopt the additional conclusion, therefore, that a poison, as an excitor of inflammation, possesses a novel injurious quality as regards the tissues—something superadded to the cutting, crushing, or burning of tbe mechanical and chemical lesions—the essential nature of which eludes our grasp. We are compelled to characterize this noxious quality by its effects upon the nerves and bloodvessels of a part, and we therefore speak of the part as poisoned. The poisoned condition is a local manifestation of the same nature as the more general influence upon the nervous centres already attributed to this class of injurious agents. Prof. Agnew gives an example of this poisonous influence in a case in which it followed a wound inflicted by a centipede, a poisonous myriapod common in warmer regions, “sometimes brought to Eastern cities concealed in hogsheads of sugar. I have seen,” says he, “a stevedore suffer for weeks from violent local and constitutional symptoms in consequence of a sting received on the hand while handling one of these hogs- heads on the wharf. The fingers remained purple, and the hand and arm weak, for a long time. His general health was seriously impaired by the in- jury ; and when I last saw him he looked like a man who had passed through a tedious and wasting spell of sickness.”1 Within the experience of the writer, a naval officer stung by one of these insects on the hip, was subject for a num- ber of years to an annual eruption of angry papules at the seat of the poisoned wound. The influence of the poisoned condition upon the grade of inflammation developed in tissues thus affected should not be overlooked. For the nerves and capillaries of parts thus degraded in the quality of their vitality, as we have already shown in the examples of delayed healing after vaccination, and the sloughing of certain venereal ulcers, do not respond in a healthy manner to the stimulus to repair. Such poisoned tissues manifest a distinct tendency to suppuration, and to molecular disintegration. Effects upon the living tissues somewhat similar, but far more serious in degree, are produced by the venom of the poisonous serpents. The more active of these poisons, when introduced into the circulation, cause death quite promptly by tbe direct action of the venom upon the nervous centres and the heart. Singularly enough, the full noxious influence of serpent venom, as the researches of Weir Mitchell have shown, is transitory. Like the effects of the woorara, it tends to decline, and, after a certain interval, to disappear.2 In the cases in which its immediate mortal effect has been escaped, the local influence of serpent poison upon the tissues is that of an inflammation-pro- ducing agent of great power. The local symptoms following the bite of a rattlesnake are intense pain, with rapid swelling attended by surface discolo- ration and mottling. Incisions of the affected part give issue to serum, colored 1 Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. i. p. 227. Philadelphia, 1878. 2 Researches upon the Venom of the Rattlesnake; with an investigation of the Anatomy and Physiology of the organs concerned. Published by the Smithsonian Institution. Washington, 18t>0.