510 MINOR SURGERY. being exposed to the surrounding media. Panum, of Copenhagen, and other observers, have, however, demonstrated by experiment that blood exposed to the air for a brief period, and deprived of fibrine, is not thereby rendered unlit for introduction into the bloodvessels. Direct Transfusion.—The means most commonly employed in direct transfusion are the Aveling syringe and Roussel’s apparatus. The Aveling syringe is simply an India-rubber tube, about 50 centimetres (19 J inches) long, with a small bulb in the centre, and having metallic extremities provided with stopcocks ; for connecting the tube with the bloodvessels, there are two bevel-pointed metallic canulse. A small, sharp-pointed bistoury and a deli- cate pair of forceps are used for exposing and opening the vein. In using the Aveling syringe, it is filled with tepid water, or a weak saline solution, for the purpose of displacing the air; this is done by placing the rubber tube, the stopcocks being open, in a shallow basin containing the liquid. The person supplying the blood, sometimes called the blood-clonor, is brought to the bedside of the patient and directed to place the arm from which the blood is to be drawn, nearly parallel with the patient’s arm. The operator now proceeds to open the most prominent vein in the bend of the patient’s elbow, and to insert into it one of the canuhe filled with water, with the point directed towards the body, while an expert assistant, at the same time, introduces the other canula, also filled with water, into the donor’s vein; in the latter the point of the canula should be directed towards the Fig. 82. hand. As the canulfe are held steadily in position by assistants, they are quickly connected by the tube, the stopcocks of which are closed before it is taken out of the basin, to prevent the escape of the water which displaced the air. Row on opening the stopcocks, a direct vascular communication is established between the patient and the donor. (Fig. 82.) The introduction of the contents of the bulb into the patient’s vein is effected by the operator slowly compressing the bulb with one hand, while he keeps the tube closed on the donor’s side with the finger and the thumb of the other hand. Then by releasing the tube on the donor’s side of the bulb, and closing it on the patient’s side, blood will flow from the donor’s vein into the bulb as it js slowly permitted to expand. Communication on the donor’s side is again closed, and opened on the patient’s side, when, as the bulb is compressed a second time, its contents are driven into the patient’s vein. By this alternate