vol. i.—5 (65) INFLAMMATION. BY WILLIAM II. TAN BUREN, M.D., LL.D., PROFESSOR OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY IN THE BELLEVUE HOSPITAL MEDICAL COLLEGE, NEW YORK. General Considerations regarding Inflammation. Definitions. The pathology of inflammation, as interpreted by the methods of the his- tologist, having been fully set forth in the preceding article, it remains to describe this complex but important condition, so constantly under the eye of the surgeon, from the standpoint of clinical observation. The definitions of inflammation furnished by the latest teachings of science, although their correctness is not disputed, do not convey the full significance of the term as employed in the ordinary language of the surgery of the day. In this, supreme importance is ascribed to the objective symptoms of pain, heat, redness, and swelling, as originally enumerated by the Roman surgeon Celsus in his definition of inflammation which has become classical; and the idea of fiery excitement which suggested the early use of the Greek adjective “ phlogistic,” and its Latin synonym “ inflammatory,” are always present in the mind. Thus, if a wound is described as “ inflamed,” the idea intended to be conveyed is that some of the cardinal symptoms just mentioned are present, whereas simple primary union may take place, or even granulations and suppuration may go on, without either pain, heat, redness, or swelling in a noticeable degree; and yet primary adhesion, granulation, and suppuration are certainly legitimate features of the inflammatory process as we now com- prehend it. The definitions heretofore proposed are more or less imperfect, in consequence of the obscurity which belongs to the subject. Those entitled to most respect simply describe inflammation as the aggregate of the pheno- mena which are set in action by any lesion of the organism affecting its tissues locally, provided, of course, that the tissues involved have not been killed outright. It is obvious that the phenomena which attend the kindly healing of a simple incised wound are not fully recognized, in the popular sense of the word, as belonging to the same “series of changes” which culmi- nate in the more violent manifestations of inflammation and result in sup- puration, ulceration, and possibly gangrene. These latter are regarded as belonging to true inflammation. To reconcile this absence of conformity, which is readily explained by a glance at the recent advances in the science of surgery, Sir James Paget has employed the phrase “ process of repair” to designate the milder phenomena of inflammation as they occur in healthy, healing wounds; and more re- cently Samuels has described the reparative process of Paget as the “ con- structive” phase of inflammation, reserving for suppuration, ulceration, and gangrene the term “ destructive.” These expressions, which indicate truly the results of the process, recognize fully an identity of nature.