PLASTIC SURGERY. 544 this, a few months ago, at the Hotel Dieu, in Paris. Besides which I note the rarity of pigment in cicatricial epidermis.” M. Coste finds it necessary to preface his remarks with the observation that “ in spite of the identity of terms, the animal graft bears no resemblance, either in its course or in its definitive evolution, to the vegetable graft; a radical difference separates the two. What,”asks the professor, “ is a vegetable graft? It is an individual, or a part of an individual, transplanted upon another individual, which in some way serves as a soil for it. In this soil it lives as a parasite, the trans- ported individual develops and lives a life which is its own, meanwhile preserving its autonomy, its individuality. It is quite different, in the double point of view of theory and practice, with regard to the animal graft. This, borrowed from the individual himself or from another, has essentially for its object the filling up of a loss of substance. The borrowed part and that to which it is united, after reciprocal modifications and influences, coalesce, the one with the other ; they end by becoming confounded, by being identical, by living a common life. There is, therefore, no analogy between the animal graft and the vegetable graft; these two grafts resemble each other in name only.” We will not follow Coste further, but merely state that he reviews the experiments of Bert, especially the “ greffe Siamoise” of that observer, the “rat sur rat” which tests his own views upon the same subject. Again, in 1872, M. Reverdin insisted upon the manner of adherence of the grafts, and of their effect on granulating surfaces—for lie laid his grafts upon the surface—and declared1 that he saw grafts from the negro, or black cat, lose color and become alto- gether white. And in a note upon epidermic grafting, presented by M. Claude Ber- nard to the Academy of Sciences, at the meeting of November 27, of the same year, Reverdin says: “There results from this histological examination (1) that the adher- ence of the graft is effected, in the first place by the epidermis, and only secondarily by the dermis; (2) that the epidermis acts by action of contact (catabiotic action, Gubler), in determining the transformation of embryonal elements into epidermis.” In the same volume, page 326, may be found a note of M. Ollier, presented by M. Claude Bernard at the meeting of March 18, containing the following, bearing upon the sub- ject before us, namely, the aim and action of the transplanted or transported germs: “As for myself, in transporting large cutaneous morsels I seek to reduce, as much as possible, the natural epidermizution of the granulations. My aim is to chhnge, upon a more or less extensive surface of the wound, the process of repair. I replace the epi- thelial layer of new formation with a cutaneous, fleshy, thick layer, stable in its funda- mental elements, and destined to fill the role of a true skin. It is, therefore, an auto- plasty which I perform.” While not attempting a complete history of skin grafting, I have never- theless followed the idea from mind to mind, and developed, although not at great length, the opinions entertained by the originator himself, as well as by those of his countrymen who stood, so to speak, around him, concerning the part performed by the germs transported and transplanted. The preponder- ance of testimony seems to weigh in favor of the view that the epithelial germs grow in or upon their new soil, but that a more remarkable phe- nomenon, to be observed after the transfer, is to be found in the influence which they exert in determining by their presence and contact the trans- formation of the embryonal cells of the granulations into epidermic cells. And this power does not appear to he limited to the immediate neighborhood of the grafts, hut seems to be communicated to the sluggish borders ot the wound or ulcer. Reverdin presented his first case and announced his discovery on the 8th of December, 1869. In England, the value of “ epithelial grafting” was at once appreciated, and as early as May, 1870, Mr. G. D. Pollock, of London, had put Reverdin’s method in practice, and had tested it in four cases, which, with a number of others, were made the subject of a paper entitled “ Cases of Skin grafting and Skin Transplantation,” read on November 11, 1870, and 1 Bulletin de Tlierapeutique, t. lxxxiii. p. 71, 1872.