MORTALITY AND CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER AMPUTATIONS. 611 most every inventor of a new method of operating, or new mode of dressing, from the days of Benjamin Bell1 to our own, has adduced figures to prove that his plan is better than that of his predecessors. But the circumstances of cases are so different, that the statistics thus furnished have, so far, been of very little value. If it could be shown that by any special form of opera- tion—as, for instance, Teale’s—or under any special mode of dressing—as, for instance, Lister’s or Guerin’s—a large number, say a hundred, con- secutive cases of (1) primary amputation, (2) in the lower third of the thigh, (3) for compound fracture by railway injury, (4) in healthy young men between 20 and 25 years of age, (5) operated on in any particular hospital, and (6) with a certain, definite degree of care exercised in the constitutional and hygienic after-treatment, furnished decidedly better results than the same number of consecutive cases of precisely the same character, and under pre- cisely the same circumstances, except as regards the form of operation or mode of dressing ; such a demonstration would afford a powerful argument in favor of the particular plan recommended. But such a demonstration has not been as yet furnished, nor, indeed, as far as I know, even attempted, by the advocates of any of the methods which have been referred to; and a mo- ment’s reflection will show how useless it must be to compare tables of cases which are really not comparable, either in regard to the age and general con- dition of the patients, the nature of the lesions requiring operation, the hy- gienic surroundings, the care given to after-treatment, or other particulars. Nor can the practice of one surgeon, taken as a whole, be fairly compared with that of another; for they may operate under very different circum- stances: one in a richly endowed and well-ordered hospital, the other in a par- simoniously conducted almshouse; one chiefly upon children, the other almost exclusively upon adults; one principally in cases of chronic joint-disease, the other in cases of very severe and complicated injuries. Again, one surgeon advises and practises the operation of joint-excision, and only amputates in the worst cases, while his colleague amputates in all cases, and of course has better statistics. While, however, I would deprecate any attempt to decide the question of the best mode of operating, or of dressing stumps, by any figures now avail- able for the purpose, I am far from undervaluing the importance of statistical investigation, in which indeed I have myself done a good deal of work. Certain points in reference to the results of amputations can only be (and, I think I may say, have been) established by statistical inquiry, such as the comparative risks of primary and secondary operation, of operations for injury as compared with those for disease, etc. But before giving the figures which I have collected in reference to these questions, I beg to submit the accompanying Table, containing the record of the first one hundred con- secutive, single, major amputations which I have performed, ipsis manibus, during the last nineteen years, taken from my note books. My experience in double amputations has already been given (page 592). I have, besides, done seventeen partial amputations of the hand or foot, all of which have ended in recovery; this is exclusive of finger and toe amputations, of which I have kept no record. 1 Benjamin Bell, after deploring tlie large mortality which had before his time attended ampu- tation, declared : “ In the present improved state of the operation,” that is, with the triple inci- sion, of which lie considered himself the inventor, “I do not imagine that one death will happen in twenty cases ; even including the general run of hospital practice : and in private practice, where due attention can be more certainly bestowed upon the various circumstances of the ope- ration, the proportion of deaths will be much less.” (System of Surgery, Seventh edition, vol. vii. p. 254. Edinburgh, 1801.) It is hardly necessary to add that these glowing anticipations have not as yet been realized.