SYMPTOMS OF ERYSIPELAS. 179 In surgical erysipelas, the local inflammation ordinarily and evidently begins at a wound, which always becomes dry, and of a dull color; but when the disease prevails in a hospital, some other part, and especially the face, may be the first to sutler. The general appearance of the eruption has already been described, but it may here be added that wherever it occurs, except upon the scalp, there may also be present true vesicles, phlyctenre, or blebs, which are tilled with a thin and milky serum in cases of moderate severity, but with a bloody or dark liquid in the typhoid form of the disease. This liquid sometimes escapes,and concretes into thin and dark brown crusts. In other cases, and probably from its excessive tension, the skin loses its vitality to a greater or less depth, and sloughs form, which may or may not involve the whole thickness of the integument. The blebs and tire sloughs, in a greater degree, are apt to occur where the skin is delicate, as about the genital organs, and quite frequently on the eyelids. Blebs are not very uncommon upon the cheeks and even on the extremities. Such cases are not to be confounded with those of phlegmonous erysipelas, in which form there is less activity of the disease in the skin itself than underneath it. Nor are the limited abscesses which sometimes form beneath the skin, although tending to augment the fever, to be considered as constituting phlegmonous erysipelas. Meanwhile the general symptoms become severe in the same proportion as the local phenomena. The temperature may reach or even exceed 105° F., by the third day; the pulse ranges from 100 to 120, and is only moderately full and strong, while the impulse of the heart and its first sound are rela- tively feeble; the patient suffers from headache, general distress, restlessness and sleeplessness, and is apt to be delirious, especially at night, and to be somnolent at other times. Irregular chills are experienced from time to time; the tongue is thickly coated; and, at the height of the attack, nausea, vomiting, and constipation, or diarrhoea, are not uncommon. At this period erysipelas manifests, even in cases of average severity, a tendency to assume the typhoid type, with a dry and brown tongue, tremulous movements, muttering delirium, and imperfect consciousness, while a small proportion of albumen may be detected in the urine. This tendency renders more intelligible the epidemic forms of the disease, in which from the beginning the same type prevails, clearly denoting the existence in the blood of a poison which primarily occasions the specific phenomena of erysipelas, and second- arily those which are everywhere characteristic of the typhoid state. The temperature has more than once been alluded to, but demands a more particular description. The rise to 104° F. may take place within a few hours after the initial chill. Most frequently this temperature continues with but slight morning remissions as long as the inflammation continues to extend, or the evening exacerbation may be attended with a temperature of 105.8°-106.7° F., or, though rarely, 107.6° F., while the morning remission falls a little below 104° F., and occasionally below 102.2° F. The maximum temperature is not usually reached at the end of the fever, but one or two days earlier. Defervescence then follows, and generally, in the course of twelve hours, or in a single night, the temperature falls to the normal point, or very nearly so. Sometimes, however, this rapid subsidence does not occur, espe- cially when the temperature has previously been very high, but one more exacerbation takes place in the evening, and the normal degree is not reached until the following night. Not unusually the defervescence is less rapid, and exhibits something of a remittent type, as in typhoid fever. This is most apt to occur when the inflammation of the skin subsides slowly, or still continues, but with diminished activity, to extend. Not infrequently, after an interval of from one to six days, and whether or not it has meanwhile become normal,