308 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. recently that, those suffering from them have been called cardiac, hepatic, nephritic subjects, etc. Old age, as a permanent general condition character- ized by various degenerations of the viscera (steatosis, sclerosis), pregnancy, the puerperal state, and acute anaemia, being temporary extra-physiological con- ditions, may enter into this category. On the Reciprocal Influence of Constitutional Conditions and Injuries. Pre-existing or propathic general conditions may exercise an influence upon injuries in various ways:— _ Primarily, by favoring the development of certain complications which are situated at the site of injury, or start from it; inflammation, circumscribed or diffuse ; lymphangeitis ; erysipelas ; hemorrhage; neuralgia; alteration of the granular membrane, etc. Secondarily, by modifying, arresting, and disturbing the reparative pro- cess ; by destroying what has already been accomplished (ulceration of cica- trices, softening.of callus); by replacing an affection of a determinate and calculable duration, the trauma, by another affection the length of which we are unable to foresee. Finally, by fixing themselves upon the point already wounded and become the place of least resistance (locus minoris resistentice), in order to develop there a more or less obstinate diathetic manifestation. On the other hand, traumatism may exercise an evident action upon pre- existing constitutional states ; it may call them to the wounded spot, awaken or reawaken them, make them pass from a latent to an active condition, and cause their manifestations to appear at the site of injury itself, or in distant regions, if not throughout the entire economy. It usually hastens the course of the diathesis, and more especially aggravates the lesions which that has already produced, and which may have been more or less stationary before the injury. But this is not true of all cases. The constitutional affection and the in- jury may at first run parallel to each other, without influencing each other in the least; the subject of the diathesis supports the shock as if he were per- fectly healthy, while the wound on the other hand runs a regular and classical course. These fortunate cases are not very rare; we are beginning to be able to foresee them, and we shall undoubtedly soon succeed in increasing their proportion. In the second place, the influence of the trauma upon the con- stitutional disease is not always unfavorable, but, rather the contrary ; for the local affection may perhaps be the cause as well as the effect of the general malady, in which event, its suppression exercises the most prompt and deci- sive action upon the re-establishment of health. It is in this way, for example, that our operations act so effectually against chronic septicaemias. Finally, even when the simple or reciprocal influence of the injury upon the primary disease is exercised in an unfavorable manner, the resulting morbid actions are not always very disastrous. On the other hand, diatheses only have a limited pathogenic influence; accidental causes, including injury, can only make them produce a certain number of determinate local manifestations, which cannot differ, and in reality do not essentially differ, whether they have been produced by main force, and as it were unseasonably, or whether they have been developed spontaneously in consequence of the natural evolution of the malady. From a clinical point of view, constitutional diseases present numberless differences: they are active or latent; of recent date or of long standing; of slow or of rapid course; with a constant tendency towards aggravation or