AMPUTATIONS. 560 occasionally find described in journals, of large portions, bands or arms, being thus re-connected with the body, I must confess to entire incredulity. Compound . Fractures and Luxations very frequently necessitate removal of the injured part. Most of the primary amputations performed in our large city hospitals are in cases of compound fracture, and though limbs are undoubtedly saved now which in past times would have been sacrificed, yet with the increase of railway travelling and the more general employment of heavy machinery in manufactures, the number of accidents of this nature has been so augmented that amputation for injury becomes, year by year, a more frequent operation in hospital practice. The propriety of amputation in compound fractures may be determined by various considerations:— (1) Great comminution of the bones may of itself be a cause for amputation. In the upper extremity, conservative measures may often be successful, loose or partially detached fragments being removed, and projecting ends of bone sawn off if necessary to effect reduction ; but in fractures of the lower extremity, if the fragments which require removal involve the whole thick- ness of the femur or tibia, the resulting limb, should recovery follow, would in all probability be rather an encumbrance than a benefit, and under such circumstances amputation should ordinarily be resorted to. (2) Laceration of a large artery, in connection with compound fracture, usually calls for amputation. Here, again, a distinction may be made between injuries of the upper and those of the lower extremity; in the case of the former, an attempt may sometimes properly be made to save the limb by tying the vessel in the wound, or even by securing the main trunk above, but in the case of the lower extremity, unless the bleeding artery can be readily found and ligated in the wound itself, amputation will be found the safest mode of procedure. So, too, in case of secondary hemorrhage occur- ring as a complication of compound fracture in the lower extremity, amputa- tion will commonly be necessary. (3) Great contusion and laceration of the muscles, even if the great vessels be uninjured, may be considered to indicate amputation in many cases of com- pound fracture. A limb which has been crushed by the wheels of a railway train, almost invariably requires amputation, the muscles and other deep- seated tissues being torn, and, as it were, pulpefed, while the skin maybe comparatively uninjured. In such a case tlie operation should, as a rule, be performed at a higher level than that at which the skin is found to be sepa- rated from the subjacent tissues, as otherwise sloughing of the flaps will be apt to follow, and a second amputation may, perhaps, be required. (4) Compound fracture into the knee-joint may be considered a cause for am- putation, and the same operation will often be required in cases of compound fracture involving the ankle. In similar injuries involving the other joints of the body, and, under favorable circumstances, in the instance of the ankle, excision should be the surgeon’s first thought, and may often be properly substituted for amputation. Compound dislocations of large joints are among the most serious injuries to which the human frame is liable, and-, in my judgment, almost always require operative interference; in the case of the hip or ankle, or of the arti- culations of the upper extremity, excision may be preferred, but in the case of the knee amputation is the safer remedy, and may, indeed, be said to be imperatively demanded. Lacerated and Contused Wounds, even when unattended by injuries of the bones or joints, may require amputation. Operatives in mills not unfrequently