219 MORBID ANATOMY OF HYDROPHOBIA. tern, through the medium of the spinal and cerebral nerves, giving rise to convulsions which may simulate those of tetanus or of epilepsy. In this stage of the disease the pulse is rapid and quick, reaching one hundred and thirty, while the temperature rises to one hundred and two, and often to one hundred and live degrees Fahrenheit. There is frequent micturition ; the urine is at first limpid, hut afterwards becomes red and sanguinolent, and flows in small quantity. It contains renal epithelium and much albumen. It is usually acid in its reaction, and con- tains an abundance of earthy phosphates and carbonates. Heated in a tube and cleared of the albuminous precipitate, caustic potassa and the cupro- potassic fluid discover reactions which reveal the presence of sugar. This, according to some authorities, indicates congestion of the brain and spinal cord as well as of the kidneys. The patient’s senses now become unnaturally acute; the surface of the body is excessively irritable; the sight and sound of fluids aggravate the already exasperated condition; and sometimes the slightest puff of air, or even the smell of particular substances, will induce a paroxysm. The mind is in a singular condition of fear and anxiety, and the patient experiences a dread of everything which is either seen or imagined, culminat- ing in a state of unutterable despair, or sometimes of furious anger. There is usually almost complete insomnia, and the patient is often unnaturally talkative. There may be insane impulses and delusions, with sometimes, it is said, an inclination to bite. The features have’ a wild and anxious look ; the brows are firmly knit; the eye is staring ; the angles of the mouth are drawn ; and the whole appearance is intensely haggard and. ghastly. As the disease advances, both the frequency and the severity of the parox- ysms are augmented, and the mental state borders upon mania. After each paroxysm there is great prostration. The duration of this second stage varies from twenty-four to forty-eight hours; seldom longer. Symptoms of the Third Stage.—-The third is the paralytic and last stage of the disease. It is marked by the occurrence of rapidly increasing depres- sion and exhaustion, with subsidence of the paroxysms; the pulse is now small, quick, and often irregular; the skin is covered with a clammy sweat, the eyes look dull and sunken, and the pupils are dilated. The patient rapidly emaciates; the mouth hangs open, allowing the saliva to escape, or if it flows backward into the throat, it causes a gurgling noise, and gives rise to a feeling of suffocation and choking. Death may take place from asphyxia during a convulsive paroxysm, or may result simply from exhaustion. All the symptoms have been known to abate, and the patient to sink into a state of repose and expire immediately on waking. The duration of hydro- phobia—that is, of its period of development—varies from three to six or seven days, or in some cases even longer. It has been fatal in sixteen hours, hut death generally occurs on the third or fourth day. The foregoing description of the symptoms of hydrophobia is based upon the writings of Poland, Tanner, Fleming, Dolan, Virchow, and other authors who have had practical experience in the treatment of the disease. To use the language of Bigelow, “ In fact one description is the copy of another.” Morbid Anatomy of Hydrophobia.—Dr. Dolan writes that on the 15th of May, 1877, Dr. Gowers exhibited before the Pathological Society of London a series of microscopic sections, illustrating the structural changes in the medulla oblongata and spinal cord in four cases of rabies. In all four cases the vessels of the gray matter were greatly distended, the distension being greater in the medulla near the gray nuclei, in the lowest part of the fourth