248 SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. tain syrups are mingled with it; and many adults acquire a certain taste for it, or at least cease after a while to regard it with disgust. In cases, however, in which the distaste is so great that it cannot or will not he overcome, cod- liver oil may he given in a peculiarly refined form, that, for instance, of the perfected cod-liver oil, or in combination with certain preparations which almost completely deprive it of its obnoxious qualities, such for example as maltine. Hext in value to cod-liver oil are the preparations of iron, the syrups of the iodide or the phosphates, administered either alone or in combination with the oil. They are indicated where anaemia is a prominent feature of the dis- ease, and may in all cases be employed in the intervals between the adminis- tration of oil, or during the summer. It need scarcely he remarked that when other diseases are associated with scrofula, the remedies which are employed should he such as are appropriate for their treatment as well as for that of the scrofula itself. Thus, when syphilis is acquired by a scrofulous subject, the milder preparations of mer- cury, such as the bichloride, may he exhibited together with iron and cod- liver oil; and iodide of potassium may be given with iodide of iron with the oest result. The local treatment of scrofulous affections is exceedingly important, although in most of them the same general principles are involved as in the treatment of non-scrofulous affections of the same structures. The rest which is essen- tial for most joint-inflammations, is quite as essential for joint-inflammations which are scrofulous. But if rest can be obtained by the aid of some appa- ratus which does not necessitate rest for the whole body, a great advantage will generally be gained. Operations are performed for the removal of necrosed or carious bone, equally whether the patient is scrofulous or not, although in the former case the prospect of cure of the disease by operation is greatly lessened. Many cases of scrofulous caries are, however, better not treated by operation. Of such are the swollen and “ blown-out” phalanges, of which the fore-finger of the old woman furnished an example. They occur frequently in children; sinuses forming, through which soft, carious bone, or a soft pulp in which lie grits of bone, may be distinguished. The temptation is strong to interfere, to cut through the thin shell of hone and clear out the cavity within. But the usual eftect of operation appears to he to light up fresh inflammation, or to leave wounds which will not heal; while the original disease, had it been left to itself with a strip of lint or other covering around the finger, would have almost surely healed with less delay— with shortening of the finger, no doubt, and with puckered sears, but with less deformity than after operation. Carious patches of the hones of old people who are scrofulous, should be operated on only with the greatest cau- tion, if at all. For the parts are apt to resent the injury of an operation, and the wounds inflicted show no tendency to heal. Of scrofula in the aged, it may he generally stated that the ordinary specific remedies, local and con- stitutional, are much less efficient than when employed for younger persons, and that good food, warmth, and rest, are, in such patients, more than ever necessary for its treatment.1 Scrofulous abscesses, if they are not very large, may he opened in the usual manner; hut the extensive cold abscesses of the pelvis and abdomen, gene- rally associated with diseased bones or joints, should he left to point and break; or if they will not do so, hut slowly burrow between the structures of the thigh or buttock, should be evacuated with every antiseptic precaution. Small abscesses about the neck and face may often he treated with the hap- piest result by aspiration. Even when matter is pointing, and the skin so 1 Sir James Paget, loc. cit., p. 344.