225 GLANDERS. Glanders. Glanders is a contagious and infectious disease, which appears also to he sometimes spontaneously generated in the horse, the ass, and the mule, and which peculiarly belongs to those animals. While it is a general disease, affect- ing the whole system, it displays its greater force and virulence on the mucous linings of the nose and frontal sinuses, and on the submaxillary glands and lymphatics of the neck and ear. In 1821, Mr. Muscroft, in an article in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, described the disease as existing in a man who had become inocu- lated by the dead body of a glandered horse; and in 1840, a patient who had been admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, London, died of glanders, and the nurse who had attended this patient took the disease and also died of it. Many similar cases are on record which show that the disease, though never spontaneously developed in man, can be readily conveyed to him, and that, when once inoculated, it can be easily communicated from one human being to another. It" is said that the virus may be communicated through the blood, and Viborg believes that inoculation may also take place through such secretions as the saliva, the urine, and the sweat. It is well known that the disease may be produced by wiping the hands and face with cloths which have been used on an affected horse. Bouley inoculated horses with the pus of glanders, and though the inoculated parts were cut out one minute after they were in- oculated, yet the disease rapidly manifested itself. Villemin, in 1868, declared his belief that glanders and tubercle were closely allied, and that they should be looked upon as nearly related species of the same genus. Symptoms of Glanders.—The disease manifests itself by an eruption of tubercles or nodules, and appears in two distinct forms. One of these in- volves the mucous membrane of the nose and the neighboring glands, and is the form which is particularly known as glanders; it is termed morve in France, and Rotz in Germany. The other form affects the superficial lym- phatics and absorbents, either in the trunk or extremities, and is characterized by the development of small tumors beneath the skin, varying from the size of a pea to that of a walnut, hard, fixed, and very painful when touched. There is a corded and knotty condition of the parts, whence this form of the disease is termed Warm by the Germans, and farcin by the French. In Eng- land it is known as farcy-buds. These two forms are but different types of the same disease, and they may be found associated in the same patient. The period of incubation or latency of glanders varies from two days to a week, after which time the stage of invasion begins. Symptoms in the Horse.—The following description of the disease as it is observed in the horse, is taken from Youatt:— The earliest local symptom is a nasal discharge, which consists of an increased secre- tion, small in quantity, and flowing constantly. It is of an aqueous character, mixed with a little mucus. It is not sticky when first recognized, but becomes so afterwards, having a peculiar viscidity and glueyness. The discharge soon increases in quantity, and, in the advanced stages, becomes discolored, bloody, and offensive. On the other hand, the discharge may continue for many months, or even for two or three years, un- attended by any other symptom, and yet the horse be decidedly glandered. The glands under the jaw soon become enlarged, and are generally observed on the same side as that on which the nostril is affected ; the swelling at first may be somewhat large and diffused, but this subsides in a great measure and leaves one or two glandular enlarge- VOL. I.—15