671 AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. the limb, over the trochanter major, and then diverges in front and behind, carrying the lateral branches of the oval obliquely downwards and inwards, until they meet transversely on the inner side of the thigh. The first inci- sions divide the skin and fascia, and the next step is the severance of the muscles (except in the region of the main vessels), at the same level or a little higher. The joint is opened from the outer side, and, after disarticulation, the remaining tissues are cut through from within outwards as in Larrey’s similar operation at the shoulder. However appropriate this operation may be in the case of a patient emaciated by disease, it is evident that, in a robust limb, the adductor muscles would form a bulky and cumbrous mass, which would interfere with the satisfactory adjustment of the wound, and would probably prevent primary union. Modified Circular Method.—This mo'de of operating is particularly indi- cated when amputation is required on account of a tumor which encroaches upon the upper part of the limb. Short antero-posterior skin flaps are cut from without inwards, and the muscles then divided by a circular incision at the level of the joint. This form of operation is convenient when the surgeon is not satisfied that the circulation is thoroughly controlled by pressure, as it exposes the femoral artery and vein, and affords an opportunity for securing them with ligatures before they are divided. The modified circular method has been rather a favorite with American surgeons, in this situation, and I may particularly mention, among those who have adopted it, the late Dr. J. Mason Warren, of Boston, and my colleague, Prof. Agnew, of Philadelphia. Single Flap Method.—This operation, which seems to be the favorite with most French surgeons, is performed by taking a large flap from the anterior or antero-internal surface of the limb, and dividing the remaining tissues by a circular incision, either before or after disarticulating. The flap is usually made by transfixion, the operation then being known by the name of Manec. A long, double-edged knife is entered flatwise, midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the great trochanter (the limb being slightly flexed so as to relax the muscles on its anterior sur- face), and directed at first inwards and a little upwards, so as to graze the head of the femur and open the capsule of the joint. The handle of the knife is then raised so as to depress its point, and transfixion is next effected by pushing the instrument steadily onwards until it emerges at the middle of the line which separates the thigh from the scrotum. The flap is then formed by cutting downwards with a sawing movement, keeping the knife close to the bone, and taking care to make the inner part of the flap as long as the outer: the flap is terminated at the middle of the thigh. An assistant slips his fingers beneath the flap, and grasps the femoral artery before it is divided. The surgeon then opens the joint from the front, cuts the muscles on either side, the ligamentum teres, and the muscles attached to the great trochanter, and finally completes the separation of the limb by making a transverse inci- sion through the posterior tissues, from without inwards. Lenoir modified Manec’s procedure by dividing the tissues on the back of the limb before dis- articulating. Other modes of performing the single flap operation are that of Lalouette, who began with a transverse, external incision, then disarticulated, and cut an internal flap as the last stage of his procedure; that of Plantade and Ash- mead (of Philadelphia), who made an anterior flap by cutting from without inwards; and that of Delpech, who first tied the femoral artery below Pou- part’s ligament, then cut an internal flap by transfixion, and finally severed the external tissues, thus reversing the steps of Lalouette’s method.