108 INFLAMMATION. called collateral oedema, and its fluid contains white cells and fibrogenous material. Of these so-called serous exudations, it is stated by a recent authority1 that the assertion that they contain only dissolved albumen “ lias been assumed, rather than chemically demonstrated. In reality, these fluids,” exuded mostly under the influence of obstructive hypereemia, or a low grade of inflammation, “ almost always contain variable quantities of fibrogenous matter, of fibrin, or of mucus, according to the part affected.” In this way we explain the occasional coagulation of the exudation following a blister, and the coloration sometimes caused by the presence of red corpuscles or of their coloring matter in a state of solution. The free watery discharge from the nose after “ taking cold,” by which the congested Schneiderian membrane relieves itself, often leaves the handkerchief stiff as if it had been starched. The distended bloodvessels in inflammation not unfrequently relieve them- selves entirely and finally by exudation, thus bringing the crisis to a close. In a case of abdominal dropsy, which followed peritonitis after a miscarriage, the patient experienced a complete cure by tapping. She returned some months later with no fluid whatever in the peritoneal cavity; but there was a hernial protrusion at each femoral opening, and a third at the umbilicus. In this case the peritonitis had evidently relieved itself—had “terminated,” technically—by free serous exudation. In an ordinary gum-boil, the intense pain usually ceases as soon as the external swelling begins. The quantity of the apparently watery exudation which escapes from the cut surfaces after an amputation, subsequent to the arrest of hemorrhage, is very considerable; after an amputation at the hip-joint, it lias been estimated at from a pint to twenty ounces. It is generally tinged by dissolved blood- clot, and often stains and saturates the dressings so as to suggest the idea of hemorrhage. It is not for us to determine the source of the fibrin which constitutes so large a proportion of the coagulum deposited by this exudation. Organic chemistry has left this question still in the region of theory. It evidently approaches in its nature, or is identical with, what is styled by a recent authority2 “the well-known inflammatory effusion,” and is derived directly from the liquor sanguinis, to which it approaches in quality. This exudation, according to the same authority, contains “ more albumen, phos- phates, and carbonates” than serous exudations, and “ has a much greater tendency to coagulate, due to the white corpuscles it contains ;” forming thus a hot-bed or compost admirably suited for promoting cell germination, and for furnishing nutritive materials for young cells. The white corpuscles are regarded as emigrants or wandering cells which have escaped through the capillary walls. It has been observed that the exudation in inflammation which occurs early is always more fluid; at a later period it contains more cells. The exudation in healthy or constructive inflammation, generally called plastic or coagulable lymph, which makes its appearance on the surface of a recent wound, or in the form of swelling around an inflammatory focus, is, as has just been stated, a bland and unirritating product of the nutritive machinery; its obvious use is to aid in forming a growth of new tissue for a reparative purpose. This purpose may find its result in the organization of cicatricial tissue, whereby a breach of continuity is healed; or in forming a limiting barrier to suppuration, which is always, in some degree, destructive; 1 Cornil and Ranvier, Manual of Pathological Histology. Philadelphia, 1880. 2 Green, ut supra.