17 THE VASO-MOTOR NERVES. la consequence of these observations, we may conclude that in the sciatic there are both constrictors and dilators. I shall, however, repeat the entire train of thought which leads to this conclusion. In consequence of the pre- sence of constrictors, the paws become warm when we divide the sciatics. In consequence of the presence of both constrictors and dilators, moreover, the irritation of the peripheral stump, immediately after the division, is without effect. If there were only constrictors present, their irritation would neces- sarily cause a narrowing of the bloodvessels, and hence a cooling of the parts; but this does not take place, or does so only in a slight degree. We therefore conclude that there are also antagonists (dilators) present, which are likewise irritated, and that hence no effect is produced. And we furthermore suspect that, after the division, the constrictors either degenerate or lose their irrita- bility sooner than the dilators, wherefore the stimulus is now responded to only by the dilators. However, this proof is not altogether reliable. One could reply that the sciatic possesses no vaso-dilators; that the constrictors are only not irritable, immediately after the division of the sciatic; that on this account, and not because antagonists are present, is the stimulus ineffec- tive. After a few days, however, the constrictors undergo some alteration, and noAV act in a manner quite different from that of their normal condition. This objection is not plausible; but it is admissible. Now the hypothesis concerning the vaso-dilators is of the greatest importance for pathology. We must take this hypothesis into account, and it is therefore important to bring forward direct proof of the existence of vaso-dilators in the sciatic. I have, indeed, succeeded in so doing. I found that* those posterior spinal roots which entered the sciatic directly, also contained the direct vaso-dilators (see page 12) for the paw, but no vaso-constrictors. Here, therefore, I had nerves before me, the irritation of which in a fresh condition, immediately after their division, caused dilatation of the bloodvessels. In order to make this experiment, I likewise first divide the spinal cord in the region of the last dorsal vertebra, and let the animal live until the hind-paws again become cool. Then, without narcotizing the animal, I can break open the lumbar vertebne and expose the spinal roots to such an extent that I can easily divide and irritate them. In these parts the animal is perfectly insensitive ; it takes food from the hand of the attendant while I am dividing the nerves. I employ mechanical irritation by means of the application of ligatures, because electrical irritation of nerves which lie in such proximity to the spinal cord, that is to say, in such proximity to many other vaso-motor nerves, is uncertain, affecting also the other nerves, and, there- fore, not giving distinct results. Mechanical .irritation, on the other hand, practised with care and by steady hands, is entirely reliable. In fact, all the experiments which I have made in this direction during a series of years have uniformly given the same result. There have always been either one or two roots of the sciatic1 which have contained the main mass of vaso-dilators, the mechanical irritation of which has accordingly produced a considerable elevation of temperature in the corresponding paw. The fact that vaso-dilators are contained in the posterior sensory roots is not of small importance for the doctrine of hypertemia. We are thus enabled to explain a series of important pathological phenomena. It 'is known that neuralgias are frequently accompanied by hypersemia of the painful parts. Now this phenomenon is understood if we know that the sensitive spinal roots contain vaso-dilators. Irritation of certain sensory loots must necessarily cause pain and hyperremia at the same time. Pain and hyperpemia must also coincide as regards location in the case of such an irritation. For we locate the painful spot at the peripheral end of the nerve the trunk of which is irritated, while at the same spot the vaso-dilators 1 Wiener mediz. Jahrbiicher, 1877-1878. VOL. I.—2