537 GENERAL RULES FOR PLASTIC OPERATIONS. Ollier, and Poncet; the transplantation of particular or greater morsels derived from a stranger organism, heteroiplasty, whether that be human or animal; and, finally, transfusion of blood. General Rules for Plastic Operations. In the majority of the operations and methods enumerated, immediate union, or union by the first intention, of the newly juxtaposited parts, is the aim and hope of the surgeon, although sloughing or gangrene to a small extent may not wholly defeat the intention of the operator. But a scrupulous attention to the general condition and surroundings of the patient, the adop- tion of a carefully studied plan of operation and observance of its minutest details, and a sagacious and watchful after-management of the case, are cir- cumstances which lead to if they do not insure success, and which must be had in view and closely followed out if success is to be the issue. Among the evil consequences of an unwise disregard of detail, may be mentioned gangrene, as depending upon a poverty of the nutrient supply of the flaps, whether by reason of its attenuate pedicle, its thinness, the scantiness of bloodvessels in the pedicle, or their choking by excessive tension or twisting, or upon want of protection. The manner of making the sutures, the choice of proper material for them, and the distance from each other at which they are placed, will and must influence the mode and time of union of the wedded parts, and bring about, or not allow or favor, union by first intention. And thus portions along the line may fail to heal, and suppuration may perma- nently interfere with a union which, in other situations, is firm enough. And a disregard for the quality of the air in which the subject of the opera- tion lives, as loaded with the miasmata of fever or erysipelas, or the preva- lence of the latter disease as an epidemic, may not only set the operative skill of the surgeon at naught, but may open a door in the patient's body for the entrance of a fatal complication. In this connection, a very important circumstance ought to be made con- spicuous, and this is that the hiatus left by the forced loan imposed upon an innocent feature, must itself be the subject of the same interest which attaches to the locality benefited. It may sometimes be left to cicatrization and ulti- mate shrinking of the scar, but not unfrequently adhesive straps invite or force approximation of separated margins, with or without preliminary loosen- ing of the integument and connective tissue done with a vieAv of facilitating approach, or linear or crescentic incisions may be employed to transfer de- formity to unimportant situations, by promoting instant adhesion of tissue margins separated by loss of substance. It was with this intention that the writer, after removing, by a long elliptical incision, a considerable melanotic tumor from the front of the thigh of an itinerant Methodist preacher, who made his circuits on horseback, practised on either side of the longitudinal gap a deep incision parallel with the neighboring margin, dissected up the bands lying between the incisions and elliptical space, and brought the margins together in a line on the convexity of the thigh. Immediate union occurred along the whole extent of the line, while the lateral cicatrices were so placed as to escape friction from clothing or other matters which the front of the thigh was called upon to bear. But loss of substance, if it be of limited extent, may not always require the translation of a flap, or may not call for any further abstraction of tissue. Thus for freshening the margins of some buccal fistuke, experience has shown the advantage to be derived from the employment of the actual cautery, or the thermo-cautery of Paquelin, applied at a dull-red heat and at