INFLAMMATION. 158 action at the proper time by an enema of tepid water and a bed-pan of proper shape. In inflammation of joints, and in fracture, all risk of possible over- action of a cathartic is to be carefully guarded against, for positive harm to the inflamed or injured parts is likely to be caused by the disturbance. There is no drug which exerts a more positive and undeniable power over a local development of inflammation than colchicum in a crisis of genuine podagra; but its good effects are limited to this disease. A knowledge of the modus operandi of colchicum in producing resolution of such intense manifestations of inflammation as those which characterize an attack of acute gout, would be of great interest if ascertainable. It seems to neutralize the poison in the blood, or to eliminate it by some emunctory, so as to save the white fibrous tissues from its noxious preference. Aconite and veratrum viride have been extolled for their anti-inflammatory virtues, and many excellent practitioners believe in their salutary influence. But this faith is waning. Like digitalis, these drugs produce certain quasi- antiphlogistic phenomena, such as slowing the pulse and diminishing heat- production, but this effect is accomplished by their specific action upon the organism, as poisons; it is analogous to that which accompanies the shock of injury, and tends in no respect to remove the causes of the fever or inflam- mation, although certain of their symptoms may be temporarily controlled. These are remedies addressed to symptoms only ; they are unphilosophical, and their value is more than doubtful. Stille sums up the evidence against veratrum viride in terms which are conclusive, and ends with the solitary saving clause, that it may possibly do good in “ cases of imminent or commenc- ing congestion or inflammation, in which the maintenance of its sedative action upon the heart for a short period allows the conservative powers of the system to operate within normal limits.” For reasons similar to those which are now accumulating force against these depressing remedies, tartar emetic also has fallen into disuse. This drug was formerly held in estimation as second only to general bleeding in its power of controlling excessive vascular action; but through the same con- siderations which have brought blood-letting into disrepute, all these depres- sants are at present regarded by the profession with diminishing confidence. As the science of surgery has advanced, the indications for the treatment of surgical diseases have become more precise; and it is desirable that these indications should always be sought for, and carefully studied. Otherwise the practitioner is in danger of becoming a routinist, instead of a scientific surgeon. Many remedies formerly in repute and sanctioned by the authority of great names, have lost their prestige, and are no longer in use; or are em- ployed only in deference to custom and authority, and in a perfunctory way. Some of these remedies enjoyed great popular favor, a share of which extended to the surgeon who employed them; and this circumstance has tended to perpetuate their use. Even now a patient from the old countries will often crave a bleeding from the arm as a right, through traditional con- fidence in its virtue. In the growth of more precise knowledge in pathology, the doctrine of blood-poisons, now dominant, is undoubtedly a principal cause of the changes which have taken place in the treatment of inflammation, especially as to the reluctance to employ depressing remedies. The general use of the micro- scope has revealed the infinitely delicate and elaborate structure of our tis- sues and organs, and has begotten a salutary indisposition to interfere with the vitality of their anatomical elements by means of agents which are harsh and violent in their action.