14 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. in the splanchnic nerves. Therefore, when the splanchnics are divided, an intense hypersemia of the abdominal viscera is produced, accompanied by a fall of the blood-pressure and an ischaemia of the remaining organs. The splanch- nics, as I have likewise already remarked, are branches of the great sympathetic, and before entering the sympathetic leave the spinal cord with the roots of the upper dorsal nerves. If we divide the spinal cord low down, at about the border of the dorsal and lumbar portions, the points of origin of the splanchnics scarcely suffer at all. An animal thus injured is paralyzed and insensitive in its hind-legs, but otherwise may feel well, as far as the condition of the wound permits. Indeed such an animal, as a rule, becomes perfectly well and lively again, and differs externally from a healthy animal only in dragging its hind-legs. It is quite different if the division be made higher up, about the region of the second or third dorsal vertebra. In consequence of such a wound, all the vaso-motor nerves of the abdominal viscera become separated from their central ganglia; from those on the border between the cervical and dorsal portions of the cord, as well as from those in the medulla oblongata (see page 13). In consequence of this there ensues such an intense hyperse- mia of the abdominal viscera, and such a considerable fall in the blood-pres- sure, that an ischaemia of the other organs arises which may prove fatal. It is not, however, without importance for the physician to learn that, even after such a division of the spinal cord, the abnormal distribution of the blood is not always fatal; since the vaso-motor nerves of the abdominal viscera still remain connected with some centres which are located farther down in the dorsal portion of the spinal cord, and certainly reach as far as the region of the lower dorsal vertebrae. I have ascertained this by the following series of experiments:— If in a dog we divide the cervical portion of the cord just below the medulla oblon- gata, the animal soon ceases to breathe, because the nervous centres of respiration in the medulla oblongata (with which Legallois and subsequently Flourens have made us acquainted) are separated from the peripheral nerves of respiration. But if we employ artificial respiration, as is generally the practice in vivisection experiments, we can keep up the circulation and heart-beats respectively for hours. True, the blood-pressure is low,1 because important vaso-motor centres of the medulla oblongata are disconnected from their peripheral nerves; but the important vaso-motor centres at the lower border of the cervical portion still perform their function, for, as already observed, the incision is made high up in the neighborhood of the atlas. Now I have completely extirpated the cervical portion of the cord, from the medulla oblongata down to the fifth cervical vertebra. Such an operation causes some hemorrhage, in spite of all precautions ; the animal suffers from this hemorrhage ; but the influence on the blood-pressure is trifling. But if I continue this extirpation down to the first dorsal vertebra, the blood-pressure sinks suddenly to an extremely low level (about 20 mm. mercury). But the circulation still continues. Yet, as soon as I proceed with the extirpation beyond the first dorsal ver- tebra, the blood-pressure falls to nearly zero, and soon the heart-beats cease. That it is really the accumulation of the blood in the abdominal viscera which causes death, can be demonstrated by an experiment which we also owe to C. Ludwig, and which, it seems to me, is of the greatest practical importance. If we knead the abdomen vigorously at the time when the heart-beats are about to cease, these immediately become more energetic. For by this kneading a portion of the blood which has accumulated in the abdominal veins is forced (by the pressure of the hands) into the heart, and the action of the latter is excited. A knowledge of this procedure is impor- tant for the physician, because, even in the case of a severe hemorrhage, he can strengthen the pulse again, if it has become thready, by kneading the 1 From about 150 mm. mercury, the normal height, it sinks to about 60 mm. mercury.