651 AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. to the edge of the sole, as advised by A. Guerin and Dubrueil. The internal flap method may also be advantageously practised in this situation (Fig. 184), a fleshy flap being first raised from the inner side of the foot, Fig- !84. and replaced after disarticula- tion. The surgeon introduces a strong and rather short knife on the dorsal surface, on a level with the tarso-m eta tarsal joint and between the first and second metatarsal bones, and cuts di- rectly forwards to the hall of the toe, then transversely out- wards and downwards in a line corresponding to the web, and finally backwards along the in- ner side of the sole. The flap thus marked out is dissected upwards, keeping close to the bone, and the knife is then re-entered between the metatarsals and made to cut forwards through the web. Disarticulation is then effected by attacking the joint from its inner and dorsal sides, and by then dividing the interosseous ligament and the tendons of the peroneus longus and tibialis anticus, taking care not to wound the dorsal artery of the foot. This operation is readily performed, and affords a good stump, but upon the whole I am disposed to give the preference to the oval operation as making-a smaller wound, and one of which the cicatrix is better placed as regards the future usefulness of the foot. Amputation of great toe and metatarsal by internal flap method. Amputation of two or more Metatarsal Bones is conveniently done by the oval (en raquette) method, the point of the oval being placed on the dorsum, and beginning about half an inch above the tarso-metatarsal joint, and its branches diverging sufficiently to include the toes which it is designed to remove. Beclard and Dubrueil advise that more room should be afforded for disarticulation by adding short transverse incisions on either side, at the upper end of the point of the oval. In all of these operations, it will be found advantageous to grasp the part to be removed with Fergusson’s lion-jawed forceps, held firmly in the left hand, twisting the bone from side to side so as to render tense the parts which are to be divided. I feel bound to say that the various operations on the foot, hitherto described, are not often applicable in actual practice: the injuries in civil life which require amputation of the metatarsal bones, usually involve the whole anterior portion of the foot; and the stumps which I have examined, result- ing from these partial amputations after gunshot wounds, have not been as a rule very satisfactory. Amputation through the Continuity of the Metatarsus.—This operation is not unfrequently required in cases of injury involving the base of the toes, or of gangrene following frost-bite. It may be done by either the circular or the flap method, the latter being, I think, preferable in this situation. Some operators employ a single dorsal flap, while others (as Pezerat, for instance) use three flaps—one from the dorsal, one from the plantar, and one from the inner side of the foot. I think that the best plan is to make a short dorsal and a long plantar flap, cutting both of them from without inwards, and, after sawing the bones on the same level, bringing up the plantar flap so as