461 CONDITION’S DETERMINING THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Operations during pregnancy should be avoided when it is possible. Sometimes this cannot be done, the conditions demanding surgical interfer- ence being imperative. When such is the case, every precaution should be taken to guard against excessive nervous disturbance, and the risks of mis- carriage. It must here be observed that when wounds and accidents do occur during gestation, the healing and reparative processes are usually very rapid. During lactation, operations should also be avoided, as prejudicial alike to mother and child ; nor should surgical interference with the mammary gland be needlessly undertaken. Tumors in this region should never be removed at that time, as much on account of the probable hemorrhage, as for other reasons. Race and Temperament.—The influence of race is potent in determining the results of operations. Strange as it may seem, the black races and the Oriental nations sustain injuries and operations best; next stand the Anglo- Saxons ; and, according to M. Chauffard, the Latin race is as far behind them as they are behind the black race. The immunity of the Chinese and Japa- nese to mortality after operations is remarkably shown by the various reports of medical officers serving in the East. It is stated that pyaemia is a rare occur- rence among the Chinese, and in a recent report of 138 operations for lithotomy performed on persons of all ages and occupations, from two years old to eighty, but eight deaths occurred.1 A similar immunity is said to be enjoyed by the Japanese in regard to pyaemia, septicaemia, tetanus, and erysipelas. It is difficult to understand why this should be, unless the explanation is to be found in the fact that the lower classes of these races live chiefly ou vegetable diet and fish, and eat but little meat. In our own country, the negro has generally borne injuries and operations well, provided that he has not been exposed to the after vicissitudes of cold and dampness. This was remarkably shown in the experience of the negro brigades during the late American war. According to the observation of the writer, when these soldiers, injured in battle, were cooped up in overcrowded and overheated hospitals, they did well; when, however, removed to well- ventilated pavilion hospitals, and placed under such hygienic conditions as are most favorable to the white American soldier, they did badly, suffering severely from intercurrent pulmonic and other acute inflammations. In the daily practice of our hospitals, the negro is, we think, regarded as a satisfac- tory patient, and one of whose case a favorable prognosis can usually be formed. Whether this be due to the happy mental condition of his race, and to its characteristic freedom from care, cannot perhaps be clearly shown. The- Irish, from their peculiar mental elasticity, also bear operations well, and so do the more phlegmatic Germans. The American is not so good a patient; his activity of mind renders him restless and impatient of restraint; he looks anxiously forward to the end of his convalescence, and not infre- quently ventures out of doors too soon, and thus hinders his own recovery. The influence of personal temperament is not less than that of race. A happy and contented disposition contributes greatly to convalescence after operation, for it enables the patient to obtain and enjoy that rest of body as well as of mind which has so much to do in bringing about recovery. Influence of the Seasons and Weather on Operations.—The popular as well as the professional mind has long since recognized the influence of the weather on certain general and local conditions of the body. Its effects upon 1 Imperial Maritime Customs. Medical Reports, 1878-9.