675 AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. culation, or, if these are wanting, that he should trust to manual pressure exercised by intelligent assistants. The simplest and best form of aortic tourniquet is that of Prof. Lister (Fig. 112); the instrument employed by Prof. Joseph Pancoast (who was the first to use, in 1860, mechanical com- pression for restraining hemorrhage during this operation) is equally efficient, but more complicated and less readily adjusted. Prof. Spence prefers to compress the aorta by simply laying over it a thick pin-cushion, and keeping it in place by the pressure of an elastic bandage which is made to surround the body. Although there can be no question as to the advantage derived from the use of the aortic compressor in hip-joint amputations, yet, at the same time, the pressure which must necessarily be made upon the nervous structures of the abdomen, cannot but be undesirable, if not actually harmful; hence no time should be lost in securing the vessels after the limb has been severed, so that the abdominal compression may be relaxed as soon as possible. The point at which the pad of the tourniquet is to be placed, is on a level with the navel, and usually somewhat to its left side; but as the line of the aorta varies in different subjects, this must be determined by feeling for the pulsa- tion before adjusting the instrument. If the pad be properly placed, a moderate degree of pressure will be sufficient; it is not necessary to screw the tourniquet “ home,” but merely to exercise enough force to completely arrest the pulsation in both iliac arteries. Before screwing down the pad, the patient should be gently rolled over upon his right side, so that his bowels (which should have been emptied by a cathartic and an enema) may fall away from the line of pressure. If manual compression is to be employed, this may be applied over the aorta (if the patient be thin), over the external iliac, or over the common femoral artery. The hands of an assistant, too, should follow the operator’s knife, and should seize the artery in the anterior flap, before, or at least, as soon as, it is divided. Dr. Woodbury, of Philadelphia, and Prof. Van Buren, of Hew York, have suggested, quite independently of each other, that the circulation might be controlled, during this operation, by an assistant intro- ducing his hand into the patient’s rectum, and exercising direct pressure upon the iliac artery. Following out the same idea, Mr. R. Davy, of London, has devised an ingenious “ lever,” to be introduced into the rectum for the same purpose, and a number of cases of hip amputation have now been reported in which Davy’s lever lias proved most efficient in preventing bleed- ing. Hot only is it essential that the circulation should be controlled on the cardiac side of the seat of operation, but it is very desirable that the patient should not lose the blood which is in the limb to be amputated. To meet this indication, Prof. Erskine Mason, of Hew York, advises that the part should be first rendered bloodless by the use of Esmarch’s balidage and tube, and that the latter should be kept in place during the operation, so as to pre- vent the blood from re-entering the condemned limb ; all that is lost will then be the blood between the elastic tube and the point of aortic compression. The practice thus suggested by Dr. Mason, I look upon as one of the greatest improvements which has ever been effected in the operation; I have adopted it myself with entire satisfaction, and strongly urge its employment when- ever hip amputation is required. A broad, flat sponge should also be provided, as recommended by Mr. Butcher, of Dublin, for application to the whole posterior flap while the sur- geon is engaged in securing the principal vessels, which are in the anterior. After the operation, the stump should be closed in the customary manner,