ANESTHETICS AND ANESTHESIA. 420 of water. After a period of time varying from six to forty minutes, the patient became completely insensible, and continued in this state for a con- siderable time. In fifty-three cases reported, the shortest period of anaesthesia was ten minutes ; the longest was three hours. Two deaths occurred—one without any visible lesion, the other in consequence of suppurative phlebitis. The difficulties and the danger of this method are thus sufficiently indicated. Use of Anesthetic Mixtures.—The risks of cardiac syncope and respira- tory paralysis which attend the use of chloroform and the stronger anaesthetics, have occasioned the suggestion of various mixtures designed to stimulate the cardiac and respiratory nervous centres during the act of inhalation. Oil of turpentine has been added to chloroform with alleged successful results. At- tenuations of chloroform with alcohol and sulphuric ether, have been extensively employed. Billroth uses a mixture containing three parts of chloroform and one part each of sulphuric ether and alcohol. The London Chloroform Com- mittee recommended (1864) a mixture composed of ether three parts, chloro- form two parts, and alcohol one part. Experiments with frogs were said by Sansom to prove that these animals could not be killed with chloroform after they had inhaled the vapor of alcohol. These mixtures, however, do not obviate all danger in the human subject. Several deaths have occurred during their administration. A mixture of amylic nitrite and chloroform, in the proportion of sixteen drops to the ounce, has been recommended. Amylic nitrite stimulates the heart, and produces a special impulsion of blood to the head. It has, therefore, been urged that medullary paralysis cannot occur while under its influence. For brief operations this method has been satis- factory, but it is an open question whether the prolonged inhalation of such a mixture may not be quite as dangerous as the use of chloroform alone. Successive inhalations of nitrous oxide and of ether vapor have been em- ployed, chiefly in England, by Mr. Clover. The patient is rendered insensible with laughing-gas, and the condition of anaesthesia is then maintained by the substitution of ether or any other anaesthetic vapor. This method has given good results, but it necessitates the use of a complicated inhaling apparatus. Belladonna, or atropine, has been administered, in concurrence with the inhalation of chloroform, to counteract the tendency to syncope while in the anaesthetic state. Theoretically useful, it is hardly probable that a medicinal dose of atropine would be sufficient to protect against a fatal dose of chloro- form. The similar employment of morphine was introduced in 1863 by Xuss- baum, who discovered that surgical anaesthesia could thus be prolonged for several hours. Bernard soon observed the same phenomena in the lower animals. Extending these observations to the human species, he determined the fact that moderate doses of morphine, injected hypodermically half or three-quarters of an hour before inhalation, rendered the induction of anaes- thesia less difficult, and caused it to be attended with less than ordinary excitement. Injection immediately before inhalation augmented the period of excitement. Large doses of morphine caused danger of death by asphyxia while under the influence of chloroform. This method of treatment is espe- cially useful in the management of drunkards and other patients who are unduly excited by anaesthetics. When small doses of morphine are employed, the danger of death during anaesthesia is not materially affected; but large doses of the drug add greatly to the peril of this condition. Chloral hydrate has sometimes been administered previously to the inhalation of chloroform. The period of excitement is thus abolished; but opinions are divided con- cerning the safety of patients thus exposed to the concurrent action of two such potent drugs. Claude Bernard and others have observed that when morphine is injected