ERYSIPELAS. 170 nett, who particularly noted the predominance of the suhcrepitant over the crepitant rale, and who also described the hurried and labored respiration of the attack.. By this writer and by many others, the complication of the dis- ease with inflammation of the serous membranes is much dwelt upon, espe- cially with that of the pleura, peritoneum, and cerebral meninges. They also allude to the pain of a neuralgic character accompanying the first-named affection. In a fatal case, complicated with pleurisy, the softness of the exu- dation and the presence of bloody serum are noted. Peritonitis, both in the puerperal and the non-puerperal state, was recognized as the most formidable expression, or complication, of epidemic erysipelas. In the latter, the patient was seized with pain in the abdomen, vomiting, and diarrhoea, followed by great frequency of pulse and fatal collapse; and after death the peritoneum was seen to be dusky and injected, while its cavity contained a dark serum which presented occasional flakes of lymph, and exhaled a loathsome smell. The viscera were also darkly congested and softened. In the post-puerperal state the attack invariably commenced within forty-eight hours after delivery, with the same symptoms as in the non-puerperal cases, and, with rare excep- tions, terminated fatally. Having furnished this general sketch of epidemic erysipelas, it may prove instructive as well as interesting to present some examples of the associa- tion of the internal and external manifestations of the disease, which may serve to illustrate the essential unity of its various types. To show the growth of knowledge upon the subject, they will be presented in a nearly chronologi- cal order. As late as 1836, the nature of erysipelas was imperfectly recog- nized, and a teacher as acute as Latham endeavored to explain its various phases by representing the “ disease” as at one time implicating the vascular, and at another time the nervous system. This ontological idea must, with our present light, be regarded as metaphorical, and as expressing nothing more than the fact common to all acute febrile diseases due to blood poison- ing, that their phenomena may, according to the nature and dose of the mor- bid poison, be either sthenic or typhoid.1 In 1852, Blake2 described the prevalence of erysipelas of the throat in California, was attended in some cases with fetid suppuration of the nostrils, in others with inflam- mation of the palpebral conjunctiva, or with a discharge of pus from the ears. In 1855, Todd3 referred to a form of erysipelas beginning in and confined to the pha- rynx, in which, on inspection, there was little swelling observed, but rather a dusky hue of the mucous membrane, and a remarkable loss of reflex excitability. Deglutition was very difficult, and food was very apt to pass into the larynx, excite strangling, and be rejected through the nostrils. In the same communication4 he states that it was probably of this affection that Nicholas, Emperor of Russia, died, the disease having been erro- neously styled “ paralysis of the lungs.” In 1856, Gubler went so far as to maintain that erysipelas of the face was usually a propagation of the disease from the pharynx, although it might pursue the opposite course; and Trousseau, in a clinical lecture, took for his text a case in which the ery- sipelas was at first confined to the fauces and submaxillary glands, and only on the fourth day issued from the nostrils, and invaded the face and scalp, while it declined in the throat.5 In 1857, Forget® reported a case of erysipelas of the face in which the patient became convalescent on the eighth day; but directly afterwards a large abscess formed over each parotid gland, and one of them discharged through the auditory canal, while the accompanying symptoms were in a high degree typhoidal. In 1858, Mr. Bird* drew particular attention to the frequency with which idiopathic 1 Compare Latham’s Works, vol. ii. p. 460. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, October, 1852, p. 60. 3 Medical Times and Gazette, July, 1855, p. 28. 4 Ibid p. 27. 5 Lectures on Clinical Medicine, flew Sydenham Society’s edition, vol. ii. p. 251. 6 Bulletin de Therapeutique, t. liii. p. 534. 7 Ranking’s Abstract, 1859.