316 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. more common in such cases than the relapse of osteitis or arthritis, the return of abscesses, reopening of fistulse, etc. Scrofula has so great an influence on the reparative process that it im- presses its seal even upon the cutaneous cicatrices, which remain indelible and perfectly characteristic throughout life. On the other hand, scrofula possesses to such a high degree the vexatious power of indefinitely prolonging traumatic lesions, that it must always he looked for, even in individuals of very healthy appearance, whenever recovery from a wound is much delayed. Wounds inflicted by the surgeon act in precisely the same manner as acci- dental injuries. Their early phases are almost exempt from dangers, and very rarely attended by wound-complications, such as phlegmon, gangrene, hemorrhage, pyaemia, etc. The lymphangeitis and erysipelas which some- times start from them are transient, and without violent reaction. Accord- ingly, every one declares the mildness of operations in the scrofulous. This opinion should, however, be combated, or at least modified. It is true that rapid death is exceptional, but complete and permanent recovery is not much more common. If we trace the results of operations on scrofulous subjects with sufficient perseverance, we will notice the extreme frequency of half- successes, of incomplete results, of unfinished cures, of relapses at an earlier or later period; so that it is exceptional to find a scrofulous patient upon whom resection or amputation has been performed, who is sound and healthy ten years after the operation. Traumatism possesses to a high degree the power of awakening, reawaken- ing, and aggravating scrofula, whether latent or already declared. In slight cases, it causes from time to time the first manifestation, in children of fine appearance, of the superficial and slight symptoms of the diathesis: rashes; cutaneous eruptions, impetiginous or otherwise; subacute or indolent adeno- pathies. More frequently still it stimulates extinct or languishing centres of disease, and restores to local affections their original severity. Cures which were believed to be radical, or, at least, near at hand, are thus again rendered doubtful. Finally, when there are visceral lesions derived directly from scrofula, such as tubercle of the lungs, intestines, mesentery, or nervous cen- tres ; or which are but consequent upon prolonged suppuration and chronic septicaemia, such as fatty and waxy degenerations of the liver, kidneys, spleen, and intestines; the injury almost always proves fatal by the more or less sud- den aggravation of affections which no doubt rendered life precarious, hut which nevertheless, except for the traumatic shock, would have permitted the patient to live for some months, or perhaps even for some years, longer. At this stage of scrofula, the subjects of wounds or operations may un- doubtedly succumb to local complications, but much more frequently die of marasmus and exhaustion—that is to say, of phthisis, albuminuria, anasarca, uncontrollable diarrhoea and inanition—or of cerebral complications. Tuberculosis. If pulmonary tuberculosis may, without hereditary antecedents or evident predisposition, appear in the last stages of almost all constitutional diseases, such as arthritism, syphilis, diabetes, alcoholism, etc., and even of affections which have only involved the digestive functions, such as simple stricture or carcinoma of the oesophagus or rectum, epithelioma of the tongue, etc., it is none the less true that, in the immense majority of cases, tuberculosis is an appendant of scrofula, or that, in other words, tuberculous subjects are merely scrofulous subjects of a certain variety. The statements made in the preceding paragraph might therefore be applied