CAUSES OF TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM. 381 ossific deposits ; but, these being removed, I sliced and dissected and lectured upon as pretty brains as an enthusiast in anatomy would wish to see. I remember one in which the old lymph mass was so extensive, that it actually formed a secondary membrane covering both hemispheres; and yet beneath was a beautiful brain. What havoc must have been caused to the intellectual and perceptive demonstrations of the cells of the cortex 1 My own clinical observations incline me to agree with those (Hughlings Jackson and others) who think that the posterior lobes of the hemispheres have more to do with ordinary intellectual processes than the anterior. A very large number of cases of injury of the cortex have come under my care, and I have frequently noted and spoken of the almost absolute indiffer- ence in this respect with which enormous injuries to the frontal lobes are borne. I have seen masses of brain come away from these, and also from the middle lobes, without any apparent intellectual disturbance. If the case were fatal, delirium would come on towards the end, there having been ample time for the irritation to spread ; but, recovery following the injury, I have known the patient to convalesce without a single incoherent manifestation. In fact, I am disposed to think that in such cases recovery is the rule rather than the exception. I am surer however, that this is not so when the posterior lobes are the seats of cortical injury. Delirium then often sets in at once, and may cease as pressure from hemorrhage or effusion increases, but, this being removed by operation or absorption, is apt to return, and will abate or increase in accordance with the progress to recovery or death. These inju- ries, therefore, are much more dangerous to life and to mind than the others. Inflammatory products, effusions, hypersemia and anaemia,alterations in quality as well as quantity of blood supply, are then more potent causes of the symp- tom delirium, than pathological changes in the nerve substance proper. Causes of Traumatic Delirium.—The foregoing remarks have necessarily included the consideration of those forms of traumatic delirium which accom- pany immediate injuries to the brain substance and its membranes. By far the greater number of cases of delirium coming under the notice of the sur- geon, as well as of the physician, arise from causes external to the brain, and consequently have their origin in anything which may affect the quality or quantity of the blood. Of these, those affecting the quality are the most numerous, and hence immediate delirium is not nearly so common in exter- nal, surgical cases, as the delirium which ensues after time enough has elapsed to bring about various septic changes. One cause of immediate delirium is great and sudden hemorrhage. This variety generally finds expression in a mild form of rambling, that is more apt to be indicative of pleasant sensations than otherwise. Should fainting occur, sufficient to check the bleeding, and if, in the mean time, surgical appliances be successfully used to prevent its recurrence, the patient reacts, sometimes very rapidly, and will often speak regretfully of the glories through which he has passed. If the case prove to be a fatal one, a distressing rest- lessness sets in, and this with the delirium continues until death. There is a rather rare form of immediate traumatic delirium, which neverthe- less must be more or less familiar to every surgeon of a great accident hospital, or to those who are in any position, as upon the battle field, where they become familiar with severe and sudden casualties. Delirium might appear to some •to be a misnomer, for the characteristic is that every word and idea are per- fectly coherent. There is great exaltation of mind, but an utter want of ap- preciation of the bodily injuries. Commonly the spine has been involved in the crush, and the line of communication with the brain has been cut off, but this is not necessarily the case. There is no collapse at first: the skin has its