322 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. recall the fact that the fever is not the sole indication of the malarial poison- ing, and that, without having had a single attack in an infected district, the system may nevertheless be impregnated by the disease. Malarial anaemia and concealed neuralgias characterize malaria almost as well as tertian or quartan fever. Moreover, care must he taken, in whatever district it may he, not to con- fuse the fever which has been aroused with those quite numerous cases in which periodicity is present without the slightest relation to malarial infec- tion. I will mention, among others, those curious cases of wounds of the spleen which give rise to traumatic splenitis, accompanied by distinctly peri- odical febrile seizures, and readily amenable to treatment by quinine; as also those equally periodical seizures, which are equally curable by sulphate of quinia, and which are due to affections of the urinary passages, in men suffer- ing from disease of the kidneys. Alcoholism. Acute and chronic intoxication must be studied separately. Simple drunk- enness modifies certain primary phenomena of wounds, viz., pain and muscu- lar contraction; it may obscure the diagnosis, especially in traumatic lesions of the head and spine; it sometimes renders difficult the treatment of certain surgical affections, by interfering with the application of instruments and dressings; at other times, on the contrary, by causing muscular relaxation, it facilitates the reduction of luxations. Casual drunkenness has generally no marked action upon the course of a wound, and does not prevent the perform- ance of certain urgent operations, such as tracheotomy, catheterization, the arrest of hemorrhage, etc. It constitutes, however, a contra-indication to the employment of anaesthetics. Resort was had to it, in former times, as a therapeutic agent in various surgical affections, such as luxations, tetanus, septicaemia, etc.; but the employment of other anaesthetics is far preferable if we wish to obtain muscular relaxation; and if we desire to use alcohol as an antiseptic, it is useless to push it so far as to cause intoxication. Traumatism sometimes modifies the phenomena of drunkenness, the effects of which it increases or diminishes; now sobering one individual, and again rendering another even more violent. Chronic alcoholism is a predisposing cause of injury. The drunkard has hallucinations and a tendency to suicide; he readily loses the sense of self- preservation, and commits, even when fasting, a host of extravagances. The keenness of his senses is diminished, as well as the promptness and precision of his protective and defensive acts. If hard drinking and drunkenness should disappear, we could dispense with one-third of the beds in our surgi- cal wards. Chronic alcoholism profoundly modifies the reparative process, is singularly prejudicial to the healing of accidental or operative wounds, and greatly aggravates the prognosis of traumatism in general. In fact, every wound, although of itself of slight importance (contusions, subcutaneous frac- tures, punctures, excoriations), may be followed by death in drunkards. This termination is often due to complications starting from the wound, such as lymphangeitis, erysipelas, hemorrhage, diffuse phlegmon, gangrenous inflam- mation, or sphacelus, the whole accompanied or followed by grave traumatic fever or pyaemia, and the entire train of the adynamic and ataxic symptoms of severe blood-poisoning. These complications are the more alarming as the chemical composition and structure of the humors and tissues have been more profoundly modified by the alcohol, and as these disorders affect organs more essential to life, such as the brain, or those more directly concerned with