90 INFLAMMATION. quences of the struggle for life of the product of aerial germs. The position of Lister is less assailable because he has found means of destroying the vitality of the germs and of protecting wounds from their septic action, as- serting, and demonstrating, that it is in the power of surgery to preserve a wound in an absolutely aseptic condition, and to protect the process of repair from interruption or complication by intrinsic causes. For the soluble poisons of chemical origin, no such antidote has been found. As regards wound infection, the gross results furnished by clinical experi- ience prove that subcutaneous wounds, and those which heal under a scab, and wounds protected by antiseptic dressing, are infinitely more secure from interruption of the simple process of repair than wounds which are not thus protected from the external air. The most probable explanation of this immunity from injurious complications is the exclusion of noxious organisms floating in the air. The converse of this proposition, that the unhealthy and destructive phases of the inflammatory process are directly due to contami- nation by these omnipresent aerial organisms, seems also for the far greater proportion of cases infinitely probable; but it awaits final confirmation. Before the recent discoveries of Pasteur and Koch, the antiseptic theory pre- sented a sufficient basis of probability to have secured its acceptance by trained observers. Witness the evidence of Professor Tyndall as to the cause of the ill behavior of an abrasion of the leg which befell him on an Alpine expedition, and the experiments detailed in his paper on “ Dust and Dis- ease ;’n witness the recorded experience of practical surgeons in all parts of the world, to be found in current medical journals. Of these latter witnesses, a certain proportion testify with reserve, and strive, in the true spirit of scientific skepticism, to explain their confessedly greater success otherwise than by the exclusion of poisonous germs. This success has been attributed accordingly to improvements in hospital hygiene, to the isolation of cases, to the observance of scrupulous cleanliness in dressings, and to more intelligent and careful nursing—all of which would rationally conduce to a greater degree of success in the treatment of surgical cases. But evidence such as that furnished by Kussbaum, of Munich, is more positive in its character. This eminent surgeon testifies that pyaemia and hospital gangrene, which had been prevalent in his hospital wards for years, disappeared as soon as the antiseptic method of dressing wounds had been adopted, without any other material change as to the surroundings and nursing of his patients. Similar testimony has been given by many other hospital surgeons in Germany ; and more recently, after noticeable reluctance and some ridicule of the new method, we have evidence that it has been seriously adopted in France, and the greater success following its use has been acknowledged by prominent Parisian hospital surgeons.1 2 The noxious influence of putrid substances, animal or vegetable, and their power when introduced amongst living tissues of producing various phases of destructive inflammation, has been long known, but the evidence as to their mode of action has been heretofore obscure, and even in some respects contradictory. The directly depressing effects of putrid exhalations upon the nervous centres, as proved by the nausea they produce, is due mainly to the hydro-sulphuric acid gas which is always present. Its action is some- what like that of hydrocyanic acid, but less intense. Bernard injected this gas into the veins of a dog with the effect of causing utter prostration; but 1 Fragments of Science for Unscientific People. London, 1871. 2 Chirurgie antiseptique, etc. Par J. Lucas-Cliampionniere. Paris, 1880. It seems proper to give due consideration to these incidents of current history in attempting, at the present time, to form a just estimate of the degree of importance of cryptogamic organisms as causes of the more grave forms of inflammation.