SCURVY. 278 of large armies through uncultivated territories or desert wastes where food-supplies were impossible; by the recurring sieges of large cities; and, lastly, by the total neglect of horticulture which existed until a comparatively late period. These are the circumstances, at least, which in modern times have made a record teeming with the most destructive outbreaks of the dis- ease. These a priori considerations tend strongly to an affirmative conclusion as to the prevalence of scurvy at all periods of the world’s history, and render it probable that the failure to identify it was simply due to a lack of patho- logical discrimination. Various allusions to diseases presenting scorbutic phenomena can be gleaned from early authors. Hippocrates,1 speaking of enlargement of the spleen (anx-^ neyat), enumerates such symptoms as a pallid skin, offensive breath, disease of the gums, and ulcers of the legs; and again in his description of the dxt6* a^artV^s, or convolvulus sanguineus,2 he covers still more of the scorbutic symptoms, mentioning, in addition to the fore- going, epistaxis and impaired locomotion. Celsus,3 Areteeus,4 * Cselius Aure- lianus,6 Paulus EEgineta,0 Avicenna,7 and others, have done little else than paraphrase the clinical descriptions of Hippocrates. Pliny,8 in referring to the army of Caesar Germanicus, states that a peculiar disease of the mouth, called stomacace, or sceloturbe, affected the soldiers while encamped in Ger- many, near the sea-coast, and was attended with dropping out of the teeth and impeded locomotion; and he adds that in treating this malady the Herba Britannica and fresh vegetables were used with success. And Strabo9 tells a similar story of a dangerous disease named atopassailing the army of yEtius Gallus in Arabia. Marcellas10 alludes to an ulcerative affection of the mouth, oscedo, for which lie too recommends the Herba Britannica, a plant now believed to be identical with the Bumex aquaticus. So run the historical and medical records as far as antiquity has shed any light upon this disease, and they are altogether too deficient and obscure to authorize any conclusion as to the real nature of the pathological processes intended to be described. The phenomena of scurvy are so peculiar, and the conditions of its occurrence so special, that it may well excite surprise that it was not recognized in the earliest times by those writers who, even now, are accorded the highest credit for their clinical acumen and precision. An explanation might be sought in the fact that the disease did not really pre- vail to any great extent in the mild climate and fertile lands of the south of Europe, in which the literary and medical writers of antiquity chiefly flourished, and where, it is well known, succulent vegetables grew luxuri- antly, and formed a part of the common diet of all classes of people. It is stated in the Book of Numbers (chap, xi.), that the children of Israel, in going through the wilderness, longed for the leeks, garlic, and onions upon which they had fed in Egypt, whilst Herodotus11 tells us that not less than one thousand six hundred talents were paid for radishes, onions, and garlic consumed by the workmen employed in erecting one of the pyramids. In Rome, garlic (scorned by Horace12 as only fit for the “dura messorum ilia”) was also employed as a condiment, and the well-known proverb, “Si's eamroj,” proves that in Greece cabbages must have formed the most plebeian fare (Curran). So favorable a climate and such dietetic customs would not afford the same opportunities for observing the disease as the cold, inhos- 1 Prorrheticorum lib. ii. 2 Liber de internis affectionibus. 3 De medicina, lib. ii. cap. vii. 4 De causis et signis diuturnorum morborum, lib. i. cap. xiv. 5 Morborum chronicorum lib. iii. cap. iv. 6 De re medica, lib. iii. cap. xlix. 7 Canonis medicinas lib. iii. fen xv. tract, i. cap. v. 8 Naturalis histori® lib. xxv. cap. iii. 9 Geographicorum lib. xri. 10 De medicamentis, cap. xi. 11 Hist. lib. ii. Euterpe, cap. cxxv. 12 Epodon lib., carm. iii.