TREATMENT OF HYDROPHOBIA. 223 the immense majority of bites will not be followed by hydrophobia under any circumstances, and, on the other hand, that hydrophobia has occurred after free excision of the injured part. Mr. Youatt had great confidence in nitrate of silver. lie was himself bitten seven times, and on each occasion contented himself with freely cauterizing the wounds with nitrate of silver. [The daily administration of large doses of bromide of potassium, during the whole period of incubation, is strongly recommended by Duboue, of Pau.] Curative Treatment.—When the virus commences to evince its effects on the system, the second period, or that of development, begins, and the patient should now at once be placed in a dark room, and kept as quiet as possible, and free from all avoidable sources of irritation; his strength, too, must be supported by such concentrated food and stimulus as can be taken, or by nutritious enemata. Dr. Watson, of Jersey City,1 reports a case which was regarded by bimself and by Prof. Austin Flint as a case of undoubted hydrophobia. In this case a sixteenth, a ninth, and a sixth of a grain of curara were injected subcu- taneously at different times, when, after the third injection, the unfavorable symptoms abated, and the patient entirely recovered. Oft'enburg and Polli have also recorded instances of recovery from hydrophobia under the hypo- dermic use of curara. Dolan, too, gives the case of a woman, aged 24, who was bitten by a dog supposed to be rabid, in which case seven injections, each containing one-thircl of a grain of curara, were administered within four hours and thirty-five minutes, and the patient entirely recovered. In a case of hydrophobia, to which I was called in consultation by Dr. Carroll, reported by myself in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences for April, 1878, the spasms were relieved by the inhalation of nitrite of amyl. The case was that of a man, thirty years of age, who was bitten on January 1, 1877, on the back of his left ring-finger, by a terrier clog which was suffering from rabies. On the 20th of the following March, 79 clays after the infliction of the wound, the scar assumed a red and swollen look, and an eruption appeared on the morning of the follow- ing clay (March 21), disappearing on the 26th. On the morning of the 28th, the man was wild with excitement; his pulse was rapid and small, running at the rate of 140 beats to the minute; his skin was leaky and cool, and his countenance anxious. He made violent efforts to drink a glass of milk, but was utterly unable to do more than grasp at it; he could not possibly take hold of the tumbler, and entreated us in a wild convulsive manner to take it away. At this moment 1 gave him 25 drops of the nitrite of amyl by inhalation. By the time the evaporation of the amyl had taken place, the man said, “ What is that you have given me ? it is running all around my head.” When two or three minutes had elapsed, his pulse was found to be 88, and his respira- tion quite natural; he appeared to be perfectly calm. I then asked him if he thought he could take some milk, and he said that he thought he could. The milk was brought, and he swallowed a pint with the greatest ease ; he said he would take some more, when half a pint additional was given to him, with two ounces of brandy, and, when he had swallowed it, he asked one of the bystanders to give him a drink of water. The water pitcher was brought, and I poured out a full glass before him; when, taking the glass as composedly as any one could, he drank off its contents with the greatest comfort, and held the glass out for more. I filled it again, and, when he had drunk nearly all the water, he exclaimed, “ Oh, but that’s good !” I sat with him nearly two hours longer, during which time he was perfectly composed, and got some sleep. Then his pulse became more rapid, and his breathing more frequent. I asked him if he would take a little brandy and water. The mere suggestion of the brandy and water excited him very much, and, when it was brought near him, his excitement was fearful, and he exclaimed rapidly, “No, not until after breathing that stuff,” as he called the 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1872.