217 INCUBATION OF HYDROPHOBIA. fixes on them a steadfast gaze, as if he would read their very thoughts. “ I feel strangely ill,” he seems to say : “ have you anything to do with it? or you ? or you ?” Has not a dog mind enough for this ? If we have observed a rabid dog, at the commencement of the disease, w’e have seen this to the very life The disease manifests itself under two forms : the furious form, characterized by augmented activity of the sensorial and locomotive systems, a disposition to bite, and a continued peculiar bark. The animal becomes altered in habits and disposition ; has an inclination to lick or carry inedible substances ; is restless and snaps in the air, but is still obedient and attached. Soon there are loss of appetite and the presence of thirst, the mouth and tongue swollen ; the eyes red, dull, and half closed ; the skin of the forehead wrinkled ; the coat rough and staring ; the gait unsteady and staggering ; there is a periodic disposition to bite; the animal in approaching is often quiet and friendly, and then snaps ; latterly, there is paralysis of the extremities; the breathing and deglutition become affected by spasms; the external surface is irritable, and the sen- sorial functions are increased in activity and perverted ; convulsions may occur. These symptoms are paroxysmal, they remit and intermit, and are often excited by sight, hearing, or touch. The sullen form is characterized by shyness and depression, in which there is no disposition to bite, and no fear of fluids. The dog appears to be un- usually quiet, is melancholy, and has depression of spirits ; although he has no fear of water, he does not drink ; lie makes no attempt to bite, and seems haggard and suspi- cious, avoiding society and refusing food. The breathing is labored, and the bark is harsh, rough, and altered in tone ; the mouth is open from the dropping of the jaw ; the tongue protrudes, and the saliva is constantly flowing. The breathing soon becomes more difficult and laborious ; there are tremors, and vomiting, and convulsions. Incubation of Hydrophobia.—The wound by which the poison is conveyed within the body generally seems to heal without any trouble, and the virus may lie concealed for a period of very variable duration, the length of which has been estimated as ranging from three days to seven years. Watson thinks that the virus may he inclosed in a nodule of lymph, or detained in tempo- rary union with some of the tissues, until some exciting cause sets it free upon its errand of destruction. Virchow compares the action of the poison to that of a ferment producing through the medium of the circulation its specific effect upon the nervous system. Trousseau says that the disease generally shows itself in man from one to three months after inoculation; that cases are rare after three months; and that the authenticity of cases reported as occurring after the lapse of a year may well be disputed. [Fereol has, how- ever, reported an apparently authentic case in which the period of incubation was two and a half years.] Age influences the period of incubation, this being shorter in young people than in old. Fleming tells us that from an estimate of ages from three to twenty years, and from twenty to seventy-two years, it has been found that for the first group there is a mean period of incubation of forty-four days, and for the second group of seventy-five days. Faber adopted the view that the contagious principle became encysted on its introduction into the body, and that it entered the blood subsequently under the influence of favorable conditions. Dr. Anthony Todd Thompson,1 in speaking of rabies from the bite of a cat, says that the virus continues dormant in the part into which it is introduced by the bite of the animal, Until a certain condition of the system renders the nerves in the vicinity of the wound susceptible to the influence of the poison, and that this being communicated, a morbid action is begun in these nerves, and extended to those which preside over respiration, thus inducing the whole train of symptoms which constitute the disease. 1 Medioo-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xiii. 1826.