TISSUES AND ORGANS AFFECTED BY SCROFULA. 243 remain as thin, elastic strips of skin, attached at each end and bridging over a slightly depressed, scarred surface. The disfigurement produced by these scars is often most distressing, especially when they occur, as they are apt to do, about the face and neck. Tissues and Organs affected by Scrofula.—The affections due to scrofula are unfortunately very numerous. Eczema and lichen affect the skin—not always readily recognizable as scrofulous, unless associated with other lesions, but always obstinate and difficult to treat. Still more intractable and more destructive than these eruptions, but with a pathology less clear, is the lupus called scrofulous or tuberculous, which occurs so frequently about the upper Up and nose. Ulcers and abscesses, bearing the characters just now described, attack the skin and subcutaneous tissue; and chronic inflammation and sup- puration, the lining membrane of the cavities and passages of the nose and ear—often with the permanent establishment of ozsena and otorrhcea. Inflam- mation affects the follicles of the eyelids ; chronic and phlyctenular inflamma- tions the conjunctiva and even the cornea, leading to irritable ulcers which too frequently result in scars injurious to the sight. The tonsils are often permanently large and prone to inflammation, and sometimes a deeper and more extensive ulceration occurs about the fauces, which can with difficulty, if indeed at all, be distinguished from tuberculous angina. The mucous membrane of the larynx and trachea is not uncommonly the seat of inflamma- tion ; and bronchitis and pneumonia attack the lungs. The vaginal mucous wxmbrane of scrofulous girls is occasionally the seat of chronic congestion and discharge. But of all structures, the lymphatic glands are perhaps most frequently affected by scrofulous inflammations. Those of the neck are so often thus inflamed, that chronic enlargement of them has come to be regarded as nearly the most important sign of scrofula. In some cases, but a few glands, those behind the ear and sterno-mastoid, for example, are enlarged, while in other instances the whole chain of glands on either side is implicated. The mere fact of enlargement of the lymphatic glands cannot, however, be regarded as a sign of scrofula, for (1) non-scrofulous inflammations are common, especially in the neck, where so many causes may exist to induce secondary affection of the glands; and (2) the cervical glands are those which are chiefly liable to non-inflammatory diseases, of which examples may be found in lymphade- noma and lymphosarcoma. To add to the difficulties of early diagnosis, the scrofulous inflammations of glands probably rarely or never arise spontane- ously, but are always secondary to primary affections of a like kind to those which induce non-scrofulous inflammations; to carious teeth; to eruptions about the ears, and face, and head; to stomatitis, and to similar affections. The only features in which the scrofulous glands at first differ from those which are not scrofulous, are their indolency, and the absence of pain and of the more acute signs of inflammation. But in their later course, they devi- ate more and more widely from what may be regarded as the natural course of inflammation in a healthy subject. The primary cause upon which the inflammation depends, may disappear, but the enlargement of the gland endures; nay, other and neighboring glands become enlarged. And in one or other of them, the solid feel gives place to fluctuation, the skin reddens, and at length an abscess points and breaks. Suppuration may occur in the inflamed gland or in the surrounding tissues, excited apparently by the coir tiguity of inflamed structures. In either case, the typical ulcers of scrofula are frequently produced, and disfiguring scars may finally result. Or in place of ulcers, sinuses are formed, which lead directly into suppurating