( 435 ) OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. BY JOHN H. BRINTON, M.D., LECTURER ON OPERATIVE SURGERY IN THE JEFFERSON MEDICAL COLLEGE AND SURGEON TO THE JEFFERSON MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL, SURGEON TO THE PHILADELPHIA HOSPITAL, and to st. Joseph’s hospital, Philadelphia. Submission to a surgical operation is at all times, and to every one, a for- midable trial. It is not the pain alone which affrights, but it is the absolute self-surrender from which the patient shrinks, conjoined to the uncertainty which attends the issue of even the most trifling operation. An operation, therefore, should not be lightly undertaken, but should be well considered, and should only be resorted to in the interests of the patient’s life or comfort. It has been the custom to speak of operative surgery as a mere art, and its achievements have been looked upon by some as detrimental to the science of surgery—“ opprobria.” This is, however, but a narrow view, for in the adaptation of surgical means to the ends desired, in the selection and prepa- ration of cases, in the operation itself, in the after-treatment, in combating all evil influences, and in conducting the sufferer to a state of renewed health, surely Operative Surgery may justly share the honors of the “Science and the Art.” Qualifications of a Surgeon. In all matters in life, the every-day test of excellence is success. So, too, the measure of the surgeon’s abilities, in the long run, is his success. He may be never so brilliant an operator, yet, lacking other essential qualities, the record of his work may be against him. On the other hand, no man can be a good surgeon without manual dexterity, be his judgment and other acquire- ments what they may. The qualifications, therefore, of an operative surgeon appear to be varied and comprehensive. In the first place, he must be thoroughly honest; he should operate only in the interests of his patient’s highest good, where life is to be saved, or discomfort or deformity relieved; he ought never to be tempted even by importunity to perform an unnecessary operation; nor to operate for the sake of display, nor in the desire of acquiring notoriety or fame, nor for the sake of linking his name with this or that procedure. In doubt, he should try always to place himself, as it were, in the patient’s place, and, before deciding upon an operation, at all times be able to answer distinctly and affirmatively the self-directed question—Is the proposed surgical interference really for my patient’s good ?