429 ANAESTHETIC SUBSTANCES. Iodethane C21I5I, Ethylic iodide, Iodide of ethyl, Hydriodic ether. Sp. gr. 1.97. Boiling point 72°.5 C. (162°.5 F.). Vapor density, 5.475. A colorless, ethereal liquid, prepared by distillation from a mixture of ethylic alcohol, amorphous phosphorus, and iodine. It soon decomposes, turning red or brown from the liberation of iodine. Its vapor is useful in chronic bronchitis and in certain cases of asthma. It has been occasionally employed as a gene- ral anaesthetic, but its instability is sufficient to disqualify it for such use. Monochlorotetrane, C4H9C1, Butylic chloride. Sp. gr. 0.88. Boiling point, about 70° C. (158° F.). An ethereal liquid, with an odor recalling that of chlorine, may be obtained by distilling amylic alcohol with calcic hypo- chlorite. Its vapor, administered to rabbits, overpowers respiration and weakens the cardiac pulsations until they cease altogether. Isohutylic chloride, CH(CH3)2CH2C1, is a compound isomeric with the pre- ceding substance. Its specific gravity is 0.895; its boiling point is 60° C. (140° F.). Prepared by treating isobutylic alcohol with hydrogen chloride, or with phosphorus pentachloride, it is a limpid liquid, with a pleasant, ethereal, but slightly alliaceous odor. Administered to frogs, rabbits, and dogs, it produced anaesthesia in from three to five minutes. Respiration was unaffected, and cardiac pulsation was not weakened. Monochloropentane, C4HnCl, Amylic chloride, Chloride of amyl. Sp. gr. 0.699. Boiling point 101° (J. (213°.8 F.). Vapor density 3.8. Three iso- meric monochlorinated compounds of pentane exist, differing slightly in specific gravity and boiling point. The substance which is employed as an anaesthetic has been tested by Snow and Richardson. It is administered in quantity similar to chloroform, and produces a gradually developed and long- continuing anaesthesia, without specially disagreeable consequences. Mono-iodopentane, CjHjjI. Amylic iodide, Iodide of amyl. Sp. gr. 1.511. Boiling point 146° C. (294°.8 F.). Vapor density 6.675. A colorless liquid, with faint odor and pungent taste, turning brown on exposure to light. It is prepared by treating amylic alcohol with iodine and phosphorus. Though possessed of anaesthetic properties, its instability disqualifies it for practical use. Vitropentane, C5IInX02. Amylic nitrite, Nitrite of amyl. Sp. gr. 0.877. Boiling point 96° C. (205° F.). A clear, colorless liquid, prepared by heat- ing pure amylic alcohol with nitric acid. It has a peculiar odor, suggestive of apples and bananas. Administered drop by drop, in vapor, it powerfully excites the heart, and dilates the bloodvessels, especially of the head. The stage of excitement is followed by diminution of cardiac energy and collapse of the terminal vessels. Consciousness disappears before death when the drug is given in poisonous doses. Complete anaesthesia does not occur until shortly before death. The use of this substance is specially indicated in diseases characterized by spasmodic or excessive, tonic contraction of the vascular coats in any part of the body, such as the angiospastic variety of hemicrania, angina pectoris, or epilepsy. Its stimulant effect upon the heart has led to its employment in the syncope induced by chloroform. Pyrrol, C4H,JSr. Sp. gr. 1.077. Boiling point 133° C. (271°.4 F.). A nitro-hydrocarbon found in coal tar. It is produced whenever animal or vegetable substances containing nitrogen are subjected to destructive distilla- tion. It is a colorless, transparent liquid, with a delightfully fragrant odor, resembling chloroform, but softer and less pungent. Its taste is hot and pun- gent. Administered to small animals, its vapor produces great excitement and muscular spasms, succeeded by imperfect anaesthesia.