244 SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. cavities lined with caseous material; and, as long as any of this material remains, the sinuses continue to discharge. The scrofulous maladies of bones and joints, if not so frequent as those of the lymphatic glands, are not much less so, and are among the most import- ant of all scrofulous affections. The hones are very liable to subacute and chronic inflammation, affecting more often the periosteum than the substance of the bone, or attacking both the periosteum and the bone, and leading, in a large number of instances, to caries and necrosis. It is not uncommon to find several bones in the same subject thus carious, as in the older of the two patients whose cases have been related. The bones, too, are the parts of the joints in which scrofula frequently commences. The articular ends become enlarged, and are slightly hot and tender; the cancellous tissue is infiltrated with the products of inflammation; caseation ensues; the inflammation ex- tends towards the joint; the cartilage ulcerates, or is stripped off; and the whole joint becomes inflamed. Instead of the bones, the synovial membrane is often the structure first attacked. It becomes thickened, though the fluid in the joint may not be much increased ; the inflammation slowly extends to other structures; suppuration takes place, with the formation of sinuses; and the joint is at length destroyed. The “ white swellings” of joints are in many instances scrofulous affections, in which the disease has had its origin in the articular extremities of the bones. Relation of Scrofula to Tubercle.—Many of the affections thus described as scrofulous can only with difficulty be distinguished clinically from those associated with tubercle, and even when the diseased structures are examined after removal or death, the appearances presented by the two diseases are so similar that the diagnosis can be made only by microscopical investigation. This clinical difficulty has so long been recognized, that the custom has obtained of classing both diseases under the common term strumous, a custom objectionable solely because the word is not always employed in this clinical sense; and some confusion of terms has on this account resulted. The strik- ing similarity between the lesions of scrofula and tubercle, has, not unnatu- rally, suggested that the two diseases are closely related. Indeed, some authors refuse to recognize even a pathological difference between them, and the fact that in the principal works on surgery and medicine they are almost invariably included in the same section or chapter, shows how largely the impression of their near relationship prevails. Yet it is not easy accurately to define the tie by which they are connected. It appears almost certain that tuberculous parents may beget children who are scrofulous, qnd probably tuberculous children may be derived from scrofulous parents. But since either disease may apparently be acquired without inheritance, under certain favoring conditions, it is difficult to prove that anything more is inherited than a weakly constitution, in which under certain conditions scrofula or tubercle is developed. It has become the fashion, of late years, for those who distinguish between the two diseases to regard scrofula as an affection which disposes more than any other to tubercle,1 not merely by the general weakness it induces, but on account of the frequency with which caseous material is produced. If in this theory it be implied that persons who have for years suffered from typical scrofula, frequently fall victims to typical tuberculosis, I must confess that I have not often observed the sequence. But a different method is employed to prove the relation. Rindfleisch,2 for example, holds that the very large 1 Frankel, Birch-FIirschfeld, Rindfleisch, Billroth, etc. * Ziemssen’s Handbuch, Bd. v., Abth. 2, S. 149. Leipzig, 1874.