78 INFLAMMATION. demonstration of their habits, as ascertained by their cultivation in different media, that these organisms find in the raw and exposed surfaces of our tis- sues avenues of entrance, and that they at once encounter materials which constitute a suitable pabulum for their germination and development. The presence, in the soft vital materials of a recent wound, of myriads of micro- organisms multiplying, at their expense, with the inconceivable rapidity of cryptogamic fungi, accomplishes the destruction of their vital and chemical properties, and entirely unfits them for use in the process of repair. Repara- tive inflammation fails, therefore, for want of material, and is replaced by the condition which constitutes destructive inflammation. Pasteur’s dis- covery of the fermentative nature of putrefaction, and his proofs of the pro- duction of this process by the struggle for life of minute organisms like the torula of the yeast plant, lends verisimilitude to the doctrines advocated by Lister. At the present time they afford the most probable explanation of the habitually more favorable results, as to healing, of wounds excluded from contact with the air, and of the greater mortality of compound fractures as heretofore treated. The evidence upon which this conclusion is based is de- rived from clinical observation of the more favorable results obtained by treating compound fractures in accordance with the antiseptic method, which aims to destroy or exclude all microscopic aerial germs. The germ theory of disease, and its bearing upon inflammation, is a subject which presents a degree of importance at the present time, to which it is dif- ficult to place a limit. No study of the exciting causes of inflammation can approach completeness without a full consideration of its claims to credence, and a due estimate of their value. It will be necessarily discussed hereafter in connection with the toxic exciting causes of inflammation. ' 31echanical violence that results in wrenching, straining, dislocation of joints, affecting principally the white fibrous tissues composing the ligaments, and the tendons with their sheaths, produces, for the most part, lesions not exposed to contact of the air. The inflammation that follows is, therefore, rarely otherwise than simply reparative. Compound dislocations, however, present most of the unfavorable features of compound fractures. Contusion of living tissues involves not only a possible breach of continuity, but also, to a variable extent, entire or partial destruction of textural life. In every contused wound of any severity, there are liable to be sloughs, or parts entirely killed, which must be separated, or thrown off, by a vital process before filial healing can take place. There are, also, parts often described as half-killed, that is,"so far injured as to render their survival a matter of doubt —certainly, of delay. This complex condition includes several exciting causes of inflammation besides the general stimulus to repair that follows every in- jury. To this stimulus the tissues which have been simply divided, but not otherwise seriously damaged, are alone in a condition to respond. Hence the rule, in dressing contused wounds—to bring the surfaces together as for pri- mary union, but with very moderate retentive force, in order to test the capacity of the doubtfully injured portions to undergo the changes which ac- company constructive inflammation, and to secure any advantage that may be attainable. Of the parts in a contused wound which have been damaged, but not en- tirely killed, a portion may recover and participate in the healing; whilst the rest, sooner or later, die. The delay required to determine the fate of the doubtful parts renders suppuration, under ordinary dressings, unavoidable. The process of separation of dead from living parts, under ordinary cir- cumstances, has heretofore rendered granulation and suppuration inevitable.