527 USE OF THE THERMOMETER IN SURGERY. lateral curvatures of the spine, etc. With a little experience in the use of the muscle-beater, an individual may apply the treatment to his own person, and thus dispense with the services of a professional masseur. Many of the benefits arising from active exercise will be experienced by an individual who can practise muscle-beating in his own case ; hence it is a good plan, when practicable, for the physician to instruct his patient in the method of employing this manipulation. Massage should not be applied just before or immediately after eating ; an hour midway between breakfast and dinner, or lunch, seems the most suita- ble. If two sittings a day are deemed necessary, the second should be at a corresponding period between the midday and evening meals. The treatment should be applied at least once a day; some cases are undoubtedly benefited by two applications in the twenty-four hours. The duration of a sitting will depend on the circumstances of each case; an hour may he considered the maximum. Use of the Thermometer in Surgery. For clinical observations, two thermometer scales are in common use, the Centigrade and Fahrenheit; the former is used in almost all countries except England and America, where the latter is preferred. As these thermometers are specially designed for detecting abnormal variations of bodily temperature, their scale has a limited range, usually a few degrees Fig. 96. above and below the normal temperature, which amounts to 981° /T\ F. == 36° C. The degrees, and their subdivisions into fifths or tenths, are either etched on the stem of the instrument or marked on a plate of ivory that is attached to the stem. There are many varieties of thermometers in use, but the straight, self-registering, clinical thermometer (Fig. 96) has been proved by experience to be the best. In this variety, the upper part of the column of mercury is separated by a small bubble of air. This detached piece of mercury is called the index, from the fact that when it is pushed up by the main column, it remains in position, and indi- cates the degree of temperature. Thermometers are now made with a “ convex face” between the etched lines and the figures of the scale, this serving to magnify the column of mercury, and thus enabling the observer to note quickly the position of the index. Before using this instrument, the index must be shaken down to a point two or three degrees below the normal tempera- ture. This is done by holding the thermometer hi the hand with the bulb downwards, and either striking the ulnar border of the hand which grasps the instrument forcibly against the radial border of the other hand, or raising the hand from the body and bringing it down with a quick motion or jerk. There should be a slight constriction between the stem and the bulb of the instru- ment, to prevent the index from passing into the bulb when it is shaken down. As accuracy of registration is of prime importance in the use of a thermometer, every instrument ought to be compared with some recognized standard. English thermometers are compared with the standard at Kew Observatory, and if any variation be detected, no matter how small, it is noted in a certificate which ciinicai ther- accompanies the instrument. A like arrangement is provided for mometer.