7 CONTRACTILITY OF THE CAPILLARIES. there were stomata through which the blood-corpuscles passed. Remak, and subsequently Ills, had already asserted that the bloodvessels were formed by a juxtaposition of cells, and now it was said this assertion was proved. The brown lines, it was said, showed us the places of junction of the cells which formed the vessel. It seems to me, however, that the supposition of the existence of stomata in the wall of the vessel is now generally abandoned. There is no longer any doubt that the blood-globule can pass through any point of a capillary. The supposition, too, that the bloodvessels are built up by the synthesis of cells (like a chimney) is, as far as I know, no longer supported by anybody. Ilowever, I must attribute great value to the discovery of the silver-lines. For this discovery has led me to a theory which I must now regard as fully proved; to a theory which is alike of importance for the doctrine of inflam- mation and for that of histogenesis. Since I was compelled to accept the existence of these brown lines, and yet, on the other hand, was convinced of the formation of capillaries by the hollowing out of a formerly solid material, I indulged in the following reflection: The capillaries really are formed by the hollowing out of masses of protoplasm. Subsequently, the outlines of single territories in the walls are differentiated (metamorphosed), and these territories appear to us like cells, on account of their nuclei. Originally, this interpretation was based on speculation only, but now, after I have worked in this direction for nearly fifteen years, after I have examined tissues of all types with regard to their normal and pathological genesis, this interpretation has become a fundamental theory. This theory is as follows: When the egg undergoes segmentation, it is not divided into parts which fall asunder.1 This falling apart of the subdivisions occurs at certain places only. The blood-corpuscles and the lymph-corpuscles separate completely after their division. On the other hand, cells which form a tissue remain connected at least in groups. The partition here is only apparent. A cell grows and then transforms a portion of its body (Zell-leib)2 into a dividing line between two halves. If this process is repeated, a large number of cells, connected by such boundary lines, must finally be produced. If the cells grow without the development of boundary lines, we have very large cells produced, the so-called “giant-cells.” These boundary lines are living matter, just as the cells themselves, though still differing from them in some respects; they have been formed by a chemical alteration of a portion of the body of the cell. The staining with silver assists us in recognizing their chemical differentiation; they are more deeply stained than the cells. In other words, they absorb more silver, and therefore assume a deeper brown color under the influence of light. Such boundary lines occur between endothelium and epithelium; they occur between the cells of the cornea, of cartilage, of bone, of tendons, and of other tissues. Between the endothelium and epithelium, however, they remain relatively small borders for life, whether the cells grow or not. In the cornea, in cartilage, in bone, in tendon and in other tissues, the intermediate substances (Zwischensubstanzen) increase in extent with advancing age, and this increase takes place at the expense of the cells. The cells diminish in circumference, or entire cells perish ; that is to say, they are entirely converted into basis substance. I repeat it once more, they are transformed, but they remain alive; they can be metamorphosed again into the form of cells, and this is, in fact, what occurs when the tissues 1 There are some exceptions to this rule. The first vitelline spheres of the rahhit’s egg, for example, look as though they would fall apart if the vitelline membrane were not there. But that does not hold for the subsequent segmentation which concerns us most here. 2 A. Briicke has introduced the term “Zell-leib” into literature, and it has been generally accepted. [Note of the Translator.]