MORBID ANATOMY OF SCURVY. 291 break down between the fingers. These deposits most commonly show them- selves about the muscles of the hams, but are occasionally found in the recti and pectoral muscles of the trunk, or about the elbows, and beneath the pterygoid muscles of the face. In the severest forms of the disease, effusions occur beneath the -periosteum, forming nodes of more or less firmness, which may lead to necrosis of the bone. The joints are the seat of serous, and occasionally of sanguineous, effusions; the synovial membranes have been found eroded, the articular cartilages soft- ened and separated from their subjacent connections, and even, in extreme cases, the bone itself may be softened and infiltrated with blood. The joints may also be secondarily involved by changes going on in the surrounding con- nective tissue. Morbid changes frequently occur in the serous membranesr. The pericardium usually contains a little clear serosity ; not infrequently its surface is softened, and its tissue easily lacerable, or, as in some cases, inflamed and the seat of considerable hemorrhagic effusion. The pleural cavities often contain serous fluid, and are sometimes the seat of copious bloody effusions; their walls are tinged with ecehymotie discoloration, and show indications of inflammatory action. The most constant, indeed ever-present, changes, are found in the mouth, and constitute what is known as scorbutic stomatitis. The gums are livid and swollen, and separated from the teeth, which they wholly or partially conceal in their fungoid exuberance; they display an advanced stage of fatty degene- ration, the tissue under the microscope presenting an abundant epithelial proliferation, and an enormous production of fatty globules. The teeth them- selves are either loosened, or have already fallen out. The nasal, pharyngeal, laryngeal and bronchial mucous membranes are generally pale, and marked with flecks of dark red color, and there is present more or less bloody, turbid fluid. (Edema of the glottis is occasionally met with. The nervous sijstem is perhaps least frequently affected, yet, occasionally, the ventricles of the brain, when opened, reveal the presence of serous or sanguino- serous fluid, and similar fluids are more often found in the arachnoid. The brain itself is usually pale in color, and its vessels collapsed and empty. On the other hand, some cases display a different state of things; the brain is engorged with blood, and is the seat of extravasation, and in rare cases of softening. The heart is found relaxed and flabby; its tissue lacerable and atrophied; its cavities quite empty in some cases, and in others filled with dark fluid blood. The semilunar valves lose their elasticity and fail to close the orifices accurately, so that water injected by the aorta runs freely into the left ventri- cle. The cardiac walls present a yellowish tint on section, and are often the seat of effusions. In cases in which the disease has been of short duration, the blood is of a dark color, sometimes fluid or loosely coagulated, while at other times it is very firmly clotted; in prolonged cases, on the other hand, the blood is usually of a lighter color, and more uniformly fluid, yet firm coagula are by no means uncommon in these eases, as noticed by Rouppe, Andral,1 Fauvel, and others. The older coagula are thick, elastic, and closely adherent to the inner surface of the heart, but gradually merge into more recent, looser, and reddish depositions. The tissue of the heart becomes altered, the muscular fibres undergoing granular and fatty degeneration, so that at points the sarcous elements are entirely replaced by the new material. The endocardium and the inner surface of the great vessels show the evidences of sanguineous imbibition. The arterial and capillary walls exhibit no signs of marked change; Lasegue and LeGroux examined the capillaries in several 1 Archives Gtmerales de Medecine, 1847.