176 ERYSIPELAS. or two additional illustrations of the important truth they teach will be ad- duced. In 1877, Dr. Atthill1 furnished the history of a local epidemic of erysipelas, which he summarized as follows: “ Of ten (puerperal) patients admitted into a hospital, of which the sanitary condition had, previous to the admission of a case of erysipelas, been most excellent, nine were attacked with illness more or less severe, and one died; the only one who escaped being a case of abortion.” Dr. Thomas H. Buckler has stated2 that “ on three several occasions, during nine years, a single case of erysipelas admitted into the wxards of the Balti- more City and County Almshouse Hospital, was the starting-point for the spread of its poison to all the medical and surgical wards to such a degree that the most trivial operations had to be avoided, and even the slightest scratch on the skin was likely to take on erysipelas, followed in some instances by phlebitis and pyaemia. At last the poison reached a lying-in ward, more remote than the others from the sources of infection, with invasion so fatal, that, after a time, for a woman to be delivered there was certain death.” Morbid Anatomy of Erysipelas. The most prominent lesion of erysipelas is an exudative inflammation of the skin, which is usually seated in the thickness of the derm and in the sub- cutaneous connective tissue, but which is often confined to the layers of the skin immediately beneath the epidermis. The exudation is not merely sero- fibrinous ; it contains a large number of white corpuscles, which have mi- grated through the walls of the bloodvessels. In cases which tend towards resolution, they disintegrate and are reduced to minute granular particles, which are then absorbed. Drs. Moxon and Goodhart3 found in the blood of several persons affected with traumatic erysipelas, an increase in the pro- portion of white corpuscles ; but in others this condition did not ex,ist. Dr. W. Horton Whitney4 states that in severe cases the proportion of the white corpuscles is increased; to one in fifteen in one case, and to one in thirty in another, and generally in proportion to the rise in temperature. In severe cases the red corpuscles run together, their edges are ill-defined, and they look like streams of yellow fluid crossing the field of the microscope. They also become more rapidly crenated than in healthy blood, showing a marked ten- dency, in severe cases, and especially when the temperature is high, to adhere to one another in masses, and not in rolls. In a case of Ivollman, of Leipsic,® in which repeated hemorrhages from the bowels took place, fatally exhaust- ing the patient, it is probable that such blood-changes existed in a high de- gree. To them also may be attributed the altered action of the heart, and the hsemic murmurs heard during life, and more immediately the fatty or granular change sometimes found in the cardiac muscles. In 1862, it was related by Pihan-Dufeillay, that enlargement of the spleen occurred during the then recent epidemic at the St. Louis Hospital (Paris); and in 1873, Friedreich stated that in ordinary facial erysipelas he seldom looked in vain for enlargement of the spleen, adding that the organ fre- quently attained such a size as to project below the border of the ribs. He refers particularly to a case of floating spleen in which, during the progress of the erysipelatous attack, successive changes in the size of the organ could 1 Obstetrical Journal of Great Britain, June, 1877. 2 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, October, 1880, p. 418. 3 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d s. vol. xx. p. 240. 4 Inaugural Thesis, University of Pennsylvania, 1881. 6 Archiv d. lleilkunde, Band xi., S. 398.