OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. 470 the patient to draughts of air, and he becomes unnecessarily chilled ; and full reaction, upon which so much depends, takes place slowly. The development of the shock of operation is thus favored. It may, however, result from the previous effects of mental depression. In one or two instances the writer has seen it brought about, or at all events greatly augmented, by fear; in fact, in one well-remembered case, from fear, carried to such a state of abject cow- ardice and demoralization as to lead to disastrous consequences on the recep- tion of an insignificant wound. Surgical shock often accompanies large ope- rations, or operations on internal viscera, and, as a rule, the more extensive the operation or mutilation, the more intense will he the resulting shock. It may, however, attend comparatively trilling wounds or injuries, and the writer has seen it present in an exaggerated form, in one instance, where the spermatic cord was merely grazed by a bullet. The time of operation has much to do with the result. Thus, as a rule, no operation ought to be attempted during the existence of shock, hut the surgeon should watchfully await the period of reaction. Exceptions to this law, it is true, may arise from the absolute ne- cessities of the moment; for example, a limb may be almost torn off by a shot, or piece of shell, or may be hopelessly crushed in a railroad accident, and its prompt removal may be demanded by uncontrollable hemorrhage, or reaction after injury may be tardy, and the state of shock be kept up by the presence of the mutilated member. Here immediate operation may be proper, and indeed necessary to release the patient from his depressed condition, and thus preserve life. The relative influence of primary and secondary operations must also be considered, particularly in military practice, and when coupled with the question of after transportation. Intermediate operations, or those practised during the existence of traumatic fever, and before the arrival of the true secondary fever, should be discountenanced; since errors of judgment in this respect have too often led to unfortunate results. Local Condition.—The local condition of a part must always be carefully considered; and operations should not be performed through unhealthy tis- sues, or through those which are inflamed, sloughing, or gangrenous, or in which phlebitis exists. Neither should plastic operations be repeated too so'on after previous failures in obtaining union, but sufficient time should be granted to the tissues involved to harden and return to their original state. Neglect of this precaution is almost sure to be followed by the cutting out of pins and sutures, and by failure to unite. Hemorrhagic Diathesis.—There is one state of the system which greatly affects the question of operation; it is the existence of haemophilia or the hemorrhagic diathesis. Fortunately this is not common,but still many cases have been recorded in which death has resulted, often after trifling operations, and for which the surgeon has been severely, and generally unjustly, blamed. It behooves him, therefore, to be on his guard, and always to make inquiry before operating, whether the peculiarity has ever been observed in the patient or his relatives, for the disease not unfrequently affects several members of a family, who are often spoken of as “bleeders.” If the answer is an affirma- tive one, the utmost caution should be observed; or, better still, if the patient himself possesses this constitutional proclivity, no operation should be per- formed, unless life be at stake. Condition of Patient after Operation.—The hygienic surroundings of the patient after operation, are of vital importance. If he is to be treated in a privaie house, it becomes the duty of the surgeon to see to these matters himself, and not to trust to the well meant but often badly executed inten-