MODIFICATIONS PRODUCED BY SCROFULA IN OTHER DISEASES. 245 majority of tuberculous lymphatic glands are secondary, not to primary tuberculous affections of the parts whence the lymphatics traverse them in their course toward the main lymphatic trunks, but to primary scrofulous affections of these parts. The scrofulous inflammations tend in most cases to caseation, and from the caseous material thus produced infection of tubercle occurs (secondary tuberculosis). Only one fault can be found with this inge- nious theory, but unfortunately it is a grave one: the diagnosis of the primary scrofulous affection rests upon too slender a base. Because caseation is a frequent result of scrofulous inflammation, it is assumed that the presence of caseous material is a proof that a disease is scrofulous—an argument in a circle which cannot be permitted. If there really exists a closer relation than that of similarity of morbid or pathological conditions, it must I think be admitted that we have not yet succeeded in defining it. Modifications produced by Scrofula in other Diseases.—The affections significant of scrofula have been described, but the account of the effects of scrofula is only partially complete. For (1) we may believe that all simple processes of disease may be modified by scrofula. The epididymitis, for example, which complicates gonorrhoea in a scrofulous subject, does not pursue the rapid course of an ordinary epididy- mitis, and disappear under treatment in a few days. It may set in with equal severity, and the acute symptoms may rapidly subside; but thickening and induration of the epididymis remain, with slight heat and tenderness; or the inflammation may extend to the body of the testis, and, in spite of treatment, suppuration, and even hernia testis, may take place. So, too, the primary affection, the gonorrhoea, instead of passing off as usual under appropriate treatment, subsides into a gleet most difficult to cure. And (2) we know that the processes of certain specific diseases are largely influenced by scrofula. In no disease is this more marked, perhaps, than in syphilis, the secondary and tertiary manifestations of which are aggravated by scrofula in an extreme degree. As I write, the miserable condition of one unfortunate young man, the subject of both diseases, is present to my mind. First treated in the hospital for scrofula, one of the most characteristic features of which was a white swelling of one knee, he was so indiscreet, when only partially recovered, as to expose himself to the contagion of syphilis. When some three or four months later he was again an inmate of the hospital, he was suffering from secondary symptoms of the severest kind. The profuse eruptions on his face and body suppurated, superficial ulcers and large, foul scabs were formed, and frightful disfiguration was produced. Both eyes were attacked with iritis, which lasted long, and left them perma- nently injured. His tongue and fauces were extensively and deeply ulcerated. The glands in various regions of the body became permanently enlarged. And with these local lesions was associated much greater constitutional dis- turbance than is usual. And, as the scrofulous disposition appeared to render every manifestation of syphilis more grave, so the syphilis appeared to aggra- vate the scrofulous lesions; for the knee, which had previously exhibited signs of improvement so clear that the disease seemed nearly at an end, again became actively inflamed, and threatened suppuration. It has not yet been shown that there is any relation more intimate than this between syphilis and scrofula or tubercle.1 The children of syphilitic parents are not more prone to these diseases than other children whose constitutions are habitually feeble. Nor does acquired syphilis increase the liability to scrofula and tuber- cle, unless by inducing serious exhaustion. 1 Bumstead and Taylor; Venereal Diseases, 1879, p. 498.