293 PATHOLOGY OF SCURVY. tical substance, and less often in the deeper structures. The pelvic, ureteric, and vesical mucous membranes present not infrequently spots of hemorrhagic discoloration, as well as of softening and erosion, and the contained urine is tinged with blood. Pathology of Scurvy. Hoffman, Boerhave, Huxham, Lind, and many others of the older obser- vers, recorded their opinion that in the blood were to be sought the essential changes upon which the scorbutic phenomena depended, and they generally considered the nature of these changes to consist in a breaking down of the blood-corpuscles, or a dissolved condition of the blood, which in turn led to the sanguineous effusions so common in scurvy; a theory that had currency for many years, until chemical research finally dissipated the unfounded assertions on which it was based, and led to the establishment of more correct views. We still, however, have to deplore the fact that though much error has thus been removed, yet few new truths have been established by these investigations. The analyses are, as yet, too discrepant and too few in num- ber to determine with precision the exact nature of the chemical alterations in the blood. The disease has happily become so infrequent that few oppor- tunities now present themselves for chemical examination, and rarely can the quantity of blood necessary for the purpose be obtained, with safety, by venesection, in this class of patients. The want of uniformity, and the diffi- culties inherent to the process, as well as the varying conditions under which the analyses have been made, have contributed in no small degree to the dis- crepant results which have hitherto been obtained. The frequent effusions of blood in scurvy led Andral to suspect that the chief factor in scorbutic blood was the decrease of fibrin, which was in per- fect accord with a theory that he had formed that this change was the uniform cause of passive hemorrhage. Magendie had already given experimental support to this conjecture, by inducing in animals phenomena analogous to those of scurvy, by the injection into the veins of defibrinated blood, or alkaline solutions. Andral1 believed his views confirmed when in 1841 he analyzed on two occasions the blood of scorbutic patients, and found the fibrin reduced to 1.6 parts per thousand. Similar results were obtained by Eckstein and Fremy. On the other hand, the blood was analyzed by Mr. Busk, about the same time, in three well- marked cases of scurvy that occurred on the “Dreadnought” Hospital-ship, and in all of them the fibrin was in excess of the normal amount, the least being 4.5, and the greatest 6.5 parts per thousand. In perfect accord with Busk’s results, were the analyses of the blood of five scorbutic females, communicated in a note to the Academy of Sciences, in 1847, by Becquerel and Rodier. In no case was the fibrin diminished, but in some it was sensibly increased. In a subsequent case, Andral found that the fibrin, instead of being less, exceeded the physiological mean, reaching 4.4 parts, and he concluded that a diminu- tion of this element was not a necessary and constant occurrence, but only an effect, a result of prior morbid modifications, and a consequence which was produced more or less frequently according to the severity and duration of the disease. Parmentier and Deyeux found the blood of three scorbutics to resemble inflammatory blood, in respect to fibrin, while Frick obtained in one analysis 7.6 parts of fibrin, and Leven 4.3 parts. In mild cases of scurvy, neither the color, the alkalinity, nor the coagula- 1 Essai d’liematologie pathologique.