559 CONDITIONS CALLING FOR AMPUTATION. amputation, but did not close the stump until the flap was already covered with granulations. The earliest double-flap amputation (if we except Ilelio- dorus’s operation on the fingers), appears to have been practised by Ravaton,1 a French surgeon, about the year 1739. He applied this method of operating to the thigh, making first a circular incision down to the bone, and supple- menting this by longitudinal incisions in front and behind, making thus two square, muscular, lateral flaps, at the point of junction of which the bone was then divided. Vermale2 modified and improved this procedure by mak- ing the flaps of a rounded or somewhat oval shape, and by forming them by transfixing the limb with a long knife and cutting from within outwards. La Faye’s suggestion3 to use a knife curved on the flat that it might better slip around the bone, appears more ingenious than practically valuable. The flap operation, in one or other of its forms, was soon adopted by other surgeons, and with various modifications was finally brought into ordinary use through the example mainly of Liston and Guthrie in England, of Du- puytren, Roux, and Larrey in France, and of Klein and Langenbeek in Ger- many. All the various forms of amputation which have been since employed, may be regarded as varieties of these two principal methods, the flap and the circular. Conditions calling for Amputation. It is not intended, of course, in the following paragraphs, to enumerate and describe all the various contingencies which may determine a surgeon to resort to amputation. There is hardly any form of injury, or variety of dis- ease, capable of affecting a limb, which may not, under particular circum- stances, whether as regards the constitution and hygienic condition of the patient, or the individual and peculiar features of the special lesion, necessi- tate a resort to this operation. All that is meant to be done here is to bring together, in a compendious way, brief references to the more important con- ditions which, as a rule, render imperative the removal of a limb, so that the reader may obtain, as it were, a bird’s-eye view of the subject, and may thus be enabled to realize to what a vast diversity of cases the “humane operation” of amputation is applicable. Avulsion of a Limb.—In the first place, it can be readily understood that when any considerable part of an extremity has been torn off and entirely separated from the body, there is commonly no alternative to immediate amputation. The operation may indeed be said to have been already effected by the force which caused the injury, and the surgeon’s part is merely to trim off the hanging shreds of tissue, and put the wound in such a condition that it may heal more readily, and that the resulting stump may be of better shape and more useful than it the process of repair had been entirely abandoned to the efforts ot nature. Even though the part be not altogether separated, if it be hanging merely by integument and fascia, the great vessels as well as the bone and most of the muscles having been divided, the surgeon’s duty is to amputate. A few authentic eases are no doubt on record in which small portions of the body, tips of the fingers, or bits of the nose or ears, have been re-applied after complete separation, and have become reunited; but even these restorations are, in this climate at least, so rare, that their possi- bility may be practically disregarded ; while in respect to the cases which we 1 La Faye, loc. cit. p. 174. Le Dran, op. cit. p. 564. 2 La Faye, loc. cit. p. 175. Le Dran, op. cit. p. 567. 3 Loc. cit.