THE VASO-MOTOR NERVES. 13 again become cool; they must, accordingly, have again acquired a vascular tone in spite of the paralysis and loss of sensation. I consider this case only hypothetically in man, because I have only experimented on dogs. But I know that persons whose spinal cords have sustained complete lesions of con- tinuity in the lower dorsal region, have cold lower extremities during the course of the disease. Whether that which has been proved with regard to the hind-paw of the dog holds good for all other regions of skin and muscle, has not yet been ascertained; but, for reasons which I cannot explain here, it is probable that elsewhere this condition is also present. With reference to man, I hope that clinical observations will clear up this question. The vaso-motor nerves are divided according to their function into two groups: those, irritation of which contracts the vessels, and those, irritation of which dilates them. The former, called vaso-constrictors, normally produce a certain tone of the bloodvessels, and hence exert a continual influence on the distribution of the blood and on the fulness of the bloodvessels. In the supposed case of injury of the spinal cord and subsequent curable hypersemia, I, of course, had in mind only the vaso-constrictors. Their antagonists, the vaso-dilators, do not, as far as at present known, exert a continual influence; they act under certain conditions only, when they receive a special stimulus. The vaso-constrictors are dominated over by ganglionic cells (centres) of the spinal cord, and especially of the medulla oblongata, which plays so important a part in this function, that it for a long time was supposed to contain all the centres of the vaso-motor nerves, on which it was believed, on the other hand, that the spinal cord had no influence at all; but this supposition has not been verified. I, in particular, have shown1 that on the boundary line between the cervical and dorsal portions of the cord there are also located important centres for the vaso-constrictors. The nerve-centres which dominate the constricts rs also control the blood pressure. This fundamental law of physiology we owe to Carl Ludwig and liis pupil Tliiry.2 When the nerve-centres send out powerful impulses, and the vessels consequently become very narrow, the blood cannot flow out of the aorta readily. But since the heart pumps fresh quantities of blood into the aorta, the tension of the walls (i. e., the blood pressure in the aorta) must rise. When, however, the nerve-centres do not send any impulses, or only weak ones, then the bloodvessels dilate, the blood flows out of the aorta readily, and its tension must decrease. Exactly the same thing occurs here as in every system of pipes or rivers. When the channels of discharge are obstructed, the pressure on the lateral walls above the seat of the obstruction rises. A second fundamental law, the enunciation of which we likewise owe to C. Ludwig3 and his pupils, tells us that the bloodvessels of the abdominal viscera are the principal regulators of the blood-pressure. The bloodvessels of the abdominal viscera, that is to say, have so great a capacity, and by dilatation and contraction can increase or diminish their contents to such an extent, that they act like a mighty reservoir. If this reservoir is wide open, it can contain so large a portion of the total amount of blood that the rest of the organism becomes anaemic. An animal with complete paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves of the abdominal viscera, therefore, bleeds to death, as it were, into its own abdominal bloodvessels. The nerves which influence these vessels lie principally, as already remarked, 1 Wiener mediz. Jahrb. 1878. Still earlier, one of my pupils (Schlesinger), and at the same period Vulpian, had shown that it could not he the medulla oblongata alone which controlled the vaso-constrictors. The full proof, however, of the existence of such centres in the spinal cord was brought forward in my paper just quoted. 2 Wiener Sitzungsberichte, 1864, Bd. 49. 8 Arbeiten aus. d. physiolog. Anstalt zu Leipzig, 1867 u. ff.