512 MINOR SURGERY. Fig. 84. soon as the syringe is full, the piston is attached, and the nozzle is in- serted into the canula, the stopper and the stylet having been taken out. The blood, how, is slowly injected by forcing home the piston. In order that more blood may be easily abstracted for another injection, the supplier should be directed to keep the opening in his vein closed with his thumb or linger till the syringe is cleansed and prepared for receiving another supply. The suc- cess of this operation depends upon the expedition with which it is per- formed. Not more than two minutes should be permitted to intervene be- tween the reception of the blood in the syringe and its introduction into the recipient’s vein; otherwise, coagulation of the blood is liable to take place, which would seriously embarrass the future steps of the operation. Allen’s Apparatus.—Mediate transfusion is commonly effected in this city (Philadelphia) by means of an apparatus that was first suggested by Dr. J. G. Allen, and subsequently modified by Dr. T. G. Morton and the writer. The apparatus consists of a blood-can; a strainer, either metallic or linen; a graduated glass syringe holding five or six ounces; a curved canula with its point bevelled on the convex side; a brush, either made of fine wire or of fresh broom-corn, and a lancet or sharp-pointed bistoury. The blood-can has two compartments, an outer for hot water, and an inner, conical in shape, and extending down into the former, for the reception of the blood as it flows from the supplier’s vein. To the side of the can is affixed a clinical thermo- meter, the curved bulb of which projects into the hot-water chamber; there is likewise a short tube communicating with this chamber for the introduc- tion of hot water. The conical wire strainer is made to fit ac- curately the conical blood-cham- ber. A short piece of flexible tubing is used to connect the nozzle of the syringe with the canula. (Fig- 84.) In the employment of this apparatus, the first step is to fill the outer chamber of the blood- can with water at a temperature of 110° F.; should the temper- ature fall below 100° F. during the performance of the opera- tion, more hot water at the former temperature should be added. The syringe should be kept in hot water till it is required. The supplier’s vein should now be opened, as in venesection, and, as the blood escapes, the blood-can with the conical strainer should be held in a convenient position for receiving it. Before the blood in the can begins to coagulate, it should be slowly stirred with the wire brush to separate the fibrine; and from time to time the brush should be cleansed in warm water to keep it free from coagula. If desirable, the abstraction of the blood and its preparation for injection may be attended to by an assistant in an adjoining room, while the surgeon himself lays bare the recipient’s vein and inserts the point of the canula. If a sharp-pointed canula be used, its point may be thrust through the thin wall of the vein into its cavity; but if the canula be blunt, it is a safer plan to place a ligature around the vessel on the distal side, and make an opening in it for the introduction of the canula. As soon as the fibrine of the blood in the can is separated, the strainer is removed, and with it all fragments of clot and foreign matter, leaving nothing but defibrinated blood in the can, surrounded with hot water. The syringe Allen’s transfusion apparatus, modified.