DEGENERATION OF THE TISSUES. 61 impulses to growth, even if not always more powerful, still appear to he more lasting and more varied than in inflammation. Are these impulses perhaps dependent on residues of intra-uterine life? on residues that were latent, and now have become active from some favorable circumstance? are they perhaps due to particles carried away by the blood or lymph stream, which adhere somewhere, and, as it were, infect the tissue? Finally, is it perhaps the general condition of the fluids which favors the new formations? These are all questions which have until now only been speculated upon. Degeneration of the Tissues. Fatty Degeneration of tissue can he brought about in two ways:— (1) In certain cells fat is developed, and collects to form a drop. This drop of fat presses the cell-body towards the periphery; of the body, only a peripheral zone, surrounding the drop and also containing the nucleus, remains. The normal prototype of this form of degeneration is shown in the collections of fat in the subcutaneous tissue, and in other normal deposits of fat.1 Patho- logical types of fatty tissue are presented in the case of the lipoma, and in the excessive development of tatty tissue in normal localities. (2) The normal type of the second form of development of fat presents itself in the epithelium of the mammary glands. Here the fat is deposited in the form of granules, or little drops, which, relatively to the cell, are very small. The entire cell, at every depth, appears tilled with granules. During the flrst days of lactation, portions of the cells containing fat-granules separate from their matrix, and are expelled with the milk. Such bodies are called colostrum-corpuscles. Similar fatty degenerations probably occur in the cells of the sebaceous glands. Certain processes in the hepatic cells are on the boundary line between a normal and a pathological production of fat. Here, too, the fatty change consists in the appearance of small fat-granules within the liver-cells. But the hepatic cells may contain a normal quantity of fat- granules, and may also undergo extensive pathological fatty degeneration. In a state of disease, all cells and all living derivatives of cells may undergo fatty degeneration. The essence of fatty degeneration consists in a production of fat by the cell. The cell can transform constituents of its own body into fat, or, differently expressed, constituents of the cell can be converted by chemical decomposition into fat (and into some other products of decomposition). The cell can at the same time continue to live. It is true, the fat-granules act as foreign bodies on the cell-body; hence the presence of fat-granules probably involves a dis- turbance of function ; but it does not exclude a continuation of this function. If considerable portions of the cell are transformed into fat, the disturbance naturally increases. Under no circumstances, however, can wre consider the fatty cell, or of course the fatty muscle, as incapable of recovery. The fat- granules can be absorbed ; they can also be expelled, and the remaining living matter can continue to perform its function and can even recover entirely by means of tissue-metamorphosis. I say it can, if the conditions are favorable ; especially if the cause of the progress of the fatty degeneration ceases to act. If the fatty degeneration makes headway, it may finally interfere- so much with the performance of function as to cause death; if, for example, it im- plicates the substance of the heart. 1 It- is a matter of dispute whether adipose tissue is a tissue of its own kind, or whether it is altered connective tissue.