ANAESTHETICS AND ANESTHESIA. 428 ducing death by syncope. Administered by Mr. Clover in one thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven cases, it caused one death; and on three other occasions the patient was only saved by inversion and artificial respiration. Trichlorethane, C2II3C13, exists in two isomeric forms—(a) trichlorethane, CH2C1.CHC12, and (3) trichlorethane, CH3.CC13. (a) Trichlorethane, Monochlorethylenchloride. Sp. gr. 1.422. Boiling point, 115° C. (239° F.). A liquid, having an odor like chloroform, formed by the action of chlorine on dichlorethane, or by the action of clilorovinyl (C2H3C1) on perchloride of antimony. It is readily decomposed with potassa into potassic chloride and dichlorethylene. The vapor of a few drops is sufficient to pro- duce rapid anaesthesia in frogs, pigeons, guinea-pigs, and rabbits. Bogs weighing live or six kilogrammes are rendered insensible in three to seven minutes by the vapor of thirty to fifty drops of the liquid. The duration of such anaesthesia varies from eleven to nineteen minutes. I11 one case, reported by Tauber, of Jena, the pulse was considerably accelerated; slightly in three others. In no instance was it retarded. Respiration was either accelerated or but very slightly diminished. The kymographion exhibited no diminu- tion of blood-pressure. (3; Trichlorethane, Monochlorethylidenchloride, Methylchlorojorm. Sp. gr. 1.372. Boiling point 75° C. (167° F.). A liquid, resembling chloroform in odor and appearance, produced by the action of chlorine on monochlorethane. With this substance, Tauber, of Jena, has recently experimented upon animals and upon himself. Frogs and rabbits were quickly rendered insensible with- out special modification of either circulation or respiration. A dog, weighing five or six kilogrammes (ten or twelve pounds), was rendered completely in- sensible for nineteen minutes by the vapor of forty or fifty drops of the liquid. Respiration was somewhat accelerated during the period of most profound insensibility, but the pulse was very slightly disturbed. The vapor of two hundred drops (twenty grammes), administered to Dr. Tauber, caused anaes- thesia in five minutes and thirty seconds. It continued for ten minutes. There was no preliminary stage of excitement. Respiration remained quiet and normal. The pulse did not exceed 84, and continued undisturbed throughout the experiment. Recovery was attended with vomiting, and with a feeling of discomfort which lasted for an hour. Aran’s Ether, C2H3Cl3-f C2II2C1 v Ether ancestheticus, is a mixture of tri- chlorethane and tetrachlorethane. Its specific gravity varies from 1.55 to 1.6. Its boiling point is about 130° C. (266° F.). In appearance and prop- erties it resembles chloroform. Monobromethane, C2IT5Br, Etliylic bromide, Bromide of ethyl, Hydrobromic ether. Sp. gr. 1.4733. Boiling point, 40°.7 C. (105°.26 F.). Vapor density, 3.754. A colorless, neutral liquid, with ethereal odor and a disagreeably sweetish taste. Sparingly soluble in water, it mixes readily with alcohol and ether. It is ignited with difficulty, giving a green flame without smoke, evolving a strong smell of hydrobromic acid. Its vapor is powerfully anaes- thetic, producing insensibility in animals in less than a minute. Its effects pass off very rapidly. Circulation and respiration are profoundly modified by its depressing action. To adult human beings it may be administered upon a napkin in doses of four cubic centimetres (one drachm) at once. The excessive volatility of the liquid requires almost total exclusion of air during inhalation. Owing to the instability of the substance, it is liable to become contaminated with carbon bromide and free bromine. Great irritation may be excited by inhalation of these impurities. This fact, in connection with the recent occurrence of death in two instances of its use, has led to the almost total abandonment of the drug as a general anaesthetic.