( 479 ) MINOR SURGERY. BY CHARLES T. HUNTER, M.D., DEMONSTRATOR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA ; SURGEON TO THE EPISCOPAL HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Surgical Dressings. Surgical Dressings are generally considered to comprise various materials peculiarly adapted to protect wounds, absorb discharges, serve as vehicles for applying medicinal substances to wounded or diseased structures, aid in retaining injured parts in position, etc. The substances usually employed for these purposes include lint, charpie, tow, oakum, cotton, paper-lint, and jute. Lint.—Two varieties of this material, domestic and patent, are used for surgical dressings. Domestic lint consists of pieces of old linen thoroughly cleansed either by being washed with soap and water, or boiled with a weak lye, and having one surface rendered downy by scraping up the threads, or cutting them at intervals, with a knife. Old linen, treated in this way, is peculiarly adapted to absorb secretions and to protect very delicate and sensi- tive surfaces. Patent lint is manufactured in large quantities by machinery: hence it is more uniform in shape and consistence than the domestic variety, but much more expensive. This lint has a soft tomentose surface that renders it un- suitable for direct contact with granulating or wounded parts ; for the fine filaments adhere to the granulations, and thus become a source of irritation. When thickly encased with some unctuous preparation, such as the oxide of zinc ointment, it forms an admirable protective covering. Charpie consists of bundles of straight threads, varying in length from two to four inches, and obtained by ravelling square pieces of linen. Expe- rience has demonstrated that charpie made from new linen is softer and pos- sesses greater absorbent properties than that made from old. Charpie ought never to be placed on an unprotected granulating surface, or directly in contact with a recent wound, as is not infrequently done ; in either case its presence will excite injurious irritation. Since the introduction of oakum and other less expensive materials as surgical dressings, charpie is not as much used as formerly, especially in hospitals and dispensaries where it is necessary to con- sult economy. Tow is occasionally made use of as a padding for splints, and as an exterior dressing, but rarely as an application for uncovered wounds. An elegant pre- paration of earbolized tow has recently been introduced, and has been found to be serviceable in many ways.