438 OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. ment, in these respects, bears greatly upon ultimate success or failure. It is the observance and enforcement of all precautions, before, during, and after an operation, which give the sufferer his best chances, and it must never be forgotten that the latter is entitled to all the chances which operative skill and the exercise of sound judgment can possibly afford. It is a mistake to look upon the failure of an operation simply as an untoward accident to the operator; we must recollect that there is another party to the transaction, the patient; and if harm befall him, either from deficient skill, lack of pru- dence, or too biased convictions on the part of his surgical attendant, surely there is matter of self-reproach for him in whom he trusted. If, on the other hand, the surgeon acts on full consideration of the facts attending each individual case, with a wide knowledge of the general practice of others, with proper reliance on his own experience, and an earnest seeking after his patient’s good ; then indeed he has done all that man can do, and may humbly await the issue from the hands of the Almighty Arbiter of all things human. While it is incumbent upon the surgeon to do much that is merely mani- pulative in character, it must not be forgotten that, besides the operation, he must perform many duties which demand the exercise of the highest func- tions of the medical mind. He must be a good diagnostician, medical as well as surgical, and possess an accurate knowledge of morbid anatomy, and of general pathology. He must, above all things, exercise skill in searching for, and in detecting, visceral disease, for here a broad field has been opened to the view of the practical surgeon. In times past, it was perhaps too much his custom to confine his study to that only which was evident to the eyes and touch. He did not trouble himself greatly with those morbid processes which were developing in organs, it might be somewhat removed from the local seat of disease, but which were often related to or influenced by the proposed operation. Pathology has, however, made fast onward strides, and no operation can now be undertaken without a careful examination of the internal organs; since the presence of lurking visceral disease, often unsus- pected, may forbid or modify surgical interference. The surgeon must more- over be a good therapeutist, and an expert clinical observer—ever prompt to catch the passing indication, ever ready to interfere on just occasion, or, with wise caution, patient to hold his hand. He should be sharp-witted in emer- gencies, and quick in his decisions; for- the tide of surgical accident runs fast, and if he falter or delay, precious moments may be forever lost. In short, the surgeon should be an Accomplished Physician as well as a Skilful Operator, possessing a comprehensive knowledge of diagnosis, pathology, and therapeutics; with less he can neither do justice to his patient, nor satisfy the demands of his own conscience. Preparation for an Operation. A certain amount of risk to life accompanies all surgical interference. It is present in a marked degree in serious operations, and is not absent from those of apparently the most trifling character. Death may and has followed the simple introduction of a sound, the slitting of a contracted meatus, or the ligation of an apparently insignificant pile. It is, therefore, fit that the surgeon before operating should bear in mind the possibility of an untoward result, and that he should seek by every means in his power to guard his patient against unfavorable chances. Ilis wisdom and judgment will be never more apparent than in the care and skill he may exercise in preparing the patient for operation. Each case should be to him a study, and he ought