318 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. Nothing justifies the belief that injury may produce scurvy. Cases have been reported in which a wound, occurring in a subject of healthy appearance, assumed a scorbutic aspect, after which the other symptoms of the disease soon showed themselves; but this can be explained as well by saying that, at the period of injury, the scurvy did not exist, and that it was developed as an intercurrent disease; or that it was yet latent and ill-defined, and that, after the manner of other diatheses, it first showed itself at the seat of injury as at the place of least resistance. In confirmed scorbutics, wounds sensibly aggravate the general condition, and contribute to the decay of the organism, by primary or secondary loss of blood, and by prolonged suppuration. LEUCOCYTHEMIA. The number of cases hitherto collected is still very small, but is already sufficient to prove the disastrous influence exercised by leucocythssmia upon accidental or operative wounds. The most frequently observed complication, at the site of injury, is rapid or slow hemorrhage, which is almost always uncontrollable, and almost inevitably leads to death. This hemorrhage does not appear after capital operations only, but follows also insignificant wounds, such as biting the tongue, paracentesis abdominis, the application of leeches, lancing the gums, etc. The few patients operated upon who do not perish from loss of blood, die of phlegmon, phlebitis, pyaemia, or peritonitis, espe- cially after splenotomy—an operation, which has now been practised at least fifteen times upon leucocythaemic patients, and which has, under these cir- cumstances, always been followed by death. Certain more or less conclusive observations lead to the belief that injuries may by themselves engender leucocythaemia. Splenic contusions have been cited in the first place—cases in which the hypothesis is acceptable; then a fracture of the thigh, a sprain, the extirpation of tonsils in a state of chronic inflammation ; in a word, injuries not primarily affecting the spleen. With regard to the latter cases, at least, it appears more probable that the leueo- cythsemia pre-existed, hut in a mild and latent condition, and that the injury aggravated and rendered it evident. This stimulating action is moreover demonstrated by a case in which a wound of the leg gave rise to peritonitis starting from the diseased spleen. Injuries sometimes shake the organism of leucocythaemic patients to such a degree that they immediately sink into a rapidly fatal collapse. Hemophilia. It would certainly be surprising not to find in the list of constitutional conditions bearing a relation to traumatism, this condition, peculiar to cer- tain individuals, in whom the blood tends to escape by every channel, and in whom there is no tendency to the production of spontaneous haemostasis. However, before recalling what is contained in the books, I experience a certain embarrassment, because, in my tolerably large experience, I have never seen a case of haemophilia; because the subjects in whom I have myself observed this tendency to bleed, and this difficulty of haemostasis, have been merely patients suffering from hepatic disease, malaria, diabetes, scurvy, leucocythaemia, etc.; because among the published observations the majority are very incomplete from a clinical point of view as well as in reference to pathological anatomy; because, moreover, these observations become more and more rare in proportion as we become better acquainted with diathetic hemorrhages; because, to express my meaning in one word, I am in no