QUALIFICATIONS OF A SURGEON. 437 cannot so vively express anything, as that which is subjected to the faithfull eyes and hands.”1 This knowledge, once acquired, must be kept up by dis- sections repeated from time to time, and especially ought the surgeon to refresh his memory when about to venture upon any new or delicate pro- cedure. Many blunders happen during an operation from a defective ac- quaintance with anatomy ; none because the operator knows too much. Re- peated practice upon the cadaver cannot be too heartily enjoined ; and this will at all times prove of advantage to the surgeon, whatever his years may be, and however ripe his experience. The demeanor of the surgeon is a matter of no little importance. On the eve of operation, his every look and movement are closely watched, and a patient will often derive much comfort from noting the composure of the surgeon, his coolness and evident self-reliance. In his manner he should be kind and sympathizing, dignified, and free from ill-placed levity. Above all things let him try to foster in his patient that faith and confidence in him, which go so far to soothe the spirit and strengthen the resolution of one about to place himself in the surgeon’s hands. It is not, however, alone upon the patient and his friends, that the happy effect of the surgeon’s mental composure is produced. It influences too his assistants and the lookers-on at the operation ; and these are sometimes many, for the work of the operator is often done in public, where he stands in full view of critical eyes, and not unfrequently exposed to carping tongues. The surgeon ought not to present a mere out- ward composure ; but in reality he should possess it. Sangfroid, intrepidity, and the power of self-support are absolutely essential to his success. Ilis presence of mind should never desert him. He must train himself to think, during operation, of his work, and of his patient; and not of the bystanders. If things go wrong, he must preserve his coolness, and not suffer himself to fall into that condition of mind which has been described as “ surgical deli- rium”—in which the operator loses his head, and strives to extricate him- self from embarrassment by ill-directed and often aimless efforts. For it must be here observed that, while the surgeon may, year after year, pass along with little seriously amiss in his operative practice, yet, sooner or later, trouble and accident may, and indeed must, ccme. Startling vicissi- tudes, catastrophes which can neither be anticipated nor prevented, are sure to happen. These are the incidents of human life, and the professional man who deals so largely with life itself cannot expect to escape them. It is im- possible to conduct an active surgical practice for a long period without meet- ing with occurrences which Paget has justly called “ surgical calamities with every care it is not possible to foresee such contingencies, and the sur- geon must stand prepared to meet them as they come. Let him then train himself in habits of independent thought, action, and self-reliance. Let him stand strong in the best knowledge of his profession, and in the firm determi- nation to act for his patients’ good,and for that alone; then, if ever these dreaded calamities shall fall upon him, his shoulders will prove strong enough to bear them. The success of the operation is undoubtedly influenced by manual dexterity in its performance, but beyond the mere mechanical skill are other factors. The proper selection of cases, due 'preparation for the operation, and careful nurs- ing, feeding, and after-treatment, have very much to do with the welfare of the patient. Indeed it may be said that the exercise of a wise and sound judg- ' The works of that famous chirurgeon Ambrose Parey, translated out of Latin, and compared with the French by Th. Johnson. Book I., Chap. II. London, 1(J49.