532 PLASTIC SURGERY. others, the stranger germs are extremely few in each grafted particle, hut they form the centres or foci of a cell-formation which gradually but surely spreads and closes over the reluctant surface. History of Plastic Surgery. Though we cannot fix the exact period at which plastic surgery was first practised, yet we may be sure that it must have followed with a kindly hand the barbaric use of power and the cruel resentment which were displayed at an early period of the world’s history, especially in India, in the mutilation of offenders by the lopping off of ears and noses. And in ancient Egypt, also, Rhinoplasty was known and practised, as Galen declares, and as may readily he believed if wre accept as indirectly confirmatory, the Ebers Papyrus, “the Hermetic Book of Medicines of the Ancient Egyptians, in Hieratic Writ- ing,” of unknown authorship. And it is also interesting to observe that in the “Secret Book of the Physicians” the science of “the heating of the heart and the knowledge of the heart” are referred to, as taught by the priestly physician, Nebsect. Ebers believes the Papyrus to have been a com- pilation made by the College of Priests, at Thebes; and assigns the writing to the middle of the sixteenth century, or more precisely to the year 1552 B. C. This date, as is commonly supposed, was prior to the departure of the Israelites, and, according to generally accepted chronology, Moses, in 1552 B. C., was just 21 years of age.1 The same author, Professor Ebers, of Jena, in an original work “ Ouarda,” in which he assures the reader that all his statements are based upon authority, besides furnishing evidence of the high position reached by Medicine in the reign of Rameses II., alludes to its divi- sion into twenty-one specialties, such as are accepted and practised at the present day, and gives prominence to the thoroughness with which the science and art were studied and practised by the priest-physicians of a great era in Egypt’s history. The Roman Hippocrates, Celsus, who livid about one hun- dred and fifty years before Galen, in the reigns of Augustus, Tiberius, and Caligula, speaks of the restoration of the ears, the nose, and the lips, by the aid of the neighboring skin, and also of reparation of the prepuce. Galen says hut little of the treatment of mutilations, and this is copied by Paulus AEgineta and others of his followers. Antyllus mentions coloboma and its repair. And Malgaigne, in his introduction to Fare’s Surgery, refers to an Italian family, named Branca, as conservators of the art of restoring noses during the middle ages, and as having invented new methods. In the year 1597, at a time when learning received a new impetus, ap- peared the very remarkable and erudite work of Gaspar Taliacotius, entitled “ De curtorum cliirurgia per insitionem,” in two volumes, published in Venice. In this treatise, Tagliacozzi, besides describing minutely the opera- tions for restoring or repairing multilated lips and ears, gives special promi- nence to his original method of reproducing noses, in which the flap is taken from the arm, and which has ever since borne the title of the Taliacotian or Italian operation to distinguish it from the Indian or Oriental operation, in which the flap is obtained either from the forehead, the cheek, or even the nose itself. The Indian operation was first put in practice in London, in 1814, by Carpue, and afterwards in Germany by J. F. Dieffenbach, who, at the end of the first third of the century, gave great development to the sub- ject, to which he drew attention by the publication of his experiences and of his improved methods. Subsequently, in France, Blandin, Jobert (de Lam- 1 Charles Rice, in N. Y. Daily Tribune, Nov. 9, 1875.