477 CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER OPERATIONS. by death, the disease often making its appearance many days after the recep- tion of the wound, and in some instances long after its closure and apparent healing. Erysipelas is a not infrequent forerunner of death after operation, and must be regarded as a constitutional rather than as a local affection. It has long been the custom to look upon it as contagious ; but it is probable that this view is too exclusive. The doctrine is fast gaining ground that this dis- ease is not really contagious, but that it is the result of a true septic poison depending on many circumstances. It, too, at times seems to be epidemic, occurring as it does, particularly in this country, during periods of rapid changes in the weather, and during atmospheric vicissitudes. It is apt to be induced by dampness and cold, and to make its appearance in persons of broken-down constitution. Its treatment is essentially a supporting one, and general tonics and iron are to be relied upon, rather than depleting agents. Closely allied to erysipelas, are those forms of diffused and spreading cellvlitis and inflammation of the veins and absorbents so often observed in hospital, following wounds and operations, on those of debilitated constitution, and on drunkards. In many of these cases, surgical therapeutics avail little, and death from exhaustion ensues, after delusive intervals of hectic more or less prolonged. Indeed, exhaustion from long-continued discharges, whatever may be their origin, may be assigned as a not infrequent cause of the fatal termination of operations. The disastrous influences of Pyaemia and Septicaemia require hut a passing mention here, since they form the special subjects of another article. These forms of blood-poisoning are met with most often in patients of depraved system, or in the aged, or in those who have been broken down by overwork, mental or bodily. They cause a large proportion of the deaths after opera- tions, and from their fatal consequences demand the closest study from the operating surgeon.