TRAUMATIC OR SURGICAL FEVER. 455 nutrition of the plant is suspended, and the reverse process takes place in the exercise of its function of respiration, oxygen being absorbed and carbonic acid being given off, but in quantities so small as scarcely to demand con- sideration. There is, therefore, from a chemical point of view, no question as to the propriety of having living plants and flowers in moderation in a sick room, if proper ventilation of the latter be looked to. ./Esthetically considered, nothing can be more delightful and cheering to a convalescent than their presence, since they are always lovely in themselves, and doubly so in their happy influence on a sick man’s mind. Traumatic or Surgical Fever. After most operations, especially if they be of any magnitude, the patient suffers from more or less febrile disturbance. This is known as surgical or traumatic fever, and generally makes its appearance a few hours after the operation, or during the ensuing night, or on the following day. It varies greatly in intensity; at times it is very slight, and at times sharply charac- terized from its inception. The patient is at first restless and uneasy, tosses about, and complains of heat and thirst, with more or less headache ; the face flushes at times greatly, the pulse is quick and tense, the skin feels hot and dry, there is no appetite, but much thirst, and the tongue becomes dry and furred. If the fever runs very high, there may be some mental disturbance; the patient is a little flighty, and in extreme cases even delirious. The tempera- ture of the body is increased, and rises to 102° or 103° Falir., sometimes to 104°. The secretions are disturbed, the urine is scanty and high colored, and there is commonly a general exacerbation of all these symptoms in the latter part of the day, or during the evening. In ordinary cases all these symptoms lessen about the third or fourth day, and gradually pass away; their subsi- dence being marked by the increasing comfort of the patient in every respect. Traumatic fever rarely lasts more than a week, and usually only three or four days ; it often assumes a somewhat remitting character. All persons are not equally liable to the occurrence of this fever, nor is its violence always in proportion to the gravity of the operation or injury. As already stated, it may be altogether absent; in an aggravated form it may follow the slightest operation. Malarial surroundings, exposure, intemperance, mental disturb- ance, and debilitating influences generally, probably act as predisposing causes to its development. The subject of traumatic fever has been carefully investigated by Billroth, who, as the result of his observations, declares that this fever, like any other inflammatory fever, depends upon a poisoned state of the blood, induced by the absorption or passing of various materials from the seat of inflammation, or the surface of the wound. At the same time, it must be observed that the fever in question sometimes makes its appearance very early after operation ; before, indeed, sufficient time has elapsed to permit de- composition to have taken place, which forms so essential a part in the theory of blood-poisoning. It would, therefore, seem likely that the shock of operation, the manipulation of the tissues, the nerve lesions, the swell- ing and resulting tenderness, have just as much to do with the develop- ment of surgical fever as the more obscure causes which have been adduced. Left to itself, this fever in the vast majority of cases soon diminishes, and, by the time suppuration has been fairly established, ceases altogether. Should it reappear, it carries with it the suggestion of fresh local mischief, suck as the formation of abscesses, or the extension of the inflammatory process to other parts, neighboring or removed—possibilities which demand careful investiga-