OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. 436 The surgeon should be adroit, and possessed of manual skill and dexterity. He must he a good workman, and his work must be thorough and exact. He should guard against precipitation, for in every mechanical art hasty work means bad work; and in operative surgery this is sure to be the case, and. it is here that the old motto, “ festina lente,” so strongly applies. A hasty operator will often do too much, and yet leave undone something which may affect the issue of the case. Every operation must, therefore, be performed with deliberation and in an orderly manner. Each step ought to be well thought over and planned beforehand; and whilst there must be no undue haste, neither should there be unnecessary delay. The universal use of anaesthetics has long since removed from operations alike the necessity and temptation of hurry; at the same time, it has imposed upon the surgeon the duty of quiet, prompt procedure, in order that the patient may be released from the anaesthetic influence as soon as possible. A knowledge of anatomy is essential to the operating surgeon. By some its importance has been decried, and it has been regarded as a stumbling-block, rather than an assistance, to the operator. For them, the old maxim of “cut and tie what bleeds” has been sufficient. But at the present day, in view of the frequent performance of operations of the most delicate nature, and of the invasion by the knife of regions once sacred and undisturbed, where the only safeguard is the surgeon’s anatomical knowledge, it is useless to enter upon any discussion of this subject. It may then be assumed, not only that the surgeon should possess a knowledge of anatomy, but also that this infor- mation must be of a peculiar kind. The mere acquaintance with muscular origin and insertion, with the direction of vessels and nerves, and the like, is insufficient. The operating surgeon wishes, and the claims of his art demand, more than all this. His comprehension of anatomy must embrace the tissues in disease as well as in health. He must know them topographically, singly, and in groups and layers, and must be able to recognize them when trans- formed by morbid action. An appreciation of tissues is in fact one of the very highest and most practical of the accomplishments of the surgeon, and by this is meant the power to recognize the living tissues under all circum- stances. It seems, in truth, as if there were two varieties of anatomical knowledge : the knowledge of the anatomy of the dead subject—cadaveric anatomy—as seen by the pure anatomist; this is well enough in its way, and answers sufficiently as a basis for the other, to wit, a knowledge of clinical anatomy, which alone can serve the purposes of the surgeon—the anatomy of the living tissues. It is only this knowledge of applied anatomy which confers upon the educated and practised operator that skill which leads up to great suc- cesses. It is this alone that enables him to recognize tissues, however masked, or changed, or hidden. It is this which gives his hand dexterity, and almost endows his knife with vital consciousness. 'Without this power of discrimi- nating tissues, the operations of the surgeon must be at best gropings in the dark ; with it, on the other hand, they will be characterized by skill and certainty, by safety for his patient, and by satisfaction for himself. The acquisition of this knowledge of anatomy is no easy matter; it cannot be gathered from books, nor can it be arrived at to best advantage by the ordi- nary methods of dissection. It can only be learned by dissections practised by regions, and with a true surgical intent, and these must be repeated again and again ; for, as Pare tells us in his chapter on “ Chirurgicall Operations,” “Thou shalt far more easily and happily attain to the knowledg of these things by long use and much exercise, than by much reading of Books, or daily hear- ing of Teachers. For speech, how perspicuous and elegant soever it be,