CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER OPERATIONS. 475 operation, is the pathological condition found in many of these cases, and its ill effects may be sometimes obviated by the free administration of ammonia, either by the mouth or by intravenous injection. Delirium.—Death may also take place after operation, or after injury, by the setting in of delirium, which usually presents itself as an acute affection in one of three forms. In the first place, it may appear as acute traumatic de- lirium, attended by symptoms of a highly inflammatory character. The pulse is then quick and full, the face flushed, the skin hot and dry, the eyes suffused, the restlessness and jactitation extreme, and the mental condition varying from incoherent babble and disjointed talk up to the most violent busy excite- ment. In another class of cases, and by far the most common, the affection is a true delirium tremens, characterized by all its well-known symptoms, tre- mors, delusions, and fancies. This form of delirium occurs in persons of in- temperate habits, and in those who have been recently drinking. It is also met with in such as have been only moderate drinkers, and in those who have discontinued their habits in this respect for some time. The occurrence, after operation, of either of these forms of delirium is a most serious complica- tion, and although many patients do recover from them, the prognosis is always grave, and not a few perish. One peculiarity of patients suffering from these invasions of delirium is their indifference to pain, and their con- stant tendency, and often persevering attempts, to do themselves bodily injury, by tearing off dressings, leaping from the bed, and inflicting violence upon themselves of every form. The treatment in such cases readily suggests itself. In the first place, such restraint must he enforced as is necessary, with constant watching; and for the acute inflammatory delirium, cold to the head, local depletion, and the cautious use of sedative narcotics. In the traumatic form of delirium tremens, the ordinary remedies for the treatment of this affection must be resorted to, such as bromide of potassium, capsicum, chloral, and opium, employed singly or in combination as may appear most appropriate. In many cases the hypodermic mode of medication will be the only one possible. The great indication is to procure sleep, and the therapeutic efforts in this direction must he steadily carried out until the result is obtained. There is one other form of delirium after operation which is occasionally encountered. This is the traumatic nervous delirium observed in females of hys- terical tendencies, and in persons of both sexes of broken-down constitutions, or in anaemic conditions. It is sudden of invasion, and is attended with men- tal hallucinations of almost every sort; usually of a quiet kind, but sometimes also of a noisy nature. This affection is one of weakness rather than of a true inflammatory nature; the pulse although frequent is feeble; the skin is not hot, but is often covered with a cold perspiration, and at times tremors are present. The prognosis in such cases is unfavorable, and death results in the majority of cases. The treatment consists in the employment of stimulant and soothing narcotics. Thrombosis and Embolism.—Patients occasionally perish after operation from the formation of a heart clot, or from embolism; sometimes the coagula form in the large vessels, and then by their detachment give rise in turn to heart clot and secondary embolic plugging. There is always a predisposition to undue coagulation of the blood, after excessive bleeding, and this is greatly favored by the occurrence of fainting. The patient at these times must there- fore be kept quiet, and cautiously moved, nor should he be allowed to sit up hi bed, or to attempt any muscular exertion for fear of the development of fatal syncope.