MINOR SURGERY. 482 ing from one extremity to the centre, where a diamond-shaped piece is cut out. The retractor of three tails is of the same size as the preceding, but has three tails instead of two. The former is used in amputations of the arm and thigh. After the flaps have been fashioned and the soft parts divided, the retractor is applied by passing the tails one on either side of the bone, and crossing them; then by drawing the tails up on one side and the body of the retractor on the other, the flaps are held out of the way of the saw, and pro- tected from the bone-dust. The three-tailed retractor is employed in ampu- tations of the forearm and leg; the middle tail is passed through the inter- osseous space, and the other two are carried around the bones. To get the greatest advantage from the use of wet dressings, in cases in which heat and moisture are indicated, it is necessary that the dressings shall be covered with some material impervious to water. The following substances possess this property to a greater or less degree:— Oiled Silk and Gutta Perciia or Rubber Tissue, are the substances most commonly used in private practice; the former in this country and the latter in England. Although these two substances make the best water-proof covers for moist dressings, yet their great cost, and the supposed risk of their be- coming media of contagion if used more than once, have led to the substitu- tion of other less expensive articles, viz., waxed paper and water-proof paper. Waxed Paper was first suggested and used in the Pennsylvania Hospital, by Dr. A. Plewson.1 It is prepared by placing a sheet of tissue paper on the surface of melted wax in a broad, shallow pan, and, before the paper sinks in the wax, slowly drawing it over the edge of the pan, in order that the super- fluous wax may be removed from its under surface. The sheets of paper thus treated are suspended on cords for a few hours in a cool place; after which they are ready for use. A sand-bath is employed to keep the wax in a liquid state. Water-proof Paper.—Dr. W. W. Keen, of Philadelphia,2 has devised a method of preparing paper by which it is rendered impervious to water and air. The paper is treated with a combination of rubber and paraffine which makes it impermeable to water for a period of seventy-two hours, and it may be used with the hottest dressing that can be borne. Unlike waxed paper, its water-proof property is not in the least affected by being creased or crumpled, nor will it absorb either water or the discharges from a wound. It is asserted by some surgeons that in hospitals where large quantities of water-proof material are concerned, it has been found more economical to use water-proof paper than oiled silk or rubber tissue, even when the former is not used a second time. In order that wounds may be treated strictly antiseptically, two substances, made impervious both to the discharges from the wounds and to the surround- ing media, are essential: one to protect the wound itself from contact with the dressing ; the other to prevent putrefactive germs from gaining access to the dressing as it becomes saturated with the discharges. The Protective.3—This material is to be placed in direct contact with the wound. It consists of oiled silk coated on both sides with a thin layer of 1 Pennsylvania Hospital Reports, 1868, p. 389. s Medical and Surgical Reporter, vol. xl., 1879, p. 331. 3 MacCormac, Antiseptic Surgery, p. 135.