) AMPUTATIONS OF THE TOES. 649 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Amputations of the Toes. Amputation through the Phalanges of tlie toes is very seldom resorted, to, it being almost always better to disarticulate through the interphalangeal or metatarso-phalangeal joint. If the operation were thought necessary, it could, be conveniently done by cutting antero-posterior flaps from without inwards, and dividing the bone with strong cutting pliers. Amputation at any of the Interphalangeal Joints is best done by the plantar flap method, as in the case of the lingers. The joint is opened from the dorsal surface, and the flap formed, after disarticulation, by cutting from within outwards. >, Amputation of a Toe at its Metatarso-phalangeal often required than either of the operations described above. It may be done by either the lateral flap or the oval (en raquette) method (Fig. 182), the latter plan being the best. The most important point to be remembered is that the interdigital web is placed about half way between the joint and the extremity of the toe, and that hence the articulation is situated higher than it appears to be. The point of the oval should invariably be placed upon the dorsum of the foot—even in the case of the great and fifth toes— so that the cicatrix may not be exposed to friction from the shoe. The knife is entered from half to three-quarters of an inch above the joint, and made to cut first in a longitudinal direction to the line of articulation, and then carried obliquely, first on one side and then on the other, to the edge of the inter- digital web, thus forming the branches of the oval, which are eventually joined by a transverse incision across the plantar surface. The tissues being dis- sected a little upwards from the bone, disarticulation is effected by forciby flexing the toe and cutting the extensor tendon transversely, and then severing the ligaments. The wound is closed so as to make an antero-posterior scar, protected from injury by the adjoining toes. In amputating the great toe, care must he taken to keep the incisions low, so as to provide ample cover- ing for the head of the metatarsal hone which is apt to project in a troublesome manner; it is sometimes recommended that it should be cut off with strong forceps, but its removal is undesirable as it furnishes a very important point of support for the arch of the foot. Joint is more Amputation of toe by oval method.