AMPUTATIONS. 592 the other in connection with amputation of the left upper arm at its middle. Besides cases of double major amputation, I have twice had occasion to remove portions of both feet (in one instance the whole foot, on one side) for gangrene resulting from frost-bite; in both of these cases the patients recovered. The particulars of all the cases referred to are compendiously shown in the an- nexed Table:— Table Showing the Particulars of Eleven Cases of Double Synchronous Amputation. No. Sex and Age. Nature of Lesion. Operation. Result. Date. Remarks. 1 Male aged 5 years Crush of both lower extremi- ties Amputation of right leg at middle (circular) and left thigh at upper third (modi- fied circular) Died in 3 hours 18(55 Episcopal Hospital. 2 Male aged 35 years Crush of both lower extremi- ties Amputation of both legs at knee (flap) Died in 8 hours 1866 do. 3 Male adult Crush of both upper extremi- ties Amputation of right arm at middle (circular) and left arm at upper third (oval) Died in 3 days 1867 do. Injuries of head also. 4 Female adult Frost - bite of both feet Amputation of both feet through metatarsus (an- tero-posterior flap Recovered 1871 Episcopal Hospital. 5 Male aged 49 years Frost - bite of both feet Amputation of right foot through metatarsus (flap) and left foot at ankle (Syme) Recovered 1876 do. 6 Male aged 15 years Avulsion of right and crush of left lower ex- tremity Amputation at right hip- joint (flap) and of left leg at middle (modified circu- lar) Recovered 1879 University Hospital. 7 Male adult Crush of right leg and left foot Amputation of right leg at middle (modified circular) and left foot at ankle (Syme) Died in 9 hours 1879 do. 8 Male adult Crush of both lower extremi- ties Amputation at right knee (flap) and of left leg at lower third (modified cir- cular) Died in 4 hours 1880 do. Injuries of head also. 9 Male aged 32 years Crush of right arm and left foot Amputation at right slioul- der-joint (Larrey) and of left leg at lower third (circular) Died in 4 days 1880 Episcopal Hospital. Injuries of head also. Slight re- actionary hem- orrhage. 10 Male aged 25 years Avulsion of right and crush of left upper ex- tremity Amputation at right slioul- der-joint (Larrey) and of left arm at middle (modi- fied circular) Died in 11 hours 1880 University Hospital. Injuries of head also. 11 Male adult Crush of both lower extremi- ties Amputation at right knee (flap) and of left leg at upper third (flap) Recovered 1880 University Hospital. Operation by Dr. H. R. Wharton. It is, I think, better in these synchronous amputations, provided that the circulation is thoroughly controlled with tourniquets, to complete both ope- rations, as far as the knife is required, before pausing to ligate the divided vessels; and, under any circumstances, both limbs should be removed before either stump is dressed. Before the days of anaesthesia, it was sometimes recommended that both operations should be done actually at the same moment,' by separate surgeons, it being thought that if the patient’s attention