296 SCURVY. movements, and a sense of suffocation or breathlessness. The general circula- tion is impaired; the heart acts feebly; the arteries are contracted; and the pulse is slow, small, and compressible. The mental powers are equally impaired. The face wears a haggard and depressed expression; gloomy forebodings of the future, and disinclination to turn the attention to the usual mental pursuits, are markedly present—a dis- inclination that subsequently merges into complete apathy or indifference to passing events, or even into somnolency. Pains in the legs, joints, and loins, are early manifestations; they closely resemble those of rheumatism, for which they are often mistaken. The pains are not exacerbated at night, but, on the contrary, are often more severe by day. blot unfrequently, lancinating pains in the muscles of the chest are complained of. The sleep is not disturbed until the disease has made some advance, when it becomes broken, and no longer refreshing. The appetite is usually unimpaired in the early periods of the disease, and even throughout its course, the condition of the mouth alone preventing the patient from in- dulging his desire for food, even, as is occasionally noticed, to voracity. There may be a yearning for certain articles of diet, principally those of an acid character; but, on the other hand, some eases present exactly the reverse condition—a disgust for food in general, or for particular varieties; or the appetite may be vacillating, at one time craving, and at another repelling nourishment. There is no noticeable change in the normal thirst, unless on the occurrence of febrile complications, when it is increased. The gams do not, at this stage of the disease, present the livid, swollen appearance of fully- developed scurvy, but, on the contrary, are generally paler than usual, with a slightly tumid or everted line on their free margins, and are slightly tender on pressure. The breath is commonly offensive, and the patient complains of a bad taste in the mouth. The tongue is flabby and large, though clean and pale, and the bowels are inclined to be sluggish. This preliminary state is followed, after varying intervals of time, by cer- tain local phenomena which are quite characteristic of the disease. There is a marked tendency to extravasation of blood into the tissues, either sponta- neously or upon the infliction of slight injuries or wounds. Fibrinous exuda- tions occur sooner or later into the gums, which become darkened in color, inflamed, swollen, spongy, and which bleed upon the slightest touch, finally separating from the teeth. These results are due in part to the considerable amount of pressure to which these parts are subject in mastication, and it is a conspicuous fact that the gums of edentulous jaws remain free from these changes. In a few cases the gums are but slightly altered, perhaps cedema- tous only, or pitting upon pressure; or they become the site of bloody extra- vasations. In severer examples, in later stages of the disease, these various alterations progress to an extreme degree, and the extravasation is so volumi- nous that the gums present great, fungous, lacerable excrescences, which may finally break down into a suppurating, brownish, and very fetid mass, which communicates to the breath an odor of a most offensive character. The rest of the mucous membrane of the mouth remains unaltered, or at most slightly ecchymotic. Samson and Charpentier,1 in a large number of cases saw this but once, and in one of Leven’s2 cases the fungous growth invaded the palatal mucous membrane, extending to the anterior pillars of the fauces. The sali- vary glands are enlarged and swollen; the tongue is imprinted with the form of the teeth, while the latter become encrusted with tartar, and more or less concealed by the exuberant gums, or, becoming gradually loosened from the alveoli, finally drop out. The morbid process may even extend to the bone 1 Etude sur le Scorbut, 1871. 2 Une epidemie de Scorbut, p. 28, 1872.