OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. 464 some persons, a pulse may beat 120 or 140 in a minute, and yet indicate no trouble if the respiration do not exceed 20 or 25. The same condition may be observed in some old persons, who may still be good subjects for operation. This plan of checking the pulse by the respiration is also to be followed in cases of individuals recovering from sharp hemorrhages, when the pulse is often quickened, while the respiration is proportionately slower. Habitual irregularity of the pulse, not accompanied by valvular changes or degeneration of the heart tissue, need not be seriously feared in estimating the chances of operation. In giving due weight, however, to the effect of organic cardiac disease, it must be remembered that, in addition to its immediate influence, it is often indicative of grave changes in other portions of the .system, and notably in the arteries. Thus aneurism may be present, or degenerations in the arterial walls, which may forbid or modify the performance of an operation. Arte- rial degeneration, not in itself a matter of great importance in minor opera- tions, or in those upon the face or trunk, becomes a serious affair in amputa- tions, and in the ligations of large vessels. Not only does this condition favor secondary hemorrhage, but it also predisposes to defective reparation and extensive sloughing. Indeed, it is one of the causes which produce the high rate of mortality after amputation of the lower extremities in old persons. Lungs.—The question of operating when there is coincident disease of the lungs, is one of the gravest questions which can be presented to the considera- tion of the surgeon, and, unfortunately, it is one of everyday occurrence. Du- ring acute inflammation of these organs, of course there can be no hesitation as to the proper course. No operation should be then performed unless for the most exceptional and urgent causes. Interference with the pulmonary circulation is too serious a matter to be lightly encountered after operation, and the inconveniences incident to a forced position, difficulty of breathing, and the rack of coughing and expectoration, must necessarily exert a harmful influence, locally as well as constitutionally, upon the issue of any surgical operation demanding quiet and rest. The matter, however, assumes a different aspect if tuberculosis is present; when the patient is suffering from phthisis, and at the same time from some other ailment or casualty necessitating sur- gical interference. If he has received an injury or compound fracture, de- manding amputation, there can be no hesitation. His only salvation may lie in the amputation of the limb, and the condition of his lungs has, for the time, nothing to do with the decision as to the propriety of operation. It may affect his after chances, but the necessity of the case demands that he shall run this risk, and there is no alternative. The case is far different, however, when the operation to be decided upon is one of expediency, rather than of absolute pressing necessity, as, for example, the removal of a tumor or hemorrhoid, the amputation of a limb fora scrofulous bone or joint, or the division of a fistula. The operation in these instances is one which in ordi- nary states of the system is highly proper, and which ought to be done. Is it right to attempt it upon a phthisical patient ? The answer to this question is not in reality as difficult as it seems at first sight, and is based upon a careful balancing of the patient’s chances of comfort and life. In the first place, the surgeon ought to make a thorough examina- tion, physical and otherwise, of the condition of his patient, in order to deter- mine whether the phthisis is, in Paget’s words, “ active, acute, and progres- sive,” or “passive, chronic, and suspended.” If it be the former, no operation of magnitude should be attempted, since the course of the disease would be probably hastened, and the patient’s life shortened by the shock of operation, the subsequent febrile disturbance, and the possible establishment of a second