99 TRAUMATIC OR INFLAMMATORY FEVER. dally in determining the seat of an abscess. As pain is a common symptom in other and non-inflammatory affections, its value as a symptom of inflam- mation is to be determined in many cases by the coexistence of other corrob- orative signs. Impairment, or' more or less Entire Abolition of Function, is almost always present when a part, or an organ, is the seat of serious inflammation. The function of the eye is suspended in iritis; in mumps there is dryness of the mouth on the side of the parotid gland affected, from arrest of its secre- tion ; the voice is lost or impaired when the chordae vocales are involved in the local inflammation in a laryngeal catarrh; muscle contracts with difficulty when inflamed, and its contraction is accompanied by peculiar and severe pain. The “stitch in the side” of a pleurisy impedes respiration, and the ex- udation in pneumonia, if sufficiently extensive, extinguishes this function. In peritonitis, the diaphragm contracts imperfectly, and the respiratory move- ments are limited to the thorax. In short, in every severe local inflammation there is a certain degree of interference with function throughout the whole economy, and this is especially marked in connection with the condition of fever, which, under such circumstances, is rarely absent. Locally, the conditions of textural life are altered in a greater.or less degree by their participation in the changes which constitute inflammation. These changes involve, as we have seen, the conditions of local blood supply, and therefore nutrition is disturbed as well as innervation. They include at first increase of local heat, and arrest of glandular and follicular secretion, the re- sult, apparently, of the intense active hypenemia, causing dryness. In certain phases these earlier changes are well shown in simple cutaneous erysipelas. After this disease has run its course in the scalp, the epidermis exfoliates, and the hair falls, showing that the function of the hair bulbs has been sus- pended. It is to be noticed, however, as illustrating the characteristic quality of the inflammatory condition—the absence of an intrinsic destructive ten- dency—that old surface-ulcers, which have been lingering in an indolent con- dition and resisting means of cure, often get well promptly after an attack of erysipelas involving the integument around them. The explanation of this not uncommon incident is due, apparently, to the enormously increased quan- tity of blood brought into the parts during the inflammatory crisis, which, whilst it interrupts temporarily the growth of cuticle and hair, seems to incite a purely reparative effort in the tissues involved in the pre-existing lesion. The ultimate tendency in all tissues when involved in inflammation is, as we know, to revert to the embryonic condition, as a preliminary stage to recon- struction; and the parts involved in an indolent or languidly granulating ulcer, having already attained this stage, in a degree, are appropriately stimu- lated, by the incidentally increased blood supply accompanying an invasion of cutaneous erysipelas, to take on a new and successful effort at recon- struction. Short of complete reversion to the embryonic condition, that is, the state of “ indifferent” or “ granulation” tissue, there are endless phases of local textural change resulting from inflammation which are daily recognizable by the clinical eye. These changes affect inflamed parts variously, as regards their bulk, their consistence, and their general aspect and quality. Traumatic or Inflammatory Fever. As a symptom of inflammation, fever, in some degree, is rarely absent after a wround or injury of any gravity; and its more common form is known