27 THEORY OF INFLAMMATION. has been raised) that I was deceived, that I did not prepare the specimens properly. Those parts of the inflammatory focus, it was argued, which exhibited no normal cornea-corpuscles at all, I had stained imperfectly. "Where I supposed that I had seen corpuscles which had been changed by the inflammation, it was said that I had been dealing with lifeless, and therefore changed, cornea-corpuscles. Where I asserted that I had seen multi-nucleated amoeboid corpuscles, produced from the cornea-corpuscles, it was argued that I had been deceived by white blood-corpuscles which had coalesced. If I spoke of an increase of nuclei, they were explained as the lifeless, broken- down nuclei of the old cells. The thickening of the capillaries, however; the sending out of new processes; the numerous nuclei which were scattered about in their walls; these were all reliable indications that inflammation was accompanied by an active tissue-metamorphosis. Heiv bloodvessels and off- shoots of the same cannot migrate. But, in the mean time, the migration theory had been too favorably re- ceived to permit of influencing its believers with arguments. And this great favor was due, in part, to its simplicity. It was convenient for the clinical teacher and pathological anatomist to be able to enunciate the foundation of all pathological histology in a single sentence. They might say to them- selves that histology was really superfluous for them. If they only knew that the white blood-globules migrated, penetrated the tissues, and appeared there as pus-corpuscles, they thought that with these few propositions they had acquired all that was of real importance. On the other hand, the doctrine of the tissue-metamorphosis, as I shall call my theory, was at that time (in the year 1869) still in a sorry plight. I and my pupils had seen only a rudimentary portion of the metamorphosis. In principle, we had scarcely proceeded farther than Virchow’s doctrine; for we did not advance more than the fact, which had been denied by Cohnheim, that nuclei and cells did divide. Only as regards the mode of division did I bring forward a new explanation, which corresponded to the state of the cell- doctrine of that time. I showed, namely, that the cell-division did not pro- ceed as taught in Virchow’s theory. For this theory taught, that at first the nucleus divided into two portions; that the nuclei moved apart; that the cell then became biscuit-shaped; that the heads of the biscuit contained the new nuclei, and then separated. I showed, however, that the cells became amoe- boid before division. While the cells of the completed tissue, in consequence of the methods of examination of that period, appeared to remain in the tissue unaltered; in the commencement of inflammation, I said, they again begin their independent movements. I said, again begin, since in the embryo this capability of motion is possessed by all cells. Therefore I likewise said, that the cells return to their embryonic state. I showed, furthermore, that before division the cells were doubled up into a small mass, remained quiet in this condition for a time, and then divided by cleavage. As soon as the cleavage was over, the fragments crept asunder.1 I showed, moreover, that there was still another kind of division. I had seen cells which were torn into two pieces during their uninterrupted movements. These observations indeed taught us how pus-corpuscles were formed out of connective-tissue corpuscles, but they opened up the disagreeable prospect that we might be compelled to examine every tissue separately in order to ascertain if and how the formation of pus proceeded in each various type. But, moreover, the theory of metamorphosis was just as little suited to explaining the macroscopical (clinical) phenomena as the migration-theory. At the bedside we do not see any pus-corpuscles with the naked eye. We 1 Strieker’s Studien, etc.