249 TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. thin and red that it seems as if it must give way, breaking may often he pre- vented by thrusting an aspirator-tube through the normal tissues at some distance from the abscess, into its cavity, and drawing off the pus. The gen- tle pressure of a pad and bandage will prevent refilling. By this means not only is tedious suppuration avoided, but no appreciable scar remains. Scrofulous ulcers are often very difficult to treat successfully. They com- monly require stimulation, and frequent change of stimulation. One of the best applications is finely-powdered iodoform, not pure, but mixed with thrice its bulk of oxide of zinc or starch. The ulcer should be cleansed and dried, dusted over with the powder, and covered with a piece of soft rag or lint. Nitric oxide ointment of mercury [Unguent, hydrarg. oxidi rubri], black wash, and other similar applications, may also be advantageously em- ployed. But when the progress of an ulcer is very tedious, and its edges are undermined, I have often seen a marvellous improvement produced by freely cutting away the edges to the surrounding healthy tissues. The area of the ulcer is by this means widely extended, but healing generally rapidly ensues, and the remaining scar is far less unsightly than that which might be ex- pected from the healing of the ulcer as it existed before the operation. The treatment of enlargement of the glands is most unsatisfactory. The apparent cause of the enlargement may be removed, and the health improved by various constitutional measures, but the glands remain enlarged, or vary in size from time to time. No local treatment appears decidedly to influence their course. The action of counter-irritants is so uncertain that, although they are used, they often do more harm than good, appearing to excite rather than allay the unhealthy processes. The question of removal of such glands is scarcely more settled than the question of removal of tuberculous glands. ATIiere only one or two glands are enlarged, and the enlargement has existed for many months or years, operation may be practised with suc- cess; but the danger is ever present that the wound may heal indifferently, and be a source of more distress than the disease for which it was inflicted. The obstinate sores and sinuses connected with caseous cavities in glands, may best be treated, not by excision of the glands, but by opening up the wounds, and scraping carefully away the caseous material with a silver spoon or scraper. Lastly, it is sometimes advisable that the unsightly scars left by old scrofu- lous sores should be treated. More than once I have been applied to by young women, otherwise well-looking, Avhose necks were disfigured by nu- merous scars, the remains of scrofula in childhood. Thus prevented from obtaining good situations as servants or governesses, they are urgent for an operation. Nor is there any sufficient reason why, if all active signs of scro- fula have long ceased to exist, an operation should not be practised. The most prominent ridges may with advantage be removed, and deeply indented scars be raised by the operation recommended by Mr. Adams.1 1 Observations on Contraction of the Fingers, .... also on the Obliteration of Depressed Cicatrices, etc. London, 1879.