354 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL DIAGNOSIS. rynx—observing if there exist any elongation of the uvula, any hypertrophy of the tonsils, any enlargement of the pharyngeal glands, any post-palatine purulent secretion, or any swelling in front of the cervical vertebrae, the loca- tion of post-pharyngeal abscess from diseased bone. Inability to swallow solids, with return of the alimentary bolus, demands exploration of the oesophagus with appropriate bougies for the detection of stricture. Vomiting, when there has been a history of chronic dyspepsia, accompanied by loss of liesh, will suggest a careful examination of the abdomen for inter- nal carcinoma. Sudden attacks of vomiting, with pain and flatulence, attract the attention of the surgeon to the hernial passages. The appearance and the odor of the ejected matters must not escape observation, stercoraceous emesis always denoting intestinal obstruction from some cause. In determining the outline of the solid organs within the abdomen, and thus detecting alterations in their size, the surgeon resorts to manipulation and percussion. In the same way the form, of the organ .can be ascertained, as in displacement of the kidney, distension of the gall bladder or of the uri- nary bladder, and fibroma of the uterus. Accumulations of fluid within the abdomen, either cystic or peritoneal, are to be recognized by palpation, by use of the grooved needle, or by employment of the aspirating trocar. The differentiation of fluids taken from the abdomen, and their relation to special diseases, will be materially aided by observing their physical, chemical, and microscopical characteristics. The thin and light straw-colored liquids are generally peritoneal (ascites); the dark, thick, ropy, and gelatinous, ovarian ; and the clear, limpid, and spontaneously coagulating, fluids from the broad ligament. A characteristic cell is also said by Drysdale to be found in ovarian fluids. The divine discharges require to be scrutinized. Putty-colored dejections point to hepatic disorders, and are often found associated with an icteroid discoloration of the conjunctiva and the skin. The admixture of blood with the discharges will suggest ocular, instrumental, or digital exploration of the anus and rectum; since blood, and often mucus, may proceed from fissure, from hemorrhoids, from stricture, from carcinoma, or from syphilitic disease. The form of the feces may also reveal the existence of stricture, being in such cases small, flattened, angular, or round like pipe-stems. The character of pain (if present), and the period at which it is developed, will also aid in forming a diagnosis in cases of anal and rectal disease. For example, there is pain in defecation, both in hemorrhoids and in fissure; but in the former it is experienced chiefly at the time of evacuating the bowels, soon passing over and leaving only a sense of warmth for some time after, while in fissure the pain comes on at variable periods after defecation, and increases in se- verity for several successive hours. Tenesmus is a common symptom of colitis, but may be equally urgent as the result of a foreign body being lodged in the lower extremity of the bowel. When tenesmus is accompanied by frequent and small watery passages, it is often significant of rectal impaction. G-enito-urinary System..—The sexual systems of the two sexes play a very important part in the causation of both functional and organic disorders of the human body. Im potency, the loss of the venereal appetite, and unnatu- ral excitement, in the male, are conditions which demand for their proper understanding a critical inquiry into the state of the brain and spinal marrow, the constitution of the urine, the condition of the organs themselves, and the habits of the patient. The connection between priapism and spinal or cerebro-spinal injuries; between spermatorrhoea and nervous restlessness, with palpitation, dyspepsia, and loss of strength and spirits, will not escape the notice of the careful observer. Retraction of the testicle, and pain along