CONTAGION OF ERYSIPELAS. 165 ditions, wounds do not heal but are apt to be attacked with erysipelas or pbagedsena; the natural processes of cicatrization, by which a firm barrier is established between the lesion and the system, are interfered with; the germs of disease and the products of putrefactive change are absorbed ; and erysipe- las and septicaemia ensue. Besides the sources of infection now described, others may be mentioned, of which the following are examples. In Middlesex Hospital, London, it was observed that the only patients attacked with erysipelas in a certain ward were those who occupied two adjacent beds. After long searching in vain for the cause of this peculiarity, it was discovered that the pipe of a water- closet which ran behind the plaster of the wall at this place, was defective. It was repaired and no more cases of erysipelas occurred at the time. But ten years later, the same beds became again unhealthy with erysipelas, and the same remedy put an end to the disease. A perfectly similar case occurred in a Berlin hospital.1 Again, in the hospital at Rostock, it was found that those patients only who had recently undergone surgical operations were attacked with erysipelas. After various fruitless researches the pillows of the operating tables which by long use had become saturated with blood, fell under suspicion, and were replaced by new ones, after which no more cases of the disease occurred. The soiled pillows were then treated with hot water, and an extract procured, with which two rabbits were inoculated. One escaped unharmed; but the other was attacked with severe inflammation of the skin and connective tissue, which spread extensively and was accom- panied with blisters, gangrene, and fever, from which, however, the animal finally recovered. Contagion.—The origin of erysipelas which has been described, and its re- lations to puerperal fever to be noticed further on, would of themselves render the contagiousness of the disease probable. But direct clinical proof is also abundant that erysipelas itself is communicable by contagion. The case is well known, which is reported by Campbell,2 of a hospital ward in which the disease travelled from bed to bed in regular succession ; but the following illustrations of the same import should be impressed upon the mind of every physician and surgeon. During an epidemic of “ putrid sore-throat,” which prevailed in Dublin after an absence of more than twenty years, a lady was attacked with sore-throat and fever, and in the course of a few days erysipelas appeared upon her face. Her son, a robust youth of eighteen, who helped to nurse her, got “ a whiff of sickening air from her bed- clothes,” and immediately suffered from headache and fever. On the fourth day he complained of pain in the shoulder, followed by swelling under the pectoral muscles, which increased, and on the tenth day this region was covered with erysipelas which spread over the trunk. Bullae formed, succeeded by gangrene ; similar lesions affected the scrotum ; and death took place on the fifteenth day.3 In 1852, a man arrived in Platte County, Missouri, suffering from erysipelas-of the face. He was nursed by a farmer who himself fell ill just as his patient was beginning to improve. A second farmer who assisted in nursing both of the other persons, and slept in the same bed with them, was seized with the disease, and subsequently six other persons who helped to nurse the former patients were themselves attacked. Be- sides these, no other cases occurred in the neighborhood.4 Trousseau relates several instances of the contagiousness of the disease. In a cer- tain house, the person first attacked died, as did the nurse who waited on him, while 1 Berliner klin. Wochenschrift, 1868. 2 Zuelzer, Ziemssen’s Handbuch, Bd. ii. S. 416. 3 Graves, Clinical Medicine, p. 576. 4 New York Journal of Medicine, vol. x. p. 41.