RACHITIS. 252 allowance of beef-tea to the older infants, rachitis, unless of a mild type, has since been rare in this institution. The late Dr. John S. Parry, of Philadelphia, stated that at least twenty- eight per cent, of all the children, between the ages of one month and five years, who came under his observation in the Philadelphia Hospital during the three years preceding the publication of his paper, in 1872, were rachitic. This is certainly a larger proportion of those who present indubitably ra- chitic symptoms than occurs in any of the three New York institutions for children with which I have an official connection. In the New York Foundling Asylum, with its sixteen hundred inmates, and in the Bureau for the Relief of the Out-door Poor, where over eight thousand children are annually treated, rachitis is certainly less frequent than is indicated by the statistics of Dr. Parry. In Europe, from the testimony of many observers, both continental and British, rickets is very common among the families who seek medical advice in institutions of charity. Ritter von Rittershain finds that thirty-one per cent, of all the children who are brought to the Prague Medical “ Poliklinik,” are rachitic, and Prof. Henoch states that the propor- tion is equally large in the families of Berlin, who are in similar reduced circumstances. According to Dr. Gee, whose statement was, however, made as far back as 1867-68, of the patients under the age of two years, in the London Hospital for Sick Children, 30.3 per cent, are rachitic. Both Dr. Hillier and Sir Wm. Jenner not only allude to the frequency of rachitis, but state that it is the cause of many deaths in London families. It appears, therefore, that this malady, though not rare in the American cities where ill-fed and ill-housed families congregate, is less prevalent than in families similarly situated in Europe. The greater immunity in this country must be due to other causes besides difference in nationality, for the poor of the American cities are largely of foreign birth. But rachitis does not occur exclusively among the poor. Children of well- to-do families are also liable to it, provided that the conditions soon to be enumerated are present. Ignorance or disregard of the hygienic requirements of young children, and especially the use of improper diet, leads to the de- velopment of rachitis in wealthy as well as in destitute families. Merei, in his treatise on the Disorders of Infantile Development (London, 1855), states that in Manchester, where his observations were made, one child in every five, in families in comfortable circumstances, presented rachitic symptoms; and he believes that this cannot be much above the real proportion in “ the whole of the wealthy classes.” Rachitis, in its milder form, is not uncommon in affluent families in this country, the cause of the delayed dentition, fretfulness, and perspiration, not being suspected in many instances, as I have had opportunities to observe. Often family physicians are not consulted in reference to such symptoms, and when they are called in, so little attention has rachitis received on the part of many practitioners, that they are very apt to overlook the true pathological state which is present. Still, admitting the fact that many cases are not diagnosticated, I repeat that, though rachitis is not uncommon on this side of the Atlantic, its percentage of frequency falls below that observed in Eu- ropean cities, a fact which may be due to less crowding in their domiciles, and to a more liberal and better supply of food among the families of the poor in this country. Age at which Rachitis Occurs. Rachitis is, with few exceptions, a disease of infancy, commencing prior to the age of two and a half years. Now and then, it, or a state closely re-