AMPUTATIONS AT THE KNEE AND KNEE-JOINT. 663 tality-rate was “surprisingly small.” A different view has, however, been taken by other writers: thus Larger1 gives the figures of the supra-malleolar operation as 122 cases with 59 deaths, a mortality of no less than 48.3 per cent., while Legouest2 reports that in the French army, in the Crimean war, 47 cases gave 26 deaths, a mortality of 55.4 per cent., or somewhat larger than that of all leg amputations taken together. Amputations at the Knee and Knee-joint. By amputation at the knee-joint is meant a pure disarticulation ; in amputa- tion at the knee, a larger or smaller portion of the femoral condyles is also removed, and in this category are included the various special forms of ope- ration which are known as Carden’s and Gritti’s, and the “ supra-condyloid amputation” of Dr. Stokes. Amputation at the Knee-joint.—This operation, though briefly referred to by the older writers, and resorted to in isolated instances by Petit, Hoin, Brasdor, Richerand, Nathan Smith, of New Haven, and other surgeons, has only been accepted as a recognized mode of procedure for a little over fifty years, having been advocated and introduced into modern practice by Velpeau, whose first operation appears to have been performed in January, 1830. Dis- articulation at the knee-joint may be done by either the circular or the ellip- tical method, or by making anterior, posterior, or lateral flaps. The circular method presents no special advantage in this locality, and it is difficult of per- formance on account of the irregular shape of the part. The best operations in this situation are, I think, the elliptical and the anterior flap methods. Elliptical Method.—In this operation, which is known as Baudens’s, the surgeon begins his incision over the posterior part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, about an inch and a half below the line of the articulation ; cutting at first longitudinally downwards, the knife is then made to cross the front of the limb with a curved incision, concave upwards, and reaching two and a half or three inches below the tibial tubercle, thence passing upwards on the outer side to a point half an inch below and behind the head of the fibula, and finally across the back of the limb in a slightly curved incision, convex upwards, to the place of commencement. In the last part of the incision, the superficial muscles should be divided as well as the skin. The large anterior flap thus marked out is now dissected upwards, keeping the edge of the knife close to the bone, until the ligamentum patella is exposed; this is next divided transversely, and disarticulation then effected by cutting the lateral and crucial ligaments—the knee being forcibly flexed for the purpose— when finally the knife is slipped behind the joint, and the tissues of the ham cut through from within outwards by a single stroke. The popliteal is the only large artery divided, though several small branches usually require liga- tion also. The wound is brought together from before backwards, so as to furnish a semicircular cicatrix which shall be well protected behind the con- dyles of the femur. Anatomically, this operation should afford a better stump than any other method, but it is almost invariably found in practice that the retraction at the back of the wound is so great as to render its closure very difficult, and to cause so much tension upon the sutures as to endanger the vitality of the tissues. The anterior flap method preserves all its good features, and, by 1 Bulletin de la Soci4t6 de Chirurgie, apud Revue des Sciences Mgdicales, Oct. 15, 1880. ® Traite de Chirurgie d’Armfie, p. 734. Paris, 1863.