153 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. its efficient action in preventing re-accumulation of fluid in a granulating cavity, will furnish an example of drainage as a remedy for inflammation; for such a measure positively removes impediments to repair, and prevents the indefinite continuance of pus formation and other destructive symptoms. Experience teaches us by constant examples—in compound fracture as a very common one—how by a judicious change in position, say by suspending a limb, and by well placed incisions to receive drainage tubes, and thus to keep purulent cavities empty and to prevent pus from burrowing, pain and fever are relieved, redness and swelling disappear, and repair by healthy granula- tion and final cicatrization is secured. Revulsion and Counter-Irritation.—Revulsion, or derivation, is effected by exciting an afflux of blood to another locality in more or less immediate proximity to an existing inflammatory focus, and thus drawing the blood away from the latter, so as to affect its condition favorably. This remedy for inflammation is also called counter-irritation, and it might with equal propriety be described as substitution ; for it consists in artificially creating a controllable inflammation, with the object of cutting oft- the vascular supply—as by leech- ing, which is revulsive as well as depleting—from another inflammatory con- dition which is less controllable. The means employed for producing revulsion are various: blisters, setons, issues, the moxa and other forms of the actual cautery, are all available, and more or less useful. They are mainly applicable to the chronic forms of in- flammation, in which the more philosophical treatment by detection or re- moval of the cause which is keeping up the condition is not available. As an exception to this latter statement, great virtue has been claimed for the application of a large blister over the chest, in averting traumatic pleurisy. Vesication has also been much advocated in chronic diseases of joints, and blisters are generally applied, of full size, alternately, on opposite sides of the articulation. Sometimes, however, smaller blisters are preferred, and they are rendered less transitory in their effects by being prevented from healing, and forced to suppurate, by a succession of irritating applications, thus con- verting the blister into a permanent issue. Blistering behind the ear by means of vesicating collodion is a favorite revulsive in eye inflammations. Blistering the perineum has proved serviceable in chronic gleet and in certain prostatic affections of early manhood. The older surgeons attached great value to setons and issues in joint dis- eases. It is not many years since the insertion of a loop of caoutchouc behind the great trochanter, as a permanent seton, with cod-liver oil internally, and life in the open air, was considered the best treatment for hip-joint disease; and in comparison with confinement in bed in the horizontal position, pre- viously in vogue, it was certainly a great improvement. The pea issue was a favorite remedy of Astley Cooper and Valentine Mott. Firing, by means of the actual cautery, has been highly praised in chronic disease of the articulations. The modem facilities for using the actual cau- tery, and the employment of anaesthesia during its application, render it one of the most available, as it is one of the most effective, of the revulsives. The moxa, the favorite remedy of the elder Larrey, the fear of which no doubt prevented much malingering amongst the French soldiers, and the camphor moxa, one of its more recent substitutes, have given place to other forms of actual cautery. A dry surface eschar produced by nitric acid—the least pain- ful in its application of the potential caustics—and left without any dressing, constitutes a mild but not inefficient form of counter-irritation. In the ordi- nary succession of remedies in chronic inflammation, the different forms of