500 MINOR SURGERY. Starched Bandage.—The starch is first mixed with enough cold water to make it of the consistence of cream ; then, as the mixture is stirred, boiling water is gradually added to it till it becomes a clear, thickish mucilage, which is known as “ clear-starch.” The starch mucilage is painted with a brush, or smeared with the hand, over the outer surface of the bandages as they are applied to a limb. To give additional support, pieces of paste- board cut or torn of the requisite size and shape, and thoroughly soaked in starch, are sometimes placed between the layers of bandage. In order that there may be no liability to dangerous constriction of a part, only those bandages that have been washed and well shrunk should be used with starch. The starched bandage dries very slowly, requiring from twenty-four to forty-eight hours before it becomes firm. Gum and Chalk Bandage.—For this bandage, a mixture of the two sub- stances is made by adding to equal parts of powdered gum arabic and pre- cipitated chalk, enough boiling water to bring the mass to the consistence of cream. This dressing is applied in the same manner as the preceding; it requires only five or six hours to harden, and hence is to be preferred to the starched bandage. Silicate of Potassium Bandage.—When silicate of potassium (liquid glass) is employed to stiffen bandages, it is painted over the several layers of bandage with a broad brush. It takes about the same length of time to become firm as the starched bandage, and, unless washed bandages are employed, its use is attended with the same dangerous liability to strangu- lation of the limb. In consequence of the ready solubility of silicate of potassium, the bandage may be easily cut up with scissors after it has been softened by the use of warm water. Paraffine Bandage.—One disadvantage attributed to the foregoing fixed dressings is their liability to become offensive from the absorption of dis- charges, especially in cases of compound fracture. Mr. Lawson Tait claims that paraffine, in consequence of its non-absorbent property, is not open to this objection. Paraffine, which melts at from 105° to 120° F., is kept in a liquid state by being placed in a bowl floating in hot water; it may be most conveniently applied by passing through it flannel bandages of loose texture, as they are being placed upon a limb. In the course of five or ten minutes, the bandage will become firm, and, if it be deemed necessary, the dressing may be strengthened by brushing over it melted paraffine. Should the coating of paraffine crack, the damage may be easily repaired with a hot wire. Glue alone, as used by the late Mr. C. De Morgan, or in combination with oxide of zinc, as suggested by Dr. Levis, may be employed to make fixed dressings. It does not possess any decided advantages over the materials already noted, to compensate in any way for the increased trouble which attends its application. Revulsion and Counter-Irritation. It has been demonstrated by experience of the most positive character, that artificial irritations, under favorable circumstances, have a decided effect in modifying a great variety of morbid processes. The substances employed to excite external irritation are termed counter-irritants; and the