86 INFLAMMATION. faction. The presence of the vibrio septica begets putrefaction in a medium of animal matter by inducing a process of fermentation. It is asserted that the vibrios evolved from the germs first deposited upon the surface of a wound, die from exposure to the oxygen of the air, and afford a protection to the surviving germs beneath, which are thus enabled to germinate indefinitely. In the chemico-vital changes incident to the process of putrefactive fermentation thus begotten, certain poisonous combinations are formed. These are designated as septic poisons, and they are regarded as the source of the dangerous diseases which take their origin in wounds. The wound diseases thus produced comprise all the unhealthy and destructive forms of local wound inflammations, as well as the consequences of the ab- sorption of septic poisons into the general circulation, namely, septicaemia and pyaemia. This micro-organism, the vibrio septica, is considered to act as a poison, first, by spoiling the materials provided for repair, and thus inter- rupting the constructive process in a wound; and, second, by acting as a putrefactive ferment and elaborating septic poisons which cause the subse- quent destructive phenomena. ' These are the facts which Pasteur asserts that he has demonstrated, and upon them, mainly, Lister has based his antiseptic method of treatment for wounds, believing that they afford an adequate explanation of the mechanism by which destructive inflammation is caused by the agency of cryptogam ic parasites. The apparent success which has followed the practical application of the antiseptic methods in surgery, has invested these micro-organisms with much interest, and at the present time they are the subjects of patient and careful study in many quarters. Those who have pursued this study most success- fully assert that there are, probably, numerous other organisms possessing poisonous qualities, each of which has its own peculiar mode of action. This, in fact, has been recently demonstrated by Koch, a most patient and able investigator, whose statements are singularly lucid and apparently judicial in their fairness.1 This author, premising that generalizations of new facts frequently lead to mistaken conclusions, insists that, in the study of this subject, every individual infective disease, or group of closely allied diseases, attributed to bacteria, must be separately investigated. He holds that the bacteria capable of producing disease are limited in number, and that these pathogenic bacteria comprise different and distinct species ; that the only correct practical method of studying such bacteria as seem capable of producing constant noxious results, is by cultivation “ from spore to spore.” There is no better cultivation apparatus for pathogenic bacteria, he asserts, than the body of an animal. By this method, and the employment of certain improved optical appliances by which these particles which border on the invisible can be more readily and certainly recognized, this observer avers that he has demonstrated the certain existence of at least flve artificial trau- matic infective diseases. These are : septicaemia, in mice ; progressive destruc- tion of tissue {gangrene), in mice; spreading abscess, in rabbits; septicaemia, in rabbits ; pyaemia, in rabbits ; and, partially, erysipelas, in rabbits. His investi- gations show, also, that these artificial traumatic infective diseases, both as regards their origin from putrid substances, their course, and the results of post-mortem examinations, bear the greatest resemblance to human traumatic infective diseases. The most important demonstrated result attained by Koch, by using 1 Investigations into tlie Etiology of Traumatic Infective Diseases. By Dr. Robert Koch (Wollstein). Translated by W. Watson Cheyne, F.R.C.S. London, The New Sydenham Society, 1880.