373 TREATMENT OF SHOCK. moment, a relatively small amount of blood may save tbe patient’s life. But in shock, in which the vasomotor mechanism is almost, if not completely paralyzed, and in which the most serious symptoms, even death itself, may occur without the loss of a single drop of blood, the question is totally dif- ferent. Injection of more blood only increases the amount stagnating, and does nothing to raise the pressure. The limits within which vascular tension is independent of the amount of blood, are very wide. It has been suggested that in cases where the external jugular veins stand out prominently, and where presumably the right side of the heart is full of blood, venesection would be of some service, and might, by relieving, the dis- tension, stimulate the heart to fresh action. But this condition points to asphyxia, and not to shock; and in the face of the serious influence of acci- dental hemorrhage, can scarcely be advised. The heart is distended because it is paralyzed; not paralyzed because it is distended. The intravenous injection of ammonia has been tried in a few cases with sufficient success to warrant a repetition of the experiment; by this means Penfold1 probably saved a patient in extreme collapse from continuous purg- ing ; and Tibbits,2 after trying it unsuccessfully in a case of septicaemia, and another of hemorrhage, brought around by its aid a very severe case of rail- way injury, in which the pulse at the wrist was quite imperceptible, and the patient had already lost all power of swallowing. The quantity injected at one time should not exceed ten minims of the liquor ammonise fortior, and care should be taken not to send it into the subcutaneous tissue; the degree of dilution is not, according to Halford, material. [As pointed out by Dr. Richardson, ammonia, whether given in this way or by the mouth, both acts as a stimulant and is useful by maintaining the fluidity of the blood, and thus obviating the risk of heart-clot—a pathological condition found in most of the cases of so-called “secondary shock.”] There are three drugs, strychnia, belladonna, and digitalis, the use of which, from their action on the blood-pressure and the vasomotor nerves, has been particularly recommended during the continuance of shock, in the hope of relieving at least one, and perhaps the most prominent symptom. Of these drugs, the last named is perhaps the most hopeful, from the power which it has been shown to possess both over the heart and the arterioles, diminishing the rapidity of contraction of the former, and increasing its strength, while at the same time it stimulates the muscular walls of the latter. It has, indeed, been employed by Dr. Wilks3 for this purpose, in a case of shock following parturition: the patient was apparently in articulo mortis ; her limbs were cold; her body in a state of deathly, clammy sweat; the face was livid; no pulse was to be felt at the wrist; and a mere fluttering was heard when the ear was placed over the region of the heart. Brandy and ether had been em- ployed without any good effect, and, as dissolution was imminent, it was determined to try digitalis. Half-drachm doses of the tincture were given every hour; after four doses reaction set in, and after seven, complete recovery began. Dr. Lauder Brunton remarks on this case that a consideration of the encouraging results obtained can hardly fail to gain for digitalis a much more extensive application in cases of shock than it has hitherto received. Yet this mode of treatment does not seem to have been resorted to by others. Strychnia, which, like digitalis, may be given either by the mouth or sub- cutaneously, in cases of this kind, derives its chief recommendation from the result of experiments by Mayer4 and Prokop Rokitanski,5 showing the power 1 Australian Medical Journal, January, 1873. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, November, 1872. 3 Med. Times and Gazette, January, 1864. 4 Med. Jahrbucher d. k.-k. Ges. d. Aertze zu Wien, 1872. 5 Quoted by Brunton, Saint Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports. 1879.