528 MINOR SURGERY. testing American thermometers, at the observatory at Cambridge, Mass. Should it not be convenient to make the comparison with some standard, the variation may be approximately determined by taking the temperature of a healthy person. One thermometer should not be substituted for another in making a series of observations in the same case. The temperature may be taken in the axilla, the mouth, the vagina, or the rectum. For obvious reasons, the axilla is usually selected, although the mouth is equally convenient for taking the temperature. The rectum or the vagina should never be chosen for taking a thermometric observation when the other regions are accessible. Before taking the temperature in the axilla, all clothing encroaching upon this space should be removed, and any moisture that there may be on the surface wiped off. To raise the tempera- ture of the axillary space to that of the body, the arm should be kept close to the side of the chest for two or three minutes; if this be done beforehand, the instrument will not have to be left in place as long as it would otherwise. The bulb of the thermometer is then put in the centre of the axilla, well under its anterior margin, and the arm brought to the side of the thorax with the forearm across the body. The patient should keep his arm and forearm in this position for at least five minutes. In the case of an infant or a very feeble patient, the arm should be held pressed against the body. If the thermometer be self-registering, it may he removed and the position of the index noted, at the expiration of the time mentioned; otherwise the instrument must be examined before it is taken out of the axilla. If the thermometer be introduced into the mouth, the patient should be directed to keep his lips tightly closed around the stem of the instrument, and to breathe through his nose. Whenever a series of thermometric observations is made in a case of disease, it will be found convenient to use, for noting the daily variation, some form of register or chart which may be kept for reference. The fact that there is a normal, diurnal fluctuation in the tem- perature of a healthy person, which is not influenced by external circumstances, must not be lost sight of whenever an attempt is made to determine the effects of disease in causing variations of the bodily heat. In a state of health, the temperature steadily rises from morning till towards evening, after which it gradually sinks again till morning. There is a difference of from 1° to 2° F. between the morning minimum and the evening maximum. Exercise and the ingestion of food have the effect of raising the temperature slightly, but rarely more than one degree. The tem- perature in middle age is a little lower than in childhood, or in the later periods of life. Whenever it is essential to ascertain the amount of daily exacerbations of temperature, two observa- tions should be made: one in the morning between 6 and 8 A. M.; the other in the evening between 4 and 6 P. M. In practising surface-thermometry, instruments having bulbs of discoid shape, or drawn out in the form of a spiral or coil, are generally employed. In Fig. 97 is represented a convenient form of surface-thermometer; this instrument has a stem and graduated scale like the ordinary axillary thermometer, but its bulb is a glass coil, surrounded by a band of hard rubber which protects it from injury and prevents loss of heat. In some local- ities, as in the intercostal spaces and the vicinity of many joints, the ordinary axillary thermometer, owing to the shape of its bulb, can be used to better advantage than any of the surface-thermo- meters. To determine accurately the amount of variation in the Fig. 97. Surface ther- mometer.