182 ERYSIPELAS. and issue of the primary affection. To them, rather than to the next form to be noticed, should the term “ phlegmonous erysipelas ” be properly applied. Phlegmonous Erysipelas.-—The affection usually described as 'phlegmonous erysipelas is an erysipelas which originates most frequently in wounds that involve both the skin and the subcutaneous connective tissue, and which tends to diffuse itself in the latter and on the former, without being limited by the formation of an inflammatory abscess. It issues in suppuration or gangrene, or both at once, and according to its degree and type is attended with inflammatory or typhoid phenomena. The onset of the attack gene- rally presents in a high degree the premonitory symptoms which have been already described, and the part about to be affected feels tense and heavy. When the eruption appears, the skin is not of a uniform redness, but often darker streaks are visible along the lymphatic vessels, and the corresponding glands are enlarged and tender. The skin is very greatly swollen, Inot and hard to the touch, and very painful. By degrees the tension and hardness diminish, and give place to a boggy softness, with abatement of the pain. Meanwhile, underneath the skin the congestion has been followed by an exu- dation of pus and a softening of the connective tissue, as well as of the cutis. Sooner or later the skin becomes eroded, or is opened by incision, and gives issue to a large quantity of thin and fetid pus, of a gray or brownish color, and mixed with shreds of dead connective tissue that have been aptly com- pared to “ strings of wet tow,” to “the membranes of a young foetus,” to “ wads of wet chamois leather,” etc. The destructive process is much more active in the subcutaneous connective tissue than in the skin itself; whence it often happens that the latter is to a great extent undermined, and between it and the muscles, and among the latter, vast cavities are formed. A case is related in which the whole integument of the abdomen thus became detached from the muscles, without, however, destroying the vitality of any portion of the skin (G. B. Wood); but more frequently the loosened skin mortifies, and vast ulcers result, which are difficult to heal, and often lead to permanent contraction of the denuded parts. The general symptoms are apt to be severe, and include high fever and delirium; and when suppuration sets in, there is usually a chill, followed by increased fever, and often by depression, prostration, hectic sweats, diarrhoea, wasting of the tissue, and, in a word, by all the phenomena of pyaemia, including, in some cases, metastatic ab- scesses. The examples of arthritis complicating erysipelas are probably of this nature. Dr. John Ashhurst, Jr., has related 1 the case of a man who, without apparent cause, was attacked with erysipelas of the right lower extremity, accompanied with great swelling of the knee-joint. Although the general symptoms subsided, the joint re- mained enlarged for several weeks, and then gradually became smaller. Some weeks later the left knee began to swell, and subsequently an opening formed, through which pus was discharged to the amount of a pint at first, the discharge, however, not ceasing until the patient’s death, which was hastened by bed-sores. After death, it was found that both knee-joints were distended with pus, that the cartilages had nearly disap- peared, and that the ends of the thigh-bones were eroded. It may be objected that in this case the arthritis was the primary, the ery- sipelas the secondary, affection, and, indeed, this objection has been made to analogous cases (Gosselin); but the suppuration of the joints observed in pu- erperal fever, and the close relation of the latter disease to erysipelas, render probable the direct dependence on the latter of certain cases of arthritis. 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1865, p. 103.