520 MINOR SURGERY. an aspirator. Tlie two varieties of the apparatus in common use at the present time are designated by the names of the inventors, Dieulafoy and Potain. Formerly aspiration was confined principally to the evacuation of fluid collections in the chest; the instruments employed for this purpose w7ere the piston-trocar and the suction-trocar, the latter having been perfected by Dr. M. Wyman and Dr. Bowditch. These instruments are seldom used now, experience having demonstrated that, although simple in construction and easily managed, they are not as efficient as either of the two forms of apparatus previously mentioned. M. Dieulafoy’s aspirator consists of an exhausting pump, composed of a glass cylinder partially incased in metal; a set of sharp-pointed canulie of various sizes ; and two pieces of flexible tubing. The nozzle of the pump has a short tube connected at its side, at right angles, a stopcock at the junction controlling both tube and nozzle. (Fig. 90.) A canula is attached to the nozzle by one of the pieces of tubing, the other piece of tubing being connected with the side-tube, and its free end placed in a basin partly filled with water. The canula is quickly thrust into the cavity to be evacuated; and when the stopcock is turned so as to open the nozzle and close the side- tube, and the piston of the pump is slowly drawn up, the fluid rushes into the pump to fill the vacuum. On reversing the stopcock so as to close the nozzle, and pushing down the piston, the fluid is driven through the side- tube into the basin of water. These manipulations are repeated till the cavity is emptied. The other form of aspirator, devised by Potain, is a modification of the one just described, and is probably superior to it in many respects. . The parts of this apparatus are an air-pump; blunt canula) of various calibres, with blunt and sharp-pointed stylets; an India-rubber stopper perforated with two curved tubes, each having a stopcock; a bottle; and rubber tubing. (Fig. 91.) The stopper is conical in shape, and of a size rendering it adaptable to the necks of ordinary bottles varying in capacity from a pint to half a gallon or more. The bottle is first exhausted of air by the air- pump ; then the canula, inclosing the sharp-pointed stylet, being attached to one of the tubes in the stopper by a piece of flexible tubing, is pushed