82 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. of 200 or 300 diameters ii new picture in the swollen network of cells. "We see, namely, that the network of cells in the thickened region is divided into small fields by brown lines. In each of these spaces, moreover, we find either one or several small nuclei. Sometimes these nuclei are clearly defined without special preparation. But if this is not the case, we can always show them very nicely by again staining the lamella with hsematoxylon. The nucleated spaces are cells, the brown lines are the cell-outlines. Let us recapitulate: The lamella is here and there thickened. The network of cells is swollen. The basis-substance is reduced in extent. The cell net- work has become differentiated into smaller nucleated portions. Only one more step is necessary to complete the occurrence of suppuration. 'Whenever the basis-substance has entirely disappeared, the nucleated portions need only to fall apart, and the abscess is complete. The swelling and thickening of the tissue is surely only the expression of the swelling of the cell-network, for the entire mass consists only of basis- substance and cell-network. But the basis-substance disappears; therefore the swelling of the cell-network only can he proportionate to the swelling of the tissue. The swelling of the cell-network must accordingly cause the thickening and induration of the tissue. I purposely make use of the term induration to indicate inflammatory swelling, and to distinguish it from cedematous swelling, which likewise occurs in inflammations. Inflammatory swelling (the induration) corresponds with what physicians call infiltration; with what presents itself in cutaneous abscesses, for instance, as inflammatory hardness; as nodules. I remark at once that the infiltration may not neces- sarily be an inflammatory one. Lupus, for example, forms analogous infiltra- tions, manifested as nodules, and the nodule in the one ease as in the other is a preparatory stage to the destruction of the tissue. In fact, Jarisch has shown1 that the microscopical appearances of the lupus nodule correspond exactly with what I have observed in suppurative keratitis. The infiltration accordingly consists of a swelling of the network of cells. The greater this becomes, the more rigid is the tissue. Swelling is a phenomenon of growth. The growth of cells is of course only possible by means of the absorption of new matter, and this matter is most probably supplied by the blood, and we may well call it an exudation, in the sense of the older pathologists. In this sense it is ‘admissible to say that the swelling arises from an exudation. But for a comprehension of the process it is not indifferent whether the fluid (the exudation) trickles into the tissue, or whether it is absorbed there by the growth of a branched living body. The fluid which trickles into the meshes of tissues (as, for example, into the meshes of the subcutaneous tissue in the neighborhood of an abscess), can also produce a swelling; but this is a soft, doughy swelling. On the other hand, the cell-network which has become rigid by growth, is hard and forms a nodule. (Edema can he made to disappear by pressing, but the infiltration does not give way in this manner. As a rule, too, cedema disappears as soon as the height of the process is over; the portion of the nodule, however, which does not become disintegrated (as a rule the peripheral portion), requires for its complete retrogression many days, sometimes many weeks. Finally, the cedematous spots never (directly) suppurate; a portion of the nodule on the other hand is, as a rule, doomed to destruction. Inasmuch as the basis-substance dis- appears ; furthermore, inasmuch as the protoplasmic masses which arise from the swollen network of cells subdivide; and lastly, inasmuch as the products of division fall apart, the nodule (or the infiltration) is resolved, and the pus- corpuscles are the product of resolution. 1 Arcliiv f. Dermatologie, 1880.