190 ERYSIPELAS. sion from the face, or extending to the air passages or to the brain, from the throat or from the scalp, always involves danger. Phlegmonous and gangren- ous erysipelas are dangerous in proportion to their extent, and to their tend- ency to spread without limit. Suppuration in the form of abscesses involves no special danger. As a common exciting cause of traumatic erysipelas is alcoholic intemperance, so does this habit also render the issue of the disease less favorable ; it tends to favor the extension of the inflammation, and to increase the risk of suppuration and gangrene, as well as to bring about that typhoid state of the system which constitutes one of the greatest dangers of erysipelas. Erratic erysipelas is not severe in itself at any one time, but by its recurrence and its duration for many weeks, or even months, may gradually exhaust the patient’s strength. In the epidemic form of erysipelas, and in those local outbreaks of the dis- ease which sometimes assume an equally low type, the danger of death is great in proportion to the degree in which the typhoid state is exhibited, due regard being had to the original soundness and vigor of the patient. When the disease is confined to the throat, or when it also attacks the skin, the dis- ease is seldom fatal, unless it acquire a phlegmonous, character in the former situation. This is especially true of cases in private practice. The most fatal form of erysipelas is that which attacks internal organs, and especially the lungs and peritoneum. In both cases the hope of recovery is very small; but in puerperal peritonitis of erysipelatous origin the mortality is almost ab- solute, and the rapidity of the fatal course is often as appalling as its issue is inevitable. In general terms, the conditions that increase the danger of erysipelas are such as involve debility, including infancy, old age, and complication by pre- viously existing or concomitant diseases, such as phthisis, Bright’s disease, diphtheria, or the eruptive and typhous fevers. Moreover, death has occurred by hemorrhage from the bowels in a case which was otherwise benign, and in which no lesion could be found to account for the accident.1 Finally, blindness has been known to result from erysipelas of the face, as in the case of Despagnct.2 Prophylaxis of Erysipelas. The measures which it is advisable to adopt for the prevention of erysipe- las may readily be inferred from the description of the causes heretofore given. They may all be included in the following rules:— I. The utmost purity of the air should be preserved in all apartments habitually used by day, or for sleeping, and especially in hospital wards and other places occupied by the sick. II. All patients suffering from erysipelas should be isolated, and nothing that has been used by or for them, and, least of all, surgical instruments, should be employed for non-erysipelatous patients. On the same principle, in climates and seasons which make it possible to treat the wounded in tents or in tem- porary wooden hospitals, such as were used during our civil war, the danger of erysipelas is reduced to a minimum by doing so. III. On no account should a puerperal patient be confined in a house in- fected with erysipelas, nor be attended by any physician who has recently had charge of an erysipelatous case. IV. A surgical ward should never be in close proximity to a lying-in wTard, 1 Archiv der Heilkunde, Bd. xi. S. 398. 2 Recueil d’Oplithalmologie, Paris, 1880.