AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. 669 thumb of the other hand is at the same time superimposed to regulate and aid the compression, and to prevent any danger of slipping. Amputation through the Trochanters.—This operation, which is only less grave than amputation at the hip-joint, may be required in cases of injury, or in those of tumor involving the lower part of the femur. When practi- cable, it should be preferred to disarticulation, even in cases of malignant growth, as being a less dangerous operation in itself, and as no more likely to be followed by recurrence of the disease, which, when it does return, is at least as apt to attack the pelvis as the stump itself. Should it be found, moreover, after sawing through the trochanters, that the disease has extended higher up, it is very easy to convert the operation into a disarticulation by simply dissecting out the head and neck of the femur. The modified circular operation is well adapted for amputations in this situation. The above are the modes of operating to which I would advise a resort in cases of thigh amputation, in which the surgeon has the opportunity of selecting his method. It may well happen, however, that the structures on one side of the limb may be hopelessly diseased or injured, while those on the opposite side may be comparatively healthy; under such circumstances the surgeon must try to utilize the sound parts wherever they are situated, and must secure a covering for the stump from whatever part is most available for the purpose. Single flaps, double flaps, triple flaps—any device may be resorted to—it being much more important in any given case to remove the limb at as low a point as possible, than to follow the details of any particular plan of procedure. Teale’s method affords a beautiful and useful stump in thigh amputations, but, for reasons already given (page 588), it seems to me an un- desirable operation in this particular locality. The death-rate of thigh amputations, taken all together, appears from the Table on page 630 to be 63.8 per cent., or more than five in eight. From the figures on the same page, it is seen that, in military practice, the mortality has varied from about one in two, for amputations in the lower third of the thigh, to the enormous proportion of seven in eight, for amputations in the upper part of the limb. Amputation at the IIip-joint. The removal of the lower limb at the coxo-femoral articulation may be properly regarded as the gravest operation which the surgeon is ever called upon to perform,1 and it is only within a comparatively recent period that it has been accepted as a justifiable procedure. Ravaton wished to perform the operation in 1743, but the other surgeons called in consultation forbade the attempt.2 The case usually referred to as the first amputation at the hip, oc- curred five years later (1748),3 in the person of a lad of 13 or 14, who had been attacked with gangrene of both lower extremities as the result of eating spurred or smutty rye {hie ergote). On the right side a line of separation had formed at the hip, and when the limb was almost completely detached 1 “Obliged, as we are,” says Hennen (Principles of Military Surgery, page 40. Third edition. London, 1829), “ coolly to form our calculations in human blood, there is still something in the idea of removing the quarter of a man, at which the boldest mind naturally recoils.” “ There is not one patient in a thousand that would not prefer instant death to the attempt.” 2 Velpeau, op. cit., t. ii. p. 538. 3 Harbet, Prix de l’Acadeuiie Royale de Chirurgie, t. iv. p. 47. Paris, 1819.