TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM AND DELIRIUM TREMENS. 380 Anatomy of Delirium.—Delirium is eminently one of those conditions to which the convenient word “functional” is applicable, when we seek for an explanation of its phenomena. It manifests itself, as far as we know, through impressions made upon the cortical gray substance of the brain. The cells and fibres of this substance, therefore, must be in a receptive condition, and need not of themselves deviate from the normal state. In fact, a perfectly healthy cortical matter, if the received physiological views of its purposes are correct, is more consistent with the occurrence of the severest forms of delirium than one which is otherwise. Its functions are disturbed by its environment, in the form of meningeal inflammations, or by slight irritative exudations or hemorrhages pressing upon it. Great pressure would sup- press its workings altogether. Again, it may he harassed from without by alterations in the quantity and quality of the blood which is sent to it, and which may be charged with the products of disease, or overloaded with poisons. Then the special senses, being set agog from the same causes, bring wrong impressions to it, which it must needs take up and discharge, in the form of wrong thought, wrong talk, and wrong action. The necessity of this recep- tive faculty of the gray matter for the production of delirium, is further proved by the meagre mention of delirium as a symptom, when the brain itself, excepting the cortex, has been made the subject of experiment or clini- cal observation.1 Thus in lesions of the Pons, a tendency to cry more than to laugh is noted. There is emotional weakness, which might be taken for hysteria, hut no men- tion of delirium. The Crura being disturbed, paralysis of the third nerve follows, and the diplopia and confusion of vision thus caused, together with a certain confusion of speech, probably owing to some facial paralysis, may readily give rise to the idea that delirium is present, when really the intel- lectual faculties are undisturbed. After the first effects of a lesion of the corpus striatum are over, the absence of mental disturbance is particularly noted. There may be slight thickness of speech and also emotional phe- nomena, but no delirium. Injury of the thalamus is attended by less distinct signs than injury of the striate bodies; but delirium is not noted, as one of its symptoms. Injuries of the white substance of the hemispheres are not pro- ductive of delirium, nor do I find it mentioned as belonging to lesions pur- posely inflicted upon the cerebellum. The posterior and inferior parts of the frontal lobes, being injured, give rise to typical aphasia,and a careless observer might construe its manifestations as those of delirium. Certain portions of the cortical gray matter, then, of the surfaces of the hemispheres and their convolutions, being subjected to irritative influences, are the seats of delirium. These remarks are confirmed by clinical observa- tion. It is to be understood that delirium may coexist with affections or injuries of some of the other regions above mentioned, but when it does so, there is every reason to believe that, in most cases, it is due to the neigh- boring meninges being more or less involved. Dr. Morris Longstreth informs me that he has analyzed the histories of more than three hundred brain tumors, and that delirium is rarely mentioned as one of their features, and that, when it is, it may be readily accounted for by implication of the mem- branes, these in their turn affecting the cortical matter. When formerly Demonstrator of Anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania, I have no doubt that I showed many splendid brains, the original possessors of which had been “mad as March hares.” The supply of subjects was large, and many of them must have come from the “Insane Wards” of the Almshouse. I can call to mind glued membranes, masses of old lymph, pearly arachnoids, and 1 Carpenter, Bastian, Ferrier, Charcot.