AMPUTATIONS. 606 tage, the preparation introduced by M. Xotta under the name of the “ Liqueur de Villate,” which may be made according to the following formula: R,. Zinci sulphatis, cupri sulphatis, aa gr. xv ; liquoris plumbi subacetatis, t'3ss ; acidi acetici diluti vel aceti albi, f3rijss.—M. As a last resort, the stump may be laid open and the carious bone removed with osteotrite and gouge, or, possibly, a re-amputation may be found necessary. Hypertrophy of the bone after an amputation, has already been alluded to as one of the causes of a conical or sugar-loaf stump. This is observed in patients who have not attained their full growth, and principally in amputations of the leg and upper arm; its occurrence in these rather than in other situations, is accounted for by the well-known physiological fact that, owing to the direc- tion taken by the nutritious arteries in the several bones, and the consequent period at which the epiphyses become united to the diaphyses, the chief growth of the lower extremity is from tne epiphyses in proximity to the knee, while that of the upper extremity is from those of the wrist and shoulder. Hence amputations of the thigh and forearm remove the principal sources of growth for the portions of bone which remain, while amputations of the upper arm and leg leave these sources of growth, and in a fewr years the hones of stumps in these situations may be too long for the soft parts which wTere originally ample for their covering. If any treatment is required in a case of this kind, resection of the overgrown bone is the only remedy likely to be of service. Adventitious bursce are sometimes formed over the bones of stumps from pressure of the pad or artificial limb used in walking. If such a bursa should become painful, the mechanical arrangement of the prothetic apparatus em- ployed should be altered, so as to relieve the part from pressure; and if this be not sufficient, an attempt may be made to cause obliteration of the bursa by injecting tincture of iodine, or establishing a seton; or excision of the bursa itself may be resorted to. Prothetic Apparatus and the Adaptation of Artificial Limbs. One of the earliest records which we have of a successful effort to supply the place of an entire limb lost by amputation, is given in the history of Francois de la Noue, a celebrated Huguenot officer, born A. D. 1531, who lost his left arm at the siege of Fontenay. Having at first refused amputa- tion—his arm was shattered by the shot of an arquebuse—preferring to die rather than to be incapacitated for fighting, he was at length persuaded by his friends to submit himself to the surgeon’s hands, and the Queen of Fa- ya ire herself held his arm during the operation. An iron arm supplied the place of the missing member, and gave its bearer the sobriquet of “ Bras de Ferthe artificial limb served to hold his horse’s bridle, and enabled the gallant captain to engage in fresh battles with renewed ardor.1 Ambroise Pare describes and figures several varieties of artificial ai ms and legs—the former made of iron, boiled leather, or glued paper, and the latter of wrood. These he obtained, he says, from a locksmith of Paris, named “ le petit Lor- rain,” and their mechanism was so perfect as to enable the wearer to imitate the natural movements of the parts which had been lost, and even to hold a pen for writing.2 Among the artificial legs is one for “ poor men,” which is 1 See Malgaigne’s edition of Pare, already quoted, tome ii. p. 617, note. 3 Op. cit., tome ii. p. (115.