PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 60 will also be prevented. Positive and unequivocal proof that the growth and nutrition of tissues in general are influenced by the central nervous system, has, however, not as yet been furnished. We are, it is true, acquainted with affections of tissues which are due to diseases of the central nervous system; such are acute bedsores in certain severe central diseases, and progressive muscular atrophy in connection with disease of the ganglia in the ante- rior horns of the spinal cord (Lockhart Clarke, Charcot). Recently, Ad. Jarisch1 has discovered a very important relation between diseases of the skin and diseases of the spinal cord, likewise in the region of the anterior horns; the affection in one instance was a case of herpes iris, and in another a case of pemphigus, though in this the relationship was less pronounced. I have carefully examined the specimens in question. The disease of the anterior horns of the spinal cord was quite evident. These data, it appears to me, are very important for pathology. But whether we have to deal with cen- tres which directly influence the tissues—that is, with so-called trophic nerves—or with vaso-motor centres, is not known. Disease of the vaso-motor centres is certainly adapted to provoke pathological disturbances in periphe- ral organs, i. e., in the region of distribution of the affected nerves. Ron-inflammatory Rew Formations. All tissue-changes which are accompanied by active hypersemia, that is by the clinical phenomena of inflammation, can also run their course without liypersemia. Under such circumstances, we call the tissue-metamorphosis a neoplasm. Since such neoplasms in the majority of cases appear in the form of tumors, they are also simply called tumors. Inasmuch as it wras imagined that these new formations were in idea and in structure foreign to the human organism, and not characteristic of it, they have been also called spurious forma- tions or pseudoplasms. From the fact taught by clinical experience, that some of these new formations are more or less injurious to the organism, they have also been divided into benign and malignant. On the other hand, they have also been classified according to form, consistence, location, genesis, structure, and I know not what other principles. The scientific value of such a classi- fication is very slight. In modern times it has degenerated wholly into child’s play. It does not seem to me worth while to refer here to the litera- ture of the subject, while we are considering general questions. Reoplasms [non-inflammatory new formations] are much richer as regards forms of tis- sue than are inflammatory new formations. True, we have here again only cells and basis-substances which constitute the new formation; but the size and form of the cells, as well as their mutual connection with and relation to the basis-substance, are more varied. Moreover, the pathological non-inflam- matory new formation can imitate every form of normal tissue, which never happens in the case of inflammatory new formations. In inflammation, pus, fibrillar tissue, cicatricial tissue, and epidermis, can be produced; and, more- over, a regeneration can proceed from a fixed matrix, as in the case of nerves and muscles. Reoplasms, on the contrary, can imitate all forms of normal tissue without proceeding from a matrix of the same kind. In the midst of connective tissue, or of muscle, epithelium cells and even fully developed glandular tubes can be produced. In ovarian cysts, teeth and hairs may be developed. In the case of inflammatory, as well as of non-inflammatory, new formations, the tissues return to their embryonic condition, in which they are capable of proliferation. In non-inflammatory new formations, however, the 1 Sitzungsber. der Wiener Akad. 1880.