TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM AND DELIRIUM TREMENS. 398 demons and furies, dancers and devils—but not often angels, as the illusions are rarely pleasant. They are, however, sometimes comical, frequenly obscene, often sad, but generally horrible. The patient is subject to attacks from without, and is constantly shrinking from them, having no courage to defend himself. Somebody or something is going to kill him, and fiends are doing their best to prevent him from attending to the most important business, with which he is also constantly occupied. Sometimes this business has to do with the real occupation of the patient, at other times it is wholly im- aginary. I have known a teamster, with a bad fracture, to lie in bed and drive his mules and horses all day, with loud curses and imaginary lashings. A broker will rave of the stocks, and a merchant of the markets; but mostly, when sifted, this all-important business will be found to be about the most trivial and absurd matters. Not ui(frequently, and especially in the begin- ning, the delusions are only about one thing, or upon one subject; thus, an officer who had been through the late war, was perfectly straight as to every- body and everything else about him, except a long tin foot-warmer, which had been placed at his feet in bed and covered up. The mound thus made suggested a body and a coffin, and it was at once converted into the mortal remains of the patient’s companion in arms, over which he sat up in bed and gave the most pathetic but maudlin discourse. Again the patient may expe- rience great compunction, and mingle the touching and the sad with the ludi- crous. I call to mind one who, amid his vagaries, stopped to thank the leeches which had been applied to his badly sprained ankle, for drawing different kinds of liquor from him; a lively fellow was taking his till of champagne, and a sodden chap indulged in ale; while a regular soaker, who fell off' motionless, got dead drunk on whiskey. If the attack be not arrested by sleep, the delu- sions are no longer temporary, but continuous, and assume sometimes a dis- tressing, and at other times a violent form. Death is usually caused by exhaustion; always so when there is no complication of organic disease or injury. A layman may imagine how such an interloper as delirium tremens must interfere with satisfactory surgical practice, but no one but a surgeon can appreciate the fact. It plays havoc with all his calculations. It displaces well adjusted fractures, reproduces dislocations, tears open wounds, disturbs dress- ings of all kinds, removes ligatures and sutures, makes simple injuries com- pound and complex, sets up irritative abscesses and exudations, and so opens the door for erysipelas and pyaemia; in fact it is a fiend, sitting like a cormo- rant hard by the surgeon’s efforts, and devouring all his measures for good. It might be thought that the pain produced by constant movement of injured parts would be a reminder, as is sometimes the case in traumatic delirium, and call the wandering senses to order. But it is one of the features of delirium tremens, well under way, that the patient is wholly oblivious to pain when injuries are inflicted upon him by himself. He will often howl with fear or agony at what the surgeon does, but within an hour may be grinding the ends of his broken bones together as though they were mill stones, while at the same time his busy brain will be working foolishness. I have known two men with broken legs to get up and have a fight. It is not at all uncom- mon to see a man with a broken leg, whose habits have not been suspected, giving the first signs of an attack of delirium by getting out of bed with his apparatus on, and walking about the room or ward. These facts are explana- tions of the seeming contradiction, that a man in delirium ti’emens is an arrant coward, and yet will cut his own throat or shoot himself if he gets a chance. Sometimes he maims himself dreadfully and deliberately, without any idea of suicide. I know of one who coolly cut away his genital organs,