287 ETIOLOUY OF SCURVY. 1 Med. and Surg. History of the British Army, 1854-56. Foul air has no influence in determining the occurrence of scurvy, except in a general way by lessening the vital resistance, and thus hastening and in- tensifying the symptoms of this, as of any other disease depending upon a specific cause. Personal filth and foulness of the surroundings have also been erroneously held responsible for a share in its production. Even the pure air of the sea was at one time thought to be influential in exciting the disease, though little reflection was necessary to dispel this absurd notion. Scurvy has raged in inland towns and on fresh water courses, far away from the in- fluences of a marine atmosphere. The opinion was even held that the cir- cumstance of locality determined a difference in the nature of the disease, and hence the origin of the terms land scurvy and sea scurvy; whereas the fact is that there is no more pathological difference in these cases than there is in cases of pneumonia or typhoid fever occurring on shore and at sea. This view has been well nigh abandoned, though, as late as 1856, Dr. Crawford1 emitted the same notion in relating his experience in the Crimea. He states that scurvy seldom exhibited there the characteristic features so often ob- served at sea, viz., the ulcerated and gangrenous gums, falling out of the teeth, abscesses and sloughing ulcers, contraction of the limbs, visceral effusions, syncope, and sudden death ; and adds that it would seem probable that the difference between land and sea scurvy was physiologically connected with the existence of diarrhoea and dysentery in the one case, and their absence in the other; the affection as observed at sea being usually attended with a torpid or at least irregular state of the bowels. This opinion is erroneous. In certain instances, the occurrence of scurvy lias been supposed to be due to the use of impure water, as in the case of Ranke’s expedition to the interior of Australia. There were two parties: one, thoroughly equipped and pro- visioned, suffered for the want of abundant potable water, and was attacked with the disease; the other, less advantageously placed as regarded food and provisions, got all the pure water that they needed, and escaped. Other parallel cases are recorded, but they are entirely negative from the lack of certainty as to the exact nature of the food consumed. The more fortunate of Ranke’s party may have partaken of succulent plants or esculent roots picked up on the journey. The various above-mentioned influences, whether ashore or afloat, are capable of deteriorating the nutrition of the body, and may in this way with truth be chargeable with promoting, under peculiar dietetic irregularities, the advent of an outbreak; but neither singly nor com- binedly can they determine it without this concomitant. Individual peculiarities as to constitutional power and vital activity, exert a marked influence; those of a weakly habit of body, either original or pro- duced by accidental attacks of disease, are more liable than those in robust, vigorous health. Persons also who have been overworked or exhausted hy excessive climatic influences, whether of heat or cold, more readily succumb. This was seen in the case of two ships of the United States, serving in the Gulf of Mexico: the “ Raritan,” coming from the coast of Brazil, had a crew enfeebled by long service in a hot climate, while that of the “Falmouth” was worn out by exposure to the cold, wet and boisterous weather of the northern coast of America, on which she had been serving. Both of these vessels suffered severely. In the same way, the deterioration of the vital powers brought about by an arctic voyage and a winter’s residence in high latitudes, renders the men exceedingly liable in presence of the exciting cause of scurvy, and more so than those who are freshly arrived. There is no such thing as inuring the system to the unnatural surroundings of the arctic regions; the longer the residence there, the more likely the disease is to occur. This state-