419 OTHER MODES OF PRODUCING ANAESTHESIA. The effect of the local application of the ethereal anesthetics is exceedingly variable, depending chiefly upon the degree of volatility of the substance. Chloroform is for this reason, as well as for its own intrinsic qualities, more potent than ether. When hindered from evaporation by covering the part with oiled silk, the local effect of the anaesthetic is greatly intensified. As a general rule, the more rapid the evaporation of the substance, the less per- sistent is its anaesthetic effect. Diluted with oil, or combined with unguents, the powerful agents, like chloroform, may be employed with excellent effect for the relief of dermal pains and superficial neuralgias. Pure chloroform applied to the skin produces a powerful counter-irritant effect by virtue of its directly stimulant action upon the cutaneous nerves and capillaries. The burning sensation thus aroused is soon succeeded by cessation of pain, due in part to the local stimulation, and in part to the subsequent diminution of sensibility in the affected nerves. Relief thus obtained is, however, not very permanent, and is restricted to superficial neuralgias alone. For the induc- tion of insensibility sufficient for the painless performance of the major opera- tions of surgery, general anaesthesia must be employed. Other Modes of Producing Anaesthesia. Anaesthesia by the Aid of Electricity.—An American dentist, Dr. J. B. Francis, attempted, in 1857, to annul the pain of extracting teeth by passing an electrical shock through the tooth at the instant of its evulsion. After numerous trials, it became clearly evident that this method could avail nothing except by substitution of one form of pain for another. The opera- tion was soon abandoned, and the success of nitrous oxide in dentistry has nearly obliterated the recollection of electrical anaesthesia. The attempt to produce local anaesthesia in surgical operations, by connecting the knife with one of the rheophores of an electrical apparatus, fared no better. The com- bined action of electricity and local anodynes has been proved to owe all its efficacy to the action of the drugs placed in contact with the skin, and not at all to the electrical current. Anesthesia by Rapid Respiration.—A method of producing insensibility by rapid breathing, sufficient for the painless performance of minor surgical operations, has been suggested [by Dr. Bonwill and Dr. A. Hewson]. 8ince the partial anaesthesia thus induced is largely dependent upon accumulation of blood in the veins, overcharging the vessels of the brain with imperfectly oxygenated blood, the method cannot be commended. In elderly subjects with brittle bloodvessels, cerebral hemorrhage might thus be occasioned. Local anaesthesia should be preferred to this method. It is not improbable that some of the cases of insensibility to pain which are placed in this cate- gory, may be really.examples of self-hypnotism. Anaesthesia by Intra-venous Injections.—Ether, chloral, and chloroform, have been frequently administered by hypodermic injection as remedies for neuralgia, and their effects have been highly esteemed by certain observers. The pain which attends the act of injection, and the subsequent danger of abscess, or worse, has prevented the wide extension of this method. Dr. Ore, of Bordeaux, consequently (1872) recommended the use of chloral by intra- venous injection, as a means of producing surgical anaesthesia. By the aid of a properly adapted canula and syringe, he slowly introduced into a superficial vein four to ten grammes of chloral hydrate, dissolved in three to five parts