INFLAMMATORY EXUDATIONS. 107 In all cases these exudations are derived from the blood. An apparent exception is the cell germination that takes place so actively outside of the vessels, either of wandering cells or tissue cells, when stimulated by the direct contact of the capillary exudation. As a general rule, afflux of blood causes capillary distension, and, as a result, exudation through the capillary walls follows—a sweating—as the term implies ; or, capillary distension from me- chanical obstruction, as from a tight bandage, may be followed by a similar result. A collection of fluid in the meshes of the subcutaneous connective tissue constitutes oedema; and this fluid may be thin and watery, or rich in albumen. Passive exudation through the walls of capillaries altered by malnutrition, as in convalescence from acute disease, will be reabsorbed by the lymphatics as the quality and tone of the vascular walls is restored ; but the more active exudation through over-distended capillaries whose walls are altered by acute or persistent inflammation, will be more likely to go on to tissue formation, or, this failing, to suppuration. Organic chemistry has not as yet taught us enough concerning the organic constituents of these so-called inflammatory exudations to aid us in classifying them. The microscope has done some- thing more; but our knowledge of the subject, for practical purposes, is far from complete. Clinical illustrations of their different forms may serve to explain certain symptoms and phases of the inflammatory condition. The cardinal symptom of swelling is for the most part due to exudation. Under some circumstances, as, for example, after certain poisoned wounds, it is so rapid and extensive as to suggest that, if not purely serous, the poison must have suddenly altered the walls of the capillary bloodvessels as well as their contents. And yet the sudden and rapid swelling that sometimes fol- lows the sting of a wasp, or the bite of a rattlesnake, may subside in a limited time and leave scarcely a trace. The swelling of the leg that takes place during the growth of a popliteal aneurism, is at first, apparently, simple oedema; but the leg subsequently becomes warmer than natural, and brawny to the feel, as though the exudation were becoming organized; and, in view of the slow recovery from this condition after the aneurism has been cured, as though by atrophy of the new tissue, it would seem that this apparently inflammatory condition has really been caused by the blood-stagnation. A similar brawny thickening of the legs occasionally follows the cedema due to hepatic disease, to obesity, to failure of the heart’s action from age; and it sometimes accompanies varicose ulcers. Although mainly the result of mechanical hypersemia, the swelling is often attended by increase of heat. Under the name of acute oedema, Sir B. C. Brodie described a rapid swell- ing of the scrotum by infiltration of its lax subcutaneous connective tissue, causing gangrene of the integument, apparently by cutting oft' its blood- supply through over-stretching of its nutritive vessels. This was probably an acute necrosis of the connective substance, such as occurs in phlegmonous erysipelas. The fluid of an ordinary hydrocele is slightly viscid and sticky, of a light amber color, with an alkaline reaction. It is so rich in albumen that the addition of nitric acid will often convert the fluid into a solid mass, by neutralizing the soda which keeps the albumen in a fluid state. Serous exudation occurs more readily in localities where the bloodvessels are surrounded by lax connective tissue. Hence the danger of infiltration of the thyro-arytenoid folds, and consequently of obstruction of the glottis—an example of the oedema always present in a greater or less degree in the meshes of the connective tissue of the outlying area surrounding a focus of inflam- mation. When confined to a limited surface, this form of exudation consti- tutes a valuable indication of the presence of an abscess beneath. It has been