ANAESTHETIC SUBSTANCES. 427 than that of chloroform. It is powerfully irritant to the nervous system, pro- ducing tonic and clonic convulsions, rapid and irregular action of'the heart, and arrest of respiration. Its general action is similar to that of chloroform, but its depressing action upon the heart is much greater, so that it must be considered a more dangerous substance. Iodomethane, CII3I, Methylic iodide. Sp. gr. 2.2. Boiling point 42° C. (107°.6 F.). Vapor density 4.833. A colorless, mobile liquid, of peculiar ethereal odor, insoluble in water, prepared by distillation from a mixture of 100 parts of iodine with 50 parts of methylic alcohol and 7 parts of amor- phous phosphorus. Chemically pure, its vapor is respirable and anaesthetic; but it is exceedingly unstable, yielding excessively irritating fumes, and pro- ducing very disagreeable effects. Tri-iodomethane, CIII3, Iodoform. Melting point, 120° C. (248° F.). A product of the action of iodine, in presence of potassic or sodic hydrate or carbonate, on etliylic alcohol, aldehyde, acetone, and many other substances. It exists in greenish-yellow, scale-like crystals, with a sweetish taste, and a peculiar odor which maybe masked by the oil of peppermint. Its properties are discutient, antiseptic, and anaesthetic. Applied locally, it diminishes the sensibility of the skin, and of irritable surfaces generally. All varieties of unhealthy, offensive, and painful ulceration are benefited by its topical ap- plication. Administered internally, in small doses, it is rapidly eliminated without producing any signs of irritation. Doses of half a gramme (eight grains) produce in man a diminution of the frequency of the pulse. If con- tinued for any considerable period of time, somnolence may result. Given to animals—four grammes to a dog—it produces muscular relaxation, anesthe- sia, insensibility, and death. Muscular rigidity may also be observed. Monochlorethane, C2IIjC1, Efhylic chloride, Hydrochloric ether. Sp. gr. 0.920. Boiling point, 12°.18 C. (53°.92 F.). Vapor density, 2.219. A thin, colorless liquid, with a pungent, ethereal odor, and a sweetish, aromatic taste. It is very inflammable, evolving hydrochloric acid from a brilliant, green- edged flame. It is the first product of the action of chlorine upon ethane in diffused daylight. In spite of its remarkable volatility, this substance has been employed as an anaesthetic in a number of operations. Its general effects correspond very closely with the effects produced by ordinary ether. Given to rabbits, it produces rapid anaesthesia, but it has caused in these animals cessation of respiration, and general convulsions. Dichloretiiane, C2H4C12. Two isomeric dichlorethanes are known: (a) di- chlorethane, or ethylenic chloride, CH2C1.CII2C1; and (|3) dichloretiiane, or ethyli- denic chloride, CH3.CHC12. (a) Ethylenic chloride, Ethylene dichloride, Dutch liquid. Sp. gr. 1.256. Boiling point, 84° C. (183°.2 F.). Vapor density, 3.4434. A colorless, neu- tral, oily liquid with a fragrant, ethereal odor and a sweetish, aromatic taste. It is formed by the action of chlorine upon ethylene. The resulting compound is anaesthetic, but its vapor is irritating, and sometimes causes vomiting. In the lower animals it may produce convulsive movements without anaesthesia. It possesses no advantages over chloroform. (a) Ethylidenic dichloride, Ethylidene chloride, Ethid.ene dichloride. Sp. gr. 1.174. Boiling point, 60° C. (140° F.). Vapor density, 4.954. A colorless, oily liquid, resembling chloroform in taste and odor, produced by acting on monochlorethane with chlorine, and also by treating aldehyde with phosphoric pentaehloride. Its anaesthetic action is very rapid, producing insensibility in one minute—seldom requiring to be inhaled as long as three minutes. Re- covery is speedy, and disagreeable after-effects are rarely experienced. The heart is less liable to depression under the influence of ethylidenic chloride than when chloroform is employed. It is, nevertheless, a cardiac poison, pro-