PYAEMIA AMD ALLIED CONDITIONS. 210 In sucli cases as these, it seems evident that the cause of the general infec- tion does not reside in the wound, hut is received into the body through the wound. It also seems probable that the poison thus taken into the system, is capable of multiplication after being absorbed ; for there is no proportion between the symptoms and the amount of poison which can have been ab- sorbed by the wound. There is only the single inoculation, hut the symp- toms continue, and become more marked. In most of these cases, the symp- toms do not immediately follow the inoculation, but there is a period of several hours which intervenes between the receipt of the injury and the de- velopment of the symptoms. It seems probable, therefore, that the poison is an organism, capable of multiplying itself in the body. After death from such a cause, there are no characteristic lesions ; hut there may be early decomposition, staining of the endocardium by the color- ing matter of the blood, a large soft spleen, and degeneration of the cells of the liver and kidneys. IY. There is a very large class of cases which it is difficult to classify. They are the ordinary hospital cases of compound fractures and surgical wounds. It is difficult to tell whether a poison derived from without and taken up by the wound, or a poison developed in the wound, or the forma- tion of thrombi in the veins, is to be looked upon as the efficient cause ; or whether different causes may combine in the same case. The symptoms are familiar to every surgeon. Within a few days, sometimes not until after two or three weeks, from the time the patient received the original injury, he develops a febrile movement, rigors, sweating, great prostration, rapid ema- ciation, vomiting, diarrhoea, delirium, and jaundice. The tongue becomes dry and brown, the breath has a peculiar sweetish odor, the pulse is rapid and feeble, and the patient dies exhausted. [The irregularity and absence of periodicity in the chills, and the great variations in temperature, which range over 10° or 11° F., may be looked upon as of diagnostic value.] After the death of these patients, there is a considerable variety in the post- mortem appearances:— (1) There are cases in which there are no recognizable lesions. (2) There are cases characterized by early decomposition; post-mortem staining of the tissues; congestion of the lungs, stomach, intestines, and kid- neys ; extravasation of blood in the serous membranes ; swelling of the solitary and agminated glands in the small intestine; swelling of the spleen; degenera- tive changes in the cells of the liver and kidneys. (3) There are cases in which we find localized inflammations. The parts most frequently inflamed are the joints, the connective tissue around the joints, the pleurae, the pericardium, the peritoneum, the pia mater, and the connective tissue in different parts of the body. These local inflammations are of a puru- lent character, except in the serous membranes, where the principal inflam- matory product may be fibrine. (4) There are cases in which the veins in the neighborhood of the wound contain softened and puriforrn thrombi; there are no infarctions in the viscera, hut in some cases local inflammations of the joints and serous mem- branes. (5) There are cases in which the veins contain thrombi; there are infarc- tions and abscesses in the viscera; and local inflammations of the joints and serous membranes are also present, or may be absent. The thrombi are formed regularly in the veins in the neighborhood of the wound; sometimes, how- ever, they are found in veins at a distance from the wound ; sometimes, although the infarctions and abscesses are present, the thrombi cannot be dis- covered. The veins may be distended by the thrombi, or may only contain