PLASTIC SURGERY. 540 of his communication to the Societe de Chirurgie, and concludes with these words : “ Finally, 1 shall have to study, as much as possible, the histological process. Is there here the simple effect of contact, or vicinity? Is there proliferation of the transplanted elements?” During the progress of experimentation, many questions, of course, arose, which have not yet all been answered ; but after the adherence of the grafts was accom- plished, and epidermis was observed to form around them, Reverdin came to the conclusion that “ the epidermis by itself, hut still the living epidermis, that of the deep layer, would alone be necessary for the success of the grafting.”1 And again, “the adherence of the graft is, therefore, effected by the epidermis; the welding of the dermis is but secondary and accessory ; the part played by the dermis in the properties of the formed islets is, therefore, completely null.” But the grafts remain, and are not absorbed ; yet, as Poncet2 expresses the idea, “ The cutaneous graft not only is not re-absorbed, but it possesses all the properties of the skin.” The views entertained by Reverdin with regard to the epidermis seemed to him to find confirmation in “a little fact” which was that, in some cases, he found upon the strips of plaster grafts which, put in place the evening previous, had failed to unite, but which, upon being replaced, “took” per- fectly.3 We shall see, further on, that Georges Martin,4 * in his thesis “ upon the duration of the vitality of the tissues and of the conditions of adherence of cutaneous restitutions and transplantations,” ascertained, through observations of his own, that some separated hits of human skin maintained their vitality, when exposed in free air, for ninety-six hours, and others in a confined space for one hundred and eight hours, at a temperature of nearly zero, C. [32° F.]. Hamilton failed to perceive that, without peduncular attachment, his little flap might adhere and grow ; but Reverdin saw this, and so earned his honors. He communicated his discovery to the Societe de Chirurgie on the 8th of December, 1869 ; the commission to which it was referred, consisting of MM. Guyon, Chassaignac, and Despres, made a report; and Guyon, in whose service the experiments were made, presented the subject verbally, and provoked a discussion hardly favorable to skin grafting. ButVerneuil declared himself in favor of the method, which he believed was calculated to render service in many departments of surgery. Gosselin, Guyon, Alphonse Guerin, and Duplay ottered encouragement, and extended facilities ;s and Marc See dispelled the bad impressions remaining by presenting, six months afterwards, a patient who bore evidence of the success of the operation,6 in which See had been aided by Reverdin himself. Grafting now became the fashion; M. Vulpian7 presented before the Societe de Biologie, in the name of M. J. M. Phillipeaux, a case of transplan- tation of the spur of a young cock of forty days upon the comb of the same animal, in which the spur became incorporated with the skin, formed no adhesion with the cranial bones, but surpassed in length its non-transplanted fellow. Some grafted the skin of the white man upon the negro;8 or took grafts from moles or parts stained with India ink ;9 or borrowed skin from amputated members ;10 or even supplemented, in the case of a large ulcer alter a burn in a little girl, some three hundred grafts from the patient herself, 1 Loc. cit., p. 707. 2 Lyon Medical, t. xiv. pp. 2S3, 294, 1873. 3 Loc. cit., p. 709. 4 Georges Martin, These, Paris, 1873. 5 Archives Gen. de Med. 1872, t. i. p. 277. 6 M. See, Gazette Hebdom. de Paris, Juillet 20, 1870; J. Ustariz, Sobre los Ingertos en gene- ral, etc. Anfiteatro Anat. Espanol. ■ Madrid, 1877 ; and E. T. Easley, Am. Med. Weekly, Louis- ville, Ky., 1876, vol. iv. p. 353. 7 Comptes rendus des Seances et Mem. de la Soc. de Biologie, t. ii. 5e Serie, Annee 1870. 8 G. T. Maxwell, Philad. Med. Times, 1873, p. 37. 9 J. T. Hodgen, Cell or Skin Grafting. St. Louis Med. and Surg. Journ., 1871. 10 B. Anger, Sur l’Heteroplastie. Comptes rendus hebdom. des Seances de l’Aead. des Sciences, t. lxxix. p. 1210. Paris, 1874.