ERYSIPELAS. 168 Whether the hypothetical, specific contagium produces the symptoms of erysipelas by a direct and primary action upon the blood and nervous system; or whether it acts, first of all, upon the tissue that receives it, and only second- arily affects more distant organs ; or, finally, whether it may and does, accord- ing to circumstances, act in both of these ways, is still an open question, and is very likely to remain unsolved. Very probably the erysipelatous poison may enter the system, either by a lesion of the integument or through the mucous membrane of the fauces and respiratory organs, precisely as the viruses of smallpox, measles, and scarlatina find admission. The rapidity with which it infects the blood and the type of the resulting fever, will depend upon several conditions, of which the most influential is probably the#inherent ac- tivity of the poison itself, and the next is the power of resistance possessed by the patient. The latter again will depend in part upon the conditions that surround the patient, including fresh air, proper temperature and food, fatigue, cleanliness, etc. The Causes oe Erysipelas as illustrated by the History of Epidemic Outbreaks of the Disease. The histories of epidemics of erysipelas remove any doubts of the septic and constitutional nature of the disease that may be suggested by a partial study of it in isolated medical and surgical cases. Even in the medical records of the latter part of the eighteenth century, it was pointed out that erysipelas began in the throat; and, although in some cases it appears to have been con- founded with diphtheria, no doubt remains that an erysipelatous angina asso- ciated with erysipelas of the skin prevailed epidemically in Great Britain between 1777 and 1800, and subsequently in 1821, as well as occasionally even as late as 1832.1 Daude,2 in his narrative of the epidemics of erysipelas that prevailed on the continent of Europe, refers to one that occurred in France in 1750, in which the symptoms were “difficult deglutition, hoarseness, swelling of the neck, and the other symptoms of quinsy,” as well as to other epidemics of the disease in which pneumonia or diarrhoea existed as a complication. In almost every instance, the sore throat preceded the cutaneous inflammation, but some examples of the reverse order were met with. Daude describes the disease as presenting the following categories: (1) Cases of erysipelas com- mencing in the skin and extending to internal parts, including the organs of deglutition and respiration, the vagina, and the rectum; (2) Cases beginning in the throat or the lungs, and thence spreading to the skin of the face, etc.; (3) Cases beginning in the throat or other internal part, and not involving the skin. In the United States, epidemic erysipelas does not appear to have been ob- served until 1843 (a fact which of itself would demonstrate its specific origin), and it continued to prevail until the end of 1847. Another circumstance which also shows that it originated in some special, atmospheric cause, is that it prevailed within definite although extensive limits, which may roughly be indicated by the terms west and northwest of the Apalachian mountain range, and extending from Lake Champlain in the northeast, through the States of Hew York, Michigan, Indiana, Missouri, Mississippi and Louisiana, while it was almost unknown in southern Hew York, eastern Pennsylvania, and the other Atlantic States. Almost the only exception to this statement is the occurrence of an epidemic of the disease at Bridgeport, Conn., in 1847.3 In 1 Nunnely on Erysipelas. 2 Traite de l’erysipele epidemique., 3 Bennett, New York Journal of Medicine, July, 1853, p. 9.