OPERATIVE METHODS EMPLOYED IN AMPUTATION. 581 ligatures, and, if it be made in a somewhat dependent position, serves also as an excellent avenue for drainage. When the skin cuff has been evenly dis- sected back to a sufficient height, the surgeon again applies the long knife, as before, and cuts through the muscles quite down to the bone. A wide gap is instantly produced by the retraction of the divided muscles, but it still remains to sever their attachments to the periosteum, and to push them up- wards, either with the linger or the handle of the scalpel, so as to leave the bone bare for the extent of about two inches. If the limb contain two bones, the interosseous tissues are divided with the scalpel, or with a narrow, double- edged catlin, and the adjoining surfaces of the bones cleared in the way already described. The retractor is next adjusted—its middle tail, in the case of the forearm or leg, being thrust between the bones* with the finger, the handle of a knife, or a pair of forceps—its body carefully spread out over the soft parts, its tails crossed, and the whole firmly drawn upwards by an assistant. The next step is the sawing of the bone, which is to be done at the highest point at which this has been exposed. (Fig. 146.) Some writers lay great stress upon the Fig. 146. Amputation of arm by circular method. importance of dividing the periosteum with the knife, before applying the saw ; but I must confess to a belief that in practice this is more often talked about than done. Tho saw should be held lightly at first, and drawn back- wards (from heel to point) so as to make a groove for itself, and thus avoid splintering the bone; if there are two bones, they are, usually, divided simultaneously, or, if this cannot conveniently be done, the smaller before the larger. Roux and Malgaigne advise, however, and I think with reason, that, in the case of the leg, the tibia should be divided first, and then the fibula at a point about half an inch higher. It is usually directed that the saw should be held vertically, so that the bone may not be broken through by the weight of the limb before its section has been completed. For tire same purpose, the assistant who has charge of the limb should hold it up firmly and not allow it to drop, but at the same time should not elevate it so much as to make the saw bind. As soon as the limb is off, the surgeon turns his attention to the cut ves- sels, taking up first with forceps or tenaculum the principal arteries, and afterwards securing the muscular and other small branches, loosening the tourniquet for a moment, if necessary, that the gush of blood may indicate their position. If, as I have advised, the Esmarch tube be used in addition