590 AMPUTATIONS. 2 Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 374. 1 Op cit., tome ii. p. 356. Simultaneous or Synchronous Amputations. It not unfrequently happens that, as the result of injury or disease, two or even more limbs in the same patient may be so hopelessly disorganized as to call for amputation. Should both or all the operations be done at once? or should the patient be allowed to recover from the effects of one operation before another is attempted? That French surgeon, Faure, against whom Velpeau1 directed the shafts of his sarcasm, and who proposed that the sur- geon should do a single amputation by slow and easy stages, stopping to rest tor four or five days after each, and thus prolonging the whole duration of the operation for a fortnight or so, would no doubt have advised without hesita- tion that but one operation should be done at a time; and in certain cases this advice would be judicious. Thus, in a patient suffering from chronic bone-and-joint disease, scrofulous or syphilitic, it may be good practice to remove the part which causes most suffering, and postpone further operative interference for months, or even years; for even if the other affected parts should not recover themselves (which is always possible), the patient’s life would be less endangered by successive operations performed at considerable intervals, than by two or more amputations performed at the same time. Even in cases of gangrene following frost-bite—a not unfrequent cause of double amputation—it may be proper to remove one of the affected members as soon as the line of separation is established, and to postpone the second operation until the patient has recovered from the first. But in most cases of double or multiple injury, requiring amputation, at least in civil life, the only hope of the patient lies in prompt removal of all the crushed parts. In military surgery, it is somewhat different; gunshot fractures of limbs are often attended with less immediate danger than simi- lar compound fractures resulting from other causes, in which the soft parts are more involved; and hence the army surgeon may be justified in amputa- ting only the worst-hurt limb, at first, and in treating the other for a time ex- pectantly, even though he may feel sure that a secondary operation will event- ually be required. The prospect of recovery under these circumstances is of course greater than when several limbs have to be removed simultaneously, and hence most of the successful multiple amputations recorded have occurred in military practice. Quadruple amputations, or amputations of both upper and both lower extremities, have proved successful in the hands of Dr. Alfred Muller, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Dr. Begg, of Dundee, and M. Champenois, a surgeon of the French army. Other cases are referred to by Morand, by Prof. Longmore, and by Soutliam of Man- chester, and two are mentioned by H. Larrey, one patient having been seen at the “ Invalides,” in Paris, and the other in Algiers. In none of the eight cases do all the operations appear to have been synchronous, though in Champenois’s case three limbs were removed on one day, and the fourth two days afterwards. Dr. Koehler, of Schuylkill Haven, Pennsylvania, has recorded a successful synchronous, triple amputa- tion (both legs and one arm) in a boy of thirteen, and similar cases are attributed by Prof. Agnew2 to the late Dr. Stone, of New Orleans, and to an unnamed surgeon of York, Pennsylvania. Another successful triple amputation (not synchronous) has been reported by Leseleuc, of Brest. J. Ritter has reported two cases of triple ampu- tation for gangrene following frost-bite, and other triple amputations have been recorded by Marten, Bruberger, and Field, of Texas. Double synchronous amputations are not very rare, but (except when the feet, or bands only are involved) are, unfortunately, not usually successful;