330 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. In the first place, wounds which involve the spine directly and the spinal cord indirectly, readily give rise to chronic myelitis, the symptomatology of which is very like that of ataxia, in certain cases. It has been asserted that wounds affecting the limbs, that is to say at a distance from the spinal cord, may also give rise to ataxia. This is doubtful, and it is much more probable that the violence merely plays the part of an exciting cause giving rise to the premature appearance of the phenomena in predisposed subjects. At all events, there is no doubt that ataxia is usually exaggerated and aggravated by injuries, whether or not they affect the region of the spine. It has been held that certain operations favorably modify or even cure ataxia. But this is a mistake; this affection has been confounded with nervous disorders of re- flex origin, which have been relieved by removing the point of peripheral departure. Injuries sometimes present, in neuropathic individuals, a defec- tive evolution and numerous local complications; analgesia, hypersesthesia, simple or hemorrhagic congestion, lesions of the granular membrane, delay in cicatrization, etc. As a result of wounds of nerves, and of limbs formerly affected by infantile or other forms of paralysis, superficial or deep ulcera- tions are found to occur, which are attributed to trophic disturbances, and which are at all events very painful and extremely difficult to heal, especially in winter. Reciprocally, in the same neuropathic patients, an injury may excite, revive, or exaggerate nervous manifestations which assume the strangest forms, and which attack the central and visceral nervous systems, as well as general motion and sensation. Among defined neuroses, hysteria and epilepsy present close relations to traumatism. In addition to the fact that they sometimes seem to be directly due to injuries, affecting especially the genital apparatus in woman, and the brain in both sexes, it is certain that wounds of the most diverse character as regards situation and extent, have the power of exciting hysterical or epilep- tic attacks, often indeed with extreme violence. On the other hand, we find mention made by authors of more than one case of epilepsy cured by an acci- dental wound or by premeditated operation. There has been considerable discussion as to whether insane persons tolerate wounds better or worse than other individuals, and the most contradictory facts have been adduced in re- gard to the matter. The fact is that it is impossible to class together the subjects of mania and those of dementia; those who are excited, with the victims of general paralysis ; those whose brains are affected by alcoholism and those affected by old wounds. With such a variety, it is neither possible nor useful to attempt a generalization; and a detailed investigation would not be in place in a work of this character. Diabetes Mellitus. All are agreed concerning the unfavorable course of wounds and the gravity of operations in diabetic patients. The reparative process is often absent, or at least very slow, and interrupted by numerous complications. In open wounds are noticed primary capillary hemorrhages, which are difficult to arrest, and also secondary hemorrhages; in contused wounds, diffuse inflam- mation, bronzed phlegmons, and extensive sloughing. Insignificant wounds such as punctures and excoriations, become inflamed and provoke lymphan- geitis, erysipelas, and phlegmons which become complicated by gangrene en masse or in isolated patches, and the progress of which is with great diffi- culty arrested. Slight operations, followed by immediate union, have often presented similar complications. Even the moderate pressure of an apparatus has produced circumscribed gangrene of the skin. Subcutaneous wounds are