77 CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. expulsion of a disk of dead true skin. Hence the depressed cicatrices or ‘‘ pits” which these minute abscesses leave behind them. The death of a portion of osseous tissue, from scrofulous malnutrition, or from a traumatism, as when a scale of bone, giving attachment to a muscle, is torn off in some violent effort, or, in fact, necrosis from any cause, is a common source of ori- gin of deep abscess. Foreign substances liable to provoke inflammation by lodging in the body include bullets, cloth, splinters of bone, of wood, and all the materials liable to be associated with gunshot projectiles and explosive compounds of every variety; and, with the exceptions mentioned, the inflammation provoked by them is attended by suppuration. Gunshot-wounds are, in a certain sense, rough punctures. In considering lesions of hone by mechanical force, in their relation to in- flammation, we encounter at oiice a remarkable clinical feature—not, indeed, peculiar to this tissue, but typically illustrated by its behavior under injury. In a large proportion of lesions of bone, simple fractures, for example, the in- flammatory condition is limited entirely to its constructive phenomena, very rarely transcending the boundaries of the process of repair. On the other hand, in a comparatively small proportion of them—the compound fractures—the inflammation often assumes its most destructive aspects; and these constitute a grave and critical class of surgical cases. In the former, uncomplicated and satisfactory repair is the usual result; in the latter, there is frequently loss of limb and loss of life. Formerly it was held that the additional vio- lence inflicted on the soft parts accounted for the difference in the amount and character of the inflammation occurring in compound fractures; this complication being regarded as a sufficient explanation of their increased gravity. But we have gradually learned from clinical experience, largely from the success of Stromeyer’s operations upon tendons and fascire—in which these parts were cut across by a small knife inserted through a minute wound which was promptly closed and sealed—that the subcutaneous character of the lesion affords the true explanation of the greater safety in simple frac- ture, and that exposure of the injured parts to the air is the source of danger in compound fracture. Surgical operations for the relief of deformities, as previously practised, had proved so dangerous that they were rarely resorted to, until the German surgeon demonstrated that the method just described was uniformly safe. It has become a received doctrine in surgery that, not only in fracture, but in any lesion whatever, when the external air is excluded, the phenomena of inflammation that follow are restricted to those of the be- nign or constructive order. The explanation of this interesting fact, that subcutaneous lesions are uni- formly repaired by constructive inflammation, the discovery of which has added vastly to the safety and utility of operative surgery, has been sought for in various directions. Addison ascribed it to the uniformity and to the elevation of the temperature at which the injured parts "were preserved during the subcutaneous process of healing. He recognized the close resemblance between the vital phenomena of reparative inflammation and those of embry- onic development, as studied in the egg of the chick during incubation, and correctly inferred that the conditions which nature always secured for the latter (in warm-blooded animals) would be most favorable to the process of repair; and that liability to frequent chilling would be as harmful to the pro- gress of healing as it was in the process of incubation. More recently Lister is seeking to demonstrate that the apparently noxious influence ascribed to the air is not due to any intrinsic qualities of the air, but to the presence in it, under almost all conceivable circumstances, of mi- croscopic germs ot micro-organisms. He asserts, in accordance with Pasteur’s