CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 85 by blood; the physiological condition of the vascular walls, and also of the blood itself, is manifestly altered by the immediate contact of the poison, the blood giving early evidences of putridity. There is a strong tendency to local gangrene. When this form of danger is escaped—wholly, or partially—sup- puration in the connective tissue follows. This suppuration is diffuse in its character, that is, it tends to travel along the planes of connective tissue, as in phlegmonous erysipelas, without limitation by organizing barriers of granula- tion tissue, the poisoned condition of the tissues preventing their formation. At a later period, when these barriers form, it becomes evident that the in- tensity of the inflammation-producing action of the venom has become less, and that the reparative grade of inflammation has established itself in place of the destructive; in other words, that the vital nutritive process is no longer overpowered by the influence of the poison, and is again working normally. In a case of rattlesnake bite (by an imported snake), reported by Sir Everard Home, the victim, having escaped the earlier effects of the poison, died ex- hausted by suppuration in the third week. This clinical evidence shows that there are exciting causes capable of giving rise to the inflammatory condition in its most destructive phases—causes more intense and effective than any heretofore examined. These latter, in- deed, might have been regarded as exaggerated examples of a stimulus to repair, demanding, simply, an increased effort in nutritive activity. The former, on the other hand, exert a directly damaging effect upon the apparatus of nutrition itself, threatening extinction of textural life; and it is only after this first influence has been recovered from, mainly in consequence of the evanescent quality of the noxious agent, that the reparative act comes in play. What it interests us especially to learn concerning inflammation, is, whether there is any essentially destructive quality that belongs intrinsically to the condition; or if its destructive phases are always traceable to the influences by which it has been excited. This question is important in view of its direct bearing upon the practical subject of treatment. If the nature of its exciting cause determines in any degree the grade of the inflammation, we cannot study the nature and mode of action of exciting causes too closely. More light may be thrown upon this question by observing the several modes in which inflammation is produced by the sources of poisonous injury yet await- ing consideration. The grosser parasites, mainly of an animal nature, such as aeari, t rich hue, echinococci, lice (as in the disease known as phtheiriasis), and intestinal worms, produce various injurious effects upon our tissues and organs, but they excite inflammation only incidentally as foreign bodies. They are mentioned in this connection as suggestive of the liability of our bodies to parasitic invasion. It is the mode of action of the multiform microscopic fungi, and their germs, that affords most interest to the surgeon, because there is reason to believe that these invisible particles of organized matter are competent to act inju- riously by direct contact with the tissues when exposed in wounds. The germs of the vibrio septica—-one of the most active and dangerous of the bacteria, according to Pasteur—are singularly indestructible by extremes of heat and cold, and by most of the powerful chemical agents; but the organisms into which they develop, under favorable circumstances, are not so tenacious of life ; they have the peculiarity of not being viable when exposed to the influence of free oxygen. Wherever oxygen has no access, they germinate, however, with inconceivable rapidity, supporting life by appropriating from the animal materials by which they are surrounded— wound-fluids and granulating surfaces, for example—the sustenance they require. In the changes, chemical and vital, to which these animal materials are subjected in the struggle for existence of the vibrios, the result is putre-