42 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. histological theory. The entire armament of the older microscopic methods was brought to hear on this assertion of Reichert. In the first place it was Alex. Rollett, who, under Briicke’s direction, demonstrated the existence of these fibrillin in spite of Reichert’s assertion. The fibrillee, he said, are united by an albuminoid cement. If we preserve the cutis in lime-water, or in baryta-water, the cement is dissolved, and the fibril be fall apart. These results agreed with the tendencies of the microscopists of that time, and a large majority of histologists take this standpoint even at the present day. The doctrine of the fibrillar structure of connective tissue appeared, and still appears, to stand on a solid foundation. The disclosure of fibril be in bone by Ebner,1 followed entirely in the spirit of the method by which Rollet had demonstrated the existence of fibrillin in the cornea. It was the old method of examining macerated tissues. We are very much indebted to these methods. By their aid histology acquired its first solid foundations. The examination of contracted and macerated specimens is indispensable even to-day, and will remain so, perhaps, for all time. But the results must be checked by the examination of living tissues; by the examination of tissues at various ages of their growth ; and finally by the examination of the tissues in pathological conditions. Neither the cornea, nor the tendon, nor the cartilage, permits of the recognition of fibrillse in the fresh state.2 The basis-substance appears homogeneous in all. Now the objection may be raised that this proves nothing. The basis-sub- stances appear homogeneous, because the fibril be are united by a cement; because fibril be and cement possess the same optical properties. If I deny the existence of fibrillse on account of the homogeneous appearance of the basis-substance, I must likewise deny the existence of the cornea-corpuscles, it maybe said. For the fresh cornea shows no structure at all; it is of a glassy brightness. Must we not admit nevertheless that the network of cells does exist, but that we do not see it because it possesses the same optical properties as the basis-substance? Now this is a very weighty objection, but it is open to discussion, and in order to elucidate this question I shall next introduce a few remarks on the cell-nucleus. On the Cell-Nucleus. If we examine an amoeboid white blood-corpuscle of the frog, we will at times see nuclei, and at times not. A more accurate examination teaches us3 that the nuclei come and go; that new nuclei also are formed, now in this, now in that part of the cell. It happens furthermore that on one side a nu- cleus gradually acquires the character of the cell-body, while on the other side a new addition is made to the nucleus from out of the cell-body. But as soon as we add acetic acid, nuclei immediately arise in definite shapes, in shapes that were previously not present. This configuration is now a lasting one, since cell and nucleus have become lifeless. The nuclei as they appear in reaction with acetic acid have been known long since. If anybody had asserted twenty years ago that such nuclei did not exist in the living- white blood-corpuscles, the assertion would certainly have been regarded as entirely unjustifiable. Now matters are different. The assumption of the appearance and disappearance of nuclei in certain varieties of cells, is almost 1 The librillae of hone were known before this ; Waldeyer had described them in Max Schultze’s Archiv, Bd. i. 2 Examined in aqueous humor immediately after excision. 3 First observed by Arndt, and then by myself (Wiener mediz. Jalirbucher, lSTSy But the reader must refer to my article, since there are several varieties of colorless blood-corpuscles.