456 OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. tion from the surgeon. The occurrence of rigors, in traumatic fever, is not common; and in this respect it differs, as in many others, from the urethral fever so often encountered after operations on the urethra and bladder. The treatment of surgical fever hinges on the patient’s special condition, and must be met by a judicious application of well-known general principles. If he be very weak, he must be supported; if he he plethoric, and the fever run high, with great increase of temperature, sedative fever mixtures adapted to restore the secretions, with the addition of a little aconite, can be advanta- geously exhibited. Conditions Determining the Results of Operations. In estimating the risks of operations, and in comparing the hazards of those of the past with those of the present day, it is proper to consider the advances which have been brought about by modern surgery. An operation has always been regarded by the community as little short of a catastrophe, even under the most favorable circumstances, and certainly the operation of former times was appalling in its nature when contrasted with the same operation as now practised. For the surgical mind, it is scarcely possible to contemplate anything more terrible than the amputation of a limb before the discovery of anaesthesia. All of the attendant circumstances were calculated to strike terror to the mind of the trembling patient; the mental anguish before being placed upon the table ; the horrid pain of the operation itself; the loss of blood, and shock, combined, were sufficient to intimidate the bravest, and must necessarily have influenced in no slight degree the issue of the case. But all these horrors have almost vanished since the advent of anaesthesia, hypodermic medication, and the application of Esmarch’s elastic bandage. The patient now possesses at least the assurance that whatever may be the surgeon’s duty, he himself will feel no pain; that his condition while under the knife will be one of unconsciousness, and that, when he returns to him- self, it will be with but the memory of a dream. It is somewhat difficult to compare accurately the statistics of past operations with those of the present day. By some, the risks of operations have been regarded as increased rather than decreased by the discovery of anaesthesia. But it would seem to be scarcely possible that such in reality could be the case. It is certain, however, that the number of operations has greatly increased; the surgeon of to-day dares to do far more than his predecessor would have been willing to attempt, or indeed justified in attempting. The elimination, too, of the factor of pain during operation, renders patients more willing to submit to operation than formerly; while, again, it would seem as if the causes demanding operation had increased greatly, not only in number but in gravity. The more ex- tended use of machinery, the high velocities at which it is driven, the in- creased chances of accident attendant upon great engineering projects, the altered means of transportation, the more general use of railway and street cars, have all combined to produce a large class of the “ seriously injured” formerly unknown. The shock of accidents resulting from all such violent causes must consequently be necessarily augmented. Granting, however, al- though not proven, that the risks attendant upon operation are now increased, it is but fair to assume that these augmented dangers, if any, may be fairly charged, in part at least, to the changed pursuits and habits of men, rather than to the discovery of the blessing of anaesthesia. Much has been said and written of late years concerning “hospitalism,” or the gathering.of large numbers of patients into one building. Undoubtedly the effects of overcrowding are in the highest degree deleterious, but it must