AMPUTATIONS. oval method. 634 Amputation of two Adjoining Fingers simulta- neously, at their metacarpal articulations, may be effected by the circular, oval {en raquette, Fig. 169), or elliptical methods, or by taking a flap from the palm (Lisfranc), or from the side of one Anger (Chassaignac). A better, if less brilliant, plan is, I think, to amputate each finger separately by whatever method seems best adapted to the particular requirements of the case. Amputation of the Four Fingers simultaneously, may likewise be done by the circular, elliptical, or palmar-flap methods, the elliptical operation being brobably the best of the three. Here, too, I think that the surgeon will usually do better to forego bril- liancy, and remove each finger separately in whatever way may seem best. Amputations of the Hand. Partial amputations of the hand are not unfre- quently required in cases of laceration by gunshot in- jury or by machinery, and there are no cases which more than these test the ingenuity and skill of the surgeon in preserving for his patient a useful member. The thumb is of more value than any other part of the hand, and an eft'ort should be made to save every portion that is not hopelessly injured. I have removed all of the hand, except the thumb, through the metacarpus; have saved the thumb and forefinger, removing the rest of the hand quite up to the wrist; and have similarly preserved the thumb and little finger (Fig. 170), or even a single finger, with its metacarpal bone, the whole car- pus being removed, and the part of the hand that was left being allowed to be gradually drawn up in contact with the bones of the forearm. Amputation of the Thumb through its Metacarpal Bone may be best effected by the oval {en raquette) method, the point of the oval being placed on the outer side, and the bone divided at the required point with strong cutting pliers. This operation is very seldom practised. Amputation of the Thumb with its Metacarpal Bone may be conveniently effected by either the oval {en raquette), or the flap method, and, if the latter be employed, the flap may be taken either from the outer (radial) side of the hand, or from the palmar surface. (1) Oval Method.—If this operation be practised, the point of the oval should be placed upon the dorsal surface, and should be prolonged upwards as far as the carpo-metacarpal articulation; the sides of the wound are brought to- Fig. 170. Result of partial amputation of hand, the thumb and little finger being preserved. Fig. 169. Amputation of two fingers by