SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. 242 Morbid Anatomy of Scrofula.—There is not in scrofula, as in tubercle, a pathological body, either microscopical or of larger size, peculiar to the dis- ease. All the changes are those of inflammation, hut the products of scrofu- lous inflammations may be analyzed, chemically and histologically, without the discovery of any substance or structure which may not equally occur in any or indeed in every inflammation. One thing certainly is noticed of the lymph produced in scrofulous inflammations; not only that it tends to sup- purate, and is little prone to organization, but that it has a very strong tendency to degenerate into caseous material, by absorption of the fluid parts, and by withering and distortion of the cells. These, mixed together, form a yellow substance in which fatty molecules abound, and in which plates of eholesterine and the debris of tissues which have been disorganized are found. But caseation, although it is so common, is not a constant result of scrofulous inflammation. And even if it were so, it is a condition so frequently occur- ring in connection with other forms of inflammation, the tuberculous, for example, that it could not be regarded as in any way distinctive of scrofula. The abundance of lymphatic elements, too, which has been noticed by Frankel1 in scrofulous inflammations, is not more distinctive of them than is caseation. Diagnosis of Scrofula.—Although scrofula is a disease thus difficult to define, and though its lesions are not separated by any well-marked limit from those which may result from other debilitating diseases, it is never- theless not difficult to diagnose in such instances as the two which I have described. Even in less advanced cases, it may be recognized by certain characters presented in its lesions, which though they are not pathognomo- nic, are more uniformly observed in scrofulous affections than in any other. Let us leave for a moment the tissues and organs which are the seat of dis- ease, and examine the characters of the lesions wherever they occur. The inflammations are very slow in progress, lingering often for weeks before suppuration is established. Yet the signs by which they are accom- panied are sometimes almost acute; the superficial redness is intense, the swelling considerable, the pain extreme, and even the heat is notably in- creased. All the signs predict an early suppuration and quick recovery. But the prediction is not fulfilled, for even the suppuration appears un- accountably delayed. Far more frequently, however, all the signs of inflam- mation are chronic throughout, and the abscess which results is cold or lymphatic. Yet even these abscesses often point, and break with superficial redness, and heat, and pain. The ulcers of scrofula are generally circular in form; with red or livid edges, not raised and scarcely thickened, but under- mined sometimes over a wide area; with pale and flabby granulations, often large and flattened; and with an area of chronic congestion surrounding them. The discharge from these ulcers is generally abundant, but thin and watery. They remain apparently unchanged in size or characters for weeks, or even months, or, under unfavorable conditions, grow larger; and, where several of them lie not far apart, gradually approximate until they are only separated by thin, undermined bands or strips of red integument, or join to form larger sores with incurved borders. Even the scars which remain after healing, are characteristic of the disease. They are strangely puckered and distorted, often presenting prominent crests or ridges, and retaining the dull red or livid hue of the borders and surrounding areas of the ulcers. Occa- sionally the thin belts between the ulcers fail to become united with the sub- jacent healing surface, but, maintaining their vitality, heal separately and 1 Handbucli der Kinderkranklieiten (C. Gerhardt), Bd. iii. S. 129. Tubingen, 1878.