ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION. 515 mouth to that of the patient, air may he introduced into the lungs through a flexible catheter passed into the trachea. The Bellows may be employed as a means of forcing air into the lungs. Dr. Richardson, of London, has devised a “ pocket-bellows” (Fig. 87) which Fig. 87. Richardson’s bellows for artificial respiration. A, bulb for filling the lungs ; B, bulb for exhausting them. consists of two elastic bulbs terminating in a single tube. This tube is inserted into the nostril, and, the other nostril and the mouth being closed, air may be driven into the lungs by compressing one of the bulbs (A), and withdrawn by compressing the other (B). This is an ingenious imitation of natural respiration. The entrance of air into the oesophagus, when either of the two methods just described is practised, may be prevented by pressing the larynx upwards and backwards. Howard’s Direct Method of Artificial Respiration.—The three methods by which artificial respiration may be most effectively practised are Dr. Benjamin Howard’s “Direct Method,” Sylvester’s Method, and Marshall Hall’s “Ready Method.” In this country, the “direct method” is generally acknowledged to be the best. It has been adopted by the United States Government Life Saving Service, the Life Saving Society of Hew York, etc. Dr. Howard gives the following rules for the direct method:— Rule I “ To drain off Water from Cliest and Stomach. Instantly strip the patient to the waist. Place him face downwards, the pit of the stomach being raised above the level of the mouth by a large, hard roll of clothing placed beneath it. Throw your weight forcibly two or three times, for a moment or two, upon the patient’s back, over roll of clothing, so as to press all fluids in the stomach out of the mouth.” The above rule is to be followed only in case of drowning; in apnoea from other causes it is to be omitted. Rule II “ To perform Artificial Breathing. Quiclcly turn the patient upon his back, the roll of clothing being so placed beneath as to make the breast-bone the highest point of the body. Kneel beside or astride patient’s hips. Grasp front part of the chest on either side of the pit of the stomach, resting your fingers along the spaces be- tween the short ribs. Brace your elbows against your sides, and, steadily grasping and pressing forwards and upwards, throw your whole weight upon chest, gradually increas- ing the pressure while you can count one—two—three. Then suddenly let go with a final push, which springs you back to your first position. Rest erect upon your knee while you can count one—two ; then make pressure again as before, repeating the entire motions at first about four or five times a minute, gradually increasing to about ten or twelve times. Use the same regularity as in blowing bellows, and as is seen in natural breathing, which you are imitating. If another person be present, let him with one Ihand, by means of a dry piece of linen, hold the tip of the tongue out of one corner of the mouth, and with the other hand grasp both wrists and pin them to the ground above the patient’s head.” Sylvester’s Method.—The patient, with all tight clothing and bands re- moved or loosened, is placed on his back on a flat surface, his head and shoul-