82 INFLAMMATION-. pearance, harmlessly in it, when, as soon as the ingestion of a certain amount lias been reached, an active gastric hypersemia attended by vomiting super- venes, if the poison he arsenic, or an inflammation of the mouth attended by salivation, if the poison be mercurial. These inflammatory phenomena may he produced with equal certainty if the poisonous substances are introduced into the blood-current through the skin, or through the mucous membrane of the rectum, which may be done without necessarily producing any inflamma- tion of either absorbing surface ; so that there is no question of local chemical irritation from direct contact. The poisonous action upon the stomach, or the mouth, is something different from that produced by a chemical irritant, and it is effected by a different mechanism; it is “specific.” The tissues of the stomach, or of the mouth, are, for reasons unknown to us, more sensitive to the action of these mineral poisons than the tissues of other organs; and this poisonous action manifests itself by producing the phenomena of inflam- mation. The renal congestion and hrematuria which result from persistent inhalation of volatilized turpentine is readily explained by the irritating action of this substance upon the tissues of the kidney during its elimination from the blood, and the same mechanism has been supposed to explain the desqua- mative nephritis that follows scarlatina, and the follicular intestinal ulcera- tion of typhoid fever. But neither arsenical gastritis, nor mercurial stoma- titis, has been accounted for in this way; and the preferences of these mineral poisons for certain particular organs must be regarded, for the present, as ultimate facts. But they are not facts without parallel, for it will be found hereafter that certain septic poisons, when they gain access to the blood, give rise to congestion and inflammation of serous membranes, and at certain pre- ferred localities of the intestinal mucous tract. Poisonous Action of Plants.—The effect of the contact of the “stinging” nettle (Urtica), in producing a papular eruption, of the poison vine (Rhus), in causing a vesicular irritation of the skin, of croton oil, in bringing out a crop of minute abscesses, are familiar examples of inflammation resulting from the simple contact of substances of vegetable origin. A search for the explana- tion of these phenomena leads us also to the ultimate fact that these sub- stances are in some way hostile to textural life or well-being, and that their contact, probably through some injurious influence exerted upon the nerves of the locality, temporarily perverts or arrests the nutritive process. Poisonous Secretions of Animals.—Under the third class—of poisonous secre- tions elaborated in the living animal body—we have positive clinical evidence that inflammatory action may be directly excited by the contact of pus, or of other products of pre-existing inflammation, that is of simple, non-specific in- flammation, in the products of which there is no suspicion of the presence of extraneous poisonous matter derived from any other source. The contagious quality of so-called healthy pus, taking this secretion as a typical product of inflammation, is, at the present day, so generally admitted to exist, within certain limits, that we may dispense with a formal demonstration of the fact. The evidence collected by Simon, who contended for its existence in I860,1 showing that in examples of inflammation attributed to sympathy, the inflam- mation is in reality due to the contagious quality of pus ; and the more recent researches of Chauveau2 and others, leave nothing to he desired in the way of confirmation of the fact. As to the nature and quality of the inflammation 1 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 1st ed., 18G0, vol. i. p. 68 ; id. op. 2d ed. 1870, vol. i. p. 46. 2 Revue des Cours Scientifiques, 2eserie, lre annee, 14 et 21 Octobre, 1871 ; 2e annee, 13, 20, et 27 Juillet, 1872.