430 ANAESTHETICS AND ANAESTHESIA. II. Alcohols. Methylic Alcohol, CH,.OH. Wood spirit, Pyroxylic spirit. Sp. gr. 0.8142. Boiling point 58.6° C. (137°.4 F.). A limpid, colorless, inflammable liquid, with a penetrating, spirituous odor, and a disagreeable, burning taste. It is usually prepared from the crude wood vinegar obtained by the dry distilla- tion of hard wood at a high temperature in closed vessels. Its vapor pro- duces headache, dizziness, and nausea. Taken in the liquid form, it may pro- duce intoxication and insensibility resembling that produced by ordinary alcohol. Ethylic Alcohol, CH3.CII20II. Alcohol. Spirit of wine. Sp. gr. 0.8095, 0.7938 at 15°.6 C. (60° F.). Boiling point, 78°.3 C. (173° F.). Vapor den- sity, 1.613. A colorless, volatile, inflammable liquid, with an agreeable, spirituous odor and burning taste, obtained by distillation from saccharine solutions which have undergone fermentation. A stimulant in small doses, large quantities of the liquid produce depression of temperature, enfeeblement of the heart, general anaesthesia, unconsiousness, and even death itself. Phenol, C8H6.0H, Oxybenzene, Phenylic hydrate, Carbolic acid. Sp. gr. 1.056. Boiling point, 182° C. (359°.6 F.). Obtained by purification of the product of distillation of the dead oil of coal tar. It crystallizes in long colorless needles which melt at about 39° C. (102°.2 F.). Its odor is charac- teristic though not disagreeable. It is moderately soluble in water, and does no+ redden litmus. It is extremely soluble in alcohol, ether, acetic acid, carbon disulphide, chloroform, and hydrocarbons of the benzene series. It coagulates albumen, and prevents fermentation and putrefaction. Applied to the healthy skin it excites a burning sensation, whitens the surface, and produces local anaesthesia sufficient to render superficial incisions painless. Administered internally it produces acceleration of the circulation and respi- ration, followed by more or less general anaesthesia. Poisonous doses—thirty grammes (an ounce) or more—produce caustic effects in the mouth, oesopha- gus, and stomach, followed by feeble pulse, livid skin, insensibility, collapse, and death. Fatal consequences have followed the external use of this sub- stance when used in large quantities with surgical dressings. TrichlorethaldeHydrol, CCl3.CII(OII)2, Chloral hydrate. Boiling point, 96° C. (204°.8 F.). Produced by the action of chlorine on a well cooled aqueous solution of aldehyde. It crystallizes in large monoclinic prisms, soluble in water. Administered by the mouth, or injected into a vein, it produces deep sleep. This action has been attributed to its conversion into chloroform and formic acid in the blood. There is, however, not sufficient reason to accept this explanation. It reduces the temperature, lessens blood pressure, lowers the rate of respiration and circulation, relaxes spasm, and induces sleep, but does not produce complete anaesthesia unless administered in dangerous doses. It is a powerful irritant when applied locally to the skin or mucous membranes. Its hypodermic use is liable to cause pain and sloughing. As a hypnotic, it may be given in doses of one or two grammes (fifteen to thirty grains). Death has been known to result from ten grains, but recovery has also occurred after taking 165 grains, or even 350 grains. As an anodyne, chloral hydrate is inferior to opium. Trichlorobutaldehydrol, C3H4C13.CH(0II)2, Butylchloral hydrate. A sub- stance closely resembling chloral hydrate hi appearance, crystallizing from water in thin, glistening, white plates which melt at 78° C. (172°.4 F.). It is prepared from ethvlic aldehyde by the action of chlorine, which first pro- duces trichlorotetraldehyde. The addition of water occasions the formation of butylchloral hydrate. The effect of this substance closely resembles the