88 INFLAMMATION. “ . . . forming, as it were, a wall against the invasion of the micrococci, and this is the limit up to which these organisms may be found. They do not extend, even in the (dead) bloodvessels, beyond this line, the wall of nuclei (leucocytes) has no great breadth, and immediately beyond it comes the normal tissue. By the aid of high magnifying powers it becomes apparent that the micrococci do not reach quite up to the nuclear layer. On the side directed towards the micrococci the nuclei are undergoing destruction. . . . There almost always remains between the last remnants of the nuclei and the micrococci a line of considerable breadth, consisting only of gangrenous tissue, in which neither micrococci nor nuclei can be found.” Dr. Koch assumes that the action of these parasites in causing this spread- ing gangrene is somewhat as follows:— “ Introduced by inoculation into living animal tissues, they multiply, and, as a part of their vegetative process, they excrete soluble substances, which get into the surround- ing tissues by diffusion. When greatly concentrated, as in the neighborhood of the micrococci, this .product of the organisms has such a deleterious action on the cells that these perish and finally completely disappear. At a greater distance from the micro- cocci, the poison becomes more diluted, and acts less intensely, only producing inflam- mation and accumulation of lymph corpuscles. Thus it happens that the micrococci are always found in the gangrenous tissue, and that in extending they are preceded by a wall of nuclei which constantly melts down on the side directed towards them, while on the opposite side it is as constantly renewed by lymph corpuscles deposited afresh.” Various efforts were made to isolate these parasites—the minute septieaemic bacillus, and the gangrene-producing micrococcus—from each other, so as to study each separately by cultivation in different animals. But for a long time the efforts did not avail. “ Either pure septicaemia, or septicaemia along with progressive gangrene, was attained, never the latter alone. Chance led me to the proper method. A field mouse—which, as I formerly pointed out, possesses an immunity from septicaemia—was inoculated with septicemic bacilli and chain-like micrococci. The experiment was made in the expec- tation that neither parasite would develop. This expectation, however, was not ful- filled, for, although the bacilli, as usual, underwent no development, the micrococci increased and spread exactly in the same manner as has been described in the case of the house-mouse. Beginning at the place of inoculation on the root of the tail, the gangrene spread onwards along the back, passing deeply among the dorsal muscles, and downwards on both sides to the abdominal wall. The animal died three days after the inoculation. The parts affected with the gangrene were partially denuded of epidermis and hairs, and contained chain-like micrococci in extraordinary numbers. The same micrococci were also found on the surface of the abdominal organs, although there was no visible peritonitis. The blood and the interior of the organs were, on the other hand, quite free from them. From this animal other field-mice, and from these again house- mice in various successive series, were subsequently injected, and always with the like result, viz., that only chain-like micrococci and, in their train, progressive gangrene, were obtained.” The ingenious observer who is responsible for these statements found equally interesting and positive results on investigating the spreading cheesy abscesses produced by putrid subcutaneous injections. He found a specific form of bacteric vegetation, proved its peculiar qualities by cultivation, and produced the same artificial infective disease at will. He discovered also another distinct variety of micrococcus which developed habitually in blood- vessels, and which possessed the unique quality of spinning around the blood corpuscles and inclosing them so as to beget thrombosis and positive embolism. The same growth also caused, by its contact, purulent (not cheesy) infiltration of the connective tissue. This new infective material was also propagated by cultivation, and proved competent to produce pyaemia, at will, by separate inoculation.