THE USE OF BANDAGES. 483 copal varnish, and, when dry, brushed over “ with a solution containing one part of dextrine and two of starch, dissolved in fifteen parts of five per cent, carbolic solution.” Immediately before using the protective, it is to be dipped in a 1-40 carbolic acid solution, in order that no germs may be left adhering to it. The same piece of protective may be used several times if it be properly disinfected. Mackintosh.—This substance consists of cotton or silk, made impermeable to water and air by being coated on one or both sides with India-rubber. Other substances, among which are rubber-tissue and oiled paper, have been employed as substitutes for mackintosh, but they have proved less efficient. It is placed external to the gauze-dressing, and may be secured by a gauze- bandage, or by an elastic bandage, which Mr. Lister occasionally uses now. A piece of mackintosh may be repeatedly used, if care be taken to clean and disinfect it thoroughly each time that it is applied. The Use of Bandages. 'Roller Bandages.—The Roller consists of a band or strip of woven mate- rial, prepared for application to some portion of the body by being rolled into cylindrical form. The materials commonly used are unbleached muslin and flannel; for special purposes, however, linen, calico, silk, India-rubber, or crinoline, may be selected. It is desirable that a bandage should consist of a single piece, free from seams and selvage; yet bandages are sometimes made of several pieces sewed together. The latter should be avoided if possible whenever it is necessary to apply a bandage next to the integuments, for Flg‘ 41* the seams (and the same is true of sel- vage) will leave creases in the skin. Bandages vary greatly in length and width according to the purposes for which they are employed, ranging from 2 to 10 centimetres (f of an inch to 4 inches) in width, and from 184 to 91 decimetres (2 to 10 yards) in length. Bandages may be rolled by hand, or with a machine called a winder (Fig. 41), which is commonly used in hospitals where large quantities of bandages are consumed. In private practice a medical attendant may be called upon, at any moment, to roll a bandage; hence the art of rolling one by hand, which may be readily ac- quired with slight practice, should be familiar to every physician. In Fig. 42 is illustrated the way in which a roller is to be held in winding it by hand. A bandage rolled into the form of a cylinder is called a single, or single-headed, roller (Fig. 43); if rolled from each extremity towards the centre, into two round masses, it forms a double, or double-headed roller. (Fig. 44.) The latter form of roller is hardly ever used. Parts of a Roller.—The free end of a roller is termed the initial extremity; the end inclosed in the centre of a roller is its terminal extremity; the portion intervening between the extremities, the body ; a roller has two surfaces, ex- ternal and internal. Bandages derive their names from one of two circum- stances, either from the direction that they are made to take when applied, Bandage winder.