AMPUTATIONS. 632 inch) below the most projecting part of the knuckles; in that of the middle phalanx, two lines {\ inch) below; and in that of the first or proximal phalanx, four lines (J inch) below the corresponding prominence. It will be found convenient, in disarticulating the phalanx, to employ a slender and rather short knife, with a heavy back. (Fig. 121.) (1) Single Flap Operation.—The Hap is usually and preferably taken from the palmar surface (Fig. 167), which affords a firm covering for the stump, and one which at the same time possesses tactile sensibility. Le Dran, how- ever, preferred to take a flap from the side of the finger,1 while La Roche and Walther took one from the back ;2 the only advantage of this plan was that the resulting cicatrix was less apparent, whence A. Guerin tells us that it was called the “ rich man’s operation.”3 The palmar flap may be cut either by transfixion or from without in- wards, and its formation may con- stitute either the first or second stage of the operation. If the flap is to he made first, the patient’s hand should be held in a supine position, and the knife entered, in the case of the last phalanx a little below, and in that of the middle phalanx on a level with, the palmar crease corresponding to the articulation. The flap should be a little longer than the diameter of the finger, and its width should be as nearly as possible half the circumference; its ends should he rounded, but not too much bevelled, for fear of sloughing. If transfixion is employed (Lis- franc’s method), the knife must be kept close to the bone, or the flap will he too narrow. The flap having been formed, the knife is turned with its edge towards the joint, at the upper part of the wound, and, the palmar and lateral ligaments having been divided, disarticulation is effected, and the structures on the hack of the finger severed at a single stroke. A better plan is, I think, to attack the joint from its dorsal surface, the hand being held prone, and the finger flexed till the joint has been opened and the lateral ligaments divided; then the knife, placed at the bottom of the wound, is turned flat- wise, and, the finger being extended, a flap of sufficient length and breadth is cut by a sawing motion. A. Guerin prefers to make the flap first, by trans- fixion, as in Lisfranc’s method, and then, having pronated the patient’s hand, to open the joint and effect disarticulation from the dorsal surface. (2) Double Flap Operation.—Where the surgeon has the opportunity of choosing his mode of amputating through one of the interphalangeal joints, the single palmar flap method gives, I think, the best result; but it may happen, in cases of lacerated wound, etc., that the palmar tissues are deficient, and that the operator must either utilize the structures on the hack of the finger, or remove more of the bone than is desirable. Under these circum- stances both a dorsal and a. palmar flap may be formed, by cutting from with- out inwards, disarticulation being then effected, and the operation completed, in the manner already described. This, which is the plan recommended by Richerand and Gouraud, seems to me to be in every way preferable to the lateral-flap operation of Maingault. Amputation of an Entire Finger.-—Disarticulation at the metacarpo- phalangeal joint of any of the fingers may be conveniently accomplished by Fig. 167. 1 Dubreuil, Manuel d’Operations Cliirurgicales, p. 86. Paris, 1867. 8 Ibid. 3 Op. eit., p. 108.