314 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. ral cancerous deposits scattered over various parts of the body; sometimes the morbid masses are situated in the external parts, the limbs or walls of the splanchnic cavities, sometimes they occupy the viscera or deep parenchymata ; often they are observed both externally and internally. Finally, certain can- cerous patients present no other lesions than the single or multiple tumors with which they are affected, while in others we find humoral changes, or more or less serious disorders in organs which are free from all neoplastic. deposits. In certain predisposed subjects, injuries, and almost exclusively contusions, appear to invite the manifestations of the disease. Before com- plete recovery, or a longer or shorter time after apparent recovery, the centre of traumatism is invaded by the neoplasm, and the cancer appears at the seat of injury. * Cancerous patients who are affected by single tumors situated in organs not essential to life, and whose viscera are healthy, tolerate injuries well; the reparative process pursues a normal course. The only complications to be feared are those which are observed in arthritics, and which usually present but slight gravity ; such are traumatic herpes, early secondary neuralgias, recur- rent attacks of rheumatism or gouty paroxysms, etc. I know of no authentic example of an open wound in a cancerous subject, in a region exempt from cancer, which has itself undergone the cancerous metamorphosis. In cases of removal of tumors, when the ablation has been early and free, the cicatrices are healthy, firm, and usually not liable to relapses, which readily occur, on the other hand, in distant localities. Cancerous patients affected by multiple deposits, and especially by visceral tumors, tolerate accidental wounds and surgical operations very badly. A large proportion succumb in consequence of even slight injuries, such as sim- ple fractures, the removal of small tumors, palliative operations, tracheotomy, formation of artificial anus, etc. The seat of injury may become the site of the ordinary complications of wounds: inflammation, hemorrhage, ery- sipelas, pyaemia, etc., but more frequently still we notice merely an almost entire absence of the reparative process; immediate union, cleansing of the wound, formation of the granular membrane—all are wanting. At the same time, there are high fever and profound adynamia; and death often occurs very rapidly without its being possible to ascribe it to any of the recognized complications of wounds. The same termination is usual in cachectic can- cerous patients, in whom the large viscera (liver, kidneys, heart) are affected by fatty degeneration. The complications which cause the fatal result are always better characterized in them, and we find the classical causes of opera- tive failure, diffuse inflammation, severe erysipelas, septicaemia, pyaemia, secondary hemorrhage, etc. Such a case as the following, which is unfortunately very common, cannot be explained with our present knowledge. An operation is performed upon a readily accessible, external tumor, in a cancerous subject who is apparently free from all internal lesions, and who presents the appearances of satisfactory health. The wound does not advance towards recovery, general symptoms appear, death occurs with or without local complications, and nothing is found at the autopsy except a few, small, cancerous nodules scattered through the lungs, liver, or other viscera, and the existence of which had not been suspected. Though the traumatism may produce the premature appearance of cancer by making the injured part the port of entry and place of election, it reacts even more frequently upon pre-existing cancerous tumors. It usually accelerates their course, and Causes an active increase of the proliferation. This is especially observed in cases of wounds of the tumor itself, such as con- tusions, exploratory punctures, incomplete operations, etc. But this irritating action is exercised equally at a distance. Many times we find that small,