349 INTERROGATION OF THE INTERNAL ORGANS. above the normal temperature, is an evidence of increased tissue metamor- phosis, and when the thermometer records 105° or 106° Fahr., the danger to life becomes imminent. In fatal cases of disease or injury, the temperature rapidly falls on the approach of death; an occasional exception to this is sometimes witnessed, however, in instances of fatal injury of the head or spinal column. Respiration.—The function of respiration may be disturbed from mechan- ical, from pathological, or from emotional causes, and the phenomena to be observed are the frequency, the ease, and the regularity with which the pro- cess of breathing is executed. Mechanical interruption of respiration may be caused by a tumor pressing on the trachea, by the presence of membranous formations in the larynx or windpipe, by tumors in the vicinity of the rima glottidis, or by foreign bodies within the oesophagus. In like manner hydro- thorax, empyema, and pneumothorax, by pressing the lung back towards the spine, will give rise to difficult and labored breathing. In pneumonia, the inflammatory infiltration which floods the parenchyma of the pulmonary tissue, not only presses the air out of the air-cells, but also prevents their ex- pansion. This necessitates abnormally frequent respiratory acts, the lung attempting in this way to compensate for the deficient aeration, incident to imperfect expansion. Tubercular infiltration produces similar phenomena. Cardiac disease will also induce hurried breathing, especially when the patient is compelled to walk, to climb an ascent, or, sometimes, even to change his position, the muscular efforts acting as a stimulus to the organ. The respiration may be slowed or quickened by disease of the medulla oblongata. The latter frequently sutlers in cases where, in consequence of organic changes in the kidneys, these organs are unable to eliminate the redundant products of tissue waste, when their retention in the system soon begins to exert its toxic effects on the brain and other organs of the body. Blood thus loaded with meta- morphosed tissue becomes an anaesthetic to the nerve-centres, producing stupor, with labored breathing, which may alternate with excitement and rapid respi- ration when the organs begin to feel an urgent need for better blood. The sluggish flow of the blood through vessels which have undergone atheroma- tous degeneration, will also explain similar phenomena so often witnessed in persons thus affected. In many instances, the two acts of respiration, inspi- ration and expiration, are not equally involved; thus in croup, in (edema of the larynx, and in certain cases of laryngeal tumor, the inspiration is most embarrassed. There is a singular power of compensation resident in the human body, which under extraordinary conditions is exhibited in a very striking manner: thus when a rib is broken, in order that the process of repair may not be dis- turbed, the movements of the corresponding side of the chest are greatly diminished, while the deficiency is measurably supplemented by the dia- phragm and the muscles of the abdomen. In pleuritis, the inspiration is brought to a sudden check before the full expansion of the thoracic walls has been completed. There are significant sounds accompanying the respiration, which possess great diagnostic value. For example, the tremulous voice, which accompa- nies extreme weakness; the hiccough, so often connected with grave disorders, or following upon the appearance of mortification; the grunting respiration which attends caries of the vertebrae ; the stridulous sounds caused by the air passing between obstructions in the respiratory tube; the obscure, mumbling articulation of words in cases of inflammatory swelling in the faucial and pharyngeal parts; the whisper or aphonia from swelling of the larynx or paralysis of the vocal cords ; and the tracheal rales which announce the near