INFLAMMATION. 144 best position, the next step in treatment is to administer an anodyne, or to leave directions for its administration in case of pain or restlessness. As is the case with every favorite remedy, the power conferred by an ano- dyne of relieving mental distress, in most cases, as well as physical pain, is liable to be abused. An opiate should not be administered unless a distinct indication exists, for its use. In most cases it interferes with the functions of the stomach and intestines, and in conjunction with confinement to the horizontal position, so often indispensable after a surgical injury, its employ- ment begets a necessity for laxative medicine, and thus interferes with the important blood-making function, and increases the tendency to constitutional disturbance and fever. Moreover, the administration of an anodyne, espe- cially if its eft'ect has been pleasant, often creates a desire on the part of the patient for its repetition when, perhaps, a sufficient indication is wanting. Thus, however much he may be tempted to exercise his power, the surgeon should be on his guard against the possibility of abusing it; he has in trust what has been justly called one of the greatest gifts of God to man, and should be careful to bestow it wisely. Position.—The position of a part which has been the seat of an injury or a surgical operation, especially when seated in a limb, should always be con- sidered in reference to the avoidance of pain at the time, and of provocation to subsequent inflammation. In this regard there are several points to be noted: (1) a position Should be selected which favors the venous or return circulation, so as to avoid the danger of passive hypersemia; (2) muscular relaxation is to be secured—as far as possible—in order to guard against the involuntary spasmodic action liable to be provoked by muscular tension; (3) if there is a wound, the position should be managed so as to favor the ready escape of all possible discharges; and (4) the position should be, as far as pos- sible, agreeable to the patient’s feelings. It is hardly necessary to add that undue manipulation or change of position is to be avoided, and where this is absolutely required, in a case of serious lesion involving much pain, as in a compound fracture, it is often the wiser plan to bring the patient carefully under the influence of an anaesthetic before handling the part. The muscular relaxation secured by the anaesthetic, pre- vents spasmodic contractions which do harm by disturbing the relations of the fragments, and by possibly causing bleeding. And, moreover, when an anaesthetic acts kindly and without causing undue excitement or subsequent vomiting, it is a matter of clinical observation that there is less disposition to excessive vascular reaction after it has been employed. As after the admin- istration of opium, there seems to be less tendency to undue inflammatory ex- citement than where the same amount of violence has been inflicted upon a perfectly conscious and sensitive patient. Those who have had the experience of undressing and opening a recently closed wound in order to secure a bleed- ing artery, without the aid of chloroform or ether, can bear witness to the greater frequency of positive febrile reaction after such a double strain upon the power of endurance. Cold.—As a cause of inflammation, exposure to intense cold may literally freeze exposed parts, such as the nose, ears, or toes; but if the temperature be very gradually elevated, and the suspended capillary circulation be restored, as by gentle friction with snow or ice-water, the parts may be brought back to a normal or to a very slightly weakened condition. But if the temperature of the frozen parts be suddenly raised, as by entering a hot room or approach- ing a stove, they are liable to become intensely congested, livid, and possibly gangrenous; or to remain in a condition of chronic inflammation, with a lia-