442 OPERATIVE SURGERY IN GENERAL. were announced by Professor Simpson, of Edinburgh. Since that time, the value of these two agents has been universally recognized. Throughout Europe, until quite recently, chloroform has been preferred by surgeons ; while in America the professional mind has been greatly divided as to the relative value of the two agents. In the northern portion of the country, ether is probably the favorite agent, while in the south and west the predi- lection is in favor of chloroform. The merits of the rival agents may be thus briefly summed up: Both produce complete anaesthesia, but ether is un- doubtedly the safer agent. It is, however, far more bulky, and consequently more difficult of transportation. It is, therefore, not so well adapted as chlo- roform for use in military or country practice. It is slower in its action, and more disagreeable than chloroform; and its use is attended by more strug- gling and rebellion on the part of the patient. The stimulating action of ether is felt largely by the nervous and respiratory systems, and on the latter it sometimes produces much irritation. The action of the heart is also stimu- lated by ether, and in this respect it differs from chloroform, which is apt to cause cardiac sedation. It seems, therefore, that the use of ether as an anaes- thetic is indicated in cases attended by nervous shock, and also where there is cardiac weakness, the result of fatty changes or of ventricular dilatation. Comparison op Ether with Chloroform.—The primary excitant effects of ether are shortly followed by secondary sedation. This is at times aggra- vated by the tendency to nausea and vomiting, which occasionally is persist- ent, and which it is not always easy to check. Chloroform, on the other hand, is free from most of these objections. Its odor is agreeable, and its first effects sedative ; it acts promptly, and, as a rule, without causing that degree of excitation and muscular action which is so characteristic of ether. It proba- bably causes less nausea and gastric irritation, and it acts kindly and safely upon children. The great matter, however, in the choice of an anaesthetic is that of safety, and the one question to be answered is simply this : Which carries with it the least peril to the life of the patient, ether or chloroform ?— and here it must be stated that the condition of anaesthesia is always one of some danger, and that no anaesthetic is altogether safe. A patient in a con- dition of absolute anaesthetic unconsciousness, is necessarily in more or less jeopardy of life, and it is incumbent upon the operating surgeon never to lose sight of this fact. It is to be feared that the comparative impunity which has attended the long-continued use of anaesthetics, tends to beget in the mind of the surgeon too great a confidence in their safety, and that he sometimes realizes only when it is too late that this blind confidence may be unfounded. Especially is this the case when the exhibition of the anaesthetic is submitted to unskilled hands, and that this is very often done it is impos- sible to deny. In reality, the assistant who has charge of the ether or chloro- form, plays a part in the operation scarcely secondary to that of the surgeon himself, for on his skill, watchfulness, and judgment, the welfare of the pa- tient to a great extend depends. It is, therefore, incumbent upon the operator to devolve this important duty only upon one who is qualified to undertake it; and the assistant himself must devote his whole mind to this given task. He ought to do nothing else, and should not permit his attention to wander for a moment from the patient before him, nor attempt to render any other assistance in the operation than that to which he is particularly assigned, lie must carefully watch the breathing of the patient, and moderate or sus- pend the anaesthetic on the slightest evidence of its irregularity. He should be on the watch against retraction of the tongue, and, if this happens, he must instantly draw it forward with a hook or forceps, and see to the removal of mucus from the mouth or fauces. Not unfrequently, spasm and closure of