INFLAMMATION. 112 we are liable to encounter the symptoms of the more serious forms of inflam- mation which have been designated as destructive. The more common sources of interruption to the normal process of repair have been already enumerated, under the title, heretofore in common use, of “predisposing” and “exciting causes of inflammation.” Now it is obvious that these expressions are strictly correct only in the limited sense which regards the causes of inflammation as obstacles to the continuance or completion of a normal process, or as opening the way for, and favoring, as it were, the bad consequences which necessarily follow stoppage or interruption of the nutritive machinery of a part, or its failure to repair an injury in a natural way. In any other sense, a conclusion could be assumed as logical that these causes provoke destructive inflamma- tion as an essential and an aggressive disease, a doctrine which in the early part of this article was distinctly denied. Destructive Inflammation. Pus Formation. In accordance with this view, the symptoms of destructive inflammation, which we have next to consider, are to be regarded as the consequences of some cause or causes which, by their influence upon the organism, have had the effect of interrupting or impairing normal local nutritive action, in con- nection with the series of changes following injury. This doctrine will be illustrated by the study of suppuration, or pus formation, the most common and important of the changes liable to follow injury. Suppuration is prop- erly treated of as a symptom of inflammation of the destructive sort, because, although commonly associated with the mode of healing by granulation and suppuration, known as “healing by the second intention,” it never takes place without a distinct and positive loss of substance. Healing by the adhesive process—“by the first intention”—does not necessarily involve any, or an almost imperceptible, textural loss; but whenever pus is formed, there is at least an equivalent furnished in nutritive material, or in tissue already existing. Suppuration and Granulation.—To describe the mode of pus formation in its most common aspect, let us recur to the condition of an open wound, the surface of which has become glazed by a deposit of plastic lymph, but in which from loss of substance, or the presence of foreign material in the wound, its surfaces cannot be brought together, in accurate contact, so as to secure union by primary adhesion. Here the object of the exaggerated effort on the part of the local nutritive apparatus to repair the lesion in the most simple and effective way, is rendered unattainable; the purpose for which the inflamma- tory exudation has been poured out, is baulked. But Nature has other re- sources at command by which the end can be reached; not so promptly and readily, with more delay and expense, but still repair of the injury can be ac- complished. Her next effort towards this end is, after the delay of a day or two, and with a certain amount of local soreness and swelling, and more or less general disturbance or distress, to generate a red velvety surface upon the wound, and clothe it with a bland, cream-likq yellowish fluid. Under these new conditions, if circumstances are favorable, the wound goes on to heal, in the manner to be described. The soft red surface is coagulable lymph which has become organized into indifferent or embryonic tissue—henceforward to be spoken of as '•'•granulation tissue ;” and the yellowish bland fluid is pus. The nature and uses of these “products of inflammation” we have next to examine. Although generated at the expense of some local and general disturbance to the organism, it is to he noted that these substances obviously have a pur-