GANGRENE. 121 appearance upon the surface which it is approaching. This surface redness is usually preceded by more or less oedema of the subcutaneous tissue, which is explained by the projection of the peripheral zone of serous exudation surrounding the central collection of pus. The advancing tumor next pre- sents, at the centre of the surface redness, a more prominent and bulging point, where the color of the skin becomes purplish or livid. The skin is evidently also growing thinner, for the yellow tint of the pus soon becomes recognizable through it. In this stage an abscess is said to be pointing. Shortly the thinned integument gives way, and the pus exudes through the opening. The’cause of this behavior of the skin is simply that the blood- vessels by which its nutritive supply is conveyed from beneath, have been stretched and obstructed by the pressure of the enlarging abscess, or have been actually ruptured by extreme stretching, so that the area of integument thus deprived of its blood-supply slowly dies. It dies by minute particles, or molecules, piecemeal; and the dead material is added to the contents of the abscess. Under all possible circumstances, this molecular death is the essential feature of the process which we call ulceration; and its immediate cause is defect in the blood-supply. It is, therefore, a passive, not an active, process, brought about by agencies external to the parts that die. It is probable that insuffi- cient supply of nervous influence aggravates the effect of the vascular defi- ciency ; and, in some cases, a bad quality of the blood, or the blighting effect of a virus present in it, may, with slight additional cause, start and keep up the ulcerative process, as in some phases of syphilis and phagedaena. In any case, the relation of ulceration to inflammation is not necessarily that of effect and cause; for, although the two conditions are very commonly associated, and the same causes are competent to excite either or both of them simulta- neously, nevertheless ulceration may take place without inflammation, as exemplified in the destruction caused by the slow and gradual pressure of an aortic aneurism upon the sternum or vertebral bodies. Pathologically, ulceration is more nearly allied to atrophy, and the retrogressive changes which follow insufficient nutrition ; and, whenever the process takes place, it may be traced to one or more of the causes already detailed, without neces- sarily including inflammation. The relations between inflammation and ulceration resemble in many points the relations between inflammation and gangrene; they are incidental, rather than causative. They have been in- cluded in the series of changes following injury, with a somewhat loose estimate of their significance, and of their relations to inflammation ; but they form no essential features of the inflammatory condition. Gangrene. It has been usual with surgical writers to speak of gangrene also as one of the w terminations” of inflammation. The sameness as to immediate causes renders the conclusions reached concerning ulceration applicable also to gangrene, and justifies the consideration of gangrene in its relations to inflammation more fully in this connection. The term gangrene is applied to death of living tissues in visible masses ; the term ulceration, to disintegration of tissue by the death, in detail, of in- visible molecules ; and the immediate cause of the local death in either case is deprivation of an adequate supply of nutritive material, without necessarily including the idea of inflammation. The series of changes following injury, which are correctly regarded as con- stituting inflammation, do not include immediate death of the injured part.