PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. 38 examinations, that the tips of cells or entire cells became altered so as to be indistinguishable from tbe basis-substance. But I was so prejudiced by the tradition that cells and basis-substance differed from each other, that the thought of a rapid metamorphosis never struck me. Since a cell frequently became visible in the place where another had disappeared, I naturally pre- sumed that it was the same one which had previously vanished. As soon, indeed, as a study of the appearances of inflammation had taught me that the cells and their processes extended their limits, and that, too, at the expense of the neighboring basis-substance, I began to change my opinion with regard to the nature of the latter. But with difficulty only could I conclude to overturn the traditional ideas on the nature and the structure of basis-substance. The basis-substance was said to consist of flbrilhe; the fi bril he were said, furthermore, to be held together by a cement. And was a cell to become all this so suddenly? I shall show hereafter how a study of the various kinds of tissue has urged me more and more to break with these traditional ideas. Here I will mention only one observation, which lias finally induced me to cut loose from this view. In a fresh condition and with good illumination, the basis-substance of the frog’s cornea appears quite homogeneous, though it is different in advanced inflammation. In the neighborhood of the focus of suppuration, the basis-substance becomes quite cloudy, even after the lapse of the first days of sickness. If we allow the inflammatory cause to act several days,1 scarcely a single spot of the basis-substance remains homo- geneous. Here and there the basis-substance looks as if torn and destroyed. It gives the impression of being converted into so-called detritus. But whatever place I may bring into view on the heating stage, I see that the picture changes constantly every- where. The entire mass is alive. There is present an internal movement similar to the one which I have already described as flowing motion. Such observations, as I have remarked, were made on spots which resembled detritus, and in which comparatively few cells were to be recognized. In certain spots again, in such corneas, the cells are so densely packed that no basis-substance at all can be seen. Here the cells still form a coherent mass. In certain patches the cells are, it is true, numerous, but there is always basis-substance to be seen which is not yet split up. Now, again, we have basis-substance which is cloudy, turbid; we can distinguish lighter and darker spots. If we weaken the illumination somewhat (by turning the mirroy), the difference between the light and dark portions becomes very plain. Now these clouds are likewise in constant motion; the relations of light and darkness are continually changing. At this aspect I was at once compelled to think of possible illusion. There might be migrating cells lying over and under the cloudy turbidity. The turbidity might be due to an obscuration by migrating cells, which might cause its constant change. But this interpretation proved to be wrong. I saw such cloudy appearances in places where there were cells neither above nor below them. In addi- tion, the cloudy turbidity extended continuously through a considerable portion of the basis-substance. Accordingly, I was compelled to refer the perceptible changes to the basis-substance itself. And in fact a closer observation revealed that the cloudy turbidity passed directly into the amoeboid cells. In view of these observations I was at last compelled to cease doubting. During the process of inflammation, I was now forced to say, not only the presumably2 fixed cells become movable, but also the basis-substance. It thaws, as it were, from a condition of rigidity. How I comprehend why the tissue in its entirety suppurates; I comprehend what is meant by the inflam- matory resolution of tissue. I comprehend the swelling up of the network 1 In the case of well-developed frogs, during the first days of October, seventy-two hours suf- ficed. 2 I say presumably. In a subsequent section (page 52) I shall show that this assertion also is not quite true.