CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 131 whose office it was to secrete pus. The name pyogenic, or “ pus-begetting,” which was applied to this supposed membrane, is still in use in this sense ; hut the means of closer scrutiny now at our command have demonstrated clearly that no such membrane actually exists. The surface to which the name was applied is simply granulation tissue, in a passive condition of sus- pended development, awaiting its opportunity of final growth into tissue of cicatrix. This is confirmed by what follows when such a sinus is laid open by the knife. Under these circumstances, the stimulus of injury starts the construc- tive effort anew ; the chronic inflammation is replaced by a renewed afflux of blood; a fresh exudation of better quality is furnished; and the old surface of granulation tissue sprouts afresh in the effort at cicatrization. The condition known as induration is one of the characteristic features of chronic inflammation. It is very familiar to us as a consequence of certain in- flammations of internal organs, as in consolidation of the lungs, and cirrhosis of the liver ; and it occurs constantly in surgical affections, notably around joints long diseased. Especially does induration take place where constructive, inflammation has been prevented from attaining its object in the healing of a breach of continuity. The nutritive material, brought for the purpose of aiding repair, remains unused in the form of new tissue growth, more or less organized, which collects around the capillary vessels furnishing the exuda- tion. It is new tissue formation intended for repair, but diverted from its object. This increase in the numerical elements of the connective substance imme- diately surrounding the capillary vessels, constitutes, in the term first em- ployed by Virchow, hyperplasia—-a redundant tissue formation by elements which have been turned aside from their purpose. The use of this term serves to distinguish an increase in bulk caused by inflammatory induration, from hypertrophy, which is a purposive overgrowth of an organ generally provoked by its increased use; the habitually increased functional activity soliciting constantly a larger supply of nutritive material. It is proper to notice that the new tissue growth which constitutes inflam- matory induration, is less perfectly organized than the more normal growth of cicatricial tissue; hence induration may be removed by absorption, by atrophy, or by retrogressive changes, such as fatty degeneration. Thus, systematic pressure will cause the rapid disappearance of the embankment of induration surrounding a chronic ulcer of the leg. It is well known that all new formations are less enduring in quality of organization than the original tissues of the body. Thus cicatrices are notoriously liable to injury by pressure, as in a leg stump after an ampu- tation ; and under the influence of exhausting diseases they may even re- ulcerate, as in scurvy. But the substance of inflammatory induration ranks still lower in the scale of textural vitality; and this lack of quality is con- stantly taken advantage of by the surgeon in treating the consequences of inflammation. In laying open old sinuses, the dense gristly character of the induration surrounding them may present itself as a discouraging feature as regards immediate cure; but, if the operation he thoroughly accomplished, the suspicious hardness of the “ lardaceous tissue,” as the French have called it, melts away with surprising promptness, and a soft bed of healthy granu- lation tissue succeeds. In a mucous membrane, the induration, which is as characteristic of its chronic inflammations as suppuration is of their acute stage, is effected by exudative infiltration into the meshes of the submucous connective tissue. In serous membranes, similar thickening from induration occurs, but is less common.