NATURE OF PYAEMIA. 205 years by other observers. The most thorough studies of the subject, how- ever, from this point of view, are those of Panum (1855 and 1874). Ilis studies were careful and systematic, and were carried on during a number of years. His conclusions are essentially as follows: “It is demonstrated that there is in putrefying fluids a specific, chemical substance, soluble in water. This substance, if introduced into the blood, produces the peculiar symptoms which belong to what is usually called putrid or septic infection. This sub- stance possesses such infectious properties after being completely freed from all microscopic organisms.” Attempts to isolate this infectious substance and find a definite chemical composition for it, have not been successful. Hiller (1876) also went over the ground very thoroughly, and arrived at the con- clusion that there were two putrid poisons: A chemical poison, producing symptoms in proportion to its dose; and a septic ferment of great malignity, a malignity increased by successive inoculations. Besides these views of a chemical, putrid poison, it must not be forgotten that the introduction of a variety of substances into the circulation can produce fever. Blood, solutions of sulphate of ammonium, even distilled water, can act in this way. It must also be remembered that in simple fractures, where no air or germs contained in the air can approach the wound, there may be fever. In such cases it seems probable that the absorption of the tissues destroyed by the contusion may be the efficient cause. III. The Germ Theory.—This theory is founded on Pasteur’s studies concern- ing putrefaction and fermentation. He has demonstrated, to almost universal satisfaction, that putrefaction and fermentation are due to the presence and growth of certain minute organisms; that unless these organisms are present, fermentation and putrefaction do not take place; that these organisms are in suspension in the air, and that it is for this reason that the access of air in- duces putrefaction. From these facts came the probability that the different infectious diseases might be due to analogous processes; to the introduction of microscopic organisms into the body, and to their multiplication there. Septicemia and pyemia have been especially studied from this point of view. Notwithstanding all the work that has been done, however, we are still far from positive results. Investigations have been carried on in two directions: (1) examinations of the blood and tissues in persons who have died of pysemia and septicaemia; and (2) the production and study of similar lesions in animals. (1) The Examination of the Blood and Tissues in Persons who have Died of Pj/cemia- and Septicaemia.—This study is rendered singularly difficult by the minute size of the microscopic organisms, and all attempts to distinguish these bodies by means of staining or of chemical reagents have so far proved unsatisfactory. They are found of two principal shapes; little rods of various sizes, which may be single or joined in chains; and little globules which are collected in masses, or joined to form chains or dumb-bells, or scattered singly. The generic name for both is bacteria, but it has become customary to call the rods bacteria, and the little round bodies micrococci, although other names have also been given to them. The larger rods and the clumps of micro- cocci can usually be made out, but the smallest rods and the scattered micro- cocci are always uncertain objects. It is also still undecided whether the micrococci and bacteria are the same organism in different stages of develop- ment ; whether there are a variety of these organisms, one for each infectious disease ; whether any of them are altogether harmless. Observations differ also as to whether the rods or the micrococci, or either indifferently, are the active agents. Birch-IIirschfeld, examining the fluids from a number of wounds, found