371 TREATMENT OF SHOCK. and certain by a careful, previous study of a patient’s habit of thought and feeling; whether he is hopeful and cheerful, looking forward to speedy recovery, or downcast and despondent, with a dogged conviction that cannot he reasoned with that things will not go well—a conviction in itself appa- rently enough to cause the worst result. For there are too many recorded cases of death after slight operations, and after perfectly natural labors, and even on a fixed day, for there to be any longer doubt as to the very grave addition that has to be made to the unfavorable features of a case, when the patient entertains a fixed idea that recovery is impossible. There are at least two distinct forms of mental influence which operate powerfully upon the result. The first is either the buoyancy produced by hope, and a firm belief in a successful issue; or the depression produced by despondency, and a rooted conviction that the result will be fatal. The second is either a calm and ecpuible disposition, patient and enduring; or a peevish and irritable temper, restless and complaining. The former of these is usually influenced by age, the latter by sex. The young are the most hopeful, and women, as a rule, endure most patiently.1 Treatment of Shock. Though it does not seem probable, in the present state of knowledge, that shock can be altogether prevented, especially when regard is had to the fortunately exceptional cases of very sudden death, yet undoubtedly, as far as operations are concerned, its severity may be in some measure diminished; and not only in cases of disease of long standing, in which amputation or excision may be required, and in which the state of health of the patient may have been already much modified by the confinement or the other conditions to which he has been subjected, but also in such operations as the removal of tumors, or lithotomy, when the patient, as far as can be ascertained, is in a condition of complete health, and no part of the body through long-continued suffering has come to bear an altered relation to the rest. The care taken in the preparation of a patient, accustoming him to altered rules and conditions of life, and rendering him familiar with persons and things about him, is labor well spent, even if light; and there is not a little in the conduct of the operation itself—the restraint of hemorrhage and the avoidance of cold or exposure while the patient is on the table, and of unnecessary delay during its performance. How far anaesthetics are of use in the prevention of shock, is a question that had best be considered with that of their advisability during its continuance. [Easley and McGuire recommend large doses of quinia, before an operation, as a means of preventing shock.] In the treatment of a person suffering from severe shock after injury, the first care should be to loosen everything around the neck or chest, that can in any way impede respiration, and to place the body in a recumbent position, with the head as low as possible; even a pillow is not always advisable. Of course, any source of hemorrhage should be at once investigated, but, during shock at least, bleeding is not of common occurrence. And, above all things, it is necessary in every way to maintain the temperature of the body as near the normal degree as possible: as the circulation fails, the temperature falls ; the bed and the room should be warmed, warm blankets and hot bottles should be placed around the patient, and the extremities should be well rubbed. It bas even been recommended (and carried out successfully by Hunter, of Philadelphia) that patients when suffering from shock should be placed in a 1 Savory, loc. cit.