TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 145 bility to itching, vesication, and ulceration, as in chilblain. Tissues which have been frozen offer an analogy to tissues which have been poisoned, in respect of their weakened vitality and their tendency to take on a low degree of in- flammation readily and from slight causes. But this weakened condition may, under favorable circumstances, be recovered from entirely. Cold, in its effects upon the system at large, is distinctly tonic and “bracing,” when it is not too severe or too much prolonged. In the latter case it acts as a powerful sedative to all the functions of life, producing an intense desire to sleep, and finally death, in stupor, by the arrest of function of the cells which generate nerve force, as in fatal collapse from shock of injury. Locally applied, cold—-judiciously regulated as to its degree and mode ot application—is regarded as a valuable means of diminishing the force of the circulation, and thereby of antagonizing a tendency to excessive vascular ex- citement in the earlier phases of inflammatory action. It acts not only as a local sedative, but, also, as an astringent. Cold is usually applied by covering the part with a cloth wrung out of iced water, or saturated with an evaporating lotion. The latter form of applica- tion was habitually employed before ice came into general use. As these applications tend to become soon dried by the heat of the body, if a part is to be kept steadily at a lower temperature, they must be renewed at short intervals. This demands attentive nursing, for frequent change of tempera- ture in a part, certainly in the early stage of inflammation, is harmful. These modes of applying cold are well replaced by systematic irrigation. If a vessel of iced-water be suspended above the part to be irrigated, and some strands of lamp wick be placed with one end at the bottom of the vessel and the other hanging over its side, the cold water can be made to drop steadily and continuously upon the cloth that covers the part. But a sheet of impermeable material must be placed beneath the part, so as to convey away the overflow, or the bedclothes will become saturated, and the patient’s body possibly chilled. Cold with moisture, inopportunely brought to bear upon the organism, is a fertile cause of harm in many ways. A greater degree of cold, as a local ap- plication, may be secured when desirable by means of a caoutchouc bag, or bladder, filled with crushed ice and moulded to the part. Cold, applied locally, has always been regarded favorably and employed largely in the treatment of inflammation, and it certainly possesses power, and a certain degree of value; but in practice its use is limited, because, as is evident, it involves trouble and care, and it is also undoubtedly capable of doing harm, if not employed with good judgment. In the first place, it is not well suited for open wounds ; for granulations, as we have seen, are aided in their germination, growth, and development, by a warm temperature. Where a wound has been closed with a view to primary adhesion, dry dress- ing suits better, in connection with the gentle and equable pressure by which this mode of union is promoted. Neither positive cold, nor the alternations of temperature incident to its employment as a dressing, are favorable to the process of adhesive inflammation. It is a mode of dressing very commonly employed, and often in a somewhat perfunctory way, but it may be questioned if the application of cold as a preventive of excessive vascular action to a wound just closed is the wisest course to pursue. Prevention is an excellent measure, but here it might possibly prove officious, as excessive action may not occur, and more really useful measures may be excluded by its use. Ab- solute quietude for the part—a stump after an amputation, for example—and an equable temperature, with gentle uniform pressure accompanied by anti- septic precautions, will more certainly second Nature’s efforts to bring about prompt union without complication, which is the result desired. Cold applications may, under some circumstances, prove positively injurious. VOL. i.—10