565 INSTRUMENTS REQUIRED FOR AMPUTATION. cial contraction, union of fractures in bad positions, faulty anchylosis, etc. Amputation in cases such as these, must be considered an operation of election, or of complaisance, and should not be resorted to, therefore, except under cir- cumstances as regards the age and general condition of the patient which would render an unfavorable termination exceedingly improbable, and even then not without a full appreciation of the risks of the operation on the part of all concerned. Instruments required for Amputation. Before undertaking an amputation, as, indeed, before attempting any ope- ration, the surgeon should run over in his mind all the various instruments and appliances that may possibly be required by the several contingencies which may arise. He should see that all the necessary implements are at hand, and in working order; there can be nothing more awkward than for the surgeon, after making his flaps, to discover that the saw has been forgot- ten, or, when the limb has been removed, that he is likely to run short of ligatures, or that the needle with which he proposes to sew up the wound, has no point, or a broken eye. Hor is the inconvenience to the operator the worst result of this kind of improvidence, for the delay caused in procuring the missing articles may prove very prejudicial to the patient. The instruments needed for amputations are a tourniquet, or other suitable means for controlling the circulation during the various steps of the opera- tion, knives of various forms and dimensions, saws of different kinds, bone- nippers or cutting pliers, a pair of strong forceps for holding bone, artery forceps and tenacula, spring-clips and serre-fines, ligatures, retractors, sutures and suture needles, common dissecting forceps, and scissors. Besides these, the necessary means of dressing the stump should be provided; laudanum, olive oil, or whatever substance the surgeon intends to employ as a dressing, adhesive plaster, sheet lint or old linen, oiled silk or waxed paper, charpie or oakum, bandages, pins, etc. Tourniquet.—As already mentioned, the first attempt to control bleeding during an amputation appears to have been made by Arehigenes, who some- times placed a fillet around the whole limb, and sometimes tied or sewed up the vessels at a point above that at which it was intended to amputate. The fillet answered its purpose very imperfectly, and the invention of Morel, by which sticks were thrust under the band, and twisted around so as to com- press the limb tightly, was unquestionably an improvement. Morel’s tour- niquet as further modified by Ledran is still employed occasionally with advantage in cases of emergency, under the name of the “garrot” or “Span- ish windlass.” The best tourniquet for ordinary use is in all important points the same as that introduced in the early part of the last century by Petit, and consists of two metal plates, the distance between which can be regulated by means of a screw, and which are connected by a strong silk or linen strap, which is meant to pass around the limb, and which is provided with a buckle to prevent its slipping (Fig. 105). The plan which I have now for a good many years adopted in applying the tourniquet is as follows: The surgeon, taking an ordinary three-inch or four-inch roller bandage, makes, by unrol- ling and again folding one end of it, a somewhat flat compress, which is placed immediately over the main artery of the limb at a point at which its pulsations can be distinctly recognized. This compress is fixed by a few circular turns of the bandage, and the rest of the roller is then laid as a second compress somewhat obliquely across the vessel, so as to force inwards the first compress,