GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF PLASTIC OPERATIONS. 535 by burns, heteroplasty, manipulating minute flaps or particular masses of germs, attacks by the process of skin grafting, and forces repair in the midst of a tardily granulating surface. Heteroplasty, formation by borrowing from another organism, is also practised in the transfusion of blood, by which por- tions of the blood of man or other animals are introduced into the veins of those who have suffered great losses of the “ mother of all the tissues,” and who are revived by the refreshing stream. Not only so, but intravenous injections of milk have been employed successfully by Prof. T. Gaillard Thomas and others, in cases of very considerable post-partum hemorrhage. General Principles of Plastic Operations. When all conditions agree in determining a resort to plastic surgery, no principles which govern this branch of the art should be lost sight of. They are not numerous, but their application under many circumstances of diffi- culty recpiires the nicest exercise of judgment, more especially in certain cases in which a plastic operation cannot be repeated. For example, in a case of double harelip which fell under the writer’s care, the lateral fissures, on either side of the maxillary bone, extended deeply towards the orbits, and the clefts through the soft parts involved the lip, the cheeks, and the eyelids, and were traced in each eye into a coloboma iridis. In this and similar instances, an error in judgment, compromising much marginal substance, might defeat the present, as it would most probably the final, success of an operation otherwise well devised. The risks, however, of failure in difficult cases, those in which arrest of development has left considerable and intri- cate spaces, or in which disease or traumatism has produced deformities demanding for their relief an appeal to all the resources of art, are diminished by dividing the proposed operation into a number of lesser operations, or seances, so that, like an Alpine mountaineer, the surgeon shall undertake no step forward until abundant security has been obtained for the advance. Thus an original operation, limited in its scope, may be made the foundation of a series of secondary procedures, the success of each of which will render that of its follower less doubtful, and will multiply the chances of a favorable issue for the case. A comparison of deformities and lesions will serve to arrange them all into two groups, as far as plastic surgery is concerned; the first requiring for its extinguishment or repair simple approximation of parts—widely sundered, it is true, hut separated by the unopposed and not vigorous traction exerted by the physical properties of some of its elements, and the vital property of others; the second necessitating a borrowing from the immediate or remote neigh- borhood, and the localization and interpolation of new flaps or pieces. It may be claimed as self-evident, as it is also shown in practice, that the frequency of fortunate results in the former group is in accordance with the lack or low degree of tension, and with the analogy, or rather identity in nature, of the tissues restored to their original relation, or even, urged a little farther, made to bridge over a gap left by a minor loss of substance. In the latter group, the same absence of stretching or tension must mark the adjust- ment of flaps, and the same analogy of tissues must be preserved in the selec- tion of pieces to be permanently transposed. Besides all this, it is requisite and necessary that the flaps should be well provided with nutrient vessels, whether they be destined to retain their continuity with the mother tissues, or to lose their original basal attachment by severance as soon as they shall have acquired sufficient adhesion in their new position. It must also suggest itself to the surgeon that hairy parts should not, if possible, be repaired with