87 CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. staining materials with an improved optical apparatus, is the discovery of the specific differences which exist between pathogenic bacteria and the constancy of their characteristic features, not only as to form, but as to the nature of the noxious effect produced by each. “A distinct bacterie form corresponds,” as he says in his conclusions, “ to each disease, and this form always remains the same, however often the disease is transmitted from one animal to another.” In regard to septicaemia, he says: “I have performed these experiments on fifty-four mice, and always obtained the same result. . . . Further, when we succeed in reproducing the same disease de novo by the injection of putrid substances, only the same bacterie form occurs which was before found to be specific for that disease.” This statement, if confirmed, marks an important advance in our knowledge as bearing directly upon the exciting causes of destructive inflammation. The concluding words of Dr. Burdon Sanderson’s “ Deport on the Causes of Infective Diseases,” in 1875, marked the limit of justifiable assertion at that time. “ If these infinitely minute organisms are present in every intense infective inflammation,” says Sanderson, “ we may be quite sure that they stand in important relation to the morbid process.” It has now been appar- ently demonstrated that these organisms are present in every intensely infec- tive inflammation thus far brought under sufficiently close investigation, and that they are not present in normal blood when tested as to its power of causing development by cultivation methods, excluding all sources of error, by Pasteur, Burdon Sanderson, and Klebs ;l that they bear the relation to the disease following their inoculation of cause to effect; that there are different and distinct species of noxious bacteria; and that a positive and constant causal relation exists between certain infective diseases and distinct species of bacteria. Dr. Koch, by the employment of his improved methods, has arrived at a conclusion which is sufficiently important to justify repeti- tion—“ that bacteria do not occur in the blood nor in the tissues of the healthy living body either of man or of the lower animals.” One of the novel and original results attained by this observer is of great interest. By the aid of an improved optical condenser he was able to verify at will the presence of exceedingly minute bacteria of the species bacillus, but much smaller than the bacillus anthrcicis, in the blood of mice artificially in- oculated with putrid fluids, and dying, invariably, with symptoms of septi- caemia. Along with this bacillus he observed in the neighborhood of the point of inoculation, another bacterium—a micrococcus—characterized by a very rapid increase, and the formation of regular chains. This micrococcus was never present in the blood. When a healthy mouse was inoculated with the blood of a septicemic mouse, only the septicemic bacilli were trans- mitted, and these were invariably found in the blood of the inoculated animal; but, when putrid fluid was injected, the bacillus was always found in the blood, and the micrococcus was always present in the tissues near the infected point—the other bacteria contained in the putrid fluid, and injected at the same time, dying out promptly because they did not find in the tissues of the living mouse a congenial soil. By studying the local effect of the micrococci after an inoculation in the tissues of the ear, which is found to be a favorable locality for observation, it is discovered that these tissues are killed by their contact, and even by their proximity. In the tissues thus deprived of life, the parasitic growth is seen to multiply and spread more vigorously, extending itself especially towards living parts. As it advances, all of a sudden a densely agglomerated mass of leucocytes appears— 1 Koch, op. cit., p. 14.