117 DESTRUCTIVE INFLAMMATION—PUS FORMATION. inaugurated by the injury, and impelled by the same force that carries the normal nutritive supply to the tissues, only somewhat exaggerated, continues to relieve itself by exudation, until the necessity for the increased nutritive supply ceases. This constant supply of nutritive material for the growing granulation-cells is in excess of the demand. After percolating through the mass of granulation tissue, the excess of liquid exudation reaches the granu- lating surface, carrying out with it a certain proportion of the leucocytes amongst which it has passed, which seem also to be in excess of the demand, and thus, finally, makes its appearance upon the granulating surface, as pus. A simple experiment shows that this is not entirely theory, but, in some de- gree, at least, demonstrable fact. If the surface of a granulating sore be care- fully dried otf by a mop of absorbent cotton, and then subjected to the action * of an irritant, that is, if a little common salt be sprinkled upon it, or a hot cau- tery iron be brought almost in contact with it, myriads of minute drops will be seen to exude, like sweat, from the previously dried surface. How, if a drop of this fluid be placed under a microscope, it will be found to contain leucocytes in numbers; in fact, it is pus.1 Under all the various circumstances, therefore, in which pus is formed in the body, in all localities—whether on the surface of mucous or serous mem- branes, or in the depths of the tissues—these, as in a granulating wound, would seem to be the factors which contribute to its formation: liquid exuda- tion from capillary vessels, and leucocytes. A surface of granulation tissue is, by no means, the only source of pus; it may form, under certain conditions, in any part of the body. It is meant by this statement, that no previously formed granulating surface or so-called “pyogenic membrane” is necessary for the formation of pus—a doctrine which was formerly in vogue. The first phenomenon that attends pus production is liquid exudation; the next, cell germination. It may be understood, now, why Robin designates pus as an “accidental secretion;” and why Billroth insists upon calling it “liquid neoplasm.” On the other hand, it is to be kept in mind that granu- lations may form, grow, and develop into connective or cicatricial tissue—as in primary union, or between the ends of subcutaneously divided tendons—- without the formation of a drop of pus. Its presence is not, therefore, neces- sary for the accomplishment of the process of repair of injury, which is. the main purpose of inflammation. To comprehend the sources of pus, as well as the causes and modes of its formation, it is desirable to examine a little more closely the phenomena which attend its production elsewhere than in external wounds: in abscess, for ex- ample, and on serous and mucous membranes. The subject of abscess will be treated formally in another article ; it is referred to here in order to illustrate the nature and mode of formation of pus as one of the best known products of inflammation, and to enable us to discuss more intelligently the question as to its uses. An abscess is a collection of pus in the substance of the tissues. An acute abscess affords an excellent example of a local inflammation, presenting all the cardinal symptoms and features of this condition, and usually “terminating,” to employ the classical expression, in suppuration. Why, and how, is pus formed in the substance of the tissues, are the questions which concern us. Judging from clinical observation, the reason why an abscess forms is to get rid of, or throw otf, a dead or altered portion of tissue, or some foreign sub- stance, which has proved noxious or irritating to the organism. Its purpose, in other words, seems to be eliminatory. We have already remarked that 1 Cornil and Ranvier. ut supra.