109 INFLAMMATORY EXUDATIONS. or in aiding the separation of parts which have lost their vitality. In the attainment of these objects, the organization of a new growth ot tissue is indispensable. "YV hen this tendency to organization is opposed by any obstacle, as where the cicatrization of a wound is prevented by the presence, for example, of a sequestrum of bone not yet separated, then the new growth remains indefinitely, or until the obstacle is removed, in the inchoate stage of indifferent or granulation tissue, and the redundant supply of exudative material is wasted in the form of pus. There are varieties of inflammatory exudation closely allied to plastic or coagulable lymph, if not identical with it, and equally remarkable for their prompt tendency to organization, which are encountered especially in wounds and inflammations of serous membranes. The apposition of serous surfaces after injury is immediately followed, under favorable circumstances, by adhesive inflammation ; and this means the organization, in plastic lymph, of a new growth of tissue which forms a bond of union between them. The “ false membranes,” so often found in the shape of abnormal bands of tissue binding together free surfaces of the pleura or of the peritoneum, have the same origin. They are the result of constructive inflammation following some injury, which, but for the binding and restraining influence of the new formation, would have gone on to the destructive phase, that is, to pus forma- tion. In still more purely fibrinous exudations, their coagulation is said to take place suddenly and in successive layers.1 The dense, bulky, sometimes stratified layers of fibrous tissue in which the testis is found enveloped after an old injury, are sometimes organized bloocl-clots within the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and sometimes organized exudation from the surface of this membrane, by which it has become enormously thickened. In a man of 35, whose testicle had been suspected to be the seat of malignant disease, but who had a previous history of contusion and consequent haematocele, a healthy testicle was found in a cavity lined by what seemed to be tunica vaginalis, also appa- rently healthy, and containing no appreciable fluid, the walls of which were an inch in thickness throughout its whole extent, and resembled cicatricial tissue. A similar mechanism has been assigned as an explanation for the appear- ances often presented in the interior of the sac of a cured aneurism. They are described by Robin2 as ucaillots actifs Jihrineux,” in contradistinction to the soft spongy coagula which are liable to form in aneurisms, and which possess no curative value. Inflammatory exudations from the free surfaces of mucous membranes are said by Cornil and Ranvier3 to contain mucus, and a substance called mucin which appears in the form of filaments, insoluble in acetic acid, and which “ may form thick layers upon the surface of articular cartilages, notably in the case of white swellings.” What is called croupous exudation, as met with on the surface of mucous membranes in the air passages, in the bladder, and, somewhat rarely, in the intestines, is said to consist of filaments of fibrin, and sometimes of mucin, felted together with pus corpuscles and epithelial cells—according to the re- gion—in their interstices. The false membranes of true croup, according to the best authority,4 * are not composed of true fibrin, but of altered and over- grown epithelial cells. Fibrin is present in the exudation‘from an inflamed mucous membrane only when its epithelium has been partially or completely destroyed.8 1 Cornil and Ranvier, op. cit., p. 64. Philadelphia, 1880. 2 Lemons sur les humeurs. 3 Ut supra. 4 E. Wagner, Manual of General Pathology. New York, 1876. 5 Weigert, Article on Inflammation. Real-encyclopsedie der gesammten Heilkunde, Band i. S. 642.