SCURVY. 288 ment is based upon experience, and readily commends itself to the judgment when the immense importance of sunlight upon the nutrition of the entire organic world is considered. One attack of scurvy confers upon its victim no exemption; on the contrary, it renders a second more probable, other circum- stances being equal. The frequent association of the scorbutic, with other pathological con- ditions, is well known, and doubtless forms one of the chief reasons why the early descriptions of the disease were so inaccurate, the complicating affections having being included in them. A frequent combination is with malarial disease, and it is easily appreciated that the slow and profound alterations induced in the blood by this miasm are well calculated to hasten the develop- ment of scurvy. The same influence is exerted by diarrhoea, dysentery, syphilis, hemorrhages, exhausting discharges, and the debility arising from prolonged suffering from wounds and injuries. In fact, any cause whatever that lowers the tone of the system and impairs nutrition, may be considered among the category of predisposing causes. It will be only necessary, in passing, to notice the fanciful idea of Travis,1 that the use of copper-vessels in the navy was a principal cause of scurvy ; or that of Harvey,2 who attributed it to gluttony or debauchery; or that of Maynwaringe,3 that it was due to tobacco and excessive venery ; or that of Willis,4 who found its cause in the increasing consumption of sugar. The evident connection between the character of thefood supply and the occurrence of scurvy, attracted the attention of early observers, particularly Wierus and Echthius, who placed the cause entirely in errors of diet. This was the opinion also of Bachstrom, who published an essay on scurvy in 1784, in which lie took the ground that abstinence from fresh vegetables was abso- lutely the cause of the disease, an opinion which was shared by other writers of experience, such as Rouppe5 and Trotter.6 This view lias largely prevailed, and is now that which is accepted by most physicians. In 1847, Dr. Christi- son,7 of Edinburgh, in a paper on the subject, attributed the prevalence of scurvy at Perth to deficiency in the quantity of azotized aliment and conse- quent insufficient nourishment of the body, and asserted his belief that milk, which supplied this deficiency, was an antidote for the disease. This theory, though ingeniously argued, is unsupported by facts; thus, for instance, in the north of Wales, where fresh meats and milk are abundant, and where the cottagers raise little or no garden produce, cases of scurvy appear every year; and, indeed, the whole history of the disease is at variance with this theory. The habitual use of salted meats on ship-board, drew attention, naturally enough, to the causative relation of this sort of food, and not a few of the earlier observers have recorded their belief that it was the chief, if not the only, cause of scorbutic outbreaks. This statement lias no foundation, how- ever, for the Very worst epidemics of the disease have occurred at sea, when fresh animal food has been abundant, and in communities on shore who never employ salt provisions of any sort in their diet. The disease will undoubtedly appear more speedily in those living on salt, than in those living on fresh, animal food; but from the mere fact that the nourishing power of the latter lias been impaired by the removal to a greater or less extent of its albuminoid constituents in the salting process, and that, as a consequence, it possesses less power in sustaining the body. The withdrawal of both sorts of animal food would still more speedily, for the same reason, lead to the appearance of the disease. That salt in itself is impotent as a causative influence, is further 1 Med. Obs. and Inquiries. London, vol. ii., 1762. 3 Morbus polyrrliizos. 6 De morbis navigantium, 1764. 7 Monthly Journal of Medical Science, 1847. 2 The Diseases of London. 4 Tractatus de scorbuto. 6 Observations on the Scurvy, 1792.