601 STRUCTURE AND DISEASES OF STUMPS. the patient, if covered with a strip of lint kept wet with glycerine and water, than if left dry. Moreover, I had the opportunity, some years ago, of seeing a number of amputations treated after Teale’s method by a very careful sur- geon, and I can honestly say that I have never seen so large a proportion of inflamed and sloughing stumps before or since. I have no doubt that Prof. Wood’s “ open method” is better than Teale’s or Humphry’s, as avoiding any risk of undue tension by sutures ; but the abandonment of all effort to obtain primary union seems to me to be a step in the wrong direction, and one not compensated for by any other feature of the plan in question. Besides, I believe that positive benefit is derived from the constant contact of an anodyne fomentation. Structure and Diseases of Stumps. Structure of Stumps.—When first formed, a stump contains all the tissues utilized in the amputation (unless these have sloughed before the occurrence of cicatrization), but soon afterwards various changes are observed, which continue progressively for a long time afterwards. Thus the muscular sub- stance gradually disappears, and, no matter how full and plump the stump may have seemed at first, it in time assumes a withered look, and the skin forms, as it were, a loose bag around the end of the bone. The fibrous and tendinous portions of the muscles remain, however, and undergo conversion into a dense fibro-cellular mass which protects the bone, and renders it less liable to cause ulceration of the overlying skin or cicatricial tissue when sub- jected to pressure. The bone itself undergoes changes, becoming rounded off, and a button of new osseous tissue closing the medullary cavity, which is to a great extent obliterated. The vessels, at first filled with clots reaching to the nearest anastomosing branches, become in time changed into firm fibrous cords, continuous with the vessels above. The nerves are thickened, and become bulbous at their extremities, constituting a form of neuroma; these bulbous enlargements consist mainly of fibro-cellular tissue, but are abund- antly supplied with nerve fibrils. In connection with these alterations of structure, met with in the stump itself, very curious changes have been noted in distant organs. Thus Dr. Dickinson, Dr. Lockhart Clarke, and M. Vulpian, have observed localized atrophy of the spinal cord which corresponds to the side on Avhich the ampu- tation has been practised, and similar changes have likewise been noticed by Drs. Webber, Genzmer, Dickson, Leyden, and Dreschfield. Berard, many years ago, observed atrophy of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves cor- responding to the amputated part, and Chuquet and Buys have observed atrophy of the brain on the side opposite to that of the amputation. A patient who has submitted to one of the large amputations is apt to become fat: this is apparently due to the fact that, while the supply of nutri- ment continues the same as before the operation, the demand for it is dimin- ished by a part of the body having been removed, and accumulation of fat is the consequence; this is still further aided, in the case of amputations of the lower extremity, by the resulting inability to take the proper amount of exercise. Among patients of the lower class, the enforced idleness which often follows as a necessary sequel of amputation, is unfortunately apt, in many cases, to lead to the formation of intemperate habits. Diseases of Stumps.—Any of the tissues which enter into the structure of a stump may be morbidly affected and give rise to pain or other annoyance.