MINOR SURGERY. 516 ders being supported by bis coat or some other garment folded into a broad cushion. The mouth being cleared from all foreign substances, the tongue is drawn forwards, and secured to the chin by a piece of tape or string tied around it and the lower jaw; or the tongue, with a piece of linen, or a pocket handkerchief, around it, may be pulled forwards and held by an assistant. Now, the operator, kneeling at the patient’s head, grasps the arms at the el- bows, and carries them first outwards, and then upwards, till the hands are brought into contact with each other above the head; they are kept in this position for two seconds, after which they are brought slowly back to the sides of the thorax, and pressed gently against it for two seconds. These movements are gently and deliberately repeated fifteen times in a minute, until a spontaneous effort to breathe is made, or until it is evident that further exertion is useless. Marshall Hall’s “Ready Method.”—To clear the mouth and secure free entrance to the larynx, the patient is turned on his face, with one wrist under his forehead and a folded coat or other article of dress beneath his chest. Respiration is now to be imitated by “ turning the body gently on the side and a little beyond, and then briskly on the face, alternately.” Each time the body is brought into the prone position, firm compression is to be made on the posterior aspect of the thorax. As in the methods already described, the manipulations designed to imitate respiration are repeated fifteen times in a minute, for two or three hours, unless resuscitation is sooner accomplished. The efforts of the operator should not immediately cease when the first natural respiratory movement is detected, but they should be continued in such a way as to coincide with the spontaneous inspiratory and expiratory motions, until the breathing becomes regular. Other agencies, such as aqua ammonbe passed back and forth beneath the nostrils, cold water dashed on the surface of the body, etc., may aid in exciting respiration. The tempera- ture of the body may be restored by friction applied by the hands of assistants to all parts of the surface, by the hot-water or hot-air bath, warm coverings, etc. As soon as the patient becomes capable of swallowing, he should be given hot coffee or tea, or brandy or whiskey properly diluted. After respiration has become normal, the patient must be closely watched, in order that the first signs of secondary apncea may be instantly detected, and that suitable measures to avert it may be promptly adopted. Vaccination. Vaccination is a minor surgical operation which every practising physician is expected to be able to perform when occasion demands. Although in itself exceedingly simple, yet, unless the operation be carefully done, failure to afford that protection against smallpox which is reasonably expected, is liable to result. Vaccination may be safely employed in the case of any healthy individual, at almost any period of life. Children should be vaccinated before they are three months old, unless there be special contra-indication to the pro- cedure ; and, in the event of exposure to smallpox, even at an earlier age— immediately after birth if necessary. Vaccination may be effected by the use of two kinds of lymph, humanized and bovine. Humanized lymph may be used in one of two forms, either as a viscid fluid taken from a well-formed vaccine vesicle on the eighth or ninth day, or as a scab or crust which has separated spontaneously about the twentieth day. The former is generally considered more effective than the latter, yet the dried scab is more commonly employed in this country. Bovine or animal virus is obtained directly from