NATURE OF SCROFULA. 241 formed immediately above one elbow ; of circular shape ; with glazed or waxy surface, but discharging an abundance of thin pus ; with edges of a dull red color, thin and widely undermined ; and with congested integument around and between them, for they lay not far apart. A few weeks later, an abscess formed on the dorsal aspect of one foot, broke, and discharged a thin but curdy pus. Abscess, sinuses and ulcers, dis- charging all together, produced at length a sensible effect on the patient’s health, in spite of good food, cod-liver oil, and preparations of iron and iodine. He was therefore sent for a while to the seaside, and when he returned, already benefited by the change, was taken on board his father’s barge that he might enjoy the river air the whole day long. Slowly the discharge diminished and the wounds began to heal, and after several weeks some of them were really closed, and his general health improved. After which he ceased to attend the Hospital. Case VI The second case occurred in a very different subject—a woman, whose age was only fifty-nine, but who was prematurely old. She was white-haired, anaemic, weak, and withered. The first phalanx of her left forefinger was greatly enlarged, and covered with thin, red skin, glazed and ulcerated. Sinuses passed directly into the inte- rior of the bone, which was as if blown out into a thin-walled cavity, containing a soft material in which were numerous grits of bone. On the upper aspect of each foot was a circular ulcer, with thin, red, undermined edges, through which rough and carious bone could be reached. And over the left patella were two small ulcers, implicating the skin and subcutaneous tissue, but not connected with disease of bone. Her history was free from any record of specific disease. She had been always delicate, and about five years ago had become completely blind from amaurosis. Within the last two years, abscesses and ulcers had formed, first on the finger and then on the feet; and tiny frag- ments of bone had come away at intervals. She was kept under observation during several weeks, and was well fed and warmly clad. Quinine and iron were administered, and the wounds were dressed with a slightly stimulating ointment. But she made little or no progress towards recovery. Mature of Scrofula.—To complete the account of scrofula by clinical illustrations would require many more cases than these, but these two patients presented certain common features of disease which are almost universally regarded as scrofulous. In both of them inflammation was set up by an ex- citing cause so trivial that only in one could it fairly be assigned. In each case the inflammation, thus excited, proceeded to suppuration; and ulcers were formed, the characters of which were for the most part of a certain definite type. The disease, once established, exhibited a disposition to main- tain its hold; the affection of the bones slowly progressed to their partial or complete destruction; the ulcers, if they did not spread, certainly did not heal; and several regions of the body became the seat of similar disease. In these few sentences, scrofula is almost defined, as far indeed as it ap- pears capable of definition ; for the essence of the disease lies rather in several tendencies or predispositions, than in any clearly defined conditions. In the two cases recorded, for example, there was nothing so characteristic in the signs or course of the inflammations, but that it might be imitated in the inflammations of those who are not suffering from scrofula. Nor were the ulcers such that they could be at once and certainly distinguished as scrofu- lous. Yet no one would, I imagine, be disposed to deny that these patients were suffering from scrofula. For scrofula may be described as a condition of the body, or of certain portions of the body, in which inflammations are easily excited; in which they tend towards suppuration and ulceration; and in which the power of spontaneous recovery is very feeble. It has been defined by Virchow1 as consisting in “ a greater vulnerability of parts and a greater pertinacity of disturbances,” than is natural, and these expressions form the basis of the large majority of later and longer definitions. VOL. i.—16 Krankhaften Gescliwulste, Vorles. xxi.