271 COMPLICATIONS AND SEQUELAE OF RACHITIS. elevation of temperature causes the perspiration to appear. The rachitic child does not well tolerate the bedclothes, and attempts to throw them off from its limbs, even in cool weather, lying exposed, and causing considerable annoyance to the nurse who strives to prevent its taking cold. Sometimes miliaria, due to the moist state of the skin, appear upon the face and neck. The subcutaneous veins which return blood from the head are large, and the jugular veins full. Another symptom is soon observed, to wit, tenderness over a considerable part of the surface, perhaps largely due to the morbid state of the periosteum over so many bones, though it is also experienced when pressure is made upon soft parts, as the abdomen. The tenderness is probably, in part, the cause of the fretful disposition. The little patient appears to dread to be touched; its flesh is sore; it repels attempts to amuse it, and wishes to be quiet. Dand- ling it upon the arms, swinging it, or even walking with it, which delights the healthy child, and elicits a smile or notes of glee, only adds to its discom- fort. It is most at ease when left alone, upon a soft cot or pillow, or, if it have craniotabes, when quietly held over the shoulder. Languor, disinclination to use the limbs, or to play, moderate thirst, with other symptoms referable to the digestive apparatus, which are present in many cases, and which have al- ready been described, are soon followed by changes in the skeleton, which are perceptible to the sight and on palpation. The pulse and temperature in a large proportion of the ordinary chronic cases, do not deviate from the healthy state, except that in some patients there is a slight febrile movement in the latter part of the day. Although rachitis is ordinarily a chronic disease, insidious in its commence- ment, gradual and progressive in its development, occupying months, there is an acute form which is attended by more marked febrile movement and ten- derness, and in which the articular swelling appears more quickly. A bruit de soufflet, of greater or less intensity, synchronous with the pulse, has frequently been heard in rachitic cases by applying the ear over the ante- rior fontanelle. Drs. Whitney and Fischer, New England physicians, first called attention to this murmur, believing it to be a sign of chronic hydro- cephalus. MM. Rilliet and Barthez heard it in cases of rachitis, and, there- fore, concluded that the American physicians had confounded the two diseases. More recent observations have established the fact that this bruit has little diagnostic value. It is heard whenever there is sufficient patency of the an- terior fontanelle, both in health and disease, for sound is conducted better through a membrane than through bone. Dr. Wirthgen heard the bruit in 22 out of 52 children, of whom all except four were in good health. I have auscultated the anterior fontanelle in 29 infants, who were with two excep- tions between the ages of three and thirty months. All were well, or affected merely with trivial ailments which did not affect the cerebral circulation. In most of them a murmur could be distinctly heard, synchronous with the respiratory act, and in 15 of the 29 cases no other sound could be detected, while in the remaining 14 a bruit could be detected, synchronous with the pulse. Complications and Sequels of Rachitis. These have been in part described in the foregoing pages, but there are cer- tain other results of the disease to which it is proper to call attention. If the deformity in the thoracic wall, namely, the lateral depression of the ribs and anterior projection of the sternum, be great, ive would naturally expect that the two important organs underneath, the heart and lungs, would receive some detriment. Upon the surface of the heart, at the point where it sup-