348 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL DIAGNOSIS. often vary as many as twenty or thirty beats in as many minutes. Even per- sons in health present variations in the rapidity of the circulation at different times; and in women and children, the pulse is always more rapid than in men or in persons advanced in life. In view of the above peculiarities, the medical attendant who is familiar with the details of his profession, generally asks some preliminary or general questions, in order to place his patient at ease before proceeding formally to examine the state of the circulation. As a rule, in all inflammations seated below the diaphragm—for example in pe- ritonitis and enteritis—the pulse is hard, contracted, and cord-like; whilst in those which are supra-diaphragmatic, it is full and bounding. In compression of the brain, the beat of the artery is slow, full, and labored, while in concus- sion, it is frequent, small, and feeble. In both of these conditions, a gradually increasing rapidity of the pulse presages a fatal termination. Gastric distur- bance through reflex agency, and cardiac disease from mechanical disability, will often give rise to an irregular, an intermittent, or a dicrotic pulse. Pro- fuse hemorrhage imparts to the arteries a peculiar, gaseous feel, with a tremu- lous and jerking movement. In grave injuries of the extremities, the absence of pulsation in the principal vessels of the part determines the question of amputation. Thermometry.—The relation which subsists between circulation, tissue me- tamorphosis, and the resulting evolution of heat, has rendered the use of the thermometer a valuable adjuvant both in diagnosis and prognosis. The nor- mal temperature of the body lies somewhere between 98° and 99° Fahrenheit. Before 1636, Sanctorius had drawn the attention of the profession to the importance of thermometri- cal observations as an index: of morbid changes in the system; yet the first experiments, made to ascer- tain the local temperature of an inflamed part, were those of John Hunter in a case of hydrocele. The instrument used, however, was the ordinary ther- mometer, and was consequently badly adapted for obtaining accurate results. Two forms of clinical thermometer, of which the first is the best, are illustrated in Figs. 23 and 24. Another excellent form is shown in Fig. 96, page 527. When used, the instrument should be placed either under the tongue or in the axilla. If" in the latter region, the thermometer should be retained in position by placing the arm close to the side, and should be allowed to remain about ten minutes, when the mercury will have risen to the highest point it is likely to reach. It is customary to take two ob- servations each day; one about eight o’clock in the morning and the other at seven o’clock in the evening. These should be recorded upon a tem- perature sheet kept for the occasion, and placed either at the head of the bed or in some convenient place for reference. Between the elevation of temperature and the frequency of the pulse, there is some general cor- respondence ; that is to say, for every degree of heat above 98° Fahr., there are about ten pulsa- tions of the heart more than when that organ is beating with its normal frequency. Every degree Fig. 23. Fig. 24. Clinical thermometers.