SPICA BANDAGES. 489 The Spica Bandage of the Thumb.—A roller 2 centimetres (f- of an inch) wide and 2f metres (3 yards) long. Fasten the initial extremity by one or two circular turns at the wrist, then carry the roller obliquely over the dor- sum of the thumb to its distal extremity, and there make a circular turn; from this point conduct the roller obliquely over the back of the thumb to the wrist, around which make another circular turn; then carry the bandage Fig. 54. in a figure-of-eight form around tlie thumb and back again to the wrist. These turns overlapping one another by half or two-thirds of their width, are repeated till the whole length of the thumb is enveloped. (Fig. 54.) The Spica Bandage of the Shoulder.— A roller centimetres (2| inches) wide spica bandage of the thumb, and 6-| metres (7 yards) long. Fix the initial extremity by two circular turns around the arm just below the mar- gin of the axilla; carry the roller from the outer surface of the arm, if on the right side, obliquely across the front of the chest; if on the left side, obliquely over the back ; through the opposite axilla and back to the shoulder from which the bandage was started, there- by completing the first spica; then Fig- 55. conduct the roller around the arm of this side, up over the shoulder, across the thorax, through the axilla the second time, and back to the shoulder again. Repeat the turns in like man- ner, over the shoulder and through the opposite axilla, till the former is cov- ered ; after which conduct the terminal end around the neck and down the front of the chest where it may be se- cured by a pin. Where the turns of the bandage intersect on the shoulder, they should overlap one another to the extent of one-third of their width; in the opposite axilla, however, they should completely cover one another. (Fig. 55.) When the intersections or spicas advance successively from tire point of the shoulder to the base of the neck, the bandage is called the ascending spica. If the succession of the spica be in the reverse direction, that is, from the neck towards the c . . , arm, the roller is termed the descend- ing spica. Small masses of cotton, oakum, or jute, should be interposed be- tween the borders of the axilla and the turns of the bandage to prevent excoriation. The Spica Band,age of the Groin.—A roller 7-f centimetres (3 inches) wide and 91 metres (10 yards) long. Secure the initial end by two circular turns around the body, just above the pelvis ; then carry the roller obliquely down- wards across the lower part of the abdomen, either to the outer side of the