408 ANAESTHETICS AND ANAESTHESIA. spasm. Such conditions indicate a profound and dangerous implication of the most important nervous centres. As the process of stupefaction advances, reflex action diminishes, the power of voluntary movement ceases, and the patient enters upon a condition of perfect repose, in which the only movements that persist are those which sus- tain the functions of respiration, circulation, and unconscious life. By careful administration of the anaesthetic this condition may he maintained without danger for a considerable period of time. The respiratory movements are accelerated, even before the commencement of inhalation, when the patient is agitated by nervous apprehensions. Ether tends to quicken respiration during the early and middle stages of inhalation, and to depress its rate slightly below the normal when the stage of insensi- bility has been reached. Chloroform tranquillizes the initial agitation at an earlier stage of the process, and produces the same final result during the period of unconsciousness. Causes dependent upon the age, sex, temperament, and previous life of the individual, disturb the general course of respiration to such a degree that it is almost impossible to include all cases in a general description. Sometimes the respiratory movements succeed each other with the utmost irregularity, and may even be suspended altogether for a consider- able time. Such patients are said to be intolerant of the anaesthetic, and are liable to pass into a condition bordering on the convulsive state. In certain cases, the patient, though quite conscious and capable of intelligent utterance, seems to have forgotten to breathe. From this condition he may be aroused by the voice of the surgeon, or by a sudden pressure upon the thorax or abdo- men. During the stage of general muscular relaxation, respiration becomes deep and regular, being less frequent but more profound than during the waking state. The exhalation of carbonic acid gas is increased during the period of excitement, and it is diminished during the period of tranquil anaesthesia. The action of the heart corresponds closely with the conditions of respira- tion. During the occurrence of tetaniform rigidity, the pulse may become almost, imperceptible. When respiration is slow and feeble, the heart heats in a faint and sluggish way. Again, it may suddenly start off' at a very rapid rate, only to sink suddenly into a condition approaching syncope. Such inor- dinate fluctuations and rapid variations should excite grave apprehensions for the safety of the patient. In the normal course of inhalation, the pulse at first is small and frequent, increasing its rate as respiration becomes accelerated, until the stage of muscular resolution is approached, when it begins to recede. With the approach of this stage the arterial coats relax, and the pulse grows soft. When complete unconsciousness supervenes, the volume of the pulse is considerably enlarged, and its rate may fall below the normal standard. As the pulse falls, the general circulation improves. Turgid veins subside ; the cutaneous vessels resume their normal calibre. The face may even become pale, and the mucous surfaces exchange their lively color for a fainter tinge. Extreme pallor, or a dusky hue, should be viewed with alarm. The temperature of the body is generally diminished during the time of anesthesia. At first, the temperature of the surface is elevated by reason of the increased afflux of blood; but as inhalation progresses the liberation of heat diminishes, and the temperature of the body exhibits a considerable fall. This becomes more notable when the more energetic anaesthetic substances are employed. The function of secretion is at first augmented, and finally diminished by the action of anaesthetics. The degree of augmentation depends considerably upon the character of the anaesthetic that is employed.