212 PYAEMIA AND ALLIED CONDITIONS. [The editor feels hound to say that this view appears to him unduly fatal- istic. While cases of acute pyaemia terminate unfavorably under any mode of treatment, and while the resisting power of the patient is no doubt of prime importance in all cases which end in recovery, yet something may be done by treatment in subacute and chronic cases, to avert the fatal issue. The hygienic condition of the patient should, if possible, be improved, and great attention should be given to careful nursing and systematic feeding. Very free stimulation should be employed—half an ounce or an ounce of brandy may be given every hour, or an equivalent quantity of wine—and the oil of turpentine and carbonate of ammonium may also be administered with advan- tage. But the most valuable single remedy is quinia, which may be given in large doses—from one to live grains every hour—and may be suitably com- bined with small quantities of digitalis and opium.] It is a just claim of modern surgery that these forms of pyaemia can be in great measure prevented, and the mortality after injuries and operations thus greatly diminished. The success attained in preventing these forms of pyaemia seems to depend on two causes: (1) The steady improvement which lias been taking place in the methods of operating, in the general manage- ment of the patients, and in the hygiene of hospitals; and (2) The use of carbolic acid as a local application to wounds. The first cause has been a progressive one, and has been due to the efforts of many surgeons. Sir James Paget estimates that during his surgical prac- tice of 30 years, the mortality after surgical operations has diminished from 15 per cent, to less than 5 per cent., simply from these causes. The use of carbolic acid as a local application to wounds is almost entirely due to the teachings of Mr. Lister. This method of dressing, however, was adopted by Mr. Lister as a result of a certain theory concerning the causes of pyaemia. This theory is based on three hypotheses: (1) The local inflam- matory processes and the general febrile disturbances which follow wounds arc due to putrefaction of the discharges of those wounds. (2) This putre- faction of the discharge is brought about by the growth of organisms. (3) These organisms gain access to the wounds from the air. The object of treat- ment, therefore, is to destroy any organisms already existing in a wound, and to prevent organisms from the air entering a wound during or after an opera- tion. To accomplish these results, Mr. Lister has devised a system of dressing based on the use of carbolic acid. This system, as described by Mr. MacCor- mac, is, when thoroughly carried out, practised as follows:— If an operation is to be performed, the adjacent surface must be shaved, and then thoroughly washed with a five per cent, solution of carbolic acid. The actual steps of the operation are conducted in a carbolized atmosphere, produced by a jet of steam mingled with a five per cent, solution of the acid. The sponges employed, the hands of the operator and those of his assistants, are thoroughly purified in a five per cent, solution, previous to the operation, and again and again during its progress. The in- struments are kept ready in a three per cent, solution, which may also he used for washing the wound and the sponges. All bleeding points must be carefully secured either by torsion, carbolized gut, or carbolized silk, the ends ot the ligatures being cut short. The sutures should be both deep and superficial; the former of wire, the latter of catgut. The entire surface of the wound should be brought into apposition. Drain- age tubes should be inserted, in order that bloody serum may escape externally. They should he removed as soon as their function is at an end. A sufficient number of tubes having been inserted, the projecting portions are cut off level with the surface, and a layer of protective silk applied to the wound. Over this are placed several layers of carbolized gauze, wrung as dry as possible out of a two and a half per cent, solution of carbolic acid, and fastened to the surface with a carbolized bandage. Over this is ap- plied an eight-fold layer of dry gauze, a piece of mackintosh being interposed between the last layers of the gauze. In all cases the first dressing is the most important.