582 AMPUTATIONS. to the tourniquet, the latter should be screwed down, and the former removed, as soon as the principal vessels have been ligated. Some difference of opinion exists among surgeons as to the advisability of tying veins after an amputa- tion ; while not often necessary, it is so occasionally, for large veins will sometimes bleed profusely even after the removal of the tourniquet; and the risk of phlebitis and pyaemia which was formerly supposed to be incurred by tying a vein, has been over and over again shown to be purely imaginary. My own practice is to tie them, often indeed including the artery and its vence comites in the same ligature, or, in the case of such a large vessel as the brachial or the femoral, tying the artery first separately, and then throwing a second ligature around it and the vein together. The surgeon having secured all the vessels that can be found bleeding, the surface of the stump may be washed with a styptic, in order to check any capillary oozing which may still persist; various substances may be used for this purpose, such as the “Aqua Pagliari,” or the “Aqua Binelli”—the former containing benzoin and alum,1 and the latter no less than twenty-six different astringents or aromatics of vegetable origin2—or, which is as efficient and at least as convenient as any other, simple diluted alcohol. Before closing the wound, the surgeon examines the sawn end of the bone, and, if any projecting spicula has been left, cuts it off with the pliers; he also retrenches any tendons or nerves that hang from the end of the stump, by drawing them out with the ordinary dissecting forceps, and snipping them off with scissors curved on the flat. If bleeding proceed from the bone itself, it may be most conveniently arrested by arming a pellet of softened white wax3 with a wire (to facilitate withdrawal), and then pressing it firmly against the bone so as to plug its medullary cavity; the wax may be removed at the first or second dressing of the stump, coming away without difficulty along- side of the ligatures. If a vessel in the periosteum bleed, and cannot be tied, it may be secured by acupressure, applied either by the Aberdeen or “twist” method, or by the third method of Sir J. Y. Simpson. The stump being at length dry, the ligatures are disentangled from each other, and brought out in one or more bundles as may be found convenient. The skin cuff is then drawn down over the face of the stump, and the wound is closed with sutures, converting the circular into a linear incision, and in any direction which the operator may prefer—horizontal, oblique, or vertical— it makes very little if any difference which be chosen. Modified Circular Operation.—This mode of amputation (Big. 147), which affords an excellent stump, appears to have been suggested more than forty years ago by the late Mr. Liston,4 and was, with an important modifi- cation, extensively practised afterwards by the late Mr. Syme.5 Liston’s plan was to make two semilunar flaps of integument only, divide the muscles by a circular incision where the skin flaps joined, and saw the bone as in the ordinary circular method; Syme’s modification consisted in dissecting up a cuff' of skin for some distance above the point of junction of the semilunar flaps. In either form the procedure may be looked upon as an ordinary cir- cular operation, in which the cuff' of skin has been slit upon both sides, and the angles trimmed off. It is particularly adapted for operations on muscular 1 Bulletin de Therapeutique, t. xlii., and Sedillot, op. cit. p. 218. 2 Bouchardat, Annuaire de Therapeutique pour 1843, p. 227. 3 Riedinger prefers a plug of catgut, while others employ a pledget of lint or a plug of wood. Wax, however, seems to me to be the best material. 4 Elements of Surgery (1840), edited by Prof. S. D. Gross, p. 642. Philadelphia, 1846. 5 Principles of Surgery, 4th edition, pp. 148, 149. London, 1856.