24 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. ficially situated mucous membranes, that is, to parts which are in contact with the atmosphere, and, according to the protection which their position offers, cool off more or less if they are not heated by the blood-current. 'Whether a more deeply situated organ—the kidney, for example—cools off when little or no blood flow's into it, we do not know; for the internal organs have the temperature of the blood, and a mass relatively as small as the kidney could be kept wrarm by its surroundings even if no blood flow'ed into it. Hence it seems expedient to omit the symptom “ heat” altogether from the definition of inflammation, and in place of both heat and redness to put simply “ active hyperccrnia,” or u fluxion.” The symptom pain is also not always met wfith. Hot all organs are painful when inflamed, though no doubt it seldom occurs that inflammations run their course painlessly. But we must remember that in the neighborhood of less sensitive organs (parenchyma of the lungs, for instance), there are as a rule very sensitive parts, which cause pain when they are in the slightest degree implicated. Thus the pleura, covering the lungs; the meninges, the surface of the brain. Of itself, therefore, pain is not generally a trustworthy symptom of inflammation. The same may be said of the symptom swelling. We are not sure whether the bones, for example, necessarily show an externally visible swelling in inflammation. I must remark right here that inflammatory swelling is dis- tinguished by its hardness, and in many cases the hardness, not the visible swelling, is the decisive characteristic. If I see a reddened district in the skin; if I palpate, and find it hot and hard; I say it is inflamed, even though no swelling be visible. And it is, indeed, possible, that the swelling at times may become unrecognizable, as for example when the inflammation is seated in a nodular, uneven neoplasm. The inflammatory swelling and hardness are, as I shall show, dependent on the active tissue-metamorphosis. I say, there- fore, that the tissue-metamorphosis is a generally reliable symptom, and put it in the place of swelling. The active tissue-metamorphosis likewise includes the symptom impaired function, for I shall show' that the tissues when undergoing inflammatory changes have their function impaired. But this change is a gradual one. A muscle can still contract at the commencement of inflammation, when the tissue-metamorphosis has already begun, and can be recognized under the microscope. General Remarks concerning the Inflammatory Changes of Tissues. The inflammatory changes of tissues may be described in a few words. As soon as an inflammation occurs, the tissues return to their embryonic state. In the embryo, the entire organ consists of amoeboid cells. The inflamed tissue of older animals, which is normally composed of more rigid cells and intermediate substance, is again converted into amoeboid cells, or, I should prefer to say, into amoeboid substance, in view of my most recent researches. The subdivided amoeboid substance, or the amoeboid cells of an inflammatory focus, are called pus-corpuscles. It is accordingly the tissue itself which is transformed into pus-corpuscles. Although I am writing here in the interest of practical branches, I cannot desist from advancing the reasons for this theory. I must show its relation to older theories, and what reasons have influenced me in discarding the older theories and especially the migration theory. But this explanation is only possible if I give the reader a sketch of general histology. If we desire to become acquainted with the processes which occur in any apparatus (Einrich-