FATTY EMBOLISM. 375 disturbance, and dies. It is not possible to understand bow any effect of nerve influence that was caused by injury, could remain for two or even three days concealed so thoroughly that there should be no suspicion of its exist- ence, and then manifest itself with such intensity and rapidity as to occasion death within a few hours. Some other explanation manifestly is required for such cases as these; and within the last few years it has, so it is believed, been found, for many at least, in what is known as Fatty Embolism, that is, embolisnv of the small arteries in the lungs, and very commonly in other organs, due to minute drops of fluid fat which, having been set free some- where in the periphery (generally in connection with the medullary cavity of bones), are carried into the circulation and follow its ordinary course. It was not, however, in connection with any case of injury that the exist- ence of fatty embolism was first discovered; for the earliest observation1 on record refers to a case of contracted kidney, in which the choroidal vessels were found to have been plugged with particles of fat supposed to have come from an atheromatous aorta; and in the next,2 in which after severe injury to the bones the pulmonary vessels were loaded with fat, the significance of the lesion was quite missed; and when, shortly after this, Wagner3 made a similar observation in two fatal cases of pyaemia, the suggestion was imme- diately raised that the fat was in some connection with the metamorphosis of pus at the periphery, and the development of metastatic abscesses in the lungs. Some experiments, in which the necessary conditions were not main- tained, served to perpetuate this view till 1865, when Wagner4 published the results of forty-eight cases in which he had found this lesion (fifteen of these being instances of rapid death after severe injury to the bones and soft parts); and 13usch demonstrated by cinnabar injections that, immediately after injury to the medulla of bones, it was possible for particles of fat to enter the open mouths of the lacerated veins and be carried into the pulmonary arterioles, causing embolisms, without, however, necessarily entailing abscesses or inflam- matory disturbance. From these facts, and from experiments by Bergmann5 on the intravenous injection of oil, Wagner was led to the conclusion that the coexistence of fatty embolism with pyaemia was merely accidental; and since then it has been shown clearly that the very different results to which fatty embolism may lead, depend on whether it occurs after subcutaneous injury, or is due to some disturbance set up in the neighborhood of a septic wound. The appearance that the lung presents is exceedingly suggestive of a pro- cess of embolism: if this- has been very extensive, the smaller vessels may be so distended as to be visible to the naked eye, and hemorrhage or infarction may occur; while under the microscope, the lung-stroma shows a regular injection, mapping out all the capillaries and filling them with some liquid, which, from its reaction with perosmic acid and its rapid disappearance under ether, can be nothing else than fat. More often there is only a condition of hypertonia and oedema, and then there may be found here and there, with tolerable regularity, minute drops and short cylinders. These changes are not limited to any part of the lung, though they occur, as might have been expected, most plentifully in the lower lobes. Hot unfrequently oil-drops have been found in the clots in the branches of the pulmonary artery, in the right side of the heart, and in the large veins leading to it from the seat of injury. So that post-mortem evidence alone renders certain the presumption that the process is really one of embolism. 1 Muller, Wurzburg med. Zeit., 1860. 2 Zenker, Beitrag. z. norm, und path. Anat. d. Lunge, 1862. 3 Wagner, Archiv d. Heilkunde, 1862. 4 Ibid. 1865 6 Zur Lehre v. d. Fettembolie. Dorpat, 1863.