310 RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS AND INJURIES. changes cine to the constitutional disease, and (2) that other adulteration of the fluids which inevitably results from imperfect or perverted function of an important viscus; hence conditions which are extremely unfavorable for the progress of the trauma towards recovery. I believe also that I can point out a third source of danger which has, I think, hitherto passed unnoticed. The injured region, it is commonly believed, is capable of developing an organic poison, the entrance of which into the economy produces a true intoxication, viz., traumatic septicaemia. The latter is of variable intensity, according to the quality or quantity of the poison, its accumulation or elimi- nation. Under ordinary conditions and in healthy subjects, the large viscera serve as emunctories for this poison as for so many others. But if this vent be closed on account of a profound lesion of the glandular parenchymata, elimination is rendered impossible, and those acute septicaemias are found to be developed which so rapidly lead to death. All these propositions would gain in clearness by being sufficiently de- veloped or illustrated by examples, and I greatly fear that they will not be understood in the concise shape under which I present them; but I am limited as to space, and cannot dilate further upon this part of the subject. The conduct of the surgeon follows naturally from what has gone before. Since the subjects of diatheses cannot be deprived of the benefits of surgical interference, even though this be particularly dangerous to them, the surgeon should strive to lessen the gravity of the prognosis, and to insure at least operative success, that is, the immediate result of his operation. In cases in which he cannot do this, he had better abstain, unless indeed he does not seek the cure of the disease, and is content with merely checking its progress. Fortunately, he will often succeed in averting the accidents which arise from the constitutional condition, by the aid of a series of readily executed measures. In the first place, he will carefully choose his time. If this is impractica- ble in urgent cases, the rule of occasio prceceps is, on the contrary, easily fol- lowed when, life not being immediately threatened, we can hasten or delay the time of action. As regards the majority of morbid states, we should ope- rate quickly, during the dyscrasic period, before the onset of the histological, and especially of the visceral lesions. In the two chief constitutional dis- eases, arthritism and scrofula, the latent period is preferable to that in which fresh manifestations occur. We may allow certain diatheses, like syphilis, to wear themselves out; but, on the other hand, we should attack at the onset those neoplasms which are still local, and the extension and generalization of which are imminent. Great care should he taken with regard to the operative procedure. We must be very sparing of blood in exhausted or poisoned subjects; must save neuropathic individuals as much pain as possible ; and must prevent, as much as we can, traumatic fever in those whose viscera are affected. An excep- tional and little used method may become the plan of election in a particular instance. Diabetic phlegmons and carbuncles should be incised by the thermo- cautery and hot iron, not with the bistoury. Methods of slow and progressive division would, on the contrary, be injurious in irritable subjects, whom pain exhausts and irritates. The choice of a dressing also merits special attention. I may remark, in the first place, that diathetic patients, like all others, owe thanks to the antisep- t ic method. Whenever possible, the judicious enq iloyment of various forms of this method: the wadding dressing of Alphonse Guerin, Lister’s dressing, the open antiseptic dressing, etc., counterbalance to a considerable extent the unfavorable influences of constitutional diseases. Under the wadding bandage, I have seen alcoholics and diabetics recover, who would almost un- doubtedly have succumbed ten years ago with the old-fashioned dressings. I