SYMPTOMS OF SCURVY. 299 gradual accession, or they may rapidly arise and involve the patient, just before in apparent security, in the greatest peril. These incursions are almost always attended by febrile exacerbations, and the usual grouping of clinical characters denotive of the same pathological conditions arising under ordi- nary circumstances. The local complications may either affect the pleura or pericardium, or both. In Dr. Karawajew’s1 2 sixty autopsic examinations, pericardial effusions were noticed in thirty, pleural in thirty, pericardial and pleural in six, peritoneal in seven, and arachnoideal in only one. The exu- dations are sero-sanguinolent or fibrinous in character, and sometimes reach the inordinate quantity of four or live pounds, occasioning the patient the utmost distress, and embarrassing the respiratory and circulatory functions. Although these augment in a high degree the risk to life, yet under prompt and appropriate treatment recovery may take place, and the effusions vanish with surprising rapidity. Hemorrhagic extravasation into the nervous centres is a very rare occurrence. It has not been as yet recorded as having occurred in the brain-substance itself, but has in several instances been noted between the meninges, producing headache, dizziness, vertigo and finally somnolence, delirium, and coma. Opitz'"' relates an interesting case in which convulsions suddenly occurred with unconsciousness, followed by hemiplegia of the left side of the body and the corresponding side of the face. After twenty-four hours, consciousness returned and the paralysis had disappeared. There were however headache and hyper- esthesia of the upper extremities present; twelve days later these also receded, and the patient finally recovered. The same author records paralysis as occurring in one case from extravasation into the spinal meninges. Dr. Sam- son observed an instance in which a fibrinous effusion formed upon the sciatic nerve, with consequent pain. In the circulatory system, symptoms always of threatening and often of fatal import arise; embolism may occur at various. points, particularly in the lungs and spleen, occasioning hemorrhagic infarc-1 tions which have undoubtedly been the occasion of the sudden deaths some- times observed in scorbutic cases not apparently of a very dangerous form, nor attended with an excessive degree of exhaustion. The urinary system supplies no prominent symptoms ; the statements as to the condition of the kidneys and the composition of the urine are contradic- tory. The urine not unfrequently contains albumen, particularly in severe cases, but this is by no means indicative of corresponding changes in the renal structure; on the contrary, this may be found after death to be appa- rently free from disease. Simon3 examined the urine in three well-marked cases of scurvy occurring in Schonlein’s wards ; two were men between thirty and forty years of age, and the third a woman who had been delivered a few days previously. In its physical characters the urine was very similar in the three cases ; at first it was very scanty (8 to 12 oz.), and of a dark-brown color, as if bile pigment or decomposed blood were present, which, however, was not the case. It was devoid of the peculiar sweetish odor of typhus urine, but, after standing a few hours, developed a disagreeable ammoniaeal odor. There was a deficiency of the phosphates, and the amount of urea was much less than in normal urine, not exceeding 20-30 per cent, of the solid residue. The fixed salts were diminished in the urine of the men, forming 14-18 per cent, of the solid residue, while in the woman they amounted to 27 per cent., a little above the normal average (25 per cent.). The uric acid was slightly above the healthy standard in all the cases, forming 1-3 per cent, of the solid residue. 1 Himmelstiern, Beobachtungen liber den Scorbut, S. 50. Berlin, 1843. 2 Prag. Vierteljahrsschrift, S. 153, 1861. 3 Chemistry of Man, p. 320.