359 CASES ATTENDED BY SHOCK. tion, and timely help be thus gained in the question of prognosis. Sex is not without its influence, though it is scarcely possible to estimate how far sus- ceptibility to shock is due to difference inhabits of life and physical develop- ment, and how far to a quicker sympathy and more ready emotion. The effects of age on the production and course of shock are more certain, espe- cially if account be taken of the complete absence of anxiety in the young, and of the apathy so common in the old. It is generally said that the imme- diate results of an injury are worse at these two periods of life than at any other; but, in the case of the young, much allowance must be made for the relative'amount of damage sustained, for the very serious effect of even, com- paratively speaking, a slight loss of blood, and for the great susceptibility to cold. In the aged^ shock is more particularly characterized by uncertainty, both as to its course and persistence; not unfrequently its intensity is dimin- ished and its duration prolonged; and often, when all seems going on well, the heart’s strength fails suddenly, and the patient dies when least expected. It must be mentioned, however, that fSTussbaum and others will not admit cases of this kind as examples of death from shock, believing that hemor- rhage, by means of the effects that may follow it even after some time has elapsed, is much more likely to have been the cause of the fatal issue. Pain, when intense and unintermitting, has been known to prove fatal, but probably in the majority of cases by inducing syncope, though it has a dis- tinct effect upon the heart’s action; patients, while in a state of shock, whether arising from bodily or mental origin, seldom feel any but the most acute agony; and in many of the examples brought forward, protracted labors for instance, extreme muscular exhaustion has been of material help in causing death. It is more singular that, as Astley Cooper pointed out, the moment of transition from intense agony to perfect ease has been known to prove fatal. Deep mental pre-occupation, generally met with under the form of extreme excitement, undoubtedly possesses the peculiar power of postponing the occur- rence of shock, perhaps in the same way that the will, or the violent irrita- tion of a sensory nerve, can for a time suspend perception. It is especially in military surgery that cases of this kind are recorded—where serious and painful wounds are not even known of, till long after their infliction. It is only the onset of the shock, however, that is delayed: its intensity loses nothing from the combined effect of the injury, pain, commencing fever, exhaustion, fear, and perhaps even despair. Another mental condition that may be mentioned as having a peculiar influence is that of intense and per- haps delayed expectation ; at least it would seem that this might assist in the explanation of those deaths, the most mysterious of all, which follow imme- diately on some trivial operation, while accidents seem to he without effect; perhaps there may be a comparison between these cases and those already mentioned of sudden death on the cessation of pain; in each it seems to follow the breaking off of a condition of extreme mental tension. Cases attended by Shock. The majority of the cases of shock met with in surgical practice, follow accidents or operations, serious either from the actual extent of the injury inflicted, or from the fact that special organs or textures have been involved. Burns and scalds, especially when the area involved is extensive, even if the depth is insignificant, are among the most common causes of shock; then come contused and lacerated wounds, such as are produced by the violent crushing of a limb, and capital operations, though by care and attention in the case of