635 AMPUTATIONS OF THE HAND. gether in a longitudinal direction, and the resulting cicatrix is small and well protected. (2) External Flap Method.—The formation of the flap may be either the first or the last step of the operation. If the former plan is to be adopted, the patient’s thumb is forcibly abducted, the hand being supinated for the right and pronated for the left side. The knife is applied to the interdigital web, and made to cut its way upward with a sawing motion until the joint is reached; then the edge of the knife is turned outwards, disarticulation effected, and, the tissues being pushed to the radial side, the flap is made by cutting downwards for a sufficient distance, grazing the bone, and finally outwards. If preferred, the flap may be formed first, either by transfixion or by cutting from without inwards, disarticulation effected from the outer side of the joint, and the tissues of the interosseous space divided as the last step of the operation. (3) Palmar Flap Method.—This variety of amputation, which is known as Chassaignac’s, gives a result closely approximating to that of the oval method. In the case of the right thumb, the flap is made by transfixion, a strong but slender knife being inserted just in front of the carpo-metacarpal joint, thrust downwards till its point emerges at the interdigital web, and then made to cut its way out opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, thus forming an oval flap from the palm; disarticulation is next effected (Fig. 171), and the ends of the first wound united by cutting through the dorsal tissues from without inwards. In the case of the left thumb (Fig. 172) the dorsal incision is made first, disarticulation effected from behind, and the knife, being thrust in front of the bone, made to cut the palmar flap of the requisite size and shape, as it is brought out with a sawing motion. Of these various methods, I decidedly recommend the first (oval method), as, though less brilliant, giving a better result than either of the others. Amputation through One or More Metacarpal Bones may often be prac- tised with advantage. The oval method (en raquette) may be conveniently Fig. 171. Fig. 172. Ampt The fla] articulation. Amputation of left thumb by palmar flap method.