ANAESTHETICS AND ANAESTHESIA. 404 anaesthetic properties of ether and alcohol were known to the alchemists. Giambattista della Porta, in a volume on Natural Magic, described the pre- paration and administration of certain volatile substances which were to be kept hermetically sealed in leaden vessels, to preserve their virtues. The effects of their inhalation appear to have closely resembled those of ether. Albertus Magnus (A. 1). 1193-1280) taught the art of distilling fire-water (iaqua ardevs) from red wine and common salt. May not this have produced a mixture of ether and alcohol capable of producing anaesthesia by inhalation? The closing years of the last, century were marked by a remarkable apathy regarding the use of anaesthetics. With the exception of opiates, the majority of the drugs upon which the ancients relied had gone out of fashion. James Moore, in 1784, proposed to effect anaesthesia in surgical operations by com- pression of the principal nerves of the affected limb. John Hunter had observed the production of local anaesthesia by refrigeration of the tissues of animals, and Baron Larrey had remarked the same thing among his patients upon the icy field of Eylau. The newly discovered gaseous elements had attracted the attention of chemists, and the vapor of sulphuric ether had been inhaled by Dr. Pearson, of Birmingham, as early as 1785, but without prac- tical results. In the year 1799 (April 9), Humphry Davy, then laboratory assistant of Dr. Becldoes, in the Pneumatic Institution at Clifton, near Bristol, discovered the exhilarating properties of nitrous oxide gas. Shortly after- wards, having inhaled the gas while suffering from the eruption of a wisdom tooth, he observed that the pain was relieved while under the influence of the gas. He recorded his experience, with the following comment: “As nitrous oxide, in its extensive operation, seems capable of destroying physical pain, it may probably be used with advantage in surgical operations in which no great effusion of blood takes place.” Though widely circulated, this paragraph seems to have produced no prac- tical result until the Hartford dentist, Horace Wells, turned his attention to the subject in the year 1844. During this long period of time, no systematic research had been undertaken with a view to the discovery of a method for the production of artificial anaesthesia. The anaesthetic properties of sulphuric ether were, however, being gradually ascertained in an empirical way. In the year 1785, it had been employed by Dr. Pearson, in Birmingham, as an inhala- tion for the relief of spasmodic asthma. Dr. Warren, of Boston, had likewise used it, in 1805, for its anodyne effects in the later stages of consumption. In the year 1818, Michael Faraday published a brief notice of the anaesthetic properties of ether vapor, which he considered a dangerous substance. Ex- perimental physiologists also became acquainted with its stupefying effect upon animals ; and, in the year 1836, Christison recorded, in his work on Poi- sons, the case of a young man who had been rendered completely insensible by the vapor of ether. Among drug clerks and reckless young people, the practice of inhaling the vapor of ether was a favorite mode of dissipation in certain parts of the world. In the year 1839, a young negro was thus stupe- fied, to the great alarm of his companions, in the village of Anderson, South Carolina. This incident served to encourage Dr. Long, then residing in Jef- ferson, Georgia, to administer the vapor to a patient who was accustomed to the practice of inhaling ether. He was thus rendered insensible, and a tumor was removed without pain, March, 1842. Three or four other patients were anaesthetized with similar success during the years 1842 and 1843, but as the doctor resided in a remote and isolated portion of the country, and as he published no statement of his experience, his discovery remained unknown to the scientific world. During the month of December, 1844, an itinerant lecturer on chemistry, named Colton, undertook to exhibit the exhilarating properties of laughing-