364 SHOCK. result of an accident, and coming on too soon afterwards for inflammation to be the cause, there has followed either some defect or perversion of nutrition, or more or less complete loss of that which may he most aptly compared with what is known in physiology as inhibition—moral control. It has been said that this condition is really due to ansemia of the spinal cordit may be so, and this state presents a certain, but by no means close, analogy to a somewhat similar condition of the brain; but while it is exceedingly hard to understand how such a condition could have arisen primarily, it is still more difficult to imagine how it could persist; and it must always be recollected that it is a doctrine resting on clinical evidence only, there being no pathological fact that can be urged in its support. It must, however, always be remembered that it is essential to the concep- tion of shock, that the symptoms, or some of them in their lighter form, should make their appearance immediately after the accident. It cannot be doubted that many of the cases of sudden death which have hitherto been placed in the category of shock—cases in which an interval of some hours, or even days, have elapsed after the receipt of an injury or the performance of an operation without the appearance of any untoward complication—have not. been due at all to shock in the strict sense of the term, regarding it as ex- treme vital depression caused by reflex nerve-influence. The greater number may probably be accounted for by hemorrhage, especially those later effects of it to which Nussbaum1 2 attributes the strange results of accidents in advanced life ; or by septic collapse, from the sudden absorption of poisonous matters by a large serous surface, such as the peritoneum ; or by fatty embolism, which has been shown of late by Wagner and others to be strangely frequent after injuries, especially when involving bones. The symptoms of shock do not by any means always present the gravity of the cases described above; there may be merely a temporary impairment of mental vigor, with a transient diminution of muscular energy, and a slight irregularity in the heart’s action; signs which it is very hard to distinguish from those of syncope, if indeed it is possible. Travers3 has said that a fit of syncope and the recovery from it present an epitome of the phenomena of shock. There is, however, in syncope one characteristic feature—so characteristic as to have given it its name—which is very rarely met with in shock, perhaps never but in those cases which have a rapidly fatal termination ; and this is the sudden and complete loss of consciousness always present, and due to the suspension of the function of those parts of the brain which have to do more especially with the intelligence. It is scarcely necessary to bring forward evidence at any length to prove that deficiency in the supply of blood to the brain is the pathological condition underlying the symptoms of syncope; the striking pallor of the face, coming so suddenly, would alone be almost suffi- cient ; or any of those cases in which the heart being enfeebled, the sudden assumption of the erect posture is at once followed by loss of consciousness— even if Sir Astley Cooper, by ligaturing the carotids, and Flemming, by com- pressing them, had not shown beyond all question that it is the local change that is the cause. Nor is there any anatomical difficulty in the supposition of a sudden diminution in the quantity of blood entering the cranial cavity, for this is no longer regarded as closed, but as having sufficiently free com- munication between the ventricles and the subarachnoid spaces to enable the alteration in pressure to receive immediate compensation. In shock, on the other hand, it is rare for the loss of consciousness to be complete: the brain 1 Erichsen, Railway Injuries. 2 Arztliches Intelligenz-Blatt, Marz 13, 1877. 3 Op. cit., p. 467.