THE VASO-MOTOR NERVES. 11 the thick edges, especially the muscular layer which lies upon the lower third of the membrane, where it is inserted into the cutis. Now cover the speci- men with thin covering-glass, and look, with a high power, for one of the many easily-discoverable glands, but one with as large a lumen as possible. If you allow a few currents from the induction coil1 to pass through the speci- men, the cells immediately swell up and soon fill the interior. If the current be too strong, the cells do not return again to their former position; the gland dies in this condition, with large cells occluding its lumen. But if the current be not too powerful, the cells soon again diminish in size (retract); the lumen of the acinus again becomes visible. As a rule, the lumen does not again become quite as large as it was before the stimulation, in the case of the excised membrane. But no matter, the stimulus can be reapplied and the enlargement of the cells again observed. As a general thing, the cells do not react any more after the second or third stimulation. If, however, the stimulus be indirectly applied, that is, transmitted through the nerves, we can repeat the experiment very often and always observe a complete retraction of the cells. For this purpose you must place the web of a living frog under the microscope and irritate the ischiatic nerve.2 When cells enlarge they must absorb fluid, since an increase of volume without an increase of mass is impossible. By a reduction in size, on the other hand, fluid must be forced out again. Now we have advanced the hypothesis that by this absorption and expression of fluid, secretion is brought about. But here this is of minor importance. Here we are only concerned with the fact that cells have been observed which actively enlarge in order to narrow a lumen, and actively retract again in order to enlarge the lumen. For this discovery proves that an active contraction as well as an active dila- tation of a vessel which possesses no muscular fibres, is not without analogy. The Yaso-motor Nerves.—The contraction as well as the dilatation of bloodvessels is regulated by the spinal cord, by means of special nerves which are called vaso-rnotor. It is true that, microscopically, the special relation between nerves and vessels is not yet sufficiently clear. We know that nerves pass between and along the vessels, but we do not yet know the termina- tions of nerves in the vascular walls. On the other hand, the fact of the inner- vation of vessels has been placed on a secure basis by experiment. The doctrine of the vaso-rnotor nerves, founded on vivisection experiments, may be placed by the side of descriptive anatomy, as regards the certainty of its fundamental laws. This doctrine, too, forms a natural supplement to anatomy; for in the corpse we cannot see the final terminations of the nerves, and, up to the pre- sent date at least, we have not been able, with the microscope, to distinguish the nerves in regard to their function. The microscope gives us no clue as to whether a nerve is sensory or motor, whether it obeys the will, or whether it supplies the vessels or the glandular cells. To all of these questions, vivi- section experiments give us positive answers. Experimental angeioneurology, then, in view of its great importance as regards the circulation, may, from this standpoint, be regarded as one of the most important doctrines in medi- cine. I would even advance the opinion that no physiologist, no pathologist, no therapeutist, can follow his profession in a precise manner without being familiar with this field of inquiry.3 What I introduce here is, indeed, only 1 The strength of the current necessary, every one will readily find out by commencing with a very weak one and then increasing the strength until it has effect. 2 This irritation requires special precautionary measures. See, on this point, Strieker and Spina, in the article already quoted (Mediz. Jalirbiiclier, S. 368). 3 I have added this remark in order to combat the view that even this little is superfluous for the practical interests of surgery.