503 REVULSION AND COUNTER-IRRITATION. nerves should, however, always be avoided. The plan usually practised in making an issue, is to protect the surrounding skin by covering it with a piece of adhesive or diachylon plaster, in which a hole is cut a little smaller than the proposed eschar. A ring of wax may be used instead of plaster. A small piece of caustic potassa, or Vienna caustic made into a paste by mixing it with a little alcohol, is placed in the hole, and kept in position by another strip of plaster. In an hour or two, the strips of plaster should be removed, and the part washed with vinegar and water, to check the further action of the caustic; a poultice of iiaxseed-meal should then be applied, to hasten the separation of the slough. The ulcer remaining after the removal of the eschar may be kept from healing by placing in it an issue-pea or a glass bead, which may be maintained in position by means of a small compress of lint and a strip of plaster; or, if the issue be on the arm, by a wire-gauze armlet. The moxa is occasionally used to make an issue, but its application is so painful that a local anaesthetic should then always be employed. The moxa is composed of some combustible material, such as cotton, lint, agaric, the pith of the sunflower, etc., rolled into cylindrical or pyramidal shape, and is designed to be burnt in contact with the skin, for the purpose of producing an eschar. That the combustion of the moxa may be more rapid, and the pain attending its application less prolonged, it is customary to make it of cotton or lint impregnated with nitrate or chlorate of potassium. To facilitate the application of the moxa, a convenient instrument called the porte-rnoxa, or “ moxa-bearer,” may be employed. (Fig. 74.) The eschar left in the skin Fig. 74. Porte-moxa. after the burning of the moxa, is somewhat greater in extent than the base of the latter. The treatment of the slough and of the ulcer is the same as that described in the preceding paragraph. The knife may he resorted to for establishing an issue, either by raising the integuments and cutting them from within outwards, or by making a crucial incision, well down into the subcutaneous areolar tissue. Issues made in this way are always troublesome to keep open, and hence this method is not often practised. The Seton, which is simply a subcutaneous issue, or a sinus with two openings, is established by introducing a narrow strip of muslin, a small roll of thread, a piece of lamp-wick, or a strip of India-rubber cloth, through the base of a fold of the integument. This may he accomplished either by using a seton-needle (Fig. 75), or by means of a sharp-pointed bistoury and an eyed Fig. 75. Seton-needle. probe. A seton should pass deeply into the superficial fascia, for if it he carried between the skin and fascia, the former will slough and leave an open wound; in order to get free drainage, one opening should be a little lower than the other. When the seton-thread is in position, its ends are to be loosely knotted, and it should not be disturbed .till suppuration is fully established in the wound. After this, the wound is to be dressed every day,