AMPUTATIONS. 562 and resection into military surgery, many limbs can now be preserved which would formerly have been condemned to removal, yet the proportion of cases in which the army surgeon is compelled to amputate, is probably almost if not quite as large as when, though surgery was less efficient, the injuries with which it had to deal were less severe. The conical ball, propelled by the modern rilled firearm, splits and shatters the bone which it strikes so severely, as very often to defeat any hope of doing good by expectant treatment; and when simple extraction of fragments is not sufficient, and the surgeon has to choose between amputation and resection, the former will frequently be found the more eligible operation. Various Lesions of Arteries require amputation. Simple wounds of arteries are, of course, usually amenable to milder measures, and subcutaneous ruptures or lacerations of the great vessels may often be successfully treated by laying open the part, after controlling the circulation with a tourniquet or Esmarch’s tube, or even with digital compression, and by securing the artery as if it had bled in an open wound. In certain situations, however, as when the popliteal artery is the seat of rupture, amputation will commonly be needed. Again, traumatic aneurisms, or spontaneous aneurisms which have become diffuse, may require amputation ; this rule particularly applies to aneurisms of the popliteal artery, and of the deep arteries of the leg, and to traumatic aneurisms in the axilla. Amputation has also been successfully practised as a modified distal ligation in cases of subclavian aneurism. Finally, amputation may be demanded in cases of secondary hemorrhage, whether from a wounded artery or from one previously ligated in its continuity. The reason that amputation is often more successful under such circumstances than any other measure, can be readily understood when it is remembered that secon- dary bleeding almost invariably comes from the distal end of a vessel (where the repair is less perfectly effected than at the proximal end), and that only by amputation can the vis a fronte which induces the supply of blood to the distill end be got rid of. Heat and Cold.—Amputation is not unfrequently rendered necessary by the destructive influence of heat or cold. In cases of frost-bite, the dead parts, if limited in extent, should be allowed to drop off spontaneously; if a whole hand or foot be involved, the sphacelated mass may be removed by an inci- sion through the dead tissues, and then, when the lines of demarcation and separation have been fully established, a formal operation may be practised. So, too, in cases of burns or scalds, no operation should as a rule be attempted until after the sloughs have all become detached, when, if it be evident that a cure is not to be expected from nature’s unaided efforts, amputation may be resorted to with the best prospects of a favorable result. The same opera- tion may also be called for at a later period in cases of great deformity re- sulting from cicatricial contraction, or when, as sometimes happens, old cica- trices become the seat of malignant growths. Mortification from whatever cause, when the death of the part goes, be- yond the formation of a mere superficial slough, usually demands amputation. The ordinary rule, and one that under most circumstances should be strictly adhered to, is that no amputation should be undertaken until after the com- plete establishment of the line of separation; the reason is obvious—if the surgeon cut through parts the vitality of which is, as it were, hanging in the balance, the additional injury inflicted by the knife may of itself be sufficient to turn the scale, and an amputation under these circumstances is apt to be followed by a renewal of the gangrenous process. Hence when death of a