-•■■■•'•I'' -■*1^' . ... ^ ‘ 2 J ^ ■ .. .- • A F;ook'^for'^thletes an4 PfThe Irt.ainstay of Lite WH IT T5 9< *eo ed ed 09 NATIOJTAL PLASMON, LTD., COa, FARRINQDON STREHT, LONDON, E.C. -V, - ;■ *The name ‘'PLASMON’’distinguishes our preparations of milk albumen or , casein from the analogous preparations of an other manufacturers, and is our, registered Trade Mark. }%. interna tional * LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections | Cookery BatemanWhat Plasmon is. ¥ “ Plasmon differs from other food- preparations, for the following rea- sons :— “ I. Being- cheap, in contrast with meat, it has become a popular food. “ 2. Made from pure, fresh milk only, it has net the dietetic faults of meat pre- parations. “ Most vegetable foods are (relatively) poorly assimilated, whereas S9-4 per cent, of Plasmon ia digestible. “ 3, Made by a simple process, it con- tains no toxic or drastic substances, and gives confidence in its harmlessness and uniformity. “The albumen is in its original un- altered condition. Plasmon is an aibu-2 men containing a very high proportion of nitrogen. Practical trials have shown that Plasmon can replace all other albumen foods, and that it is superior even to meat in its nutrient value. “ 5. It does not disturb the digestive functions. “6. The continuance of the diet does not give rise to repugnance. “ 7. A pleasant feeling of suSciency was noticed. Even with hard work and little sleep there was no loss of weight or loss of capacity for work. Plasmon can maintain the physical strength of work- men engaged in the most laborious tasks.” * (Epitome of the REPORT on Plasmon by Dr. C. Virchow, of Berlin.) (2) “There is no food-preparation known to us equal to Plasmon, either as regards constancy of composition as guaranteed by its source or in respect to the proportion, solubility and digestibility of the nutritive constituents.” (Extiact from the official Report of Dr. Prausnitz, Professor and Principal of the German State Department of Hygiene.) •Further information can be had on application to the Company.3 WHAT PLASMON IS. Plasmon is the albumen of pure fresh milk in the form of a dry, soluble granulated, cream-white powder. Albu- men, termed proteid, is the nourishing principal contained, in varying quan- tities, in all foods—whether animal or vegetable. It is the principal sub- stance absorbed by the system for forming and feeding all the component parts of the human body, blood, muscles, nerve, bone, brain, etc., and for renewing the waste which is con- tinually taking place. Flesh-forming albumen is only pre- sent in very small quantities in most foods; it results, therefore, that a large bulk of food is eaten without perfect nourishment being obtained. The albumen (proteid) in fresh milk is the nutriment provided by nature, and is therefore the most perfect form of food. But the milk albumen (pro- teid) is liable to speedy changes, which render it insoluble and indigestible. Any addition of a free alkali, carbonate4 of soda, potasA, etc., however minute in quantity, to the dry albumen, ren- ders it worthless as a nutrient, and probably harmful to the digestive system. It has been the aim of science to overcome this difficulty and to preserve this albumen of milk in its natural un- altered condition. Plasmon is the resultof these prolonged investigations. It contains the most important original salts, and is prepared by a process which does not alter its vital and physical properties or in any way lessen its nourishing effects. The albumen, as in fresh milk, remains absolutely pure and soluble, and retains its pro- perties unchanged for an indefinite period. Plasmon added to any food—no matter how poor such may be in nourishment—at once raises the value of the food, a teaspoonful oz.) of the Plasmon power being equal in food value to J lb. of prime fillet of beef.5 For these reasons, Plasmon invigor- ates the digestive system, so that other foods taken with it or after it, are more easily digested. Although it increases the weight, it does not do so by inducing an undue accumulation of fat—but not only gives strength to the digestive system, but speedily rectifies all evils arising from imperfect diges- tion, and the use of non-nourishing foods. Plasmon, being economical, free from flavour and smell and perfectly soluble, is an ideal addition to all descriptions of foods. Scientific Reports, together with the notices and analyses from The British Medical Journal^ The Lancet^ The Medical Press and Circular^ etc., show that Plasmon is a pure food, not a drag, and does not contain a drug. Medical men testify to its important value as a health and strength-giving food fer the sick, the convalescent and the delicate.6 Athletes and strong men—Eustace Miles, C. B. Fry, Sandow, and many others, physical as well as brain work- ers—testify to the great assistance Plasmon affords in giving strength and endurance, and In forming muscle and nerve. Copies of testimonials will be sent on application.7 THE CULINARY POSSIBILITIES OF PLASMON. {From "Food and Cookery," August, 1903, page 208, edited by Mr. C. Hermann Senn ) Since the science of dietetics has become more intimately allied with the art of cookery, it has been recog^nised that the so-called “ rich foods ” are not always the most nourishing. That is to say, there are many substances which, while most useful as stimulants and producers of fat, are practically devoid of all flesh-forming and waste- repairing properties. Such foods taken in excess are positively harmful, load- ing the human system with substances difficult to eliminate and which induce disease. At the other end of the scale are starchy and watery foods, of less nutrient value. Of course, the aim in planning a dietary, or cooking a meal, must be to properly choose different foods so as to provide a well-balanced ration. But with the modern exigencies this is not always easy to do, and8 hence has arisen the necessity for pre- pared foods. These are as a rule asso- ciated with the feeding of the young, the aged, and the ailing. There are certain preparations, however, which have a far wider application. Take Plasnion as an instance. Plasmon is a cream-white granulated substance, devoid of scent or flavour, so it can be easily manipulated, and when used in cookery does not alter the taste of any dish. It is, therefore, safe to use. The Plasmon Exhibit at the Food and Cookery Exhibition, Royal .Albert Hall, London, April 1903, was awarded the Highest Certificate of Merit. Quantities of Plasmon to be Used Daily, see page ii9 The Lancet, August nth, 1900, page 40* “ The introduction of Plasmon marks an important advance in the separation of the nutrient material without any deterioration of its dietetic quality frcm the most natural of all foods—milk. It is to be feared that in the preparation of many foods the process adopted seriously affects the nourishing qualities of the material in its original state. Chemical analysis may show an excellent proportion of flesh-forming constituents, but only physio- logical evidence can decide upon the rca. nourishing quality of the food product Plasmon has satisfied both chemical and physiological enquiries. At no step in the process is objectionable chemical treatment introduced. Plasmon has been found of great value as a nutrient in enfeebled conditions of the digestive organs, and to be an excellent means of administering food to the sick. Jt is important to point out that Plasmon con- tains, as our analysis shows, the salts of milk, including the phosphates. It is obvious that Plasmon may be employed with the greatest advajitage for enriching foods or for raising their actual fesh-forming value to a high and trustworthy degree. The preparation is one worthy of the highest praise." How to Use Plasmon, see pageb 12 and following.lO PLASMON IS il FOOD FOR ALL. For the healthy and strong; for the tveakly and sick ; for the aged and the young; for the athlete, the cyclist, and the traveller ; also for those who ab- stain from all kinds of animal food (fish, flesh, or fowl). For everyone who requires a nou- rishing addition to ordinary food, with little expense, and no inconvenience of bulk or waste. Inebriates lose desire for alcohol by usfng Plasmon. Being tasteless and odourless it can be given in other food v/ithout the knowledge of the patient. Always add Plasmon to your food— whether the food be solid or liquid. Plasmon contains the original or- ganic salts of pure fresh milk in their unaltered form. Without these, al- bumen or proteid is of no value as nourishment. Plasmon is, therefore, not fluffy and is not stickyPLASMON WEIGHTS and MEA- SURES, with Quantities for Daily Use. ^ 1 oz. of Plasmon Powder is equal to— 3 large or i small teaspoonfuls, neaped; or to 1 tablespoonful, heaped; or to 15 tablespoonfuls of Plasmon Stock, page 1^, No. 2. 1 teaspoonful of Dry Plasmon is equal to— 2 teaepoonfuls of Moist Plasmon, page 12, No. 1. 20 ounces of water equal 1 pint. f ^^11 )> )) 4' >s QUANTITY OF PLASMON WHICH MAY BE USED. Quantity of Plasmon which may be eaten daily (during twenty-four hours), with other food:— (1 tsaspoonful = i-oz.) Minimum amount for adults, three teaspoonfuls; Maximum, six tea- spoonfuls. Children, half the above minimum quantities. Infants over six months, one tea- spoonful (i-oz.) during twenty-four hours (see page 15).12 HOW TO USE PLASMON. Directions and Recipes. Plasmon may be taken with any kind of food—stews, puddings, porridges, etc., in the same way as sugar or salt, and mixed up with the food. But, generally, it is much preferable to add Plasmon to foods in the form of Plasmon Stock, which is more readily digestible. It may also be added to the flour and mixed up with it, and then kneaded in the usual way for making bread or pastry—oz. of Plasmon to i lb. of flour. No. 1. MOIST PLASMON. —Put three teaspoonfuls of dry Plasmon into a large cup, and add gradually J pint (i gill) of tepid (not hot) water, and stir to a thick paste. In this state it ma)’’ be added to milk, soups, beef tea, etc., and boiled for two minutes. Quantity for each person—one to two teaspoonfuls of this moist Plasmon. (One teaspoonful of moist Plasmon equals half teaspoonful of dry Plas- mon.)No. 2. HOW TO DISSOLVE PLAS- MON; thus making PLASMON STOCK. — Put i-oz. of Plasmon into a sauce- pan, Add gradually /lalf-a-pint of lukewarm water, stirring continuously. Place over the fire and boil for two minutes. When cold this stock should have the appearance of a thin-semi- transparent jelly. Plasmon Stock is the foundation of many dishes, and is referred to in a number of the recipes. If used for whipping into a nourishing cream, it must be quite cold (and is best made overnight for the next day’s use) ; but for adding to milk, coffee, soups and certain other dishes, it may be used hot as soon as made. Stock will keep a day or two if treated as milk. Note. — If the saucepan be rinsed v/ith cold water it prevents burning. No. 3. PLASMON* CREAM. — Is made from. Plasmon Stock (No. 2) as follows:— Put two or three tablespoonfuls of Plasmon Stock '.nto a largfe cup or one pound jar, whisk briskly for a few minutesj when a thick cream will result. Add sifted sugar and vanilla or other flavouring to taste, whisk briskly for14 half-a-minute. This Cream can now be used for tea, coffee, cocoa, stewed fruits, etc., or may be eaten alone. A “Dover” wheel whisk gives the best results, namely, Plasmon thick Cream; the longer it is whisked the thicker it becomes. Note.—To have this Cream in per- fection, it is essential for the Stock to be quite cold. PLASMON MEAT STOCK FOR SOUPS AND SAUCES.—In making ordinary or so-called general stock, use about a pound of meat and bones, 4 to 6 ounces of soup vegetables (carrot, onion, turnip, leek or celery) to every quart of water. Do not add the vegetables until the liquor has first boiled up and the scum has been removed. Season with salt and pepper (peppercorns and bayleaf may be added). Boil gently from two and a- half to three hours, and strain. Stir into two tablespoonfuls ot Plasmon powder a pint of tepid water, re-heat it whilst stirring it over the fire, and add it to a quart of general stock as soon as it boils. Use the stock as directed. Note.—k\\ stock is better made15 overnight for use on the following day. In Piasmon Meat Stock care must be taken to remove all the fat which is on top before it is used. FOR INFANTS’ FOOD. — To one teaspoonful of Piasmon Powder add one gill of tepid water, mix it tho- roughlv and boil for two minutes. The above quantity to be divided and given in the food during twenty-four hours (see page ii). Dry Piasmon Powder should on no account be given to young children. SOME PLASMON DISHES. The following recipes have been compiled to serve as a guide for the numerous ways in which Piasmon can with profit and advantage be used in cookery. • These dishes, and the direc- tions given to show the best way to prepare them, will amply prove all that is claimed for Piasmon. The hints given will be found useful, » This, added to the knowledge gained by experience, should help to make all dishes in which Piasmon is used, and there are but very few Indeed where iti6 cannot be employed, more nourishlngf, and therefore more profitable. Variety In food often offers diffi- culties. There are not many varieties of meat, but few species of fish, and not too many vegetables. How, then, can one obtain variety ? This is answered by Plasmon, which will prove an excellent aid to bring about variety, by taking the following recipes as a basis for a number of other dishes by merely substituting the chief in- gredient for another. Variety, it is often said, not only charms the palate, but frequently it is the means of creating an appetite in those to whom the mere thouglit of food has been distasteful. Good cooking does not always mean expensive cooking, and as a rule the best cooks are the most economical. The use of Plasmon spells interior economy, because, when pro- perly blended and treated upon correct culinary lines, food thus prepared fulfils that important mission of mak- ing it more wholesome, more varied, more pleasurable, and therefore more profitable in the end. For Plasaion Weights and Measures, see page 11,17 Maay of these recipes appeared In Aug. and Sept. Nos. of “Food and Cookery," 1903, Edited by Mr. C. Hermann Senn. ORDINARY HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. Economical and Easy to Make. Parmantier Cream Soup.—Ingredi- ents :—i lb. potatoes, 2 ounces butter, I small onion, ^ pint Plasmon stock (No. 2, page 13), ^ pint milk, i pint water, i tablespoonful ground rice, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, fried bread croutons. Method :—Wash and peel the pota- toes, slice them. Peel and slice the onions. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in potatoes and onion, and fry a little without browning. Add the water and milk, boil up and skim. Stir in the ground rice, and cook gently till the vegetables are tender. Rub all through a fine sieve. Return to the stewpan, add the Plasmon stock, sea- son to taste with salt, pepper and nutmeg, and re-heat. Serve with small croutons of fried bread. This soup may be made still richer by adding, a few minutes before serv- ing, one yolk of egg mixed with half a tablespoonful of cream. Lentil Soup. — Ingredients : — i pint of lentils, i small onion, i stick oflo celery 2 ozs. of butter, i gill Plasmon stock (recipe No. 2, page 13), 2 quarts water, salt and pepper to taste. Method:—Wash the lentils and soak them in cold water for three or four hours. Put the butter in a saucepan; add the lentils, onion (peeled and finely sliced), celery (cleaned and chopped small), stir over the fire about five minutes, then add the water, boil up, skim, and cook gently till the lentils are soft. Pass all through a sieve, add Plasmon stock, salt and pepper ; re- heat and serve with bread cut in dice. Note.—Peas, haricots, beans, etc., can be used in the same way as lentils. Fish Pudding.— Ingredients :—fib. cooked white fish, 6 ounces cooked potatoes, 2 ounces butter, i teaspoon- ful chopped parsley, i dessertspoonful Plasmon powder, f gill water, i whole egg, 2 yolks of eggs, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Method :—Butter a plain pudding mould, sprinkle it with brown crumbs, and boil for two minutes. Free the fish from skin and bones and chop up small. Rub the potatoes through a sieve. Melt the butter, put in the fish and potatoes, and let it get hot, then add the liquid and Plasmon, the parsley19 and the eggs. Mix well and season to taste. Put the mixture into the prepared mould, shake it down well, and bake in a moderately heated oven for twenty-five minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve. »? Note.—This pudding will be found lighter if the white of eggs is whisked stiffly before it is added to the mixture. A tablespoonful of cream will also be found an improvement. Plasmon Irish Stew.—Ingredients: I lb. scrag of mutton, lbs. potatoes, 6 ounces onions, gills Plasmon stock No. 2, salt and pepper to taste. Method:—Cut the meat into neat pieces, trim off some of the fat, put it in a saucepan with ^ pint of cold water, and season with salt. When it comes to the boil skim it, and let it simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour; then add the potatoes (pre- viously washed, peeled and cut in halves), the onions (peeled and sliced), salt and pepper, and lastly the Plasmon stock. Cook slowly for one hour. Dish up, sprinkle with chopoed pars- ley, and serve. SaYOury Plasmon Balls.—Ingredi- ents:—I Ib. flour, I ounce Plasmon, 4 ounces beef suet, i egg, i teaspoonful80 chopped parsley and savoury herbs, salt, and pepper. Method :—Sift the flour and mix with the Plasmon. Free the suet from skin and chop it finely. Add this to the flour, etc., together with the parsley and herbs. Season with a good pinch of salt and pepper and moisten with the egg and a little milk or water. Work this into a fairly stiff paste. Divide it into small portions, and shape into »a ball. Put them into a stewpan with enough stock to cover, and cook gently for about an hour or longer. Serve with the hot liquor or gravy. This is a very nourishing and tasty dish. Mution Coliops.—Ingredients :—^ lb. lean mutton, | ounce butter, i des- sertspoonful flour, I slice of onion, i gill Plasmon stock No. 2, salt and pepper, mashed potatoes or fried bread croutons to garnish. Method :—Remove the skin and fat from the meat and cut it into very small dice, or chop it (not too finely). Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion (finely chopped), and fry a little. Put in the flour and fry likewise ; then add the meat, and stir the whole over the fire for a few minutes. Moisten with the Plasmon stock, and cook gently forXKI. IMPORTANT NOTICE FROM Mr. EUGEN SANDOW Ever since I look to the development of the body, and specially of the muscles, I have made the nutritive value of foods one of my special studies, and I have always felt that it is useless to simply develop the system unless the bo^iy is properly nourished. I have during- my career adopted different foods, and finally I found that one of the best foods for supplying muscle and giving sta}'- ing power was the white of eggs, preferably taken in a raw state. This I did for a con- siderable time, but the objection which soon arose was the palling monotony, and after a ’ ^ time its unpalatableness. ' *4; Some months ago my attention was called by a doctor to another form of albumen,31X1V. time, and care should be taken not to exceed the quantity recommended, as a surplus supply is unnecessary and the system cannot absorb it. I feel compelled to make my experienced facts public, as I am certain that those interested in physical culture, as well as parents and teacliers who have the care of children, will be grateful to have my experi- ence brought to their knowledge, so that by using PLASMON, they will attain the very best results in every way. As far as I personally am con- cerned, I certainly should never like to bo WITHOUT PliASMON.21 half-an-hour. Season to taste, and serve in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes, or garnish with tri- angular-shaped slices of fried bread. Shepherd’s Fie.—Mince up any kind of cold meat; season with salt and pepper; add a little butter, also two table- spoonfuls of gravy. Put it in a pie dish ; cover with a thick layer of mashed pota- toes mixed with half a gill of Plasmon stock (recipe No. 2, page 13). Bake in a hot oven to brown for half an hour. Ham Relish (a Dainty Dish for Breakfast). — Ingredients : — 2 tea- spoonfuls Plasmon powder, 6 ounces of cooked haoij 4 preserved mush- rooms, I hard-boiled egg, ^ gill cream, chopped parsley, seasoning, 2 slices ol toasted bread. Method :—Dissolve the Plasmon in half a gill of tepid water. Chop the ham and mushrooms finely. Chop each separately.'* Put the yolk of egg into a clean well-tinned saucepan, rub with a wooden spoon till smooth, and gradually add the Plasmon and the cream ; chop the white of egg finely, and add half of it with the ham and mushrooms. Stir over the fire until hot; season with pepper and a pinch of cayenne. If found too consistent22 add a little white sauce. Spread the mixture on some buttered toast cut into conveniently sized slices ; sprinkle over with the remainder of chopped white of egg and chopped parsley. Serve either hot or cold. It is nicest hot. Plasmon Cabinet Pudding.—Ingre- dients :—4 ounces of stale cake, bis- cuits or bread, | pint milk, ^ ounce Plasmon, i egg, i ounce castor sugar, and a grate of nutmeg. Method :—Cut the cake, biscuit or bread into dice shapes. Sprinkle the Plasmon over it, and put it in a buttered pudding mould. Beat up the egg, add the milk, the sugar and nut- meg, and beat well. Pour this into the mould, let it stand for half an hour to soak, and steam for one and a-half hours. Serve with jam or marmalade sauce. Plasmon Chocolate Jelly. — In- gredients :—2 ounces Plasmon cocoa, ounces corn-flour, 2| ounces sugar, 11 pints water, vanilla flavouring. Method :—Mix the cocoa and corn- flour to a smooth batter with a little Plasmon and tepid water, add the sugar and heat up. Add the remainder of the water and boil for five minutes23 whilst stirring. ' Remove from the fire and add a few drops of vanilla essence. Pour into a pudding mould previously rinsed with cold water. When quite set turn out on a dish and decorate with whipped^'cream and angelica. Piasmon Yanilia Ice Cream.— Ingredients : — 2 ounces (2 heaped tablespoonfuls) Piasmon, i quart milk, 1 gill cream, 6 ounces castor sugar, i teaspoonful vanilla essence. Method :—Warm up a pint of the milk in a stewpan. Mix the Piasmon in a basin with enough tepid milk to make a creamy mixture ; then add the remainder of the milk in the pan, and boil, stirring all the time ; add the sugar and then allow it to cool. This is Piasmon milk stock. When cold add the pint of cold milk, the cream and the vanilla essence. Mix and freeze in the usual manner. Other flavouring essences can be used if desired. Lemon Cake.—Ingredients :—| lb. flour, ^ lb. butter, ^ lb. castor sugar, 2 eggs, I ounce Piasmon, i teaspoonful baking powder, rind of i lemon, i ounce candied lemon peel, J gill milk. Method :—Put butter and sugar into a basin and beat to a cream, then add24 the eggs and beat well again ; stir in all the dry ingredients except the baking powder ; add the milk and flavorings, and mix well; stir in the baking powder ; turn into well-greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven from twenty minutes to one hour, according to size. Try the cake with a skewer ; if it comes out clean the cake is done. Turn out and place on a sieve to cool. Macaroni Fritters.—Ingredients 4 ounces macaroni, 2 ounces Plasmon, 2 ounces semolina, 2 ounces butter. Seasoning—Thyme, parsley, onion, celery salt, cayenne. Method :—Boil the macaroni until tender in two pints of water; strain, mix the semolina and Plasmon in the macaroni water (one pint), add the butter and the seasoning, stir over heat till the semolina is smooth, then stir in the macaroni, and «et to cool. Next shape into corks or cutlets, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in oil, fat or butter. Clear Soup. — To one quart of clear soup, flavoured with vegetables^ stir in one gill of Plasmon Stock. It should, when ready, have a flaky appearance.25 Vegetable Soup. —Cut two onions, one carrot, one turnip, one stick of celer)'^, and. a leek, into thin shreds. Put them into a saucepan with two ounces of butter and a bay- leaf, and cook gently for five minutes. Add three-quarters of a pint of cold water, and simmer until the vegetables are tender. Mix one ounce of flour with half a pint of milk and a gill of Plasmon Stock thoroughly together, pour into the saucepan, and keep stirring until it has boiled for five minutes. Before serving remove bay-leaf. White Sauce.— Put three onions, three sticks of celery, one carrot, one bay leaf, and a sprig of parsley cut up into a saucepan with one pint of milk, and simmer for half an hour. Strain and let it cool. Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, stir in one and a half ounces of flour, then add the milk and one gill of Plasmon Stock. Stir and b'^il for five minutes. Brot^n Sauce. — Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, stir in one and a half ounces of flour until it turns brown, then add three onions, three sticks of celery, one tomato, one carrot, one bay leaf, one sprig of parsley, ten peppercorns, and one pint of brownstock. Let this simmer gently for half an hour, then add one gill of Plasmon Stock, cook for another ten minutes, and pour through a fine strainer. Plasmon Stock maybe added to other sauces, both savoury and sweet. Pre- pare sauces in the usual way, and add Plasmon Stock as in the above sauces. Plasmon Jelly. — Ingredients : — 12 teaspoonfuls (3 ozs.) of Plasmon, I pint of tepid water, ^-oz. of gelatine. Sugar and flavouring to taste. Method : — Dissolve the gelatine with one tablespoonful of the water, and strain it; then mix the Plasmon with the remainder of the water ; add the sugar and boil for four minutes ; then add the gelatine and flavouring. Pour into a wet mould. A^Oi!e.—A double pan should be used for dissolving the Plasmon when so large a quantity is used as above. " Cold Meat Shape. — Chop finely three-quarters pound cold ve. beef or mutton, quarter-pound cookeu ham, one 5 tablespoonful parsley, and one well-cooked onion ; season with pepper and salt. Stir into this half-pint cool (not set) Plasmon Jelly. Pour into a mould, and, when firm, dip in hot water, and turn out.27 Plasmon Mashed Potatoes. — In- gredients:—! lb. potatoes, i oz. butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of Plasmon Stock (page 13, No. 2). Pepper and salt to taste. Method :—Steam or boil the pota- toes ; when done, drain well to get off all the moisture, mash them, add the butter, salt, pepper and Plasmon Stock. Beat well with a fork, pass through a sieve, heat up, or dish and press with a fork and brown in the oven. Plasmon Yorkshire Pudding. — Ingredients:—6 tablespoonfuls of flour, I oz. of Plasmon, 2 eggs, i pint of milk, I saltspoonful of salt. Method :— Put the flour, Plasmon and salt into a basin, and mix to- gether. Make a well in the centre, add a little milk and work all into a smooth, stiff batter, gradually add the remainder of the milk, also the eggs (well beaten first), and stir briskly for a few minutes; pour into a well- greased pan and bake twenty minutes. Another way.—Add the eggs to the flour, etc., and a small quantity of the milk, whisk briskly, slowly adding the remainder of the milk. Plasmon Kica Pudding. — Ingre- dients :—2 ozs. Carolina rice, 3 te»-spoonfuls of Plasmon Powder, i pint of milk, sifted sugar to taste. Method;—Butter the dish, put in the rice and sugar, mix the Plasmon with a little of the milk, add the re- mainder, and pour on to the rice ; put in a slow oven and bake four hours. Tapioca, sago, etc., are made in the same way ; bake three hours. Plasmon Arrowroot Jelly (with- out milk).— Ingredients : — 4 tea- spoonfuls of Plasmon Arrowroot, 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water, i pint of boiling water, the juice of i lemon, sifted sugar to taste. Method :-^Mix the Plasmon Arrow- root with the cold water ; have the pint of water boiling in a saucepan with the lemon juice and sugar; then pour the Plasmon Arrowroot into it, boil for 5 minutes, stirring all the time; pour into a wetted mould to set. If for an invalid, half the lemon juice may be used, or as desired. If made with milk instead of water, vanilla or almond flavouring should be used. Plasmon Custard. — Ingredients : I packet Plasmon Custard Powder, ^ pint of milk, ^ pint of tepid water, tablespoonfuls of castor sugar.-9 Method :—Mix the Plasmon Custard Powder and the sugar to a thin paste with half the water, gradually add the milk and the remainder of the water. Boil for 5 minutes, stirring conti- nuously. Put in a cool place until cold; stir well before pouring into custard glasses. Plasmon Blancmange. — Ingre- dients : — I packet Plasmon Blanc- mange Powder, ^ pint of milk, ^ pint of tepid water, 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar. Method:—Mix the Plasmon Blanc- mange Powder and the sugar to a thin paste with half the water, gradually add the milk and the remainder of the water. Boil for 5 minutes, stirring continuously ; pour into a mould pre- viously rinsed with cold water, and put into a cool place.30 PLASMON COCOA. The Lancet, May i8th, igoi, says ;— “Piasraon increases the food value of cocoa enormously. “Though plain cocoa is to some small extent nutritive, yet its value as an article of diet is chiefly due to its stimulant properties. “The remarkable nutritive power of Plasmon has been well established, and, as we have already pointed out, Plasmon may be used with the greatest possible advantage to enrich food otherwise poor in nitrogen or proteid. “ Plasmon Cocoa contains all tlie constituents able to support life. It is mildly stimulating whilst highly nourishing. “The cocoa used is of exceptional quality, whilst containing a minimum fat. “ Plasmon Cocoa is an important31 and valuable adjunct to the ever3'day dietary, and offers an advantage in special dietetics also.” Plasmon Cocoa, to give the full flavour and nourishment, should be BOILED for about two minutes. One cup of Plasmon Cocoa contains more real building-up nutriment than ten cups of cocoa prepared with the finest and purest plain cocoa obtain- able in the market. To make one cup of Plasmon Cocoa: Recipe : — 1 heaped teaspoonful Plasmon Cocoa. i cup of cold milk. I „ water. Put the Plasmon Cocoa into a sauce- pan, add enough of the milk to make it into a paste, then pour the milk and water on to it and Boil for two minutes, in order that the full aroma and taste may be obtained.32 Serve, if desired, with Plasmon Cream, page 13, No. 3. PLASMON COFFEE (Two Cups). Four teaspoonfuls of Coffee, two teaspoonfuls of Plasmon Powder, one pint of water. Mix together and boil in the usual way. Boiling milk may be added, if desired. PLASMON CHOCOLATE. Plasmon Chocolate is most nou- rishing, containing 20 per cent, of Plasmon, the soluble nulk-proteid. It is enjoyed by adults and chil- dren who cannot indulge in ordinary chocolates, and may be eaten as a sweetmeat or made into a beverage. For travellers, cyclists, athletes, &c., Plasmon Chocolate is most useful, as it contains a very high percentage of nourishment in a very small bulk. An army surgeon, w'riting in the Lancet^ November 24th, igoo, p. 1495, states :— “ Personally I have used Plasmon considerably. When at Aldershot this Whitsuntide I had some Plasmon Chocolate sent down for the officers’ mess.»On “Black Monday” all our officers, twenty-three in number, car-33 ried three sticks of Plasmom Choco^ LATE each. None of us suffered the slightest from heat or fatigue or hun- ger, although we had breakfast at 5.30 a.m. and did not mess until 8 p.m. One of the senior captains told me that, with the exception of the Chocolate and a drink of lime juice and soda, he had absolutely nothing be- tween times, and that he felt quite fresh and had no feeling of exhaustion.” Professor Jago, in his Lecture before the Society of Arts, December 3rd, 1901, on the Nutritive Value of Sweets, Cantor Lecture III., stated :— Plasmon Chocolate contains ly’g pro- teid, or as a proportion of i to 3, as against milk chocolate of the best brand, which contains only i to 10. Plasmon Chocolate is thus over three limes more nourishing’ than the best milk chocolate.” Professor Jago stated further that Plasmon Chocolate is complete in its proportions of sugar, cocoa, fat and proteid for what is re- quired to make a perfect food. ‘'It is,” he adds, "doubtful whether any more concen- trated form of nutriment than this mixture of chocolate and milk proteid is possible, ana certainly there is no other form likely to be discovered outvieing it in palatability. Such a preparation should have an immense value as an emergency ration for explorers and soldiers on active service.”:4 BEEF PLASMON. This is a scientifically complete food, being a combination of Beef Extract and Plasmon. The ideal meat preparation which Liebig stated would far surpass his extract of meat, but which he, at the time, saw no prospect of being realised, has now been obtained in Beef Plas- mon — which is composed of pure extract of meat combined with Plasmon —the natural albumen with its phos- phates and other salts. Beef Plasmon thus contains both nourishing and stimulating qualities. It is free from added salt and colouring matters and flavourings, and can therefore be fla- voured to taste by the addition of sail, or any flavouring. Beef Plasmon is useful for enriching gravies, stews, &c. It may be mixed with a little butter and salt for sandwiches. Liebig adds : “ Were it possible to furnish the market with a preparation of meat combining in itself the albu- men, together with the extractive principles, such a preparation 'would have to be preferred to the Extract of Beef for it would contain all the nutritive constituents of meat.”35 PLASMON ARROWROOT. Plasmon Arrowroot is composed of the purest Arrowroot and Plasmon in dietetically suitable proportions. Plasmon Arrowroot is a highly strengthening food, and is specially suitable in cases of Acute Diarrhoea in Children and Adults ; it is useful also in cases of Chronic Diarrhoea and Dysentery, and in all conditions where a light nutritious diet is indicated. The chief requirement in cases of Diarrhoea—particularly in Children— is a form of nourishment which sus- tains the strength without aggravating the intestinal disorder. Plasmon Arrowroot at once controls the intestinal flow and provides nourishment in a form which is ab- solutely non-irritating, well retained and easily digested; it is quickly assimilated, and speedily revives and sustains the strength. PLASMON BISCUITS. Plasmon Biscuits are made in many varieties—sweet, unsweetened, whole- meal, celery flavour, ginger nuts and special biscuits for sportsmen, cyclists, etc., etc.36 They are composed of the best flour (or wholemeal), mixed with 20 per cent, of Plasmon. This addition not only enriches the biscuits, but causes the nourishing' constituents to be more easily assimilated. Thus one Plasmon Biscuit is more nourishing- than six ordinary biscuits. Special biscuits are prepared for diabetic patients, and these are recom- mended also for obesity, as they are free of starch or sugar. PLASMON BREAD. Plasmon Bread can be prepared by adding to nine parts of Hour one part of Plasmon in the dry form and then mixing-kneading in the ordinary way. PLASMON OATS. RECIPES. Belicioiis Porridge.—Only requires 4 minutes boiling.—Method : To every cupful of Plasmon Oats add two cup- fuls of cold water, mix thoroughly, then add two cupfuls of boiling water, boil slowly for four minutes, stirring all the time. If required stiffer, add less boiling water.37 Plasmon Oats Jelly.—Ingredients : —I cup of Plasmon Oats, 3 cups of milk, sugar and flavouring to taste. Method Thoroughly mix the Oats with one cup of cold milk, then add 3 cupfuls of boiling milk, sugar, flavouring, and the mixture, which must be free from lumps ; boil for ten minutes, stirring briskly all the time. Pour into a mould, serve with stewed fruit or jam. Plasmon Oats Pudding. — Ingre- dients :—3 ozs. Plasmon Oats, ^ pint water, ^ pint milk, i oz. sugar, oz. sultanas, 2 eggs. Flavouring to taste. Method :—Thoroughly mix the Oats with the milk and water, put in the sugar and sultanas, boil for five minutes. Take off the fire, beat in the eggs, add flavouring, put into a but- tered mould and steam for one hour. Turn out and serve. Plasmon Oats Scones. — Ingre- dients :—^ lb. flour, J lb. Plasmon Oats, I oz. sugar, i teaspoonful of baking powder, 2 eggs, a little salt, and milk. Method : Mix all the dry ingredients together, beat up eggs and add to38 make a stiff dough, if not moist enough add a little milk. Cut into shapes, put on to floured baking sheet and bake in hot oven for ten to fifteen minutes. May be served hot. How to Use Plasmon, see pages 12, 13, 14, 15-39 PRICE. LIST Plasmon Granulated Powder—^The Mainstay of Life. Plasmon is the Proteid (the nourishing substance) of pure, fresh Milk, thoroughly sterilized, containingf the Organic Salts in their original unaltered condi- tion. It is free from flavour and odour, and can be used without trouble or waste. Added to any food (animal or vegetable) it raises the nutritive value of such food to a high and trustworthy degree, and renders it more easy of digestion. In Packets, 9d., 1/4 and 2/6 each. (Full directions for use in each packet.) Plasmon Cocoa. Prepared from the purest and best Cocoa pro* curable, and pure Plasmon. One cup of Plasmon Cocoa contains more r^l building up nutriment than ten cups of any plain Cocoa. In Tins, 9d., 1/4 and 2/6 each. Plasmon Chocolate (20 % Plasmon). For Travellers, CycKsts, Athletes, Sic., Plasmon Chocolate is most useful, as it contains a very high pvcentage of nourishment in a very small bulk, Plasmon Chocolate is satisfying and nourishing. Super Extra Fine Quality, crisp or cream texture, in i-lb. boxes, 5/-; 2-oz. tablet.s, 8d. each. Fine Quality, crisp or cream texture, in i-lb. boxes, 3/-; 2-oz. tablets, Sd.; 4-oz., 9d. each. Croquettes, in fancy boxes, 1/6 ; and in packets, 6d. and 3d. each. Oblongs in boxes, 1/- each. Milk Chocolate, Id. per stick Plasmon Arrowroot. Prepared fron the finest Arrowroot, with a suitable proportioe of Plasmon added ; forms an Ideal Food ler invalids and Children. In Tins, 9d. and 9d. each. Plasmon Oats, in 6d. packets.40 Plasraon Blancmange. Plasmon Custard Powder, Beef Plasmon. A scientifically Perfect Food, being a combioatioa of Beef Extract and Plasmon. In i-oz. Tins, 5d. ; 2-oz. Tins, 9d. each. Plasmon Biscuits; Composed of the best flour (or wholemeal) mixad with 20 per cent, of Plasmon. They are made in many varieties by Messrs. Peek, Frean&Co., Ltd., and sold by all Grocers and Stores; also supplied by International Plasmon, Ltd. In Tins, from 1/- to 2/i. Plasmon Diabetic Biscuits. Prepared from the most suitable ingredients, and guaranteed to he absolutely free from Starch and Sugar. These Biscuits are palatable and nourishing. Sweet or Plain — |-lb. Tins, 2/- ; i-lb. Tins, i/- each. Plasmon Cyclist and Sportsman Luncheon Packet. Contains Biscuits and Chocolate, put up in Box to fit the pocket. Invaluable to Tourists, Sportsmen, Cyclists, &c. A sufficient meal for three or four hours. In boxes at 6d. each. PLASMON and PLASMON PREPARATIONS may be obtainsd at all High Class Chemists, Grocers, Stores, ic. IHTERNATIQPiL PLASMON, Ltd. 6Sa, FarringdoH Street, London, E.C.; 56, DUKE ST., GROSVENOR SQ., W. L Thorm & Co., Ltd., Little Sutton St,, London, E.C,FREE DEMONSTRATIONS How to Use Plasmon are given daily at 56, Duke Street, Qrosvenor Square (near 415, Oxford Street and Bond Street Tube), Lotidon, W. Ladies are specially invited ; but if unable to come, they may send their maids. Visitors from the country should not fail to call. A nicely hound Plasmon Cookery Book giving recipui cmn be had on appUcstion.PLASMON is Nature’s pure food and food only; does not contain any \ • • drug or any admixture whatsoever. It is the entire nourishing sub = stance of pure fresh milk.