OIKCULAR No. 3. SUKGEON GENERAL'S OEEICE, Washington, August 17, 1871. A REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES TREATED IN THE ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES FROM 1865 TO 1871. WASHINGTON: GOVERNMENT PRINTING 1871. OFFICE.Digitized by tlie Internet Arcliive in 2015 https://arcliive.org/details/b21970695CIRCULAR No. 3. War Department, Surgeon General's Office, Washington, August 17, 1871. The following Report of Surgical Oases treated in the Army during the past live years is published for the information and instruction of Medical Officers. JOSEPH K. BARNES, Surgeon General, United States Army.A REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES TREATED IK THE ARMY OP THE UNITED STATES PROM 1865 TO 1871. By G-EOR&E J^. OTIS, Assistant Surgeon, United States Army. WAR DEPARTMENT, SURGEON GENERAL'S OFFICE, Division of Suegical Records, Washington, August 15, 1871. General : In obedience to your instructions, I respectfully submit a report I have compiled from the returns and special reports of medical officers of surgical cases, more particularly of those pertaining to operative surgery, observed in the Army during the past five years. Although the cases in each category are not sufficiently numerous to warrant any very important generalizations, yet every such contribution must be of value in adding to the mass of facts from which important inferences may be hereafter deduced. I have endeavored to classify the observations in the shape most convenient for ref- erence, to correct the more obvious errors inseparable from hasty composition, to provide illustrations on wood or stone where requisite, to sum up the inferences and conclusions deducible from the different series of cases, and to be sparing in comment.* When practicable the language of the reporters has been followed textually ; but often it has been necessary to trace the histories of cases througli successive monthly state- ments, and to compile a connected narrative. *" Je sais que la verite est dans les choses, et non dans mon esprit qui les jtige, et que moins je mets du mien dans les jugcmenti que fen x'orte. plus je silts sur d'approclier de la verite."—J. J. Rousseau's "Emile."REPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 6 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. The returns of the Army for the past five years present a comparatively large num- ber of gunshot wounds, received either in Indian hostilities, or accidentally, or in brawls, or attempts to evade or escape from arrest. The more important of these cases will be enumerated, as nearly as may be in the order of the anatomical regions in which the wounds were inflicted, with such subdivisions as are most convenient. Gunshot AVounds of the Head.—Few of the cases of this series present peculiari- ties, yet some of them are not devoid of interest. I. —N'ote on q. Case of Gtinshot Fracture of the Frontal Bone. By 0. C. Byrne, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Richard Jenkins, Co. B, 82d United States Colored Troops, aged 25 years, was accident- ally wounded, at St. Augustine, Florida, on April 26,1860, by the explosion of a fowling-piece. A fragiueut of iron perforated both tables of the frontal bone. He was admitted to tlie post hospital, where the foreign substance was extracted, and cold-water dressings were applied. He was returned to duty May 25, 1866. II. —Report of a Gunshot Fracture of the Mastoid Process. By A. A. Woodhull, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Fort Larned, Kansas, Artificer Charles Andruss, Co. K, 3d United States Infantry, was wounded November 8, 1868, near Fort Gibson, Cherokee Nation, by the accidental discharge of a musket. The case was reported in the Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded, for March last, from which this is an extract. The ball entered the side of the neck, passed across the mastoid process, and through the external ear ; the bone was slightly injured, and the external ear nearly destroyed. He was treated in hospital at Fort Gibson, Cherokee Nation, until February 18th, 1868, when he was sent to join his comiiany at this post. The wound has nearly healed, except a little discharge from the ear. There was partial deafness. He was discharged from service June 28, 1869. III. —N'ote of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Frontal Bone. By J. H. Patzki, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal John Connor, Co. H, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 25, was wounded in a fight with the Indians, July 12, 1870, by a conoidal ball, which fractured the external table of the frontal bone, over the sinus. He was admitted, on July 14th, to the post hospital at Fort Richardson, Texas. Portions of bone exfoliated, and on August 29th, fragments were removed, and the edges of the wound were freshened and united by metallic sutures. The wound healed readily. The corj)oral was returned to duty on September 12,1870. IV. —Bemarlcs on a Case of Gunshot Tnjuri/ of the Head. By G. McC. Miller, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. " Private George Greenland, Co. 1), 5th United States Infantry, was wounded, at a fandango, by a i»istol ball, on the niglit of (Jctobei'10, 1S68, near Fort Reynolds, Colorado Territory. The wonnd was situated on the right side of tlie head, over the parietal bone, longitudinal in direction,GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 7 and one inch and a lialf long. It was deep, extending down to the pericranium. In accordance witli some recent views and results of treatment,* I united the lips of the wound by means of a suture, in order to effect a coalescence by the first intention, or, at least without suppuration, if possible. Cold water dressings were applied. On the fifth day after the injury, I removed the suture ; the lips of the wound then gradually separated, until a sloughing sore was produced. The use of the suture, how- ever, seemed to reduce the amount of sloughing. On the 17th, unexpected and alarming symptoms presented themselves. The patient became semi-unconscious—unable to speak—with enormously- dilated pupils, and a wild expression of countenance. These symptoms, however, i^assed off in au hour, and did not return. The sudden appearance, brief duration, and sudden disappearance of this peculiar condition were quite singular. The wound being foul, I had it washed with a rather strong solution of the sulphate of iron. In twenty-four hours, it siiowed a healthy granulating surface; it continued to improve, and healed rapidly, and the patient was returned to duty November 2, 1868." V. —Extract from a Report of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Mastoid Process. By David Walker, Acting Assistant Surgeon. * * * Private X -, Co. E, 1st Oregon Cavalry, aged 22 years, was wounded Septem- ber 0,1805, in an Indian fight on the Little Malheur Eiver, Oregon. He came under treatment on September 12th, at the post hosijital at Eort Steilacoom ,Wasliington Territory. It was found that he had a gunshot wound, the ball having entered at the posterior head of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, close to the cnrved line, ranging outward and a little upward, and lodging in the mastoid process. There was considerable hiemorrhage from the auditory canal, with temporary- deafness, and iiaralysis of j)art of the portio dura of the seventh i)air. Ultimatelj' the recovery was complete. VI. —Note of a Gunshot Depressed Fracture of the Skull. By T. S. Y. Hutchinson, Acting Assistau Surgeon. Private Eomulus Morris, Co. E, 2d United States Infantry, aged 23 years, was wounded at Bowling Green, Kentucky, March 17,1868, by a rifle ball, which caused a depressed fracture of the left ijarietal bone, with concussion of the brain. He also received a contused wound of the face. He was taken to the post hospital, where the depressed portion of the bone was elevated and the wound dressed. He recovered, and was returned to duty in the succeeding month. VII. —Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Frontal Bone. By W. E. S3IITH, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private J. Geddes, Co. E, 40th United States Infantry, was wounded August 26,1868, by a small conoidal pistol ball over the right eyebrow. The outer table of the frontal bone was slightlj' fractured. He was admitted into United States Army post hospital, Goldsboro, North Carolina. August 26th, where the ball was removed and water dressings were applied. The wound healed almost immediatelJ^ The patient suffered no inconvenience except a slight headache. Two small pieces of bone came away about a fortnight after the receipt of the injury. VIII. —Report of a penetrating Gunshot Fracture of the Skull. By G. H. Gunn, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. The body of Sergeant Erank Tocker, Co. D, 6th United States Cavalry, was brought to post hospital atEort Eichardson, Texas, at half past seven of the evening of October 15,1869. The apparent cause of death was a penetrating wound of the skull from a carbine or pistol ball. The pupils were widely dilated, and rigor mortis well established, with considerable fetor from the wound. A post- * See American Journal of tlie Medical Sciences, October, 1868, Vol. LVI, p. 585. Reference to a case reported l)y W. M. Findley, who quotes Professor Simon, iu the British and Foreign Medico-Cliiriirgical Review, for April, 18G7.EEPOET OP SUEGTCAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 8 mortem examination revealed an extensive fracture of the skull, a transverse section of tlie entire upper portion of it h aving been removed. Two openings presented on left side of head. The anterior situated near the coronal suture, some two inches from its junction with the sagittal; the ball evidently entering the brain at this point, and emerging some three and a half inches posteriorly. Various spiculse of bone were found imbedded within the brain, which was broken down and decomposed. Two wounds also on right side of head, one two inches above the ear, the other one inch directly above the former. This man was found dead by the roadside leading to the Govern- ment saw-mill near Hog Eye, Texas, October 15,18C9, and was supposed to have been murdered. IX.—Eeport of a Case of Gunsltot Fracivrc of ilie SlculJ. U. S. A. By A. A. Yeomans, Assistant Surgeon, Private Prank P. Co. I, 24:th United States Infantry, while attempting to escape from the guard-house at the post of Vicksburg, Mississippi, July 20,1868, was tired upon by the sentinel, at a distance of three hundred and fifteen yards, the missile entering the skull near the posterior border of the left parietal bone, about three-fourths of an inch from the lambdoid suture and midway between the sagittal and masto-parietal sutures ; passing forward through the frontal bone about two inches above the left orbit. About two ounces of braiu came out of the wound on the anterior aspect of the head, and he bled profusely, sinking rapidly, and dying about two hours after the reception of the injury. After death the skull was found to be fractured in nearly every direc- tion li'om the wounds of entrance and exit, a large num- ber of the bones being involved in the injury, and the left hemisphere of the brain was completely demolished. The calvaria was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum, and is represented by the adjacent wood-cut, (Pig. I.). It is remarkable as presenting an example I'lc. 1. Porl'oration of the Sknll by a coiuiidal luuskot ball. Spec. 5473, Sect. 1, A. M. il. of fracture of the eight cranial bones bv a single missile. X.—Report of a lunetrativg Gunsliot Wovnd of the SlvlJ. By C. T. Alexander, Surgeon, U. S. A. On January 9, 1870, Private John Welsh, Co. L, 3d United States Cavalry, was wounded in a drunken row, by a pistol-shot from the hands of some person unknown, at the Placer mines, twenty miles south of Santa Pe, and was received into the hospital at eight on the following morning. The ball entered about one and a half inches behind the right ear, passing inward and forward; death ensiling January 14th, at 7 p. m. Post mortem January loth disclosed that the ball passed in about two inches, lodging at the base of the brain, but not touching it; the man pi'obably died of the shock, as the brain was only very slightly softened, where it rested over the ball, separated by its membrane. He was conscious at the time he entered the hospital, and easily aroused until a short time before death. XI.—Report of a Gunshot Fracture of U. S. A. the SladL By Henry Ltppincott, Assistant Surgeon, " In Kansas, in October, 1SC8, Private William Johnston, Co. E, 7th United States Cavalry, while hunting buffalo, on the 2d instant, with a party sent out from this command for that purpose, was shot and killed by Indians; he received two wounds, one entering the head, about the middle of the left parietal bone, ajid emerging about the middle of the parietal l)one of the right side. The skull was extensively fractured, in all probability by a blow dealt by the Indians after the head was pierced by the ball. He was scalped. He was also shot in the right leg, the ball entering about four and a half inches below the knee-joint, on the anterior surface of the leg, passing upward, lodged in the head of the tibia ; the bone was much fractured. I am unable to state how long Ik^GUITSHOT WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 9 lived after receiving the wound, but think that the time was not more than a few minutes. I saw him at the place where he was shot about two and a half hours after." XII. —Report of a Perforating Gunshot Wound of the Head. By J. Y. De Hanne, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private Edward Hogan, Co. B, 33d United States Infantry, was shot through the head and killed in the city of Huntsville, February 21, 1869, between 12 and 1 o'clock A. M. His remains were removed to Chattanooga, Tennessee, for interment in the national cemetery, on February 22, 1869. A post-mortem examination exhibited a perforating gunshot wound. The ball entered on the left temporal ridge, one and a half inches posterior to the left temporal emineuce; exit at the middle of the right lambdoidal suture, one inch posterior and below the right parietal eminence; an exten- sive fracture of the frontal, left parietal, and occii)ital bones. XIII. —Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Shiill. By Dr. A. Judson Gray, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Matthew Eegau, Co. G, loth United States Infantry, aged 28 years, Avas accidentally wounded at Fort Bayard, New Mexico, January 3, 1870, by a conoidal ball, which lacerated the scalp and fractured the cranium. He was admitted to the post hospital, where spiculpe of bone were removed and simple dressing was applied; inflammation of the brain followed, and death occurred on February 16, 1870, forty-four days after the reception of the injury. XIV. —Report of a Perforating Gunshot Fracture of the 8l ull. By Redford Sharpe, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. At Fort McKavett, Texas, December 22,1SG9, Brevet Captain Frederick W. Smith, 9th United States Cavalry, was killed by the accidental discharge of a pistol, in his own hands. The ball entered through the right parietal, and caused a very extended fracture of exit, involving the occipital, left parietal, temporal, and frontal, and making a large aperture, through which over two ounces of brain tissue escaped. The officer survived the injury about seven minutes. The next four cases are instances of almost immediate death from perforations of the skull by balls : XV. —Note of a Case of Perforation of the Brain ly a Muslcet Ball. By J. H. McMahon, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Jeremiah Daniels, Co. I, 9th United States Cavalry, aged 26 years, was accidentally wounded at Fort Davis, Texas, on January 31, 1868, by a conoidal ball, which entered the right orbit, and emerged through the superior posterior portion of the right parietal bone. He died in three minutes from the reception of the injury. XVI. —Wote of a Case of Perforation of the Sknll and Division of the Carotid Artery by a Pistol-Ball. By Dr. William M. Austin, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Kimball, Co. A, 35th United States Infantry, died at Fort Bliss, Texas, on December 5,1867, from the effects of a pistol-shot wound, received in an affray at Franklin, Texas. The ball entered midway between the right angle of the lower jaw and the lobe of the right ear, passed forward, inward, and upward and came out immediately above the zygomatic process of the left temporal bone midway between the ear and the external angle of the eye. The internal carotid and jugular veins of the right side were severed. 210 REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. XVII.—Memorandxm of a Oumhot Perforation of the Brain, fatal almost immediately. By Dr. W. Deal, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Dorrall Jfalbrow, a recrnit of the 39tli United States Infantry, aged 21 years, was killed October 14,1867, at Greenville, Louisiana, by the accidental discharge of a musket in the hands of a fellow- soldier, the missile striking the right side of the frontal bono and passing through the brain. XVIII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Perforation of the Skull. By John H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Robert F , Co. E, 11th United States Infantry, was accidentally killed at Camp Grant, near Richmond, Virginia, on May 11, 1808, by the accidental discharge of a breech-loading musket, in the hands of a comrade, at the distance of six or eight feet. The missile, a conical rifle musket ball, entered the face through the upper lip, three-quarters of an inch to the right of the median line, taking a course directly backward, on a line drawn immediately under the lobe of the ear, emerging from the neck at a point two and three-quarters inches back of the lobe of the car, and two and a quarter inches in front of the j)osterior median line. The Avound of entrance was small, and stellate in form, having three radiating lines. The wound of exit was very large, half an inch in front of the lobe of the ear. There was a slit made by some of the teeth and fragments of bone forcing an exit there. On dissection, the superior maxillary bone was found torn to small bits, but little more than the nasal process and the inner wall of the antrum remaining in situ. The floor of the orbit was broken up; the malar bone was broken, and its body displaced outward ; its fi'ontal process, separated from the body, was broken off from the frontal bone; the inferior max- illa was fractured across the body an inch anterior to the angle, and the bone from there to the articulation was completely broken up ; the great wing of the sphenoid on the right side was greatly broken; the petrous portion of the temporal bone was broken off and into two pieces, and displaced backward; the mastoid jHocess was to a small extent broken, and a fragment just internal to it, about an inch long and the same iu width, entirely detached. Thus the internal and middle ears were quite broken open; the occipital and right parietal bones broken; a fragment two and a quarter inches wide and three inches long, involving these two bones and the posterior inferior corner of the temporal, was driven back- ^ ward, leaving a fissure along one side three inches long, ^ and more than a sixteenth of an inch wide. A portion, of the right transverse process of the atlas was broken ofi", and the right vertebral artery was cut across. The internal carotid artery was severed at an inch and three- quarters above its origin, and the external carotid at a point a quarter of an inch higher, or just below its bifur- I'lo. 2.—Segment of tho slaill, showius Kiiushot frac- ■ j. -j^ j_ j_ • i i i iiij.ii i „„ tures of the occipital ano petrous hon^.-spec. 5335, ^atiou luto its two terminal brauchcs, aud all the branches Sect. I, A. M. M. of the last-named vessels below the iilace indicated, except the superior thyroid and the lingual, were divided. The internal jugular vein was cut ofi' at a l)oint corresponding to the division of the internal carotid artery and the external jugular audits branches. The right pneumogastric nerve was severed opposite the upper part of the ramus of the lower jaw^ The brain was not touched by the bullet. The pathological specimens were transmitted to the Army Medical Museum, and are illustrated by the wood-cut. XIX.—Memoranda of Three Cases of Fatal Gunshot Perforations of the Sicull. Private John Miller, Co. H, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 26 years, received gunshot wounds of the skull, right arm, and left hand, in a fight with desperadoes, near Sulphur Springs, Texas, August 14, 1S6S. He was taken to tho post hospital at Sulphur Springs, where he died on August 15, 1808. Acting Assistant Surgeon B. ]>. Miles reported the case. I'rivate William Fox, Co. C, 4th United States Cavalry, aged 25 years, was wounded accident-GUifSHOT WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 11 ally by a Colt's revolver bullet, on May 29, 1869, wliicli entered tlie left temple, fracturing the occipital bone, then, forcing its way forward in a vertical and slightly downward direction, making its exit on the base of the right temporal bone, immediately above the malar process, killing him almost immediately. The case was reported by Acting Assistant Surgeon Henry Spohn. Private John E. Eenn, Co. D, IGth United States Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded on July 3, 1868, by a conoidal ball, which entered two inches above the right eye, passed backward, along the center of the right parietal bone, making its exit near the occipito parietal suture. He was admitted from his quarters to the post hospital at McPherson Barracks, Atlanta, Georgia, on July 3, 1868. He died on the morning of July 4, 1868. The case was reported by Assistant Surgeon J. W. Williams, United States Army. XX. —Memorandum of a Case of Fatal Gunshot Injury of tJie Mead. By G. H. GUNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Osborne, Co. I, 24th United States Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded on September 17, 1869, by a conoidal bullet, on the left side of the head, during a fracas outside the limits of the garrison. He was admitted into the United States Army post hospital at Fort Eichardson, Texas, on September 18th. His treatment consisted of stimulation with a nutri- tious diet. He died on September 18, 1869. XXI. —Report of a Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Brain. By J. P. Webb, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Houle, Co. C, 8th United States Cavalry, wounded by Indians near Collin's Eanch, La Paz route, Arizona Territory, on July 9, 1869, was received into the post hospital at Camp Date Creek, July 11th, after a journey of over sixty miles, under the care of a private physician. Very soon after admission symptoms of pressure appeared,which passed away in the course of twenty- four hours, to be replaced by some indications of cerebral inflammation—pulse ranging from 55 to 60, watering of the eyes, and redness of eyeballs; restlessness and delirium, which lasted a couple of hours of the afternoon, and reappeared about the same time for three days, after which his mind became quite clear, and his speech was unaffected. He exhibited some difficulty in protruding his tongue, which was covered with a dirty white coating for about a week, and then became clean and moist. During the second week, with the exception of the slow pulse, and some restlessness occasionally, there were little or no symptoms to indicate the structural changes taking place Avithin the cranium ; in fact, he presented many appearances of convalescence. About the begin, ning of the third week, he complained of pain in the right side of the head, and paralysis of the left arm made its appearance, gradually extending to the lower extremity. His mind now by degrees became more and more obscured, but without delirium, until a gradually-increasing stujior was merged in comi)lete coma that preceded his death for about twenty-four hours. He died on the 3d of August, having survived the injury twenty-three-days. A post-mortem examination was made on August 4th. There was a circular perforation of the right parietal bone, just behind the tuberosity," and somewhat in a direction from behind forward. Deei)ly imbedded in the brain were found the pieces of bone which belonged to the outer table, and seven comminuted fragments of the inner table and cancellated structure. Immediately beneath these was an abscess, perhaps larger than a goose's egg, filled with well-formed pus, and surrounded to the extent of about one inch by brain matter in a soft and pulpified condition. All the ventricles were found filled with fluid, and the membranes were greatly congested ^g'lmifjj^^^ over the entire brain. The right cerebral hemisphere was otherwise * healthy. The most careful examination failed to discover the ball, which, during life, and almost up to the last moment of fruitless search, I had believed to have lodged in the brain. Having in view the nature of the injury of the cranium, it is to me an entire mystery that I did not find it there. The form of the fracture is shown in the wood cut. The treatraeut, which, with the exception of carbolic-acid dressings to the wound, was entirely medical, was as follows: The rw. 3.-Depvessed.gunshot fracture of 11 I,-, T, ,. , , i-isclit parietal. *i)cc. 5707, Sect. I, A. bowels were thoroughly cleansed by purgatives and enemata, and m.m.12 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY, mild mercurialism establisliecl by calomel aud opium ; the gums were kept just barely touched for about a week, after which the actiou of the bowels was maiutaiued by purgatives and euemata. A strictly autiphlogistic regimen was enjoined throughout; the entire scalp was shaved, and kept constantly irrigated. XXII. —Memorandum of a Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Brain. By Caklos Carvallo, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Walter R. Stone, Co. F, 4th United States Cavalry, aged 23 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Jefferson, Texas, March 4, 1869, with a gunshot wound caused by the acci- dental discharge of his carbine. The missile entered the left eye, traversed the brain, aud escaped through the occipital bone. He died March 4, 1869. XXIII. —Kote of a Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Brain. By R. H. White, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William J. Hood, Co. K, 2d United States Infantry, while attempting to escape from a guard, was shot at Mobile, Alabama, March 16, 1870, by order of the officer of the day. He died in a few moments. XXIV. —Note of a Fatal Gtinshot Wound of the Brain, with Wotmds of the Lung and Chest. By H. G. Bates, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Ransom Shaw, Co. E, 3d United States Artillery, while attempting to escape from prison at Fort Macon, North Carolina, July 2,1867, received three gunshot wounds. A conoidal ball entered just above the temporal ridge, on the left side near the coronal suture, and lodged in the brain ; another entered the left lateral thoracic region, between the sixth and seventh ribs, passed through and emerged in front between the costal cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs, near the sternum; there was also a slight flesh wound of the chest in front between the sixth and seventh ribs on the side of and near the sternum. Death resulted instantly. XXV. —Memorandum of a Romicide. By R. M. Kirk, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James McDonongh, Co. B, 6th United States Cavalry, was shot by a corporal of his company on the night of March 14,1868, at Austin, Texas, the ball, a Remington carbine pat- tern, passing antero-posteriorly through the brain, killing the soldier iustantly. It is impracticable to learn with precision the nature of the next two cases. Compari- son of the different reports would indicate that they were examples of trivial gunshot scalp-wounds. XXVI.—Tioo Cases of Gunshot Injury of the Head. By John J. Culver, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Ole Larssen, Co. A, 35th United States Infantry, aged 35 years, received, on Septem- ber 6, 1869, a wound of the head, by a pistol ball, in a disturbance with Mexicans, while tempo- rarily at the post, attending a general court-martial. He was admitted into Fort Quitman, Texas, on September 7, 1869. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He was returned to duty on November 20, 1869. Private William Weaver, Co. H, 9th United States Cavalry, aged 35 years, was wounded by pistol balls in the right hip and head, on January 16, 1870. On the same day he was admitted into Fort Quitman, Texas, from his company. Simi)le dressings were applied to his wounds, and he speedily recovered.SUICIDAL GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP THE HEAD. 13 On page 16, the remaining gunshot scalp-wounds, seven in number, that have heen reported are noted. In battle such wounds are more frequent than fractures of the skull; but at close quarters, when direct aim is taken, the fractures are more frequent. Eleven cases of suicide by gunshot wounds of the head are reported. Seven of these unfortunates perished almost instantaneously. Two others lived from a half-hour to an hour ; a third survived six days ; and a fourth long enough for a cerebral abscess to form. In the four instances in which the fatal issue was delayed, the pistol was employed as the implement of self-destruction; in the other seven cases, the regulation rifled musket. XXVII. —Report of Two Cases of Suicide. By Carlos Carvallo, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Jefferson, Texas, December 31, 1869, Lieutenant E. P. Colby, 11th United States Infantry, aged 21, committed suicide. He used a small Derringer pistol. The ball entered the cranium about an inch above and behind the right ear, and lodged in the brain. A protuberance on the oppo- site side of the skull rendered it probable that the ball fractu.red the inner table of the left temporal bone, but did not penetrate it. Lieutenant Colby became instantaneously unconscious, and the wound proved fatal in about a half hour after its infliction. He was in articulo mortis when first seen by me, and expired about fifteen minutes thereafter. Private George Weiss, Co. H, 11th United States Infantry, aged 33 years, shot himself near Fort Jefferson, Texas, on May 28, 1870, with a rifle, from ear to ear. He was found in the woods half a mile from camp, with his brain scattered a distance of several yards from the body. All bones of the cranium and face, except the upper and lower maxillary, were fractured. (See Specimen 5922, Sect. I, A. M. M.) XXVIII. —Extract from a Report of a Death hy Suicide. By W. P. Browne, Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Petersburg, Yirginia, in November, 1868, Private George Kerne, Co. K, 21st United States Infantry, died on the morning of the 21th, by suicide. He fixed a gun-strap on his rifle, so that by i)utting his foot on the strap he could pull the trigger. He then inserted the muzzle of the gun into his mouth, and discharged the piece. His left jaw was broken, the occipital bone entirely carried away, and the cerebellum driven out. Death, so far as could be ascertained, was instantaneous. The man was probably laboring under temporary insanity. XXIX. —Report of a Case of Suicide by a Pistol-Ball through the Head. By Peter Moffatt, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James L. Cummings, Co. F, 1st United States Cavalry, died on June 30, 1869, from the effects of a pistol shot, inflicted by himself, with the purpose of committing suicide. The weapon was discharged while the muzzle was inserted in the mouth. The bullet passed upward and forward, carrying away the left eye, upper part of the nose, and the anterior-inferior portion of the base of the skull, and emerged in the vicinity of the frontal sinuses. The anterior-inferior convolutions of the brain could be felt by the fingers introduced into the wound, completely denuded of all covering, to the extent of one inch and a half to two inches; but no laceration of its substance could be detected. Profuse htemorrhage ensued at the time of the occurrence. After the immediate eflects of the injury, the patient remained conscious the greater portion of the time, until within a few hours of death. Had it not been for the injury to the mouth, i)recludiug, almost entirely, the possibility of swallowing, the indications were that the patient might have lived for some time longer. There seemed very little immediate cerebral disturbance. Death occurred on the sixth day. Remorse, resulting from intemperance, was the alleged cause of this act of self- destruction.14 EEPOET OF SUEGIOAL OASES IN THE AEMY. XXX. —Memorandum of a Case of Suicide. By William A. Bradley, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Point San Jose, California, on September 23, 1868, Private Octavius E. Daniels com- mitted suicide, by placing the muzzle of his musket against his temple, just anterior to the ear, and pulled the trigger by means of a poker. The ball entered at the lower border of the right temporal bone, on the right side, and emerged on the left side, through the parietal bone, about one-half an inch posterior to the groove for the middle meningeal artery, and about one inch below the track of the longitudinal sinus. Death was almost instantaneous. No autopsy was made. XXXI. —Extract from a Bejm-t of a Case of Suicide by Shooting in the Head. By Egbert Burns, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Frankford Arsenal, Pennsylvania, November 27, 1809, * * "Mark E. Eichards died from suicide, by shooting in the head. * * He was about 27 years of age, and enlisted as a ijrivate at the Frankford Arsenal, on August 13, 1869. He came under my treatment for secondary syphilis, on the 31st of the same month, and was returned to duty on the 26th of September, cured of the warts, but with orders to continue treatment. He was employed in the office as commissary clerk, about the 12th of November; but, in consequence of intemperate habits, he was reproved once or moi-e. On the morning of November 27th, he again reported himself sick to his commanding officer, who sent him to quarters to await medical advice. About 9 o'clock A. M. a messenger came to me, stating that Eichards was shot. On arriving, I found him lying in the proof-house, in the rear of the barracks, upon his back, his head close by the sill of the building—his right arm flexed over the head, the left slightly out from his body ; the head in a pool of blood, cleft from the nasal bone to the occiput, and in numerous places the cranium was fractured in many fragments, particularly the occipital bone, which ajjpeared the point of exit of the ball, the muzzle of the gun being placed at the inner angle of the left eye. The brain had been blown out; the hemispheres being apart, one about three feet from the body, the other about afoot nearer to the body. The Springfield rifled musket was a short distance from him, with the butt toward his person. The coroner, his physician, and jury, came from Philadelphia about 4:^ o'clock P. M., and held an inquest, rendering a verdict of 'suicide by shooting.'" Witnesses testified that the man had threatened to commit the deed before, and had left a note declaring his intention, his real name, and the residence of his family. XXXII. —Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Brain. By Z. H. Potter, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort Eandall, Dakota Territory, on September 22,1867, about midnight, I was aroused by the announcement that Lieutenant Eobert A. G had shot himself. I was soon by his side. I found him lying on the floor, in a carotic state, with i^rofuse arterial haemorrhage from nares, mouth, ears, and wound. The pulse was sixty, and full; breathing, stertorous and labored, twelve per minute. The edges of the wound, which was circular, were blackened, and the skin somewhat dis- colored by the smoke and heat attending the discharge. The ball had entered at a point just anterior and superior to the tragus of the left ear; j)assed into the cranium, in a direction nearly perj)eu- dicular to the side of the head, but inclining a very little upward and backward; penetrated tlie cerebrum, for a distance of six inches, and evidently lodged against the internal inferior lateral portion of the right parietal bone. Prognosis, death; accordingly, no effort was made to extract the ball. Twenty minutes past twelve: Pulse full, and eighty; breathing sterto- rous and labored, twelve per minute. Fifty-five minutes past twelve: Pulse fluctuating, occasion- ally strong and full, then, fluttering and weak; breathing more labored and stertorous, nine per minute. Death occurred at 1 o'clock A. M. September 23, 1867, from the combined effect of shock, cerebral laceration, and hajmorrhage, either of which, would, of itself, have proved fatal.SUICIDAL GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 15 XXXIII.—Blemorcmdum of a Case of Perforating Gunshot Wound of the Head. By B. E. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Daniel Kaufman, Co. E, 7th United States Cavalry, aged 23 years, attempted to com. mit suicide at Fort Harker, Kansas, by shooting himself in the head with a i)istol, the missile from which entered over the right frontal sinus and passed out through the left eye, destroying the eye and lacerating the lower lid. The treatment of the case is not recorded. Death supervened on December 21, 1807. At the autopsy the brain was found congested and softened, and an abscess in the anterior lobe of the left hemisphere containing two and a half ounces of pus. XXXIY.—Note of a Case of Suicide. By A. W. Greanlbap, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Flannery, Co. C, 2d United States Infantry, aged 21 years, committed suicide by shooting himself through the head with a conoidal musket ball. He was admitted into the United States Army post hospital at Montgomery, Alabama. He died May 20, 1869. XXXV—Extract relative to a Case of Suicide^ from the Chattanooga Post Hospital Report for October, 18G6. By C. E. Goddard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Xelson Lowry, Co. D, Second Battalion 16th United States Infantry, aged 25 years, while suffering imder mental depression caused by religions melancholy, September 25, 1866, shot himself. The missile, a conical bullet, entered at the inner canthus of the right eye, and passed out at a point midway between the lobe of the right ear and the occipital protuberance, fracturing in its course the lachrymal, frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital bones. Death was instantaneous. XXXVI.—Memorandum of a Case of Suicide. By E. H. White, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private David Wilson, Co. H, United States Infantry, shot himself through the head at St. Augustine, Florida, August 8, 1867, and died instantly. Dr. Hopkins made tlie autopsy, of which no record is preserved. Of the many Indian crania contributed to the Army Medical Museum, during the last five years, not a few presented examples of gunshot perforations of the skull, or of depressed or penetrating gunshot fractures. It is very painful to observe that these crania, in many instances, present numerous cleanly-cut perforations, from small projectiles at close range, evidently inflicted after death, and that this senseless vengeance was often wreaked upon the corpses of women and children. The wood-cut adjoining (Fig. 4) illus- trates this imitation of the atrocities of the savages. It represents the calvaria of a squaw of the band of Sioux under "Little Bear," killed at Chug Water, Wyoming Territory, in April, 1870. The skull was sent to the Museum by Surgeon 0. H. Alden, United States Army. The next figure (Pig. 5) represents the cranium of a Cheyenne warrior, with an extensive fracture of the left upper maxillary region, and a perforation of the frontal by a pistol ball. The missile made its exit through the foramen magnum. The preparation was forwarded Fig. 4.—Cranium perforated by carbine or pistol balls. Spec. 5695, Sect. I, A. M. M. Fig. 5.—Oranuini ol <a Cliey- eiine, pertorated by a pistol- ball. Spec. 5661, Sect. I, A. M. M.16 EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES m THE AEMY. by Assistant Surgeon H. R, Tilton, United States Army. It is a ponderous cranium, weighing nearly two pounds avoirdupois.* There were a few cases of gunshot scalp-wounds, only noticeable from the prompt- ness with which the men recovered and returned to duty. Private Eobert Davidson, Co. B, 6tli Infantry, aged 27 years. Pistol wound of scalp, December 25, 1868. Atlanta. Discharged, December 28, 1868, by reason of expiration of term of service. Private John Flamiagban, Co. H, 8tb Infantry, aged 25 years, near Columbia, January 4, 1869. Flesb wound of tbe left temple by a round ball. Duty, January 7, 1869. Private William Morgau, Co. H, 9tb Infantry, near Fort D. A. Eussell, September 29, 1870. Gunsbot wound of tbe scalp. Duty, September 30, 1870. Private John Morgan, Co. D, 6th Cavalry, aged 23 years. Near Fort Eicbardson, July 5, 1869. Contusion of scalp from a pistol-ball. Duty, July 9, 1869. IJnassigued Eecruit George McKiimey, 6tb Cavalry, aged 23 years, near San Antonio, Decem- ber 6, 1866. Gunshot wound of the scalp. Duty, December 13, 1866. Commissary Sergeant James O'Brien, 2d Battalion, 16th Infantry, jSTashville, January 13, 1866. Gunshot wound of the temple. Duty, January 22, 1866. Private Henry O'Neal, Co. K, 6tb Cavalry, aged 22 years, near Sulphur Springs, Texas, Sep- tember 12, 1869. Gunshot flesh-wound one inch to right of sagittal suture, over the coronal suture. Duty, September 29, 1869. Laying aside the gunshot fractures of the Indian crania, regarding the histories of which there are no reliable special data, and the nine gunshot scalp-wounds, which are comparatively unimportant, we have, in the preceding abstracts, memoranda of thirty-eight cases of gunshot fractures of the skull. Five were received in fights with Indians; four in connection with provost duty ; eight in brawls ; ten accidentally; and eleven by suicide. Of these thirty-eight examples of gunshot fractures of the cranium, there were but seven instances of recoveries. Gunshot Wounds of the Face.—This class of injuries has been illustrated by several cases that have furnished interesting pathological contributions to the Museum, and by others that involve delicate points in practice. XXXVII.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Wotmd of the Face. By H. A. DuBoiS, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal Edward Swords, Co. D, 3d United States Cavalry, aged 26 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Union, New Mexico, June 7, 1867, with a gunshot wound of the face. The ball entered the left superior maxilla one inch from its junction with the nasal bone and same distance from the margin of orbit, and passed obliquely backward and a little downward, and lodged behind the posterior fold of the palatine arch. The wound in the face was enlarged, and pieces of bone were removed. The ball, which could be felt in its place of lodgement, was not taken out, but was swallowed by the patient during the following night. On June 30th, the wound had nearly healed, but some necrosed fragments remained. He was discharged the service December 4, 1867. * Many illustrations of multiple gunshot perforations of Indian crania Lave been brought to the Museum from Sand Creek, Colorado, the scene of the atrocious massacre of friendly Indians by the troops under C(d()ucl .John M. Chivington. fijiccimcna '.), 10, 11, 12, Sect. IV ; ■.ludSjyiximciin 4772, 4773, and 5535, Sect. I, are some of the examples. See Mr. Catlin's article in Triihinr''» LUerarij llecovd, vol. I, p. 137.—" Thcmiinin Craniornni," by J. Barnard Davis, M. D., «fcc., &c. London, 18C7; p. 207.—London Times, August 8, 1865.—Bcpoi t of the Joint Committee on the Conduct of the War, at the second sesHion of the Thirtn-viijhlh Congress, Washington, 1865, p. 121.GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE FACE. 17 XXXVlir.—l^ote of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Face. By Eeese B, Bekky, Acting Assistant Snrgeou. Sergeant John Howard, Co. K, 16th United States Infantry, was admitted to the post hospital at Corinth, Mississippi, September 18, 1869, with a gunshot wound of the face, received while on duty, making an arrest. The missile, a ball from a Navy revolver, penetrated the left nasal bone and emerged at a point about one inch anterior to, and on a line with, the lowest point of the right ear. Projecting and other loose fragments of bone were removed, the htemorrhage arrested, and cold-water dressings applied. The patient was returned to duty October, 1869. 'X'KXIX..—Extract from the Monthly Side Report at Fort Macon, North Carolina, March, 1869, describing the peculiar Course of a Muslcet-Ball. By Elliott Coues, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Downie, Co. A, 8th United States Infantry, was accidentally shot and instantly killed by a sentinel on guard. The autopsy showed the following singular course of the bullet: The ball entered the mouth from the left side, without touching the lips, aud impinged upon the inferior maxilla at about the middle of the right horizontal ramus, shattering the bone into several pieces without breaking or knocking out any teeth. The laceration of the right side of the tongue gave unequivocal evidence that the ball impinged upon the inside of the jaw-bone. It then glanced, or, to speak in all probability more correctly, rebounded, and struck the inside of the alveolar border of the right superior maxilla somewhat above the level of the teeth. Still farther deflected from its original course, it then passed straight upward through the palate and nasal passages into and through the left orbit, close past the inner wall of the latter, struck the orbital plate of the frontal bone into the left anterior lobe of the cerebrum, which was by this means extensively lacerated. It is probable that the ball itself did not enter the brain, its force being by this time expended. It was found curiously furrowed and distorted, lying in the left orbit, upon the eyeball, which had escaped laceration. The battered ball is shown in the wood-cut. Fig. C—Musket ball battered by impact on bones of the face. Spec. 5564, Sect. I, A. M. M. XL.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Face. By Peter Moffat, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private B , Co. H, 23d United States Infantry, was admitted on March 24, 1870, to hospital at Fort Boise, Idaho Territorj^, with a gunshot wound of the face. The missile entered a little to the left of the median line of chiu, almost below the angle of the mouth; ranged almost directly backward, comminuted the lower half of the inferior maxillary bone without destroying the continuity of the arch of the jaw, passed through the soft parts below, and lodged at some point deep in the neck. He fainted from the shock and loss of blood, but reacted aud managed to make his way to the hospital. The surgeon enlarged the wound of entrance and removed fragments of comminuted bone. A portion of the leaden missile-was extracted; but a channel was found to extend still deeper toward the left side of the cervical spine. It was not deemed safe to pursue the remaining portions of the ball. A tent saturated with carbolic acid was introduced, and simple dressings were applied. The portion of lead extracted was flattened and jagged in form, and weighed thirty grains. A ball of the size of the one by which the wound was inflicted Aveighed eighty grains, leaving a balance of flfty grains to represent the portion still in the wound. Considerable irritation of the larynx, causing cough and expectoration, supervened. These symptoms improved, and on March 30th the case was progressing favorably. No indication requiring a search for the ball arose, aud in May, 1870, the man was returned to duty, the frag^ ment of bullet remaining lodged. XLI.—Report of a Gunshot Fracture of the Lower Maxilla. By Edward Cowles, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case.—Private Charles Wicks, Co. C, 26th United States Infantry, aged 20 years, was shot in the face by a Mexican, at Brownsville, Texas, May o, 1868. The ball entered a little to the left 3EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES m THE ARMY, 18 of the symphysis of the lower jaw, autl laid open the lip from its upper border nearly to the lower margin of the chin, causing extensive laceration. A small external wound to tlie right of the symphysis was probably made by the exit of a fragment of the ball. The body of the lower max- illa, to the distance of about three-quarters of an inch on each side of the symphysis, with the front teeth, was comminuted and carried away. Two large fragments of bone were driven quite deeply under the tongue, and wedged in between the opposite sides of the jaw. The iiatient was admitted to the post hospital. Haemorrhage, which had been quite profuse, had nearly ceased. About forty fragments of bone, and a portion of the ball lodged behind the fractured end of the jaw, on the right side, were removed. The two pieces driven under the tongue were allowed to remain. The wound was closed by two harelip sutures, and the jaw supported underneath by pasteboard splint and bandage. Pieces of lint, moistened with a solution of chlorinated soda, were kept in the wound. The wound of the lip closed in nearly its whole extent by first intention, and the harelip sutures were in a few daj^s removed. The cavity of the wound, under the tongue, filled with gran- ulations. The fragments of bone under the tongue united with each other and with the jaw on each side, bridging it across, and giving it its natural firmness, with but little deformity. The man was returned to duty on June 12, 1868. XLII.—Mcmoranchm of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Upper Maxilla. By B. C. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Thomas Logan, Co. A, 10th United States Cavalry, aged 23 years, was shot by an officer for mutinous conduct. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas, Jan- uary 6, 1860, with a i)istol wound of the face. A conoidal ball had entered the left nostril, passed backward, and toward the right, through the vomer, and had lodged, it was believed, under the sterno cleido mastoid muscle, near the mastoid process. Simple dressings were applied, and the patient recovered without a bad symptom. He was returned to duty February 2, 1869. XLIIL—Eeport of a Gunshot Fracture of the Lower Maxilla. By Joseph K. Corson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Alexander Brown, Co. D, 2d United States Cavalry, aged 26 years, was wounded in a fight with Indians on May 4, 1870, by a conoidal bullet, which fractured the inferior maxilla. He was admitted into the United States Army post hospital. Fort Bridger, Wyoming Territory, from Camp Stambaugh, May 10, 1870. On May 23d the fractured bones, consisting of the inferior maxilla, from the ramus on the left side to the middle of the jaw on the right side, were removed. In September, 1870, he was still under treatment. He was returned to duty in Novem- ber, 1870. XLIY.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Loioer Maxilla. By Dallas Bache, Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Washington Coler, Co. C, 9th United States Cavalry (colored troops), aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at San Antonio, Texas, May 2, 1868, with a gunshot wound received May 2, 1868. A i)istol-ball fractured the alveolar process of the inferior maxillary, knocking out two left incisors and a canine tooth. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on May 25, 1868. XLV.—Minutes of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of ike Lower Jaw. By Wm. M. Notson and Epward Cowles, Assistant Surgeons, U. S. A. Private Franklin Grey, Co. F, 41st United States Colored Infantry, aged 23 years, was acci- dentally wounded near Brownsville on August 26,1867, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered the mouth, wounding the tongue, fracturing the body of the lower jaw, comminuting the ramus, passing between the internal and external carotid arteries, and emerged one inch below the right19 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE FACE. ear and behind the angle of the jaw. The htemorrhage was alarming. He was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Brown, Texas, on the same day. The jaw was supported by a pasteboard splint; compresses were applied over the carotid arteries. The mouth was cleansed daily with solution of chlorinated soda. Pieces of bone were removed. Liquid nourishment was given at first by enemata. He was transferred to Fort Concho, Texas, on March 20th, and was discharged for disability October 18, 18G9. XhVL—Minute of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of Loiver Maxilla. By H. E. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Martin O'Brien, Co. C, 7th United States Cavalry, aged 21 years, was shot at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, by the first sergeant, on January 9, 1868, for muuitous conduct; a pistol-ball entering left cheeif, carrying away the angle of the lower jaw without causing its com- j)lete fracture, and lodging against the cervical vertebra?. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, on January 10, • 1868. Simple dressings were applied. On January 27, 1868, an abscess opened in the neck, from which a number of small fragments of bone were removed. On February 14, 1868, the ball was removed. The man deserted from the hospital. ILIjWI.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Upper Maxilla. By Chakles K. Winne, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case.—Charles E. M , first lieutenant and quartermaster 16th United States Infantry, aged 26 years, was wounded May 21, 1868, by a pistol-ball, which entered in left occipital triangle, just behind sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, at junction of two imaginary lines, one horizontal and parallel with chin, the other vertical and bisecting mastoid process of temporal bone; ball passed inward and upward, then changing direction entered mouth through centre palate process of superior maxillary bone, and finally buried itself in alveolar j^rocess of superior maxillary of right side. The internal maxillary artery in its third portion, or one of its large branches, was divided, as htemorrhage was fearfully i^rofuse from both openings of the wound, and the patient sank exhausted before reaching the barracks. The haemorrhage was checked by the application of com- presses; patient exsanguined and suffering from the intense degree of the shock. He vomited sev- eral times, which was followed by the recurrence of htemorrhage. This immediately ceased upon injection of persulphate of iron; manual pressure applied as far as practicable over track of wound, then a bar-tourniquet substituted and very slight pressure used. As it was impracticable to secure the bleeding vessel, it was determined, upon mature deliberation, to ligate the primitive carotid artery should haemorrhage again occur. Sulphate of morphia, with small quantity of stimulants, were administered every two hours, and a diet of beef-tea and chicken-soup through, a tube. May 22d, patient perfectly comfortable in every way. May 27th, the bar-tourniquet was kept in i>osi- tion for several days, though no pressure was exercised, then it was removed. The wound of en- trance is now supiiurating freely, considerable swelling in occipital space. Delirium tremens manifested itself. May 30th. Uunder the free administration of narcotics the attack terminated to- day; during the last twenty-four hours ext. cann. indicce was substituted for the tinct. opii deodor., with the happiest result, though in this case I am inclined to ascribe the effect more to the impression made upon the disease by the opiate primarily, for I pushed it to excess, even, as I considered that a probable hsemorrhage caused by the unconscious and unruly movements of the patient was more dangerous than narcotism. In the majority of instances, I am opposed to such free administration of opium. In addition, the most nourishing food, with weak milk-punch, was given. June 2: patient doing well in every respect. He was returned to duty, July, 1868. XLVIII.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Woiond of the Face. By A. A. Woodhull, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private George Bullis, Co. C, 3d United States Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded on August 11, 1870, by duck-shot, at close range, which shattered parts of the malar bone and supe- rior maxilla, destroyed nearly an inch of the condyle of the inferior maxilla, and chiefly lodged20 RE POET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. against the temporal, partly escaping, by suppuration, throngh the external canal. He was admit- ted immediately afterward into the post hospital at Fort Lamed, Kansas. He had, during Sep- tember, a slight attack of erysipelas, but is now nearly healed. He was returned to duty October 20, 1870. XLIX.—Memorandum of a Case of Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Face. By Henry McElderhy, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Ferdinand Schwindig, Co. I, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 30 years, was wounded on June 11, 18G7, by a conoidal bullet, which entered the right submaxillary region, passed upward and inward, making its exit at the root of the nasal bones, fracturing the right superior maxillary, malar, vomer, palate, and nasal bones, and carrjdng away the right side of the tongue. He was admitted into the United States Army post hospital at Fort Belknap, Texas, on the same day. Stimulants were administered, and local applications of cold water and of persulphate of iron. His death, which took place on June 13, 1867, was probably caused by ojdema of the glottis. The following cases were probably examples of gunshot flesh-wounds only : Private Peter Alfonze, Co. A, 9th United States Cavalry; aged 24 years; Fort Stockton, Texas, October 24, 1864. Gunshot wound of left eyelid. Duty, November 1, 1868. Private Jacob Dubois, Co. G, 6th United States Infantry; Little Rock, Arkansas, December 17, 1870. Flesh-wound through left cheek. Duty, January, 1870. Private Christian Fleming, Co. C, 40th United States Infantry; aged 21 years; Washington, December 10, 1866. Gunshot wound of lip and tongue. Duty, January, 1867. Private Arthur J. Gregorj-, Co. D, 25th United States Infantry; aged 21 years; Memphis, Tennessee, July 6, 1868. Gunshot wound of both cheeks. Duty, July 20, 1868. Corjjoral Landon Maitlon, Co. H, 128th Colored Troops; aged 40 years; Charleston, South Carolina, August 1, 1866. Gunshot wound of upper lip. Duty, August 10, 1866. Private Charles Seachrist, Co. I, 37th United States Infantry; aged 20 years; Fort Dodge, Kansas, July 16, 1867. Flesh-wound of right cheek. Duty, July 28, 1867. Private George W. Young, Co. H, 9th United States Cavalry; aged 27 years; Fort Quitman, Texas, October, 1868. Gunshot wound of face. Duty, November 10, 1868. Thus, of twenty gunshot face-wounds, two were fatal. Fifteen of the patients were returned to duty, two were discharged, and one deserted. In six of the fractures, the upper maxillary or nasal regions were the principal seats of mischief; in seven, the lower maxillary suffered most. Gunshot Wounds of the Neck.—A large mortality attended the injuries of this class that have been reported. L,—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Pharynx. By C. H. Alden, Surgeon, U. S. A. Thomas G , a teamster in the Quartermaster's Department, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort D. A. Russell, Wyoming Territory, December 20, 1867, having been wounded by another teamster seven days previously, while on the road from one of the posts to the northward. There was a small pistol-ball Avound at the point of the chin, discharging pus. The probe could be passed in toward the neck about threc-cpiarters of an inch; but the most careful manipulation failed to discover the further track of the missile. There were no wounds of the mouth, tongue, or any of the tissues in the mouth. The patient could swallow with but very little discomfort or diflflculty. His right arm was paralyzed almost completely, the only motion left being partial pronation andGUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE NECK. 21 supination of tbe fore-arm. He was weak, but tlie symptoms named Avere the only noticeable ones. Eest was ordered, with beef tea and milk-puucli at regular intervals. A few days after Lis admis- sion, there was a i)rofase stringy discharge from the throat; he remained in almost the same con- dition for a week, with the exception that he gradually grew weaker ; deglutition became somewhat . more difficult. Death, from seeming exhaustion, resulted December 26,1867. Post-mortem exam- ination revealed a short sinus filled witli pus, connected with the external wound; but a careful examination of the parts did not disclose the track of the ball. The neck, toward the right shoul- dei", was carefully dissected, and no lesion discovered. The parts lying in front of the cervical ver- tebrse were then removed, down to the oesophagus and pharynx, where an opening was discovered in the posterior wall of the pharynx, and beneath it the ball, embedded in the anterior surface of the body of the fifth vertebra. The pathological specimen is numbered 558i, Section 1, Army Medical Museum, and was contributed, with a history of the case, by Surgeon C. H. Alden, U. S. A. LI.— Extract from Monthly Report of Wounded of July, 1809, of Detachment of 1th United States Cavalry. By Henry Lippincott, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Johu A. Wright, Co. I, 7th United States Cavalry, was accidentally shot on the 17th day of July, 1869, in a scout, near Fort Hays, Kausas. The ball entered the throat at a iioint corresponding with the fourth ring of the trachea. Passing upward, it destroyed the first, second, and third ring, as well as the fourth. It destroyed, besides the portion of the trachea just named, the thyroid cartilage, and in its ascent fractured the hyoid bone. In addition to these injuries, the inferior maxilla was severely fractured, the ball emerging just in front of the inferior incisors. The shock was terrible. With a view to the arrest of the haemorrhage, too sudden and great reaction was guarded against; but the shock was not neglected. The wounded tissues were kept apart to favor the exit of accumulating blood. After this a silver tube was inserted, and seemed for a time to afford relief; but despite all attempts to avert the fatal issue, dissolution took jjlace in a few hours. LII.—ISfote of a Case of Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Neclc. By C. L. Heizmann, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Morrissey, Co. B, 34th United States Infantry, was shot through the neck at Grenada, Mississippi, March 28, 1868. The missile entered on the left side, at a i)oint two and a half inches on a line drawn ijerpendicularly to the clavicle from the lobe of the ear, and emerged about one and a half inches from the spinous process on the right side, on a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the spinal column. The carotid artery was severed, and death was almost instantaneous. LIII.—BemarTis on a Gxmshot Wound of the Neclc. By Alfeed DelAney, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. At Fort Gibson, Cherokee Nation, Private John Maybee, Co. C, 10th United States Cavalry, received a gunshot wound in the neck, in a drunken brawl, on the morning of November 19,1868. He was taken into hos])ital shortly after the accident, when he presented the following symptoms : Complete paralysis of both superior extremities; respiration gasping and frequent; pulse about 100, and of fair volume and strength; mind clear; he complained of some pain in the hands. On making a critical examination, the ball was found to have penetrated the neck, on the left side, at the anterior border of the trapezius muscle, and about two inches and a half below the mastoid process of the temporal bone; thence passed downward and to the right side, beyond the reach of the bullet i)robe, fracturing one or more of the vertebrae. A few accessible and loose fragments of bone were removed, but the ball was not discovered. The treatment consisted in placing the patient, supinely, upon a water-bed, and the administration of anodynes to induce sleep and relieve pain. The bladder was relieved by the catheter. The paralysis of the abdominal musclesEEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IK THE AEMY. 22 allowed an accumulation of gases to take iilace within tlie intestines to sucli an extent as greatly to augment the already existing difficulty of respiration. It was found expedient to introduce an elastic tube, from time to time, through which the gases found vent, when pressure was made, externally, on the abdomen. The paralysis became more profound from day to day; the respiration more difficult, inducing a slow asphyxia, delirium followed by coma; and, finally) death on November 28, 1869, about eight days after the receipt of this injury. The autopsy disclosed the following conditions:—Fracture of the spinous process of the last cervical vertebra; the process had been comminuted, the fragments driven before the ball and lodged in the surrounding soft parts. Secondly, fracture of the lamince of the first dorsal vertebra, at the point where they join to form the spinous process. This fracture opened the medullary canal, and ruptured the sheath of the cord. Several small fragments of bone were found embedded in the substance of the cord, which was found softened and bathed in pus. Thirdly, fracture of the first rib, and the coracoid jirocess of the scapula. The ball was found in the axilla. The lungs were deeply congested, the mucous coat of the bronchi also; and the bronchi themselves filled with a tenacious mucus. In the apex of the right lung was found a cavity filled with pus, and containing a fragment of bone about the size of a pea, probably a piece from the first rib. Death, if not caused by the inter- ference with the respiratory act, and the consequent slow asphyxia, was doubtless hastened by it. LIV.—Extract from a Ueport of a Oimshot Wound involving the Carotid Artery and Sj/ine. By W. E. Blackwood, Acting Assistant Surgeon. In December, 1867, at Eome, Georgia, Private John Bowen, Co. G, 33d United States Infantry, was killed by a musket-ball, from a Springfield breech-loading musket, on the morniug of the 26th. He was lying down at the time, asleep, having been unwell at the morning sick-call. The piece, which was not known to be loaded, was discharged while in the act of being covered with its flannel case. It was in the hands of George Wood, of Co. H. The ball, after first passing through the left fore-arm, entered the neck, a little to the left of the median line, at the sterno clavicular articulation, severed the carotid artery, and emerged at the fourth cervical vertebra, fracturing it, and lacerating the spinal cord. Death was instantaneous, the men who were standing around his bunk not being aware that he was struck. One man was sitting beside him on the bed, but believed the ball to have passed beneath the wood-work of it. The accident was not discovered until dinner-time, three hours after its occurrence. Iso post-mortem examination, further than a digital examination, was made. LV.—Memorandum of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Wound of the N'ecTc. By W. F. Smith, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George Eobinson, Co. D, 40th United States Infantry, was shot on August 26, 1868, by the officer of the guard, for mutinous conduct at the United States Army post, Goldsborough, North Carolina, by a Colt's Navy revolver, in the neck, severing the carotid artery. Death from hicmorrhage resulted almost immediately, September 13, 1868. LVI.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Spine. By Ira Feery, Assistant Surgeon, 9th United States Colored Troops. Private Gustavus Chase, Co. I, 9th United States Colored Troops, aged 24 years, was shot while walking from Brownsville, Texas, to camp, January 28, 1866. The missile, a conoidal bullet from a Colt's Navy revolver, shattered the spinous pi'ocesses of the sixth and seventh verte- br£E, laid open the canal between the sixth and seventh spinous processes, and lacerated the cord. He was admitted to the post hospital, where fragments of bone were extracted, and simple cold- water dressing a[)plied. There was complete paralysis below the seveuth dorsal vertebra, and great pain in the epigastric region. On February 1st the bowels and bladder were completely torpid, the skin hot, the pulse at 140. Death occurred February 4, 1866.23 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE NECK. XiYIT. Extract from Quarterly Eeport of Wounded at Fort Mason, Texas, relative to a Gunshot Wound of the Neclc. By John J. Hulse, Acting Assistant Surgeon, Major John A. Thompson, 7th United States Cavalry, was wounded by a pistol ball, while engaged in suppressing an aiFray between a party of soldiers and desperadoes, near Fort Mason, Texas, on November 14, 18G7. The missile struck the right malar bone, and emerged below the lobe of the left ear, severing the left carotid artery. He was taken to the post hospital, and died the next day from haemorrhage. LVIII.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Woimd of the Neclc. By G. W. B. Minor, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James Smith, Co. I, 38th United States Infantry, was shot, by the accidental discharge of a Springfield musket in the hands of Private Moses Hunter, while standing in the door of the companj' quarters. The ball entered the right shoulder behind, and, iiassing through the scapula, divided the subclavian vessels and fractured the clavicle. It was turned from its course, and ranged backward and upward through the neck, wounding the sheath of the carotid vessels, lacerating the larynx, almost severing the tongue, and making its exit through the left corner of the mouth. The parts near its passage were torn and contused to a very large extent, the calibre of the ball being .50, and death was almost immediate. LIX.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Neclc. By Edward Cowles, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Leon Pinel, Co. I, 1st United States Artillery, aged 35 years, while escaping from patrols on May 23, 1867, was shot, by the officer of the day, with a small bullet from a pistol. The ball entered the middle of the right shoulder, immediately over the supra-scapular notch, passed superficially upward and forward into the neck, wounding the oesophagus posteriorly, at a point opposite the thyroid cartilage, and lodging in the left side of the neck. He had a little haemorrhage, but had expectorated, and probably swallowed, much blood. He had a constant desire to swallow, which continned several days. He was admitted into the post hospital at Brownsville, Texas, on May 23d, three-fourths of an hour after being wounded. Expectant treatment. Simple dressings to the wound of entrance, which closed by first intention, and in two days there was no remaining tenderness along the track of the wound. The soreness and swelling of the throat gradually increased, with difficult deglutition, and expectoration of mucus, occasionally tinged with blood, until May 27th, when there was great difficulty in swallowing, increased fullness and swelling of the left side of the throat, and expectoration of a great deal of mucus and pus, discolored with a little disorganized blood. There was little dyspnoea, and not much febrile reaction, the pulse, naturally very slow, being 70 per minute. On the 28th the patient was much better, swallowing with more ease, had no fever, pulse about 60 per minute, and continued to improve rapidly to convalescence, with no soreness remaining about the throat. A liberal allowance of milk-punch, beef-essence, eggs, and fresh milk. Gave tincture of sesquichloride of iron three times daily, and used a solution of chlorate of i^otassa freely as a mouth-wash and gargle; also internally. He was returned to duty on June 10, 1867, LX,—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Neclc. By J, W. Williams, Assistant Sui-geoi], U. S. A. Private James Nixon, Troop C, 5th United States Cavalry, was shot, in a street fight with a policeman, October 21,1868, by a pistol-ball, which entered the neck, half an inch above, and some- what external to the greater cornu of the hyoid bone and lodged. He was retained in camp four days, and on the 18th was admitted to the post hospital, McPherson Barracks, Atlanta, Georgia, with complete paralysis of motion and sensation of the lower extremities and the right arm. There was partial paralysis of the left arm, with spasmodic movement when nsed. The intercostal mus- cles were paralyzed; there was loss of sensation over the abdominal region, with partial paralysisEEPORT or SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 24 of the bowels and complete paralysis of the bladder. His miud was clear, and sensation was normal over the face and upper portion of the chest; respiration abdominal and slow; pulse slow and regular. Although the skin and extremities were hot to the touch, the patient complained of coldness of the surfixce. The track of the bullet could not be ascertained, as the wound had nearly healed; but from the symptoms described above, which were present immediately after receiviug the wound, it was surmised that the spinal cord had been injured. During the first week of his treatment in the hospital there was no perceptible improvement in the paralysis. A large bed-sore formed over the sacrum. Mucus accumulated constantly in the lungs, threatening suffocation, which was averted by the use of stimulant expectorants. The bowels were relieved by injections and purgatives, and the bladder by the catheter; otherwise the treatment was expectant. During the second week there was a partial recovery of motion in the right arm, but none of sensation; the patient could by an effort draw his arm across his breast; oedema of the left leg set in, and was managed by bandaging. During the third week there was no improvement; permanganate of potassa, charcoal, and Peru- vian bark poultices were applied to the bed-sore, which was large and sloughy. During the fourth week, on the suggestion of Dr. A. K. Smith, iodide of potassium, and afterward tincture of ergot, were used, and the patient improved perceptibly. The mucus diminished in quantity, expectora- tion became easj^, and the appetite increased. During the first part of the fifth week, improvement was very encouraging. The bed-sores looked healthy, and improved under the alcoholic applica- tions, the appetite remained good, bowels acted readily, and respiration became more normal. On Friday, November 20th, the patient complained of stiff neck, headache, and extreme coldness, and toward night had a slight fever. On Saturday, the 21st, the fever had disappeared, but he still complained of coldness and headache, and I diagnosed that suppuration had set in. On Sunday morning I found the patient comatose, with the left pupil dilated, and the right pupil contracted. A blister was applied to the nape of the neck, purgatives, »&c., given, but to no purpose; the patient died at 11.15 P. M. At the autopsy, fifteen hours after denth, j^ost-inortem rigidity present. On dissection of the muscles of the right side of the neck, it was ascertained that the bullet had passed directly from its point of entrance toward the spinal column, crossing the carotid sheath externallj", and just missing it. A probe i^assed through its course, impinged against the spinal cord, through the third right condyloid foramen of the cervical spine, which was patent, the nerve having been destroyed. Believing that the bullet would be found lodged in the canal between the third and fourth vertebra^, the cervical spine was opened, and, the bullet not being found, the dorsal and lumbar vertebra? were also included in the search, with a like result. Search was then made for the bullet among the muscles of the neck and scapular region, without finding it. The ])ossibility of the bullet having lodged in the body of one of the vertebra? was disproven, by boiling to fi'ee them from the soft structure; and a subsequent examination of the brain demonstrated that it had not lodged in that organ. The possibility of its having passed down the canal into the sacrum was not ascertained. The membranes of the cord and left hemisphere of the brain were found extensively disorganized from inflammation. Plastic lymph, forming a continuous layer, was found effused on the visceral surface of the dura mater of the cord throughout its entire length. The sub-arachnoid space was distended with a pyoid serum, by which the cord was comi)ressed and softened opposite the third and fourth cervical vertebra?, and, corresponding with their posterior faces, the dura mater was ecchymosed, and separated from the bone. This was a point of great interest, taken in con- nection with the supposed course of the bullet. The effusion of plastic lymph had extended into the brain, and, with the exception of the base of that organ, was confined to the left hemisphere. In the left anterior lobe of this hemisphere circumscribed softening was found, presenting the appearance of an abscess. The base of the brain was also the seat of effusion of plastic matter, which extended as far forward as the optic commissure. The gray substance of the left lobe of the brain had evidently been involved in the inflammatory process, being changed in color and consist- ence. The medullary substance was injected, the lateral ventricles were marked by radiating blood-vessels. The corpora striata and thalami optici were injected. LXI.—Memoranda of Fire Cases of Gunshot Wound of the Nccl: {Condensed from lleports). I'rivate John r>ut]er, Co. F, 10th Cavalry; Colorado Territory; January 9, 1801); gunshot flesh-wound of left side of iu>ck. l^uty, February 13, 1869.25 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Private Henrj' Oarr, Co. K, 25tli Infantry; aged 21 years; Mempliis, Tennessee ; Febrnary 13, 18GS ; gunshot wound of the neck on a line with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Feb- ruary 28, 1868, doing well. Duty, April, 1868. Private William Gennigs, Co. K, 38tli Infantry; Fort Harker, Kansas; July 15, 1867; gun- shot wound of the neck by pistol-ball. Duty, September 19, 1867. Private Thomas Lee, Co. D, 9th Cavalry; Fort Stockton, Texas; January 17, 1870; gunshot wound of the neck by conoidal ball. Duty, February 21, 1870. Private Henry Spencer, Co. B, 80th Colored Troops; aged 29 years; Shreveport, Louisiana; October 17, 1866; gunshot wound of the neck by pistol-ball. Duty, November 5, 1866. The series of sixteen cases of gunshot wounds of the neck above recorded comprises no less than four instances of division of the carotid and one of the subclavian arteries, and five fractures of the vertebrae. In two instances the pharynx was wounded, with fracture of the hyoid bone in one case. In the case in which the oesophagus was wounded, and in five others in which no important organ was implicated, the patients recovered, but more slowly than after gunshot flesh-wounds in other regions. In the cases in which the great vessels were wounded, death was almost instantaneous, except in one, in which there was time to ligate the carotid, had surgical assistance been at hand. One of the patients, with fracture of the spine, survived twenty-eight days. GrUNSHOT WouNDS OF THE Chest.-—These may be subdivided into lesions affecting the walls of the thorax only, penetrating and perforating wounds of the lungs, wounds of the heart and great vessels, and those complicated by fractures of the vertebrae. Cases in which the diaphragm was perforated will be considered in the next section, the wounds of the abdomen being graver than those of the chest. There were eleven cases of re- covery after penetrating or perforating gunshot wounds of the lung, as follows ; LXII.—Report of a Penetrating Wotmd of the Lung, witli Lodgement of a Round Muslcet-BalL By Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. R. Gibson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Lieutenant Franklin Yeaton, 3d United States Cavalry, was wounded in an encounter with Mes- calero Apaches in the Guadalupe Mountains, December, 1869; arrived at Fort Stanton January 6, 1870; was under the care of Hospital Steward Miller until his arrival at this post. This was a bullet wound, evidently from a small round rifle-bullet, of the left ulna, in immediate vicinity of the wrist-joint, (joint j)artially involved,) splintering the bone, but not completely fracturing it. The ball entered on the dorsal surface, emerging opposite on the palmar surface and an inch below; then it entered the cavity of the right chest, an inch from the median line of the junction of the cartilages of the seventh, eighth, ninth ribs, making a track which can be probed to the extent of six inches, the probe passing horizontally beneath the ribs, and in a direction toward their angles. The ball lodged, and cannot be detected ; no lung symptoms as yet have been manifested. [This ofticer spent the winter of 1870-'71 in the West Indies, in delicate health. He returned in the spring improved. He was examined by Assistant Surgeons Woodward and Otis, and recom- mended to appear before the Eetiring Board in session in Philadelphia. No alteration of the respiratory murmur or change in the density of the pulmonary tissue was observed. But the general health was impaired.—Ed.] 426 EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES LIS THE ARMY. LXIII.—Note of a Case of Recovery after a Penetrating Gunshot Wounil of the Thorax. By A. 0. GiEARD, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant James Naylor, Co. M, 9tli United States Cavalry, aged 26 years, was wounded on July 4, 1870, in a liglit, by a fellow-soldier. A couoidal ball entered the right breast, striking the fifth rib, and penetrating the thoracic cavity, producing severe constitutional shock. The ball was not extracted or found. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort McKavett, Texas, on July 4, 1870, and was treated by Acting Assistant Surgeon R. Sharpe. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on September 20, 1870. LXIV.—Note of a Case of Recovery after Perforation of the Chest by a Pistol-Ball. By J. F. Weeds, Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private Walter R. Oliver, Co. D. 14th United States Infantiy, aged 21 years, was wounded on September 11,1869, by a pistol-ball. The missile entered between the posterior border of the scap- ula and the vertebrje, two inches above the inferior angle, and escaped two and a half inches below the middle of the clavicle, passing directly above the base of the heart. He was admitted to the post hospital at Nashville, Tennessee, on September 11th, and simple dressings were applied to the wounds. He is still in hospital awaiting discharge on surgeon's certificate of disability. LXV.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Chest., having a Successful Termination. By F. Meacham, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Stewart, Co. F, 14th United States Infantry, a prisoner at Omaha Barracks, Nebraska, was shot through the upper lobe of the right lung, while attempting to escape from a sentinel, November 7, 1870. The ball entered near the union of the third rib with its cartilage in front, and emerged between the fifth and sixth ribs, just below the anterior boxxler of the right sca- pula. When brought to the post hospital, about half an hour after the reception of the injury, he was suffering very severely from pain and shock, the pulse was scarcely perceptible, feet and liands cold, countenance dusky, and the whole body covered with a profuse cold perspiration. Air was escaping from the anterior wound with every expiration. The sputa was streaked with blood, and blood was escaping from the lower opening. The anterior wound was closed with adhesive plaster and the posterior wound covered with lint to allow the escape of blood. Brandy and morphia were freely administered, and hot applications made to the upper and lower extremities. The patient rallied from the shock, and slept well during the night. On the next day the liiBraorrhage had entirely ceased, and he was feeling very comfortable. He continued to improve, and, on Novem- ber 15th, was able to sit up in bed. On November 29th, having absented himself from hospital for several hours without leave, he was returned to the guard-house, where the wound was dressed daily for about four weeks, at the expiration of which time he had entirely recovered and was returned to duty. LXVI.—Memorandum of a Case of Recovery from a Penetrating Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By C. Bacon, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Henry Freyer, Co. C, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 20 years, was admitted to regimental liospital near Austin, Texas, on June 2, 1867, with a gunshot penetrating wound of the chest, received June 2, 1807, at the hands of a citizen. PTe was transferred on the same day to the post hospital. He recovered, and was returned to duty in July, 1867. LXVII.—Note of a Case of Gnmhot Wound of the Chest. By W. S. Hendriokson, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Holman Doleman, Co. L, 10th United States Colored Cavalry, aged 23 years, was acci- dentally wounded on March 30, 1870, by a round pistol-ball, which passed below the right nipple, l)enetrat('(l the ))leural cavity, and lodged oi)posite tlu'. articulation of the sixth costal cartilage with the sternum. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Arbuckk', Cherokee Nation, on the same day. Tlie treatment consisted in simple dressings. He was returiuHl to duty on May 26, 1870.GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 27 LXYIII.—Report of a Case of Perforating Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By B. E. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Case.—Private Daniel McDonald, Co. B, 38tli United States Infantry, aged 23 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas, April 28, 18G8, with a perforating gunshot wound of the left chest. The ball entered between the second and third ribs, live inches from the sternum, and emerged posteriorly two and a half inches to the left of the spinal column, between the fifth and sixth ribs. Carbolic-acid dressings were applied to the external wound, and the man recovered without any severe constitutional disturbance. The anterior wound closed May 21st, and the posterior, May 29, 1868. He was returned to duty on June 24, 18G8. LXIX—Note of a Case of Penetrating Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By C. S. De Graw, Assistant Surgeon, tJ. S. A, Corporal James Goodwin, Co. B, 7th United States Cavalry, aged 21 years, was wounded by Indians on September 20, 1868, by a. ball which entered to the left of the third dorsal vertebra, passed through the apex of the left lung, and lodged below the first rib. He was admitted into the United States Army post hospital at Fort Dodge, Kansas, on September 3, 1868. Discharged May 15, 1869. LXX,—Extract from Case-Boole at Fort Hays Hospital. By W. F. Buchanan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Henry Harvey, Co. E, 38th United States Infantry, aged 20 years, was on August 14, 1867, at Fort Hays, Kansas, accidentally shot while being asleep. The ball, from an Enfield rifle, struck the j)osterior surface of the chest over the tenth rib, three inches to the right of the spinal column, fractured the rib, passed into the right pleural cavity, and came out between the sixth and seventh ribs, two inches to the right of the spinal column, fracturing the ribs. The air passed freely out and in, through both wounds, at every inspiration and expiration. On August 18th, the patient had a hacking cough, with a pulse at 112; pus was flowing from both wounds. August 2oth, the cough continued, and there was dullness in percussion over the posterior part of the right chest, with bronchial respiration. On September 31st, the patient was emaciated and weak. Air no longer passed through the upper wound, but continued to pass through the lower, less fre- quently, however, than at first. On October 31st, the patient was much improved. Air no longer passed through either of the wounds; but a j)urulent discharge continued. Several spiculiE of bone were removed. There was a slight dullness on percussion. The patient was regaining strength. On December 22d, the patient was walking about the ward. Purulent discharges from lower wound continued; the upper wound was closed. SpiculiB of bone were removed from week to week during the last two months. February 1, 1868, patient returned to dutj^ The lower wound had been a long time in healing in consequence of exfoliations from the rib. LXXI.—Report of a Case of Rapid Recovery after a Perforating Wound of the Lung. By J. H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Eichmond, Virginia, on March 13.1868, Private William Caldwell, Co. B, 11th United States Infantry, received a penetrating wound of the thorax, by a small rifled pistol-ball, fired at a distance of twenty yards, by accident. The ball entered the back, an inch and a half to the right of the spinous process of the sixth dorsal vertebra, passed upward and very slightly inward, toward the median line. Its track could be followed onlj^ an inch and a quarter. Emphysema appeared fifteen minutes after the reception of the wound, and soon became very great throughout the front and side of the neck, a little way over the edge of the lower jaw, and on the chest, two inches down the sternum and an inch below the clavicle. In four hours his respiration became very frequent, short and gasping, and very imperfect; the thoracic walls scarcely moving, and the abdomen not much. Number of respirations, fifty-eight in the minute. This condition of the respiration continued five hours, and then gradually improved. On the next morning his respira- tion was easy; twenty-two in the minute. Pulse, 70. Ate a little, for the first time. EmphysemaEEPOET OF SUEGIOAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 28 dimiuislied a little in volume, not iu extent. Complains only of a soreness of the wound. Has not had haemoptysis. He continued to improve rapidly. Complained, on the seventh day, of a stitch in his right side, for the first time. The emphysema had disappeared by the seventh day. Eespiration continued very feeble and indistinct nearly up to his discharge from hospital. He recovered speedily, and was returned to duty, at his own request, there being nothing in his con- dition to contraindicate it, on March 31 st, eighteen days al'ter the reception of the wound. What is, further, very noticeable in his case, is the fact that there was no suppuration from or at the wound. There was a slight bleeding Irom the wound at the time; but a clot dried and closed the wound, and x'emained there until I removed it, on the morning of his discharge from the hospital, leaving a small, dry, white cicatrix. LXXII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Chest, successfully treated hy the Method of " Hermetically Sealing." By H. S. Schell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Musician George Wolf, Co. I, 18th New York Infantry, was admitted into hospital, September 19, 18G7, he having been accidentally wounded by a conical pistol-ball, calibre .22, that morning. The ball passed through the biceps-flexor-cubito muscle of the right arm, and entered the chest between the fifth and sixth ribs, under the axilla. The symptoms, on admission, were great dyspnoea, extreme nervous depression, and intense pain in the right hypochondrium; pulse 85, and verj'feeble; patient tossing from side to side, anxious expression of countenance; flatness, on percussion, on right side of chest, as high as the fifth rib in front, and anterior border of axilla, fi'om behind forward, with expectoration of blood. Immediately sealed the wound in the jiarietes of the chest, by means of a dossil of cotton and Eichardson's styptic colloid fluid. Administered morphia, ^ gr.; vin. alb. flljs.; this was repeated in half an hour. Chloroform, confined by oil-silk, was applied to the right hypogastrium, and its irritant effects allayed by painting the surface with tinct. opii. He became quiet, and slept in the course of an hour. 6 P. M., pulse 95, full. Administered maffn. sulph. ^j- September 20th, 8 A. M., pulse 110, hard. Ee- peat magn. sulph. ^j.; 6 P. M., ijulse 115, hard; skin hot; great pain in right hypogastrium, with increased dyspnoea. Applied six cut cups, one ounce of blood extracted from each cup. Adminis- tered ant. et pot. tart., gr. every hour. Puli\ ip. et op., gr. xij, at taps. Ten P. M., much re- fieved from pain, and slept all night. September 21, 8 A. M., pulse 100. Peels somewhat com- lortable; continued tartar emetic, and administered an ounce of sulphate of magnesia. At 6 P. M. the epsom salt had operated freely; pulse 110; skin hot, and increased pain in right hypochon- drium ; applied two cut cups, and abstracted four ounces of blood ; continued ant. et potass, and repeated Dover's powder. Ten P. M., pulse 95, i)erfectly comfortable, sleeping. September 22,8 A. M,, feels comfortable, very little pain ; expectoration of blood continues. Absolute diet maintained, and ant. et potass, tart, continued for one day longer; since which time he has continued to im- l^rove, without an unfavorable symi)tom. Wound in arm nearly healed. Eeturned to duty Octo- ber 3, 1867. The fatal cases of gunshot wounds of the lung reported were, of course, more numerous. LXXIII.—Memorandum of a Fatal Penetrating Pistol Wound of the Chest. By Dr. T. Eoctee, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Simmons, Co. C, 128th United States Colored Troops, received an accidental pistol-shot wound of the chest, on September 25, 18.66. He was admitted to the post hospital at Charleston, South Carolina, on the 25th, and died on the same day, fioin internal hivmorrhage. LXXIV.—Minute of a Penetrating Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By C. Bacon. Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. * * Near Austin, Texas, Private James Donnelly, Co. B, Gth United States Cavalry? aged 21 years, received a gunshot penetrating wound of the left chest, on May 15, 1867, at the hands of the guard. He died the same day, and was taken to the regimental hospital for burial.GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. LXXV. Memorandtim of a Case of Penetrating Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By Williajvi S. Adaius, Actiug Assistant Surgeon. Corporal William McLaughlin, Co. I, 5tli United States Cavalry, aged 23 years, was wounded on September 10, 1867, in a drunken atfray, by a conoidal ball, which entered at the junction of the middle and outer thirds of the left clavicle, passed inward, striking its inferiDr border, and being deflected downward into the cavity of the chest. He was taken to the post hospital at Morgan- town, North Carolina, where death resulted one hour after the reception of the injury. liXXNl.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Perforation of the Chest. By Jules Le Carpentier, Acting Assistant Surgeon. * * At Fort Bayard, New Mexico, Private George Stern, Co. A, 38th United States Infantry, aged 25 years, was killed by around ball, in a riot, which occurred at Central City, nearby, on the evening of December 24, 1868. The missile entered the left axilla, and passed out on the right side of the neck. LXXVII.—Memorandum of a Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Lung. By J. E. Gibson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Michael Luther, Co. C, Engineer Battalion, aged 26 years, was wounded while tres- passing upon private grounds, in the village of Whitestone, Long Island, on February 3, 1867, by a charge of bird-shot, which penetrated the right lung. He was admitted on the following day to the post hospital at Willet's Point, and treated on the expectant plan. He died on February 6, 1867. LXXVIII.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Lung. By Brevet Major W. M. Notson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A, Private William Leach, Co. H, 4th United States Cavalr^y, aged 20 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Concho, Texas, on February 4,1868, with an accidental gunshot wound. The missile perforated the lobes of the left lung. He died on February 6, 1868, from internal hsemor- rhage. LXXIX.—Note of a Fatal Gunshot Perforation of the Eigh t Lxmg. By Donald Jackson, Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Private Narcisse Pochet, Co. G, 9th United States Cavalry, aged 24 years, received on March 21, 1870, in a brawl, a wound through the right lung by a carbine-ball, which entered below the clavicle through the second rib, and emerged two inches from the median line. Admitted to ijost hospital at Fort Clark, Texas, at 5 P. M. He survived two hours. LXXX.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Perforation of the Chest. By D. Weisel, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. • At Fort Davis, Texas, Private David Boyd, Co. K, 9th United States Cavalry, was accidentally shot and instantly killed by a conoidal ball, on March 16, 1870. The missile entered to the left of the sternum between the fourth and lifth ribs, and, passing through the body, issued near the inferior angle of the right scapula. LXXXI.—Report of a Case of a Pistol Shot Wound of the Lung Through the Scapula. By Samuel Santoine, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles Lehmann, Co. B, 35th United States Infantry, aged 21 years, was shot in the street on the night of January 2,1868. A pistol-ball entered immediately below the spine of the scapula, one inch from its outer end obliquely toward thesteruum, andremainediu the thoracic cavity.30 REPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. He was admitted to the post hosital at ludiauola, Texas, about one hour after the reception of the injury, in a state of intoxication, walking supported by two men. Profuse hpemorrhage issued from the wound, which rendered it unsafe to counteract the effects of intoxication. Tlierefore, no attempt was made to bring- on reaction. Cohl water was applied to the wound and head. He did not recover consciousness until five hours afterward, when he complained of excruciating pain in the left side. Respiration was laborioi;s, and there was complete matity on ijercussion, and heavy crepitating sound on auscultation. He expectorated about two ounces of coagulated blood. A powder consisting of a fourth of a grain of acetate of lead and an eighth of a grain of sulphate of morphia was given every hour, for four hours, and then discontinued. The pulse was very weak and remained so until death, at six o'clock of the evening of January 3, 1868. LXXXII.—Memorandum of a Fatal Gunshot Perforation of the Right Lung. By Jules Le Carpen- TIEE, Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort Bayard, New Mexico, Farrier John A. Payne, Co. E, 3d United States Cavalry, aged 21 years, was killed, in a riot, by a patrol, on the night of December 24,18G8, at Central City, New Mexico. He received a gunshot wound of the right chest. The missile entered the back, and passed through the right lung. LXXXIII.—Memorandum of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Wound of the Bight Lung. By E. Cowles, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S, A. Second Lieutenant W. S. Alexander, Co. A, 8th United States Infantry, aged 20 years, was wounded at Fort Macon, North Carolina, at midnight, on March 28, 1809, by a conoidal ball, which penetrated the neck and chest, perforating the upper lobe of the right lung, comminuting the scap- ula and rib, and lacerating the brachial llexus and veins at the base of the neck. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Macon, North Carolina, on March 29, 1869. Compresses and styptics were used. There was no reaction after injury. He died at 1 o'clock A. M., on March 30, 1869. Death was apparently hastened by venous hjemorrhage within the cavity of the thorax. LXXXIV.—Memorandxmi of a Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Bight Lung. By F. Meacham, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Jonathan J. Johnson, Co, E, 4th United States Infantry, was shot through the right lung on December 2, 1869, by Indians, when about forty miles from Fort Laramie, Wyoming Ter- ritory. He was admitted into the post hospital at the fort, in a moribund condition, and died in about one hour after his arrival. LXXXV.—Memorandum of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Wound of the Bight Lung. By J. E. Semple, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Halbert, Co. L, 2d United States Artillery, aged 27 j^ears, was accidentally killed on September 13, 1808, by fine shot, which entered the sternum between the third and fourth ribs, and passed into the right lung. LXXXVI.—N'ote of a Case of Suicide. By George A. Benjamin, M, D,, Acting Assistant Surgeon. At the island of San Juan, California, November 30, 1870, First Sergeant Louis Miller, Co. F, 23d United States Infantry, shot himself at eight o'clock in the morning. At this lionr I was called to see him, and found him lying on his bed, with a gunshot wound one and a quarter inches below and to the left of the left nipple, passing through the lung on that side, ranging upward and inward, passing out at a point about midway of the length of the internal edge of the scapula of the same side. This Avound was inflicted by himself with a design of destroying life, as was shown by a writtenGUifSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST, 31 communication left behind, and addressed to the commanding officer, and also by the position of the gun, lying on the floor, with a string attached to the trigger, suggesting the intention of inflicting the wound. The patient died at half past eight o'clock in the evening. No pont-mortem examination was made in the case, as it was considered unnecessary. LXXXVII.—Bemarlis on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By J. C. Watkins, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant John Kelly, Co. A, 8th United States Cavalry, aged 29 years, was admitted on April 30, 1868, to the hospital at Camp Winfield Scott, Nevada, with a gunshot wound of the chest. The bullet entered the left lung, just below the first rib, injuring it, and deflected a little downward, lodged under the skin in the dorsal region. The left arm was paralyzed, and pulsa- tion in the radial artery had ceased; but the latter gradually returned, and was nearly normal again on May 4th. A flesh-wound in the outer part of the right thigh was suppurating, but presented a healthy appearance. On June 1st, the patient had repeated cold and hot sweats, with paroxysms of neuralgic pains in the left arm, but he improved again until June 8th, when a commencing aneurism of the left subclavian, or a branch of the superior thoracic artery was observed. The wound in the back commenced to bleed. On June 12th, the patient was doing well, and the wound was healing rajjidly. On June 21st, the aneurism, which now appeared to be a false one, was increasing. Slight pressure was applied, with iodide of potash ointment. On June 26th, the aneurismal tumor was still increasing. Opium was given in large doses, and chloroform also was administered. A care- ful examination of the tumor was made, but the patient was considered too weak for an operation. On July 30th, the condition of the patient was unchanged ; the tumor had displaced the clavicle. On July 16th, the patient had not been allowed an operation from the bowels for more than two weeks, attempting Valsalva's method of cure. The patient appears to gain a little strengtli. July 23d, severe pains in arm and shoulder; the tumor is increasing in size, and appears to be pointing at the old wound. Aiigust 13th, during a severe neuralgic attack, the aneurism bursted, and profuse bleeding ensued. Bleeding recurred at intervals, until August 27th, when it ceased. The patient improved until September 17th, when he became slightly delirious. Bleeding occurred again, but the hfemorrhage was checked by plugging the opening with dry lint. Hjemorrhages recurred September 18th, 19th, and 28th, and death occurred at 5 P. M., September 28, 1868. At the autopsy, the left lung was found partially collapsed; one-half ounce of fluid in the pleural sac ; the heart, right auricle, and ventricle walls were considerably thickened; the valves, liver, and kidney were normal; the spleen slaty. The bellies of the pectoralis major and minor were infiltrated with blood, and entirely disorganized. The axilla was so much disorganized that it was impossible to discover which had been the bleeding arterj^ The ball had not penetrated the lung, but had passed above and back of the lileura. At the elbow, the olecranon and the internal condyle of the humerus were necrosed. The wound of the right thigh had entirely healed. LXXXVIII.—Minute of a Case of Perforating Gunshot Wound of the Thorax. By C. Macfarline, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort Ontario, New York, June 17, 1869, Private Joseph Marks, Co. A, 1st United States Artillery, was shot by a soldier of the same comjiany. The ball, a conical one, entered the right side at a level of the third rib, an inch and a lialf from the median line, and made exit through the spine of the scapula, near its central portion. Sulphate of morphia, in one-fourth grain doses, was given at intervals of one-half hour until sleei) ensued ; also extract of ergot with digitalis and tannic acid was given in a mixture, and lemonade was allowed. At indications of sinking, whiskey dihited with water and beef-essence were given frequently. He died fifteen hours after reception of the injury, from internal htemorrhage.EEPOET OF SITEGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 32 Five instances are reported of gunshot wounds of both lungs. They were fatal, and, indeed, I know of no authenticated instance of recovery from such a lesion. LXXXTX.—Memorandum of a Fatal Perforation of both Lungs hy a Muslcet-Ball. By J. E. Gibson, Assistant Surgeon, IT. S. A. On his monthly report from Fort Stanton, August, 1869, Dr. Gibson enters the following state- ment of Acting Assistant Surgeon Alward Wliite, stationed at Fort Bliss, Texas: Charles E. Thompson, Co. F, 3d United States Cavalry. The ball presumed to have been dischax-ged from a carbine, entered his chest in front, in the right side, in the second intercostal space, passed diagonally through the upper lobe of the right lung, severing the great vessels at the base of the heart, and thence through the posterior portion of the middle lobe of the left lung, and passed out at the inferior angle of the scapula." The date of the injury is not recorded. It is found that the patient died August 7, 1869. XO.—Extract from Eemarls on Monthly Report of Side and Wounded from Fort Stevenson, DaTcoia Territory. By C. C. Gray, Surgeon, U. S. A. In October, 1867, Private Knowles, Co. B, 31st ITnited States Infantry, was accidentally shot by a comrade. The bullet, from a breech-loading musket, fractured the left humerus, and traversed the ajiices of both lungs. This wounded man lived about four hours after the reception of the injur3\ XOI.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of both Lungs. By S. M. Horton, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Cori)oral Peter Donnolly, Co. H, 27tli United States Infantry, aged 26 years, received on November 3, 1867, in an attack by Indians, a gunshot penetrating wound of the chest, through both lungs. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, on November 4, 1867. Eoller-bandages and simple dressings were applied. The patient died on November 4, 1867. XCII.—Wote of a Case of Suicidal Gtmshot Wound of both Lyings. By Calvin De Witt, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Jules Gueree, Co. D, Engineer Battalion, aged 30 years, was admitted to hospital at Willett's Point with a gunshot wound inflicted by himself. The missile entered the left side of the thorax, fracturing the third rib near its articulation with the sternum, passed obliquely near the edge of the left lung, and traversed the upper lobe of the right lung, and emerged midway between the spinal colunui and the lower angle of the scapula. He died shortly after admission, July 23, 1867. XCIir.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Perforation of both Lungs and Aorta. By W. D. WOLVERTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Peter McCabe, Co. B, 1st United States Infantry, aged 29 years, was accidently shot by a guard on June 18, 1868. The missile jiassed through the lungs and aorta. The man died instantly. XCIV.—Memorandiim of a Case of Suicide. By D. C. Peters, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Finally, Troop D, 3d United States Cavalry, aged 27 years, shot himself on JMay 39, 1870, while on guard at Fort Union, New Mexico. The ball entered under the last true rib, on the right side, passed upward, wounding the lung and i^leura, came out one inch above right nii)ple, and lodged in the right cheek. It also wounded slightly tlu' right hand and wrist. He was admit- ted to post hosi)ital, where tiie missile was excised I'rom the right cheek. Intlammation of pleura and lungs, with internal luemorrhage, followed, and death occurred on May 21,1870.33 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Gunshot Wounds of the Heart.—Fourteen instances of this form of injury were reported. Death followed very promptly in almost every case, though, in one instance of a pistol-ball wound of the right auricle, the patient survived fifty hours. Eight were examples of wounds from musket, and five from pistol balls. One was inflicted by an Indian, two by sentinels, one accidentally, two suicidally, and the eight other cases were murders. XCV.—Memoranchmi of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Heart. By Caklos CARVAiLO, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Jeiferson, Texas, First Sergeant Daniel Miirpliy, Co. I, 11th United States Infantry, aged 25 years, committed suicide, on September 19, 1870, by sliooting himself with a small Derringer pistol, the ball penetrating the left lung and the heart. He lived twenty-seven minutes after being shot. XCVI.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Lung and Heart. By A. W. Wiggin, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Philip Curry, a citizen, was shot in a drunken row at Pond Creek Stage Station, Kansas, on April 1, 1868. Saw him at midnight and found a penetrating Dullet wound of the right side of the thorax; there was no wound of exit. The patient was taken to the post hospital at Fort Wallace, Kansas, a distance of four miles, being able to get into and out of the ambulance without assist- ance. He seemed quite strong for an hour or two after admission. After a while, however, he began to grow anxious and suffered much paiu. He was unable to retain nourishment, and required to be kept in a sitting posture. He was quieted by hypodermic injections of a solution of sulphate of morphia, the only thing attempted in the way of medication. On the morning of April 2d, the right side of the chest was evidently filling up with iiuid. The heart beat irregularly and tumultu- ously. Toward evening he became exhausted; sleep profound, and respiratory efforts only five or six per minute; pulse feeble and fluttering. He died half an hour after midnight April 1868, twenty-six hours after reception of injury. An autopsy, made fifteen hours after death, revealed the course of the ball. It entered three inches inside and one inch above right nipple, passed between the cartilages of third and fourth rib close to the sternum, through anterior margin of the lower lobe of right lung into the pericardium, through the right auricle, and entered again the right pleural cavity, xjassing through posterior margin of lower lobe of right lung. A conical ball—size of Colt's Navy revolver—was found in the right pleural cavity. The left lung and cavity were perfectly normal; the right lung was engorged and somewhat compressed by coagulated blood in the l)leural cavity. Pericardium much distended and containing six or eight ounces of partially coagulated blood. There was a fibrinous clot in the left ventricle. XCVII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gtinshot Wound of the Heart, probably by Suicide. By F. Meacham, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Eollin Cofcart, Co. G, 4th United States Infantry, left Fort Laramie April 6, 1870, with- out leave. His body was found April 7tli, about twenty miles southeast from the post, under circum- stances that led to the belief that he committed suicide. The autopsy was made April 7, 1870, at 5 P. M., time after death unknown—probably twenty-four hours; rigor mortis sti'ougly marked; a little blood found on face, about the mouth and nose. The blouse was whole, but a hole was found in both shirts, on the left side of the body. A wound was found about two inches below the left nipple, passing backward and upward, and slightly inward. This wound was surrounded by a margin of burned powder about an inch wide, below the wound, from two to four inches wide above the wound, and to its left. On the back was found a wound situated about two inches to the left of the spine, and on a plane with the spine of the sixth dorsal vertebra. No i^owder was found about this wound. On opening the thorax it was found that the ball had jjassed between the fifth and sixth ribs, outside and near the junction of the ribs with the cartilage, theu entered the pericar- 5EEPORT OF SUEGICAL OASES IN THE AEMY. 34 diiiin at its lower end, and on its left side, striking the heart at its apex, carrying away a portion of the left ventricle, opening the cavity—the wonnd in the heart being two inches long, and one and one-fourth inches wide at its widest part. The part of the leit ventricle carried away was the apex—lower and back part. Tlie ball then passed to the left of the spine, fracturing the seventh rib near its junction with the spine. This wound must have caused almost instant death, and the muzzle of the gun, when discharged, must have been in close proximity to the wound. The wound of exit was on a plane seven inches above the wound of entrance. It is to be regretted that in several other cases of gunshot wounds of the heart that came under treatment the observers have failed to report the duration of life after the reception of the injury, or any particulars of the symptoms. XCVIII.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Wotind of the Heart. By C. C. Byene, Surgeon, TJ. S. A. First Sergeant Frederick Kellner, Co. D, 19th United States Infantry, was wounded on November 9, 18G9, by a conoidal pistol-ball, which entered his back, between the fifth and sixth ribs, on the left side, about two inches I'roin spinal column, and passing through the right auricle of heart, lodged under the skiu over the lower portion of sternum. He lived long enough to be admitted to the post hospital at Little Eock, Arkansas, and died the same day. XCiX.—Note of a Case of Ounsliot Woiind of the Heart. By J. A. ToNNER, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Gray, Co. D, 2Cth United States Infantry, aged 28 years, was shot through the heart, by a pistohball, on February 9, 18G8. He was admitted into the hospital at Brownsville, Texas, and survived but a short time. C.—Mention of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Heart. By H. E. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John B. Patterson, Co. B, 7th United States Cavalry, while on duty as sentinel, at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, April 17,1870, was wounded by the accidental discharge of his carbine, tlie ball having entered the right groin, and escaped through the neck on the left side, killing him instantly. The ball passed through the bowels, stomach, left lobe of the liver, right ventricle of heart, upper lobe of the left lung, and carried away a portion of the left clavicle. He breathed three times, and then gasped and exi)ired. No cry of pain escaped his lips. CI.—History of a Fatal Gunshot Perforation of the Thorax. By John B. White, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Louis T , Co. K, 40th United States Infantry, was mortally wounded, Decem- ber 15, 18G8, and admitted to post hospital at Ealeigh, North Carolina, in articulo mortis, and died immediately afterward. An autopsy was made one hour after death. The conical ball, from a Springfield breech-loader in the hands of a fellow-soldier, had first passed through the stock of the gun of the deceased; then entering the right thoracic cavity between the second and third ribs, traversed the chest diagonally beneath the ascending aorta, divided the descending vena cava, perforated the superior lobe of the left lung, and, emerging from the chest between the third and fourth ribs, entered the cavity of the axilla, thence into the left arm in its upper third, extensively shattering the left humerus. There Mas scarcely any ha'morrhage externally. The „ „ „ , , , , left thoracic cavity contained a large amount of bloody serum with l lfi.T. Heart, {;>ciit^'''S»<'l>'.i""l P'" '"'" J ^ of iimg i.iiioiatcd i),v .a musket i>iiii. jelly likc clots. The source of internal haemorrhage was from the Spec. 55C7. A. ji. M. division of tlie descending vena cava. The missile having traversed35 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THF CHEST. a space of some tliirteen inches from right to left, from wound of entrance to wound of exit, was found in a shattered condition about thirteen feet from the injured man. The pathological speci- mens, consisting of the heart, perforated lung, splintered humerus and ball, were forwarded to the Army Medical Museum. OIL—Note of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Aorta. By W. J. Piper, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Baton Eouge, Louisiana, December 20,1867, Private Herman Summers, Co. E, 20th United States Infantry, received an accidental pistol shot wound, the ball entering the arch of tlie aorta. He was admitted to post hospital immediately after the reception of the injury and died on the same day. CHI.—Extract from Remarks on Monthly Report of Side and Wounded from Fort lleKavctt, Texas, By Bedford Sharpe, Acting Assistant Surgeon. On February 2,1870, Corporal Albert Marshall, Co. F, 9th United States Cavalry, was murdered by desperadoes, five miles below Menardville, thirty-five miles below this post, while guarding a prisoner. His remains were brought to the post for interment on the afternoon of the 3d, when a post-mortem examination was held at the post hospital. It was conducted by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. De Laffre. The following are the notes in the case: * * The ball, supposed to have been from a Winchester rifle, entered the thoracic cavity on right side, about one inch above the right nipple, passed through the fifth rib at its articulation with the sternum, passing through right ventricle of the heart and through the left fifth rib, and made an exit at left axilla, reentered the left arm, fractured the humerus two inches below the neck, and came out on the other side- near the insertion of the deltoid. OrV.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort Clark, Texas, on August 1, 1869, Private James Matthews, Co. G, 9th United States Cavalry, aged 20 years, was shot by a sentinel, either intentionally or through gross carelessness. The bullet entered between the third and fourth ribs, above and a little external to the left nipple, passing obliquely through the thorax, and lodging beneath the skin over the right scapula. Death was instantaneous. The heart or great vessels were doubtless wounded. No autopsy is recorded. CV.—Memorandum of a Gtmshot Wound of the Heart. By Washington Matthews, Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private John T. Vane, Co. I, 22d United States Infantry, was shot by one of a band of hostile Sioux, about four miles from Fort Eice, Dakota Territory, while on duty with a party of wood- cutters, and at a short distance from the rest. No others were wounded. His death was instanta- neous. An autopsy revealed that the ball had entered the fourth intercostal space near the left nipple, and pierced both ventricles of the heart, about midway between base and apex. It did not effect an exit from the body. CVI.—Minute of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Heart. By Dr. J. B. Purcell, Acting Assistant Surgeon. In August, 1867, James Brown, Co. D, 8th United States Infantry, quartermaster's sergeant of the post at Wilmington, North Carolina, was confined for stealing from the Government, and made his escape from prison. He was overtaken by a patrol, and, not surrendering when commanded to do so several times, was fired upon with fatal effect. The ball entered the right side between the fifth and sixth ribs, traversed the body through both lungs and the heart, passed out at the left side, entered at the bend of the left elbow, destroying the joint, and lodged in the cellular tissue near the external angle, spent.36 EEPOET OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE AEMY. C VII.—Minutes of an Autopsy in a Case oj Gunshot Wound of the Eeart. By J. H. T. King, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. On the nigbt of April 30, 1869, John Ahlfeldt, first sergeant of Co. D, 31st United States Infantry, was shot by one of the men belongiug to his company, and died instantly. Sevtio cadaveris, fourteen hours, post-mortem. Rigor mortis well marked. Externally two gunshot wounds were discovered: one, the largest, anteriorly, at the lower border of the cartilages of the ribs on the left side; one posteriorly immediately below the inferior angle of the right scapula. On opening the chest a large quantity of blood was found in the cavity of the right pleura; tissue of lungs normal; inferior lobe of right lung wounded. The missile had traversed its superior and internal i)ortions horizontally and toward the left side, thus entered the pericardium, and completely lacerated right side of the heart near the right auriculo-ventricular valves, exposing the internal surface of both right auricle and right ventricle, making its exit at the wound on the anterior surface of body before described. CVIII.—Report of an Autopsy in a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Heart. By F. Meacham, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. On January 29, 1869, at Camp Douglas, Utah Territory, Hospital Steward Lucius O'Brien, United States Army, was killed in the evening while returning from the city to camp. The autopsy was made twelve hours after death. Rigor mortis well marked. The wound was found on a line midway between the left nipple and the sternal end of the right clavicle near the left border of the sternum. On opening the thorax, it was found that a pistol-ball had passed through the cartilage of the third rib, near its junction with the sternum; thence through the right ventricle of the heart, near the origin of the left pulmonary artery, passing through one of the semilunar valves; thence into the left auricle of the heart through the superior lobe of the left lung, and lodged between and behind the posterior ends of the ninth and tenth ribs, from which position the ball was removed. The course of the ball was in a downward direction—that is, the point of lodgement was on a lower plane than the point of entrance. This non-commissioned oflflcer was undoubtedly murdered. Gunshot Wounds of the Chest involving the Spine.—Eiglit fatal cases were reported of gunsliot chest wounds with injury of the vertebral column. CIX.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Spine and Chest. By D. L. Magkuder, Sui'geon, U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel David H. Buel, Ordnance Corps, was assassinated at the arsenal, near this post (Fort Leavenworth), on the night of the 22d of July, between the hours of ten and eleven P. M. The assassin shot him from behind, with a rifled breech-loading musket, just after his having entered the yard in front of his residence. The ball entered the back, about two inches to the left of the median line, and emerged on the right side of the chest, about four inches to the right of the anterior median line. The spinal column was severed between the sixth and seventh ribs, and the right lung was torn by fragments of both bone aiul ball. Death resulted immediately. OX.—Note of a Case of Gunsliot Wound of the Spine and of the Aorta. By William J. Wilson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. In March, 1870, near Fort Brown, Texas, private Thomas Logan, Co. K, 10th United States Infantry, is reported ashaving died from a gunshot wound. He had been out in Brownsville, without permission, and when arrested by the patrol attempted to escape from their custody. He was tired at and instantly killed, tlu'ball striking him in tlie spine, about tlie sixtli dorsal vertebra, passing ujiward and outward, through the arch of the aorta, and emerging about three inclies to the inner side of the left shoulder. \U\ must liavc been running in a stooping position when fired at.37 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. CXI. Extract from Bemarlcs on Monthly Report of Side and Wounded, from Fort Dodije, Kansas. By W, S. Teemaine, Assistant Surgeou, U, S. A. Private Thomas K , Co. A, 3d United States Infantry, deserted from Fort Dodge, Kansas. When twenty-five miles from the post he met a train Avith citizens, who attempted to capture him. To prevent this he shot himself with a revolver. Was brought into hospital August 6, 1870. The ball entered between the fifth and sixth ribs, one and a half inches below, and a little to the right of the left nipple, and was extracted, together with small fragments of bone, fi'om the sub-cuta- neous tissue over the ninth dorsal vertebra, through a small incision. The patient was paralyzed below the middle. He died four days after admission. A post-mortem examination was made after ten honrs. The track of the ball was found to pass from a point between the fifth and sixth ribs, an inch and a half below and to the right side of the left nipple, grazing the apex of the heart, passing through the lung, and fracturing the transverse process of the ninth dorsal vertebra. There was pericarditis and pneumonitis. There were decolorized fibrinous clots in the heart and great vessels; extensive effusion in cavity of pleura. The missile was a conical pistol-ball of the calibre .44. Fig. 8.—Eightli, uiiitli, tuiitli, and a portion of the eleventh dorsal vertebra;, with a ball and fraftments of bone from the ninth vertebra. Spec. 5738, Sect. I, A. M. M. CXII.—Note of a Case of Perforating Wound of the Left Lung. By J. H. Patzki, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private Michael W. Keiley, Co. D, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 22 years, was, on June 19, 1870, wounded and killed by a couoidal bvdlet, which i)enetrated the left arm, sixth rib, and i)erforated the left lung and spine between the sixth and seventh dorsal vertebrae. He was brought into hospital dead June 19, 1870. CXIII.—Memoranda of a Case of Gunshot Penetrating Wound of the Lung. By E. H. White, Assist- ant Surgeou, U. S. A. Private Edward Adams, Co. F, 15th United States Infantry, aged 25 years, received a gunshot wound while resisting the guard sent to arrest him, on May 9, 1868. The missile entered the middle of the left arm, producing a compound comminuted fracture of the humerus, and entering the chest between the fifth and sixth ribs posteriorly, traversing the inferior lobe of the left lung, and the spinal column between the sixth and seventh dorsal vertebraj, breaking up the spinal cord, and passing through the inferior lobe of the right lung, lodged itself just beneath the integument of that side. He was admitted to the post hospital at Mobile, on May 9,1868, and death resulted on the same day. CXIV.—Note of a Case of Perforating Gunshot Wound of the Thorax. By Alfred Delany, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Near Fort Gibson, Indian Territory, Private David McWilliams, Co. H, 6th United States Infantry, was shot by a drunken Cherokee Indian, without any apparent provocation, on the evening of the 11th September, 1869. He was admitted to the hospital soon after, in a profound shock, and died twenty hours afterward, only i)artial reaction having occurred, notwithstanding the free use of stimuli, warmth, &c. On making a critical examination, jjosf-'/rtortem, the ball, supposed to have been from a Navy revolver, was found to have entered the body posteriorly, opposite the sixth dorsal vertebra, passed upward, and to the right, and emerged anteriorly, between the first and second ribs, one and a half inches to the right of the sternum, fracturing the right lamella and the body of the sixth vertebra, the sixth rib, opening the medullary canal, lacerating the cord, and per- forating the right lung. Fragments of the vertebra and rib were driven before the ball, and lodged in the lung and pectoral muscles.38 EEPOET OF SUEGIOAL CASES IN THE AEMY. OXV.—Note of a case of gunshot tcound of the Chest and Spine. By Ira Pekry, Assistant Surgeon 9th United States Colored Troops. Private Gustavus Cliase, Co. I, 9tli United States Colored Troops, aged 24 years, while walking to camp from Brownsville, Texas, was wounded by a conoidal ball, which shattered the spinous processes of the sixth and seventh vertebriB, laid open the canal, and lacerated the cord. He was admitted to the post hospital at Brownsville, Texas, January 28,18G6. On admission there was an expression of anxiety, complete paralysis below the seventh dorsal vertebra, and great l^ain in epigastric region. The treatment consisted of the removal of fragments of bone, simple dressings, morphia, catheter, and injections. On February 1st the bowels and bladder were com- pletely torpid; gTcat tymijanitis ; skin hot; pulse 140. He died on February 4, 18G7. CXYI.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By Henry McElderry, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. John J. Baron, citizen, aged 21 years, was wounded on March 14,1869, at a place about twenty miles from the post. The missile, a conoidal pistol ball, passed through the spinal cord. It entered in the sub-aspect of the left side of thorax, two and a half inches below the lower border of the clavicle, four and one-fourth inches from the median line of the sternum, and passing inward, backward, and diagonally across the trunk, lodged immediately beneath the integument, four inches to the right of median line of the spine, and two inches above the inferior angle of the right scapula. He was admitted to the United States post hospital, at Fort Griffin, Texas, by order of the post commander, on March 14, 18G9. He died on March 18, 1869. A number of instances of gunstiot flesh-wounds of the thoracic parietes were reported, but none of them were of special interest, except the following case, in which the wadding from a pistol penetrated the pectoral muscles for several inches. Private David E. Chase, Co. B, 40th United States Infantry, aged 23 years, was wounded January 15, 1869, in the right breast by hard paper wadding tired from a revolver, the wounded man being but a few feet from the muzzle of the pistol when fired. Wound about four inches in depth, in a course inward and downward. He went to the post hospital, and the wound was dressed. He recovered rapidly, and was sent to duty January 31, 1869. J. T. King, Acting Assistant Surgeon, reported the case. Private Henry Allison, Co. F, 33d United States Infantry, aged 22 years, Dahlonega, Georgia, January 1, 1868. Accidental gunshot wound of the left side. Duty January 8, 1868. Private William Christman, Co. D, 11th United States Infantry, aged 24 years, Jefferson, Texas, May 7, 1869. Gunsliot wound of the right buttock, caused by the accidental discharge of a rifle. Duty, May 10, 1869. Private John Donovan, Co. A, 18th United States Infanty, aged 35 years, near Peno Creek, December 6, 1866. Gunshot wound of back, to left of spine, on a level with the lowx^st rib, received in an action with Indians. Duty, December 31, 1866. Private Henry James, Co. F, 22d United States Infantry, aged 22 years, near Fort Eandall, Dak(»ta Territory, June 27, 1868. Gunshot wound of the skin and cellular tissues, over the lateral region of the floating ribs of tlie left side. Duty, July 27, 1868. Private Alexander Kennedy, Co. F, 7th United States Cavalry, aged 19 years, w-oujuled Septem- ber 13, 1868, by Indians, near Fort Dodge, Kansas, (iiinsliot wound of left side, over the eighth rib. The missih' made i(s exit near the iimbilicns. Ivecovered.GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 39 Sergeant J. F. Leonard, Co. B, 6tli United States Cavalry, aged 29 years, Livingston, Texas, May 7, 1869. Gunshot wound of thoracic parietes. Duty, June 16, 1869. Private William B. Gallagher, Co. D, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 21 years. Gunshot flesh-wound of the Ifft arm and thoracic parietes by a conoidal ball, received in an action with Indians near north fork of Little Wicliita River, Texas, July 12, 1870. Carbolic-acid dressings. Duty, August, 1870. Corporal Willis Gibbons, Co. A, 117th United States Colored Troops, aged 27 years. Brazos Santiago, Texas, December 17, 1866. Gunshot wound of the left side, over the sixth rib, by a conoidal ball. Duty, January 27, 1867. Private "William Herron, Co. F, 38th United States Infantry, aged 21 years. Fort Quitman, Texas, October 17, 1869. Gunshot wound of the breast. Duty, November 30, 1869. Private George Lorenzo, Co. F, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 21 years. Fort Richardson Texas, March 18, 1869. Pistol-shot wound of the back. Duty, May 12, 1869. Sergeant W. W. McCuUough, Co. F, 1st United States Cavalry, aged 30 years. Camp Har- ney, Oregon, May 31,1868. Gunshot wound of the right side of the chest, near and about the level of the axilla, by a slug. The missile passed out on the posterior aspect of the chest. Duty, June 27, 1868. Private Alexander McLean, Co. F, 33d United States Infantry, aged 21 years. Dahlouega, Georgia, December 25, 1867. Gunshot wound of the right side. Duty, December 28, 1867. Private Edward Miller, Co. B, 10th United States Colored Cavalry, aged 26 years. Near Fort Arbuckle, Indian Territory, December 26, 1869. Pistol-shot wound below the left nipple. Missile passed round the chest, and over the spine, whence it was extracted, January 8, 1870. Duty, Feb- ruary 14, 1871. Private Alexander Newell, Co. A, 114th United States Colored Troops, aged 42 years. Brazos Santiago, Texas, April 3, 1867. Pistol-shot wound over the ensiform appendix. Missile passed upward and lodged one inch to the left of the right nipple. Removal of ball through incision. Duty, April 14, 1867. Private Winfield Rogers, Co. K, 16th United States Infantry, Corinth, Mississippi, December 8, 1869. A i)istol-ball struck the sixth rib, at the point of a line drawn directly downward from the center of the collar-bone, penetrated to the bone, and then glanced off, making a flesh-wound merely. Duty, December 10, 1869. Private Frederick Welder, Co. A, 16th United States Infantry, aged 25 years. Louisville, Kentucky, March 11, 1871. Gunshot flesh-wound of the chest, by a small pistol-ball. Missile was extracted from under the skin. Recovered. Private John Webb, Co. B, 1st California Cavalry, aged 38 years. Fort Sumner, New Mexico, July 2, 1866. Gunshot wound of the right chest and right arm. Duty, September 2, 1866. Private Samuel Wilmare, Co. G, 116th United States Colored Troops, aged 26 years, Brazos Santiago, Texas, July 10, 1866. Wound of trunk between the ninth and tenth ribs. Missile lodged in the intercostal muscles, but was extracted from the wound. Duty, September 26, 186 Sergeant William Winterbottom, Co. A, 6tli United States Cavalry, aged 25 years. Gunshot flesh-wound of the left side by a conoidal ball, in action with Indians near north fork of Little Wichita River, Texas, July 12, 1870. Carbolic-acid dressings. Duty, August 7, 1870. Gunshot Wounds of the Abdomen.—It will be most convenient to cite first those cases in wliiclithe thoracic cavity as well was involved, and then, in their order, those in which the symptoms of lesions of the stomach, liver, spleen, kidneys, small and large intestines, and pelvic viscera were most prominent.40 REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. Gunshot Wounds of the Abdominal and Thoracic Cavities.—There are instances of recovery from such injuries, but they are exceptional. An interesting example is recorded in the surgical report in Circular 6, Surgeon General's Office, 1865, page 24. The nine cases here recorded were fatal. One patient survived fifty hours, three others a few hours, and the rest perished in a few minutes, or instantaneously. CXVII.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Thorax and Abdomen. By Samuel S. Jessop, Assistant Siirgeou, U. S. A. At Chester, South Carolina, Private George W. Dormau, Co. K, 6th United States Infantry, was shot, November 24,18G7, at 10 in the evening, while resisting arrest, having previously escaped from the sentinel. The missile was a conical ball; the weapon a breech-loadiug Springfield rifle. The autopsy was made twelve hours after death, and showed the following: The ball entered on the right side, between the eighth and ninth ribs, three aud three-quarter inches below the nipple, and five and a half inches posterior to a line drawn from the nipple to the anterior superior spinous process of ilium. It made its exit on the left side, three and a half inches below the nipple, and a half inch in front of a line from the nipple to the anterior superior spinous process, fracturing in its course the eighth rib, at the point of junction with its cartilage. The liver was the only viscus wounded by the shot, which passed almost transversely through it. It presented a very singular appearance. From the point of entrance of the ball, fissures radiated in every direction, looking as if the liver had been exploded. Internally, it was completely disorganized, being merely a pulpy mass, inclosed by thin fissured walls. When uninjured, it was normal; there was no degeneration of tissue. The hsem- orrhage from the wound was enormous, and was chiefly external. The diaphragm was cut near the point of exit of the ball, and the left lung was collapsed; the heart and lungs were superficially exam- ined ; the latter appeared to be healthy ; the former was slightly fatty. About two ounces of fluid were found in the pericardium. After leaving the body the ball entered the left fore-arm at its middle third dorsal surface, fractured the ulna, and came out on palmar surface, then struck a young mulatto man, who was, it is said, about eight feet from Dorman, entering the abdomen about one and a half inches above the pubes, and one inch to the left of the median line, penetrating the ilium, where it lodged. It was extracted about two hours afterward, but the mulatto died twenty-three hours after he was shot. Dorman survived the injury about twenty minutes. The soldier who shot him, and who was the only person who saw the affair, it being a dark night, esti- mates that he was about eight paces from him when he fired. CXVIII.—ISFote of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thorax and Abdomen. By Joseph R. Gibson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case.—Private Thomas McCoy, Co. H, 3d United States Cavalry, shot himself by the discharge of his carbine while on duty as sentinel over a party of prisoners; the gun slipped from his hands, and the hammer, catching, exploded. The missile entered about an inch toward the median line, at thejiuiction of the cartilage of the eighth and ninth ribs of the right side, ranged backward and upward, and emerged at the back, near the right scapula, passing through the right lung in its course, aiul probably through the left border of the livei'. Death was instantaneous. Considerable luemorrhage occurred after death. CXIX.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Thorax and Abdomen. By James F. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Ford, Co. G, 45th United States Infantry, was shot in Nashville, Tennessee, on the night of February 11, ISO!). The bullet passed througli the right arm, four inches above the elbow, entered the side of the thorax, breaking the seventh rib in its middle third, opened the riglit pleural cavity, but did not wound tlic lung—peiu'tratcd tli(> diaphragm, entered the liver at its right border, traversed tiiis viscus from right to left, impinged on the body of a dorsal vertebraGUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 41 wounded the left lobe of the liver, and extensively lacerated the spleen, and escaped from the body two and a half inches below, and one inch behind the left nipple, brealiing the seventh and eighth ribs. He died in a few minutes after being shot. The contents of the thorax, abdomen, and cra- nium were examined and found in a normal condition, except as regarded the traumatic lesions. CXX.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thorax and Abdomen. By W. E. Steinbeetz, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Jackson Tolliver, Co. E, 24th United States Infantry, aged 21 years, received on Janu- ary 23, 1870, at Fort Griffin, Texas, two gunshot wounds. One was an inch below and a quarter of an inch external to the inferior angle of the right scapuhi; the other in the posterior part of the middle third of the right leg. The patient was admitted to the post hospital, and one missile was extracted from near the ensiforin cartilage, and another from the muscles of the inner portion of the calf. The patient recovered from shock four hours after reception of injury, and seemed to be doing well until half i^ast 11 at night, wlieu internal htemorrhage occurred, and death ensued shortly afterward. At the autopsy, the thoracic cavity was found to contain about one and a half pints of blood. After penetrating the diaphragm, the ball had pierced the upper part of the right lobe of the liver, and, taking an upward course, had buried itself under the skin, near the ensiforra cartilage; the lower edge of the seventh rib was fractured, and the lower part of the inferior lobe of the right lung was perforated. CXXI.—An Account of a N'ecropsy after a Gunshot Wound of the Liver. By W. S. Buchanan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Charles Allen, Co. E, 38th United States Colored Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Hays, Kansas, on December 21, 1867, with a gunshot wound of the abdomen, and died in a few minutes. An autopsy was made nine hours after death. The missile, supposed to be a pistol ball, penetrated the abdominal cavity immediately below the seventh costal cartilage and two inches to the left of the mesial line, entered the left lobe of the liver, traversed that organ nearly its whole length, through the left lobe, crossing the longitudinal fissure, reentering the under surface of the right lobe, and emerged at its superior surface and near its right extremity; thence it passed through the diaphragm into the right pleural cavity and passed out at the tenth rib, which was completely fractured in its middle. Sixty-four ounces of blood were found in the right pleural cavity, which had passed from the abdomen through the aperture in the diaj)hragm. About twenty ounces of blood were found in the abdominal cavity. CXXII.—Case of Gunshot Wound of the Liver, Spleen, and Diaphragm. By J. E. Smith, Surgeon, U. S. A, Private Eichard Sledge, reassigned, 38th United States Infantry, was shot by the sentinel at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri, on the 3d instant, while endeavoring to escape from the guard. The ball entered the body posteriorly, just above the edge of the left ilium, and midway the crest; entered the abdominal cavity, ranging upward and forward, passed through the spleen and the diaphragm, wounding the liver; and then passed out anteriorly', near the left nipx)le, fracturing the sixth rib. The man lived fifty hours after receiving the wound. CXXIII.—Pistol-shot Wound implicating both the Thoracic and Abdominal Cavities. By J. F.Weeds, Surgeon, U. S, A. In October, 1869, at Nashville, Tennessee, Private Frank Gibhart, Co. D, 14th United States Infantry, was accidentally shot bj- the officer of the day, while the latter was supi)ressing a dis- turbance among the prisoners in the guard-house. The deceased was one of the guard. The bullet (a conical ball fired from a 5-inch Smith & Wesson's pistol) entered the back two and a half inches to the left of the fourth dorsal vertebra and lodged the same distance to the riglit of the xiphoid cartilage, passing through the superior portion of the right lobe of the liver, the dia- X)hragm, and opening the right pleural cavity. He died in a few minutes. 6REPOET OF SUEGICAL OASES IE THE AEMY. 42 CXXIY.—Brief Beport of a Case of Gunshot 'Wound involving both the Chest and Abdomen. By J. A, ToNNEB, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Michael O'Oallaglian, Co. D, 6th United States Cavalry, was shot by a citizen, on Feb- ruary 9, 1867, the missile, a buckshot, inflicting wounds of the chest and abdomen. He was admitted from camp to the regimental field hospital at Austin, Texas, on February 10, 1867. He died on the following day. CXXV.—Note of a Gunshot Wound involving the Thorax and Abdomen. By William Deal, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Artificer John Tindolph, Co. K, 1st United States Artillery, aged 21 years, received a gunshot wound of the right side on November 22,1868, by duck-shot, which entered the right side, fracturing the sixth and seventh ribs, passing downward into the liver, lacerating the lower lobe of the right lung. He was admitted to Sedgwick Barracks post hospital, at New Orleans, on November 22d, and died the same day from haemorrhage. The injuries in the cases recorded in the nine foregoing reports were inflicted, in five cases, by musket balls; in two, by pistol balls; in one, by buckshot; in one, by bird shot. Gunshot Wounds of the /Stomach.—It is superfluous to remark on the rarity of recovery from traumatic lesions of the stomach. We have to look back to Dr. Beau- mont's report of the case of Alexis St. Martin for a satisfactory published instance, derived from the surgical annals of the Army. But one case of gunshot wound of the stomach, coming under treatment, is reported in the last five years. CXXVI.—Beport of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Stomach. By W. F. Buchanan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Brennan, Troop F, 7th United States Cavalry, was admitted to hospital at Fort Hays, Kansas, April 18, 1869, for a gunshot wound, from the effects of which he died on the third day after admission. At a post-mortem examination, fifteen hours after death, it was found that a large pistol ball had entered the back directly to the left of the spinal column, and had passed just beneath the left renal artery and through the pyloric extremity of the stomach, making- its exit to the left and about two and a half inches above the umbilicus. The whole extent of the peritomx'um and intestines was congested with an extensive effusion of fibrin. Extensive internal hiemorrhage, most probably from a branch of the gastro-epiploica dextra, had taken place, and was evidently the immediate cause of death. Hasmorrhage from the nose, ears, and mouth took place immediately before death. Gunshot Wounds of the /Small Intestines.—Twenty cases were reported. They were all fatal. Seven were complicated by wounds of large vessels, and the patients died almost immediately. Ten other patients died within forty hours, from internal haemorrhage mainly. As nearly as can be ascertained most of these died in a very few hours. Three patients survived three, five, and twenty-nine days, respectively, and succumbed to peri- tonitis.43 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. CXXVII.—Report of a Case of Perforation of the Duodenum by a Pistol Ball. By C. H. Alden, Surgeon, U. S. A. Lieutenant George F. Mason, 5tli United States Cavalry, was shot iu a quarrel with a citizen, near Fort D. A. Russell, Wyoming Territory, on March 1, 1870. The ball was from a Colt's Navy revolver, and entered about two and a half inches above the umbilicus, a little to the right of the median line, ranged downward and backward, i^erforating the duodenum a short distance below the stomach, dividing the mesenteric vessels in several places, and passed out about two and a half inches to the left of the median line posteriorly and opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra. Inter- nal hfemorrhage was the immediate cause of death, which took place soon after the reception of the injury, March 1, 1870. CXXYHI.—Memorandum of a Fatal Case of Ounshot Wound of the Small Intestines. By James Saunders, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Hoffman, Co. A, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 28 years, was wounded in a skirmish at Farmersville, Texas, on November 19, 1808, by a conoidal ball which perforated the jejunum. The treatment consisted of stimulants and anodynes. He died on November 20, 1868. The skirmish occurred about twenty-five miles from Pilot Grove, Texas, and the case was treated by Dr. Netherby, of that place. His remains were brought to the post, where they were interred. CXXIX.—Report of a Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Small Intestines. By H. H. Smith, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, Private Joseph Clark, Co. C, 14th United States Infantry, was shot by Indians four miles from Camp Verde, Arizona Territory, on May 6,1869. The ball entered just over the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium on the left side, and, passing across and upward, lodged in the right hypochondrium, after perforating the peritonjeum and small intestines. He ran or walked half way into camp, and was carried the remainder of the way on a hand-litter. He never recovered from the shock, and his stomach was so irritable that he vomited frequently and could retain nothing. At length, being able to retain a dose of morphia which was administered in a small powder with a few grains of prepared chalk, he slept a considerable portion of the night. Toward morning he took and retained wine and water, and later was able to retain brandy and water; but he could not be induced to take food in any form. He had a passage of fteces and blood. There were slight spots and streaks of blood in the vomited matter. The jjatient died on the morning of May 7, 1869. CXXX.—Minute of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Ileum and Jejumim. By William A. Cant- kell, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal James Dunn, Co. C, 28th United States Infantry, was brought to the post hospital at Little Eock, Arkansas, on the night of March 6, 1868, in an intoxicated condition, having received a wound of the abdomen by the accidental discharge of a small pocket-pistol, in his own hands, while resisting the efforts of a policeman to disarm him. Death resulted on the morning of March 7th. At the autopsy the ball was found to have entered a little above and to the right of the umbilicus, passing backward and to the left through the convolutions of the ileum and jejunum, cutting some of the branches of the superior mesenteric vein, and to have lodged on the left of the spine. The abdominal cavity was filled with clotted blood. CXXXI.—Abstract of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Small Intestines. By William M. Notson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Edward Stuvan, Co. G, 4th United States Cavalry, aged 29 years, was wounded in a drunken scuffle on June 19, 1870, by a conoidal ball, in the abdomen. He was admitted on the same day to the United States post hospital at Fort Concho, Texas. There was no treatment, death being almost instantaneous from internal hiemorrhage.44 EEPOET OF SUKGIGAL CASES IN THE AEMY. CXXXII.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Jejunum. By Axbert NeujVIAN, M'. D., Acting Assistaut Surgeon. Private Samuel G. Martin, Troop D, lith Missouri Cavalry, was admitted to hospital at Lawrence, Kansas, June 23d, having received a wound about an hour before by the accidental discharge of a Eeniington revolver. The ball entered the right side near the lower lumbar verte- brje, and lodged under the skin about an inch above the internal abdominal ring, whence it had been removed by incision before admission. He was sutfering great pain, and there was great ten- derness of the abdomen. There was a constant and intense desire to urinate with inability to do so, and he begged to have his urine drawn off. An anodyne was administered, and cold-water dressings applied. On the 25th, ftecal matter was discharged from the wound in front. On the 20tli, he complained of no pain ; he became slightly delirious, and vomited ; pulse 108. July 4tli: Easy; fiBcal matter discharged from the wound in the back; a dark slough protruded from the Avound in front; pulse 9G ; treated expectantly. July 5th: Sntfei'ed much i^ain in the night: had four discharges per anum, and fiecal matter discharged from both wounds. Ji\\y 6th : Symptoms increased, with considerable tenderness over the whole abdomen. July 14th : Patient nmch pros- trated ; back and sides of the trunk covered with small, irregular purple spots and lines; lividness of the hands and feet. The symptoms gradually grew worse, and by July 21st the pulse was 104, and small; the lividness had increased, and purple spots covered both legs. Death occurred July 22d. A necroscopic examination, three hours after deatli, revealed the usual characteristics of peritonitis. The small intestine was completely divided, the lower portion being contracted almost to the size of a goose quill. Communicating with the wounds of exit and of entrance, and surround- ing the right psoas muscle, was a cavity of sufficient size to hold a quart, separated by adhesions from the remainder of the abdominal cavity. The upper portion of the small intestine opened into this cavity, which was half full of faecal matter. CXXXIII.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Wound of the Abdomen. By G. A. Jajieson, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Private John Hynds, Co. D, 17th Eegiment Veteran Eeserve Corps, was wounded by an asso- ciate at Ekin Barracks, Indianapolis, Indiana, on July 22, 1805 ; death resulted on July 23d, nine hours after the reception of the injury. At the post-mortem examination, the ball was found to have entered the abdomen three inches to the left, and a half inch above the umbilicus; and the adipose tissue around the orifice made by the ball to be iutiltrated with blood from one to two inches in every direction. Upon laying back the flaps made by the incision, the peritonaeum was found to be move red and swollen than common. In the abdominal cavity were three pints of blood, which must have been effused from the small mesenteric vessels broken by the ball. CXXXTV.—Penetrating Gunshot Wound of the Abdomen. By B. A. Clements, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Michael Ford, Co. E, 19th United States Infiintry, received August 9, 1870, a gun- shot wound of the abdomen. He was admitted to the post hospital at Jackson Barracks, Louisi- ana, on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He died August 14, from the immediate effects of internal haemorrhage and peritonitis. CXXXV.—Note of a Gunshot Perforation of the Small Intestines. By John Eidgely, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Bernard Curry, Co. B, Gth United States Cavalry, was admitted into the post hospital at Austin, Texas, on August 23, 18G8, with a gunshot wound of the abdomen, from the ejects of which he died on the same day. At the autopsy, the missile, which was supposed to have been a pistol ball, was found to have entered the cavity of the abdomen about two aiul a half inches below and to the left of the umbilicus; to have passed transversely through each fold of the intestines, tearing them—in some iilaces destroying the continuity—and to have emerged immediately above the crest of the left ilium.45 GUNSHOT WOraDS OF THE ABDOMEN. CXXXVI.—Memormidtim of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Jejunum. By H. A. DuBois, Assistant Surgeon, and D. C. Peteks, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Antoine Seeberger, Troop F, 3d United States Cavalry, aged 28 years, was admitted to post hospital at Camp Union, New Mexico, June 30,1867, witli a penetrating gunshot wound of the abdojnen. The missile, a conoidal ball, entered midway between the umbilicus and the border of the costal cartilages, left side, and emerged two and a half inches on the left side of the spinous process and at the lower margin of the ribs. Hypodermic injections of morphia were tried, but the patient died July 1,1867. At the 2yost-mortem examination the ball was found to have pierced the jejunum in the left lumbar region, and to have grazed the left kidney. The portion of the small intestine above the point of injury contrasted Avith the iiortiou below, which was contracted and pale. CXXXYII.—Note of a Case of Traumatic Peritonitis. By Theodore Atwood, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private William Linnahan, Co. I, 7th United States Infantry, aged 21 years, received a wound of the abdomen from a slug while on patrol duty February 22, 1869. He was admitted to the i)OSt hospital at Jacksonville, Florida, on the same day, and died of traumatic peritonitis, February 25, 1869. CXXXVIII.—BemarJcs on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Ileum. By F. W. Elbkey, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Franklin A. Dennis, Co. 1,5th Cavalry, accidentally shot himself on the 5th of November, while with an expedition to the forks of the Eepublican Kiver, and died half an hour after the occurrence. The expedition being on its return to Fort McPherson, Nebraska, and distant only one day's march, the body was transported for interment there. The autopsy, which was made at the post hospital, showed that a carbine ball had entered the right iliac region, iserforatiog in its course the ileum two inches from the ileo-ctecal valve, and the external iliac vein near Poupart's ligament. It then struck the body of the pubic bone, which it fractured, and, being thence deflected, took its course along the inner side of the right leg and lodged at the side of the tendo Achilles. CXXXIX.—BemarJcs on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the AMomen. By D. Weisel, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private Anderson Merryweather, 9th United States Cavalry Band, was shot by parties unknown on October 14, 1870, at Fort Davis, Texas, from the effects of which he died Octo- ber 16, 1870. Upon examination, immediately after the receipt of injury, it was found that he had been shot by a small bullet, which had entered the abdomen at and penetrating the pos- terior part of the crest of the left ilium, passing upward and outward and lodging upon the anterior portion of the ensiform cartilage, from which it was extracted by cutting down upon it. The next day the patient complained of severe pain and soreness of the bowels with the abdomen much swollen, and upon going to stool the pain was intense, with large quantities of blood passing from him. An autopsy upon his body, six hours after death, revealed a large quantity of blood iu the cavity of the abdomen, the bowels congested, and the small intestines penetrated by the bullet four times. CXL.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the AMomen. By Robert McCracken, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Baton Eouge, Louisiana, August 15, 1868, Acting Assistant Surgeon C. B. Braraan, aged 27 years, was killed by a pistol ball. The missile entered the back, near the left side of the spine, passed through the body, and lodged in the muscular tissues of the anterior part of the left chest, in its course cutting the ascending cava. Death, consequently, was almost instantaneous.REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 46 CXLI.—Memorandum of a Wou7id of the Abdomen ly a Muslcet-BaU. By John RmaELY, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. * * At Austin, Texas, April 1, 18G8, Private William Burke, Co. B, 6tli United States Cavalry, aged 21 years, received a wound of tlie abdomen from a conoidal bullet. He was admitted to tlie liospital at Austin, Texas, and died on tlie same day. CXLII.—Iflote of a Case of Perforation of the Abdomen by a Muslcet Ball. By J. C. Lamont, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Baker, Co. K, 24tli United States Infantry, aged 25 years, was accidentally wounded on February 20, 1870, by a conoidal ball, which entered midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the right ilium and the linea alba, passed downward, and laterally, traversing the abdominal cavity, and emerged four inches below the crest of the left ilium, and one inch from the junction of the sacrum with the ilium. He was admitted to the United States post hospital at Fort Duncan, Texas, on the same day. He died on February 21, 1870. CXLIII.—Minute of a Penetrating Wound of the Abdomen. By W. M. NoTSON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Gourjan, Co. G, 4th United States Cavalry, aged 22 years, was accidentally wounded while on picket, in the abdomen, on June 6, 1868, by a conoidal bullet. He was admitted into the United States Army ])ost hospital at Fort Concho, Texas, on June 7, 1868. Water-dress- ings were apijlied to the wound. He died on June 8, 1868. OXLIY.—Memorandum of a Perforating Gunshot Wound of Abdomen. By J. Hakvey, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Brown, Co. C, 5th United States Cavalry, was wounded by a conoidal pistol ball, on May 13, 1868, which entered the back near the tenth dorsal vertebra, and emerged through the abdomen just above the umbilicus, causing almost instant death. CXLY.—Minute of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Wound of Abdomen. By J. A. Tonner, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. . Corporal Thomas Casey, Co. M, 6th United States Cavalry, received, near Austin, Texas, a gunshot wound of the abdomen by a conoidal ball. He was admitted from camj) to the regimental field hospital on February 7, 1867. He died February 8, 1867. CXLVI.—Minutes taken from Monthly Report of Woundedfrom Fort McKavett, Texas. By R. Sharpe, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort McKavett, February 3, 3870, an autopsy was made on the person of Private Charles Murray, Co. F, 9th United States Cavalry, who was murdered by ruftians while on guard over a man (Jackson) accused of murder. The post-mortem notes are as follows: A ritie ball had entered the right side about three inches above the crest of the ilium, perforated the vena cava ascendeus, and lodged under the cuticle of the left side about one inch above the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. This man was wounded on February 2, 1870, and died almost immediately. Gunshot Flesh Wounds of the Abdomen—Several of the gunshot wounds of tlie abdominal walls that were reported were of a serious nature. CXLVII.— Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Abdomen with other Injuries. By H. J. Smith, Assistant Surgeon, 5th United States Yolunteer Infantry. Sergeant Little Priest, Co. A, Omaha Scouts, was wounded near Camp ('onnor, Dakota Terri- tory, in a fight with Sioux Indians, in November, 1865, receiving four gunshot wounds. The first47 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. ball was received in the epigastric region anteriorly, abont two inches above the umbilicus and to the right of the median line. As he did not arrive at post until some time after the irritative fever had set in, it was hard to ascertain the direction of said ball, but the best diagnosis that could be made in the case was, that it had passed between the intestines and abdominal walls, passing over the crest of the right ilium, and lodging in the gluteal muscles. The second ball passed in posteri- orly to the left of the right scapula, and traveling through the superficial fascia and cellular substance covering that bone, lodged in the substance of the right deltoid muscle. The third ball was a glancing shot, making a lacerated wound of the pectoralis major muscle, near its insertion into the anterior bicipital ridge of the humerus. The fourth ball entered posteriorly the triceps muscle of the left arm. The track and lodgement of this ball are still unknown. At the end of the month the patient was doing well, with good hope of his speedy recovery. [He was returned to duty December, 1865.—Ed.] CXLYIII.—Note of a Ounsliot Flesh- Wo%md. By Harvey E. Brown, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Daniel McCarthy, Co. D, 24th United States Infantry, aged 22 years, received a gun- shot wound from a couoidal pistol bullet, on March 25,1809. The ball entered one inch below the anterior superior spinous process of the left ilium, and made its exit midway between the crest of the ilium and the tuber ischii. He was admitted to the post hospital at Galveston, Texas, on March 25,1869. Cold-water dressings were applied. He was returned to duty in April, 1869. CXLIX.—Note of a Gunsliot Flesh- Wound of the Abdomen. By Bedford Sharpe, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private William L. Jones, Co. F, 35th United States Infantry, aged 24 years, received a gun- shot wound of the abdomen. He was admitted into the United States Army jjost hospital at San Antonio, Texas, from field hospital, on December 11, 1866. The treatment consisted of simple dressings. He was returned to duty on December 22, 1866. CL.—Note of a Gunshot Flesh-Wound. By John Brooke, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Lieutenant G. A. H. Clements, Co. H, 44th United States Infantry, aged 24 years, received on May 19, 1868, a gunshot wound of the abdomen, by the accidental discharge of his pistol. He was admitted to the post hospital at Washington, D. C, on May 24, 1868. The ball was extracted jire- vious to admission. Simple dressings were applied. He was transferred to quarters on June 8, 1868. CLI.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Flesh-Wound. By F. Suhring, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Marrion, Co. I, 16th United States Infantry, was wounded near McNutt, Mis- sissippi, while assisting the deputy sheriff" in making an arrest. The ball entered the lower part of the left iliac region, and, passing to the right, lodged in the lower part of the right iliac region, immediately under the skin. After being wounded, the patient started on horseback for his sta- tion, a distance of about thirty-one miles, and on his arrival did not seem to be seriously injured. After some time, however, severe vomiting and great i^rostratiou followed, which, after several days' duration, yielded to the administration of counter-irritants and proper diet. Constipation was easily overcome by a few doses of castor oil. The utmost rest, and light, digestible food—as peritonitis had set in—was ordered. The wound was treated first with cold-water dressings; after- wards with warm poultices of slippery elm and hops. The visceral peritonieum, it seems, had been injured to some extent. The patient was convalescent at the date of this report, January, 1870.EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 48 Gunshot Wounds of the Large Intestine.—Such injuries are dangerous, but far less so than those of the small intestines. OLII.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Wound of the Large Intestine recovering tinder 8im])le Treatment. By W. S. MiNEER, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private J. T>. Morgan, Co. H, 23d United States Infantry, aged 25 years, was shot by a com- panion in a dispute on July 15, 1867. A revolver ball entered tlie abdomen, ijassing tlirougli the colon, aud was extracted just above the right ilium. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Boise, Indian Territory, on July 15, 1867. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on September 30, 1867. CLIII.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Wotmd of the Colon. By S. S. Beach, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Octavio Dussett, aged 23 years, was wounded in a quarrel with a comrade, on June 23, 1868, at Atlanta, Georgia. A pistol ball entered above the crest of the right ilium, passed through the transverse colon longitudiually, and made its exit two and a half inches above the left ilium. He was sent to the post hospital at McPherson Barracks. Water-dressings were applied. He died on June 27, 1868, from peritonitis, ninety-six hours after the reception of the injury. CLIY.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Abdomen tvith Protrusion of the Omentum. By S. H. Horner, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private Charles Morris, Co. C, 2d United States Infantry, was admitted to the post hospital at Louisville, Kentucky, August 2, 1866, with a gunshot wouud of the abdomen, received in an attempt to escape from arrest. A conoidal ball entered the right side posteriorly, grazing the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium, emerging at a point one inch to the right and above the umbilicus. When admitted he was suffering from great pain, continual vomiting, rest- lessness, and excessive thirst. His pulse was 70, and very feeble; skin bathed in cold clammy perspiration. About eight inches of the omentum, Avhich protruded through the anterior wouud, was washed and returned. The wouud was then closed with a suture, and cold-water dressings applied. Stimulants and anodynes were freely given, but the patient continued to sink, and expired at 1 o'clock P. M. on the same day. At the post-mortem examination, the ball was found to have traversed the colon in two places, lacerating the omentum; the jjeritonfeum was somewhat thickened and inflamed; the vessels of the omentum and mucous membrane of the colon were highly engorged, and the abdominal cavity contained a considerable quantity of dark bloody fluid mingled with Itecal matter. CLV.—Remarlis on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Abdomen, folloioed by Faxal Fistula. By H. S. SCHELL, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Eichard Broad, Co. F, 2d United States Cavalry, was wounded July 3, 1867, at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, by a conoidal ball from a Eemington revolver. Army pattern. The ball entered on the left side of the abdomen, its lower edge grazing the centre of Poupart's liga- ment, and ranging backward, inward, and slightly ui^ward, emerged one inch to the left of the spinous processes of the sacrum. He was admitted to the hospital the next morning, i^ut in bed, absolute rest and diet enjoined, and cold-water dressing applied. Opium was given in full doses, to obtain (juietude of the bowels, which were disposed to diarrluea. On July 6th, all the sym]>toms of Deritonitis making their appearance, six cut cups were applied to the abdomen, and ten ounces of blood abstracted. Warm-water dressing aud light, hot fomentations were applied, with relief of all untoward symptoms. On July 8th, tea and toast diet was allowed. On July 11th, free dis- charge of ficcal matter from both anterior and posterior wound. This discharge continued for three days, then ceased. More liberal diet was then allowed, and by August 12th, both wounds Avere entirely healed.GUifSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 49 Ounshot Wounds of the Liver, Spleen, and Gall-Bladder.—Wounds of the liver are oftener followed by recovery than is generally supposed. The great fatality of wounds of the spleen must be confessed, and, in presence of gunshot perforations of the gall-bladder, we may admit, with M. Legouest, that the surgeon must lay down his arms. Yet of the cases of gunshot wounds of the liver here recorded, four had a successful issue, and one of these that Dr. Patzki has reported, though not in detail, was a recovery from a wound of the gall-bladder. CLVI.—Abstract of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Liver, treated at the Post Hospital, Cape Dis- appointment, Washington Territory. By W. E. Whitehead, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Francis H. Y s, a citizen, aged 22 years, was ■wounded by a slug from a pistol, on June 3,18G7. The missile was shot from behind, and entered about four inches from a line drawn from the nipple of the right side to the superior spinous process of the ilium, and about six inches from the right nipple, below and posterior to the nipple. The slug was removed by an incision through the skin, at a point two and a half inches from the median line, and three and a half inches below the left nipple. At the time of injury he bled very freely from the wound of entrance, continuing to lose blood and bile till daylight next morning, when the htemorrhage ceased, bnt the flow of bile con- tinued. When seen on June 4th, the patient was quite feeble from loss of blood ; his respiration was rapid, with slight spasm of the diaphragm; pulse small and frequent, and 120; tongue coated; skm of a yellowish tinge, and the extremities cold. On June 7th, he was sent a distance of fifteen miles in a boat, and was admitted into the hospital of the post. Upon admission, he was some- what excited and fatigued; there was pain and tenderness of the abdomen, the contents of the stomach with bile were persistently vomited, and serum passed freely from the wound. An anodyne was prescribed; the wound was dressed with dry lint, and the patient was kept cool and quiet. June 8th, patient more quiet; bowels constipated; urine high-colored. The anodyne was continued every three hours; two grains of calomel with four grains of Dover's powder were given morning and evening, and a light but nutritious diet was allowed. By June 10th, there was con- siderable improvement, but there occurred from the wound a discharge of blood-clots, bile, and serum. Slight ptyalism taking place on the 11th, the calomel was reduced to three-fourths of a grain, and the Dover's powder to five grains, which was directed to be taken daily at bed-time. The patient's fseces were clay-colored; his countenance was of an icteroid hue. After his gums were touched, there was an increased discharge of bile from the wound. By June 18th, imi)rovement hav- ing taken place, the mercurial was stopped, but the solution of morphia was continued. The patient had so far improved by June 29th, as to be able to sit up several hours daily, and on July 4th was able to walk in the open air once or twice a day. On July 15th, when the patient left the hospital for a farm-house by the sea-shore, the wound was healthy, and discharged less than an ounce and a half during the twenty-four hours. The discharge consisted of free bile, also bile mixed with thick purulent matter. When last heard from, July 27, 1867, the patient was imi)roving finely in flesh and strength. The discharge from the wound was about the same in quantity and quality.—See A. M. M. Photographic Series, Nos. 39 and 40 of Surgical Card Photographs, vol. 2, p. 39. OLYII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Liver, terminating in Recovery. By J. Cooper MoKee, Surgeon, U. S. A, Commissary Sergeant Edward Zimmer, 37th United States Infantry, aged 36 years, was wounded at Santa Fe, New Mexico, in a drunken brawl, on March 8, 18GS, by a conoidal ball from a Colt's revolver, which entered the centre of the right hypochondriac region three inches from the cartilages of the ribs, and four and one-half inches from, and on the line with, the lower edge of the sternum, between the eighth and ninth ribs, passed through the liver and intermediate interposing tissues, and emerged between the seventh and eighth ribs on the left side, four inches from the interior edge of the sternum in the left hypochondriac region. He was admitted to the post hos- 7llEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 50 l)ital at Santa Fe ou the same day. The collapse following the injury was of a very severe kind, lasting nearly all night. Alcoholic stimulants, hot sinapisms, and chloroform were freely used. After reaction he had severe pain in the region of the wound, and dyspnoea. Suli>hate of morphia, in one half-grain doses, was given hypodermically, and repeated in two hours. Warm i)oultices were applied over the wound and abdomen. His condition at this time w^as unfavorable and discouraging; pulse frequent and feeble. He had great pain on inspiration and an anxious expres- sion of countenance. There w-as no external htemorrhage. On March 15th, having had no move- ment of the bowels, an enema was given, which acted on the next day, after which his condition improA'^ed. On the next day, he ate some vegetable soup, by mistake, which brought on a profuse diarrhoBa accompanied by intense tenesmus. Considerable blood w^as found in the last two opera- tions. By March 19th, the diarrhoea was checked, and he again commenced to improve. On the 20th, he complained of great pain over the seat of the left lobe of the liver; there was dullness on percussion, extending as high as the fourth rib, and two Inches below the lower boundary of the right hypochondriac region. During the night the wound of entrance discharged two ounces of pus commingled with bile, which was evidently from the right lobe of the liver. The patient was much relieved; pulse 100; respiration 26. On March 28th, the wound commenced discharging daily about two ounces of pus intermingled with bile and shreds of liver. He continued to improve, and on April 13th, was able to sit up two or three hours a day. Nourishing diet and stimulants were continued, and, on April 24th, he returned to his quarters. He recovered, and was returned to duty June 11, 1868. CltYlll.—Note relative to a Case of GunsJwt Wound of the Liver. By Frederick Hassig, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Eiley, Co. E, 25th United States infantry, aged 26 years, was wounded in an affray near Paducah, Kentucky, on February 29,1868, by a conoidal ball, which entered between the sixth and seventh ribs, about one and a half inches from the spinal column, passed through the liver, and lodged two inches under the right nipjile. There was i^rofuse bleeding from the wound - of entrance. The ball was cut out the same day. On March 1st, the patient was sent to Paducah. The wound rapidly healed. He was returned to duty in May, 1868. CLIX.—Memorandum of a Case of Recovery after Otmshot Wound of the Gall-Bladder and Liver. By Assistant Surgeon J. H. Patzki, U. S. A. At Fort Eichardson, Texas, Private John Murphy, Co. M, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 25 years, received in an affray a gunshot wound of the abdomen, penetrating the right lobe of the liver and the gall-bladder. He was admitted to the post hospital November 27, 1870, one day after the reception of the injury. Water dressings were applied locally, and morphine was given internally. He recovered, and was discharged the service December 27, 1870. The four following reports relate to fatal gunshot wounds of tlie liver, and with the preceding reports on the subject, and two reports among gunshot ivounds of the ispleen, furnish a total of fifteen cases of gunshot wound of the liver, with four recoveries: CLX.—Report of a Gtmshot Wound of the Liver and Colon. By Calvin DeWitt, Assistant Siu'geon, U. S. A. Private Joseph Darragh, Co. E, 1st United States Cavalry, aged 21 years, was woujuled December 10, 1869, in a personal encounter with an Indian during an attack on a band of Apache— Mojaves met by a scouting party under command of Captain George B. Sanford, 1st United States Cavalry. The ball was shot from a Spencer carbine in the hands of a comrade who attempted to51 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. shoot the Iiidiaa in whose embrace Darragh was locked and from Avhom he was struggling to free himself. The ludian was killed, bnt it was impossible to determine whether he or his antagonist was first struck, as they were rolling over each other. The ball entered Darragh's body iu the right hypochondriac region, just in front of the space between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, passed obliquely downward, backward, and inward, through, it is believed, the anterior edge of the right lobe of the liver, the transverse colon, among the folds of the small intestines, and emerged one inch to the right of the eleventh dorsal vertebra, fracturing the transverse process. There was some paralysis of motion of the right lower extremity and urinary bladder, due, doubtless, to the shock sustained by the spinal cord from the ball striking and fracturing the transverse i^rocess of the eleventh dorsal vertebra. But little external, and a small amount of internal, hsemorrhage was evident, and although he grew faint the tendency to collapse was small, as he rallied from the shock iu two or three hours, being quite strong and cheerful, notwithstanding he was told the wound would in all probability prove fatal in a few hours. Opium was given to him immediately, and a temporary hand-litter was constructed on which he was carried over a rough country more than half-way to Camp McDowell, Arizona Territory, until the party was met by an ambulance. He arrived at that post on December 11th, twenty-six hours after the occurrence of the injury, and was immediately taken to the post hospital, where he was made as comfortable as possible. His wounds were dressed, and a pint of ammoniacal urine was drawn from his bladder by the catheter, and a small injection of warm water was given to unload the rectum, the patient having been somewhat constipated. Opium was given to relieve the constantly increasing pain, and barley- water ordered as a drink. A more careful examination discovered that general peritonitis had set in, and that though apparently strong he was almost pulseless. Death occurred at 8 o'clock of the evening of December 11,1869. OLXI.—Report of a Gunshot Woimd of the Liver.—By C. W. Knight, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Brevet Major William Eussell, jr.. Second Lieutenant 4th United States Cavalry, was shot by Indians at Mount Adam, Lampasas, Texas, at 2 P. M., on the 14th of May, 1870. He was first seen by the writer at 9.30 P. M., on the day of the shooting, at Grimes's Eanche, about five miles from the scene of action, and some fifteen miles from the post of Lampasas. The ball, from a Eemington's revolver, entered just beneath the tenth rib of the right side, and about four inches from the vertebral column. The ball lodged immediately beneath the integument of the epigastrium, from which position a citizen extracted the ball by incision some two hours before the writer arrived upon the spot. There had been extensive haemorrhage, with much prostra- tion. Major Eussell died at midnight, May 15th, and in the line of duty. An autopsy was imprac- ticable; but it is quite certain that the liver was penetrated by the missile. The immediate causes of death seemed to have been the shock of the injury and the haemorrhage. CLXIL—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Liver. By F. L. Town, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Joseph Phelan, Co. K, 13th United States Infantry, aged 22 years, received a gunshot wound of the liver. He was admitted to the United States post hospital at Fort Shaw, Montana Territory, on April 3,1870. The treatment consisted of simple dressings. He died on April 4,1870. CLXIII.—A Case of Gunshot Wound of the Liver. By D. L. Magruder, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Stainbrook, 19th Kansas Volunteers, being confined in the guard-house at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, under a charge of desertion, attempted his escape about 1 o'clock in the afternoon of September 4, 18G9. Eefusing to halt, he was fired on by the sentinels, and when in the act of crossing a high fence, two hundred yards distant, one of the shots took effect. A ball entered, fracturing the crest of the right ilium, and passed upward and inward, traversing the liver and intestines, making its exit three inches above and a little to the left of the umbilicus. Profuse internal hsemorrhage set in, and the patient died at 6 o'clock the same evening, Septem- ber 4, 1869.REPORT OF ISUEGICAL CASES I2f THE ARMY. 52 Gunshot Wounds of the Spleen—One complicated case has been reported on page 41. The three following reports refer to similar injuries. All of the four cases had a fatal result. Wounds of the spleen uncomplicated by lesions of the intestines, or kidneys, or larger arteries, are so uncommon that the symptoms of its injury are almost as obscure as the nature of its functions. CLXIV.—Memorandum of a Giinsliot Woiind of the Spleen. By F. A. Wllliams, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Allen Davis, Co. B, 17tb United States Infantry, aged 35 years, was wounded by a round bullet on December 25, 1868. He was admitted to tbe United States post bospital at Fort Breubam, Texas, on December 26, 1868. Tbe missile entered the left side of tbe cbest near tbe ninth rib, passed tbrongh the front wall, tbrougb a portion of tbe spleen, diaphragm, and Ijleura, and emerged at the back of the cbest. Tbe treatment consisted of simple dressings. He died on December 28, 1868. CLXV.—Memorandum of a Case of OunsJiot Wound of the Liver and Spleen. By S. A. Dow, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Patrick Bebn, Co. A, 34tb United States Infantry, was instantly killed at Columbus, Mississippi, on the morning of September 6, 1867, by a ball from a musket in tbe bands of one of his fellow-soldiers. At tbe autopsy, tbe missile was found to have entered tbe body on tbe left side between tbe tenth and eleventb ribs, passing tbrougb the spleen and liver, and to have lodged in the adipose tissue beneatb the lower edge of tbe seventh rib, just at tbe right of the ensiform cartilage. Tbe spleen was torn into tbree pieces, and the rigbt and left lobes of tbe liver comi)letely sei^arated. CLXVI.—Account of an Autopsy follotving several Gunshot Wounds. By John Ridgely, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Daniel O'Conner, Co, B, 6tb United States Cavalry, was admitted into tbe post bospital at Austin, Texas, August 23, 1868, at 7.30 A. M., in a moribund state from tbe effects of four gunshot wounds, more particularly described bereafter, of which be died, at 9 o'clock A. M., August 23, 1868. Wound first: Gunshot, left arm, lower third, flesh-wound. Wound second: Gunshot, one inch and a half to tbe right, and above left nipple, entering tbe thorax between tbe third and fourth ribs, two inches from sternal articulation; reflected across the pericardium, passing downward, traversing the lower lobe of left lung, and lodging beneath tbe skin at intercostal space of sixth and seventh ribs. It was extracted by Acting- Assistant Surgeon R. Gale, on the morning of tbe injury, prior to his admission into tbe \)Ost hospital, The missile was a small-sized pistol-ball. The wound was not necessarily mortal. Wound third: Gunshot, the missile entering the cavity of the abdomen, about three inches to tbe right and above umbilicus, passed through tbe rigbt lobe of the liver, thence proceeding transversely, tore tbe large intestines. Tbe missile was not found, being probably thrown away with intestines after their removal. This wound was necessarily mortal. AVouud fourth : Gunshot, missile entered the cavity of abdomen, three to four inches upward and to the left of umbilicus, passing transversely through the stonmcb downward, and laterally, through the spleen and tbe kidney toward the bladder. Time and circumstances caused the examination to be closed at this stage.53 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE PELVIS. Gunshot Wounds of the Pelvis.—Detailed reports of eight grave cases of this class were transmitted, and memoranda of a few slighter cases, which will be noted among ih-Qjlesh wounds oi the trunk further on. Seven of the grave cases were fatal. CLXYII.—Report oj a Case of Gunsliot Fracture of the Pelvis. By J. T. ScoTT, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Isam Davis, Co. D, 9tli United States Cavalry, in a quarrel with a comrade at Fort Stockton, Texas, July 4,1868, was mortally wounded by a ball from a carbine. The ball entered the iliac region, above Poupart's ligament, ranging downward and backward, striking the ilium on the pectineal line, shattering the acetabulum andtheheadof the femur, audlodgingin the anterior muscles of the thigh. As there was no hope of preserving his life, only palliative treatment was resorted to. He died July 21, 1868, of pyaemia. OLXVIII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gimslwl Fracture of the Pelvis. By William Shackle- ford, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James Johnson, Co. F, 23d United States Infantry, aged 28 years, was accidentally wounded by the discharge of a carbine, in the hands of a man who was cleaning it, on November 25, 1867. The missile entered to the right of tlie symphisis pubis, over the right spermati(! cord, lacerating the sheath, and bruising the vessels seriously, passed downward and backward, divid- ing the penis in front of the prostate gland, and passed out through the left nates. At the time of the reception of the injury he was in a thin and anremic condition. Hjemorrhage was slow at first, owing probably to a greater quantity of blood being caught in the scrotum than passed out of the mouths of the wound. The wound was more lacerated than usual, owing, as was afterward ascertained, to the ball having struck liis cartridge box, flattening itself upon another ball before entering the body. The haemorrhage, though slow, continued some time, until the man was con- siderably weakened, but finally ceased without any dangerous symptoms arising from this cause. Serious trouble was apprehended from the mass of blood collected in the scrotum, and also from the urine that must empty there. He was admitted into the hospital at Camp Watson, Oregon, on the same day. Stimulants were freely given, collections of clothing taken in by the ball were removed, and sulphate of morphia was given in half-grain doses. After he had recovered and become quiet, a catheter was introduced, and a puncture was made, with a trocar, in the scrotum to remove the blood collected there. There was then forced a stream of warm water into the scrotum, through the catheter in the i)enis, passing out both through the wounds and scrotum. The morphia was discontinued at night, but whiskey was given freely, and diet ad, libitum as his appetite returned. 26th: Patient as well as could be expected; passed a tolerably quiet night; scrotum much distended and black. Considerable clotted blood was removed hj suck- ing it into the catheter. Fomentations were applied. His diet consisted of chicken broth, soft-boiled eggs, tea and toast, whiskey in small quantities. 27th: He is in the same condition, excepting a pain in the right iliac region and small of back; treatment contiuned. 28th: He is in a great deal of pain. The scrotum is very much distended. There has been no movement of bowels or bladder since the day of wound, (before wound.) An injection of warm soap suds was ordered; this produced a free evacuation of the bowels, after which the urine passed off" through the scrotum and wound, though none through penis. 29th: He is not so well to-day, discoloration extending up the abdomen, together with swelling and increase of i^ain, also loss of appetite. Diet continued, but whisky changed for sherry wine. 30th: He is peevish, appearance haggard, scrotum very much swollen and painful, abdomen hard and swollen, urine still passing away through scrotum and wound. One-fourth of a grain of morphia was given every four hours, beef-tea every half hour. December 1st: He is in the same condition as yesterday, with the addition of vomiting. Continued the application of warm water, but administered no medicine to-day. 2d, there are symptoms of peritonitis, the abdomen presenting the appearance of that of a corpse inflated with gas. Singul- tus set in. He continued to take both stimulants and chicken broth, but retained nothing within theEEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 54 stomacli. Three to five drops of chloroform were giren everj' ten minutes, arresting for a short time the hiccough. The warm applications were continued. 3d: He is gradually sinking; nothing- remains in his stomach five minutes at a time. Treatment continued. 4th: He is aware that he cannot recover, and requests particularly that no autopsy shall be made. He died at 11 A. M., on December 5,1867. CLXIX.—Minute of a Fatal Gunshot Woiind of the Pelvis. By John J. Hulse, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant John McDougall, Co. H, 4th United States Cavalry, was wounded near Fort Mason, Texas, on November 14, 1867, while endeavouring to suppress an affray between a party of soldiers and desperadoes. The missile, a pistol ball, entered the right ilium, wounding the bladder, and lodged in the pelvis. He was admitted to the United States post hospital at Fort Mason. His death took place from internal hiemorrhage, on November 14, 1867. CLXX.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Pelvis. By Milton A. EoACH, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Timothy O'Shanghnessy, Co. E, 15th United States Infixntry, aged 27 years, was ■wounded on August 24, 1868, by a pistol ball, which entered the right hip at crest of ilium, passed obliquely downward and lodged. He was admitted from boat while en route with his regiment to Marshall, Texas, on the same day, to the United States Army post hospital at Shreveport, Louisiana. Simple dressings were used, and the ball was removed from seat of lodgement, one inch from the right side of the anus, previously to admission to hospital. He was returned to duty on September 4, 1868. CLXXI. Report of a Gunshot Woimd of the Abdomen^ in a Patient tcitli Chronic Orchitis. By H. E. TiLTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Patrick W , Troop D, 2d United States Cavalry, while confined in the guard-house at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, was wounded February 25, 1868, by the accidental discharge of a Spencer rifle. The missile having passed through the side of the frame guard-house, and the left arm of a prisoner, entered the right thigh of Wogan, six inches below the anterior superior spinous l^rocess, passed under Poupart's ligament, two inches from the anterior superior spinous process, and lodged in the left iliacus muscle; he was in a sitting posture at the time of the reception of the injury. He was immediately carried to the hospital, and complained of intense pain in the abdo- men, which was partially controlled by morphia in one half-grain doses. In the course of the evening he voided his urine, Avliich was natural in color. He vomited several times. His pulse increased to 100, with tumultuous action of the heart. He passed a very uncomfortable night, having to be frequently propped up in bed to get his breath ; pulse scarcely perceptible at wrist. Heart beating rapidly and with little force. Death resulted at nine o'clock of the morning of February 26, 1868. An autopsy was made six hours subsequently. On opening the abdomen a great quantity of bloody serum escaped; large clots of blood were found in the hypogastric region, and there was general peritonitis. The ball was found in the left iliac fossa, just above the external iliac artery; by tracing its course it was found to have passed four times through the small intestines, making seven open- ings, three times through the mesentery and once through the mesocolon. Wogan had suffered a long time with gonorrhoeal orchitis of the left testicle. The tunica vaginalis was found considerably thickened and adherent to the lower portion of the testicle, while there was hydrocele of the cord. There were also two abscesses in the lower portion of the testicle, a part of which adjacent to the ei)ididymis and to the abscesses having undergone fibroid degeneration. The testicle was forwarded to the Ami}' IMedical Museum. fits pathological condition is imperfectly represented in the adjoining wood-cut.—Ed. I Fn. 0. Testis enlarged and indurated by inflammation. It is laid open to show the cliicsy abscesses tliat have fi)rnu-d. Si>ec. 5720, Sec. I. A. M. M. [Half tbc natural size.)GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE PELVIS. 55 Three examples of division of the external iliac artery were reported. The reader will observe here, as elsewhere, the very large proportion of gunshot wounds of arteries in accidents, assassinations, and suicides, in comparison with those received in battle. In other words, that the great arterial trunks are often divided at very close range by the small projectiles, but very rarely at long range. CLXXII.—Note of a Gunshot Wound of the Abdomen, with Lesion of the External Iliac Artery. By W. H. HoppEE, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeou. Private John Gerhardt, Co. K, 2d United States Infantry, aged 22 years, received on January 9, 1869, an accidental gunshot wound of the groin. He was admitted to the regimental hospital at Lebanon, Kentucky, immediately after reception of the injury, and died one hour afterward of haemorrhage, from a wound of the external iliac artery. CLXXIII.—Bemar'ks on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Large and Small Intestines. By A. F. Fitch, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Eobert Ash, Co. E, 38th United States Infantry, aged 35 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Hays, Kansas, on October 21, 18G7, in an intoxicated condition, with a gun- shot wound of the abdomen. His pulse was small and feeble, and skin cold. He was very restless, and soon after being put to bed vomited several times. Morphine was administered, and he soon became comparatively quiet. Death resulted at 2 o'clock on the morning of the 22d. At the 2)ost- mortem examination, thirty-six ounces of fluid, tiuged with blood, were found in the abdominal cavity, together with a quantity of coagulated blood and some faecal matter. The ball, on entering the cavity, wounded the small intestines in two places, passed downward and backward through the sigmoid flexure of the colon, severed the external iliac artery completely, and the vein partially, then passed through the ilium immediately' below its anterior inferior spinous process, fracturing the acetabulum, and was found lodged in the gluteal muscles. CLXXIV.—Mention of a Gtinshot Wound of the Ahdomen, follotced hy instant Death. By B. A. Clejnients, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Winny Abbott, Co. K, 25th United States Infantry, committed suicide at Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, Louisiana, August 8, 1869, by shooting himself with his own musket. The ball entered the abdomen two inches above the pubis, and one inch to the left of the linea alba, passing through the rectus abdominalis muscle, cutting off the bowel, severing the left external iliac artery, and passing out posteriorly through the os iuuominatum. He expired immediately after receiving the wound. CLXXV.—Memorandtm of a Case of Double Gunshot Perforation of the Abdomen, tvitli Recovery. By L. Y. LoRiNG, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Charles Allen, Battery K, 1st Artillery, received, in a scuffle at Fort Eiley, Kansas, August, 1869, two pistol balls in his left side ; one entered five and a half inches left of the umbili- cus and two inches above crest of ilium, and made its exit two inches above the crest of the ilium on a line with, and two inches from, the fourth lumbar vertebra. The other ball entered four inches below and to the rear of the left nipple, making its exit four inches directly below point of entrance. In their passage these balls did not wound or pass through any of the viscera of the abdomen. With the exception of the traumatic fever, there was no disturbance in the health of the patient. The wounds have now almost healed, and there remains some contraction of the abdominal mus- cles-concerned in the wounds.56 EEPOET OF SUEGIOAL OASES IN THE ARMY. Gunshot AVounds of the Genito-Ueinary Organs.—The returns refer to two cases of gunshot wounds of the bladder, and to several of the scrotum and testes. One of the cases of wounds of the bladder has been reported with the gunshot wounds of the pelvis. (Report CLXIX.) On page 53, a gunshot wound of the penis is noted. OLXXVI.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Bladder. By Jules Le Oarpentier, M. I)., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Frank Stewart, Co. D, 38tb United States Infantry, aged 24 years, was wounded in a riot, at Central City, December 24, 1868, by a pistol ball wbicli passed tlirough the right thigh and lacerated the bladder. He was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Bayard, New Mexico, on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He died on December 29, 1868, in consequence of urinary infiltration, producing peritonitis and sloughing. CLXXVII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Scrotum. By S. M. Hoeton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Louis Waffler, Co. E, ISth United States Colored Troops, aged 22 years, was accident- ally wounded at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, April 14, 1867, by a conoidal ball, which entered the scrotum in front near the middle line. He was admitted to the post hospital. No clew to the course of the ball could be found, the infiltrated loose tissue of the scrotum preventing the probes from entering the channel. There was no tenderness on pressure in any of the adjacent parts. Two weeks after the reception of the injury the missile was excised from its place of lodg- ment, close behind the trochanter major. The patient recovered, and was retitrned to duty on May 27, 1867. CLXXVIII.—^ccoiMi* of a Gunshot Wound of the Testicles. By W. N. McCoy, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Frank Meyer, Co. E, 14th United States Infantry, aged 24 years, was wounded in a brawl on February 3,1870, by a pistol bullet which passed through the testicles. He was admitted to the post hospital at Jeffersonville, Indiana, on February 4th. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on February 21, 1870. CLXXIX.—RemarTcs on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Testicles. By L. W. Goldsboeough, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. On the monthly report of sick and wounded at Camp Schofield, Lynchburg, occupied by Com- panies A and I of the 17th United States Infantry, is noted a case in which the patient, whose name is not given, was accidentally wounded by a musket ball which passed thi'ough both thighs and both testes, making very lagly wounds, particularly in the left thigh and testicle. The scrotum being much lacerated on both sides, and torn portions of the testicles i)rotruding through the openings, much sloughing was apprehended. The portions of the testicles were, however, returned, and the edges of the wounds of the scrotum were brought together by sutures, leaving space enough for matter to escape. Cold-water dressings were applied for two or three days. When the discharge was beginning to be offensive, a weak solution of carbolic acid was applied, which was contiiuied, either dissolved in water or mixed with flax-seed oil in various proportions, the whole time of the recovery; and so admirably did it answer the purpose, that at no time was there any unpleasant odor scarcely perceptible, and then only when one was immediately at the bedside and the wound exposed. IJut that was not all; not oidy did the carbolic acid correct any offensive exhalations, but it certainly contributed to the patient's recovery by preventing sloughing and excessive discharge of matter.57 GUNSHOT FLESH-WOUNDS OF THE TRUNK. Gunshot Flesh-Wounds of the Trunk.—The cases reported were not very impor- tant and the special reports forwarded not numerous. CLXXX.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Tninlc. By J. P. Arthur, Assistant Surgeon 36tli United States Colored Troops. Private Samuel Willinare, Co. 116th Colored Troops, aged 20 years, received, on July 10, 186G, an accidental gunshot flesh-wound of the right hypochondriac region. A conoidal ball had entered between the ninth and tenth ribs. He was admitted to the post hospital at Brazos San- tiago, Texas, on July 10, 18GG. The ball was found lodged in the intercostal muscles, and was extracted. Simple dressings were ai)plied. He was returned to duty on September 26, 1866. CLXXXI.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Buttock. By L. W. Hayes, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Camp Wiiifield Scott, Nevada, April 29, 1868, Lieutenant Pendleton Huntex', 8th Cavalry, was wounded in a fight with Indians. The bullet entered the outer part of the right buttock, and I)assed in the direction of the pelvic viscera. He also received a slight flesh-wound of the right fore-arm. No serious complications followed, and the officer was returned to duty in March, 1868. OLXXXII.—Minute of a Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Abdomen. By J. F. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Hermon W. Seyforth, Co. C, 8th Lifantry, aged 28 years, received a gunshot wound of the abdominal walls, on May 6,1870, from a conoidal revolver bullet. He was admitted from his company on the same day to the -post hospital at Spartanburg, South Carolina. Cold-water dress- ings were applied, and anodynes were administered. He was returned to duty on June 3, 1870. CLXXXIII.—Note of a Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Abdomen. By J. W. Williams, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Julius Cooper, Co. A, 21st Colored Troops, aged 20 years, was wounded in a riot at Hilton Head, South Carolina, on April 1, 1866, by a i)istol bullet which penetrated the parieties of the abdomen, and lodged. He was admitted into the United States Array general hospital at Hil- ton Head, on April 2d. Simple dressings were used. He was returned to duty on April 11, 1866. CLXXXIV.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Pubes. By S. T. Weirick, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private David W. Jones, Co. A, 16th Infantry, aged 27 jears, received on March 6, 1869, a gunshot wound immediately above and to the right of the penis, striking the pubis and ranging to the right and downward into the thigh, the parts being very much contused. He was treated at the regimental hospital of a detachment of the 16th Infantry. The surgeon removed fragments of cloth, thread, &c., and applied cold-water dressings. The ball was not found. The wound healed, and the man was returned to duty on March 25, 1869. CLXXXV—Memorandum of a Gunshot Womid of the Lumbar Region. By Samuel S. Jessop, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Hugh Monanghan, Co. E, 8th Infantry, aged 21 years, was accidentallj' wounded at Chester, South Carolina, on October 14, 1866, by fragments of a ball which entered the right lum- bar region, one piece grazing the posterior crest of the ilium, passing out and perforating the fleshy part of the fore arm on the ulnar side, while the other entered a little below the former and lodged .under the integument. He was admitted to the post hospital October 11,1866, and portions of the ball and pieces of clothing were extracted on the same day. 8EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 58 CLXXXVI.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Woiind of the Lumbar Region. By M. F. BoWES, M. D,, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Cosgrove, Co. F, 8tli Infantry, aged 23 years, was wonnclecl on Marcli 17, 1869. A conoidal bullet entered the right side of the back, near the lifth lumbar vertebra, passed for- ward and outward, and made its exit immediately over the anterior superior spinous i^rocess of the ilium. He was admitted to the post hospital of Columbia, South Carolina, on March 18, 1809. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty in April, 1869. Gunshot Wounds of the Uppee Exteemities.—The reports are classified according as the lesions involved the scapula, clavicle, humerus, bones of the fore-arm, hand, or prin- cipal joints. The reports of cases in which operations were performed are reserved for the next, chapter. Gunshot Wounds of the Shoulder.—Eighteen special reports relate to four cases of fracture of the scapula, one of the clavicle and scalpula, one of the clavicle, one fatal from profuse hemorrhage, ten cases of flesh-wounds, and one wound of the joint with fracture of the humerus. CLXXXVII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Shoulder. By F. Darrow, M. D,, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Martin Moulton, Troop E, 8th Cavalry, aged 22 years, was wounded on April 16,1869, near Camp Willow Grove, Arizona Territory, by a conoidal ball, which entered the right shoulder in front, striking the neck of the scapula immediately under the clavicle, i)assed downward, back- ward, and then upward, making seemingly a circuit around the neck of the scapula, and lodged in the infra-spinous fossa close to the glenoid cavity. He was admitted to the post hospital. On April 19tl), the wound had become painful, and somewhat inflamed, and the patient was unable to move the right arm or hand. The ball was cut down upon, and removed. On May 8th, the wound was suppurating freely. On May 12th, a rough and shelly i)iece of lead being dis- covered in the incised wound, was taken out, and on May 30th, a small jiiece of necrosed bone came away. On June 20th, the wound had healed, and on June 30th, there was partial use of arm. CLXXXVIII.—Mention of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Scapula. By A. C. Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William H. Goldsborough, Co. D, 24th Infantry, aged 24 years, was wounded on July 4, 1870, by a sentinel o\\ duty. A conoidal bullet passed oblicpiely through a panel-door, entering the soldier's right shoulder at the upper portion of the deltoid, and x)assiug backward, and slightly upward, fracturing in its progress the acromion process, lodging against the scapula. Ball not found. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort McKavett, Texas, on July 4, 1870. Sim[)le dressings were applied. He Avas returned to dutj' on September 22, 1870. He was treated by E. Sharpe, Acting Assistant Surgeon. This man when returned to duty was detailed on d;iily duty in the post library. So far he has no use of his right arm. CLXXXIX.—Mention of a case of Gunshot Wound of the Scapula. By S. M. Horton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. John Montague, citizen, aged 20 years, Mas wounded while sitting at a camp-fire, just outside the stockade of the fort, by Indians, on November 2, 186(), by a missile, supposed to be a slug from a shot-gun, wliich fractured the spine of the loft scai)nla, and wounded the left cheek. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Philip Kearney, IJakota Territory, on November 2, 186G. Simple dressings were ai^plied to the wound, He was discharged from hospital, cured, on Decern-- ber 2, 1866.59 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. OXC.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Acromion Process of the Scapula. By A. A. Yeomans, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Henry Allison, Co. I, 16th Infantry, aged 26 years, was wounded July 25, 1870, by a couoidal ball, wbicli entered one incb below the coracoid process of the scapula; the ball passed backward and upward, fractured the acromion process, and made its exit posteriorly. He was at once admitted to the post hospital at Grenada, Mississippi. All foreign substances were removed from the wound, and cold-water dressings applied; the right arm was put in a sling, and the patient kept as quiet as possible. When suppuration ensued, flaxseed poultices were applied, and afterward, resin cerate. He was transferred to Jackson, Mississippi, and returned to duty in December, 1870. CXOI.—Mention of a Case of Gunshot Fracttire of the Clavicle. By Elliott Coues, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Daniel Ryan, Co. C, 8th Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Columbia, South Carolina, on November 17, 1868, with a gunshot compound comminuted fracture of the clavicle. The missile, which lodged somewhere in the muscles of the back or side of the neck, could not be found. Excellent results have been obtained by adaptation of bandages to this special case. CXCII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Clavicle and Scapula. By H. S. SCHELL, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Moses Vetzstine, Co. I, 18th Infantry, aged 20- years, received, in a brawl on August 21, 1867, a gunshot wound by a conoidal ball, which penetrated the right shoulder, fracturing the clavicle and scapula. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, on the following day. Splints and bandages were apijlied. The man was returned to duty January 1, 1868. CXCIII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Shoulder. W. A. Cantrell, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John O'Brien, Co. B, 28th Infantry, of a constitution injured by the habitual use of alcoholic stimulants, was wounded July 24, 1868, by buckshot, which entered the left shoulder. He was immediately admitted to the post hospital at Little Rock, Arkansas, i^rostrated from hjemorrhage. The treatment consisted of styptics and simple dressings. He died in a few hours after admission to the hospital. CXCIV.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Shoulder. By Julius H. Patzki, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Benjamin Amey, Co. H, 6th Cavalry, aged 26 years, received a gunshot flesh-wound of the right shoulder, by a conoidal ball, in action with Indians near the North Fork of the Little Wichita River, Texas, July 12, 1870. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Richardson, Texas, on the 14th, where carbolic acid dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on the 18th. CXCV.—ISfote of a Gunshot Wotmd of the Shoulder. By J. B. Crandall, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Nolan, Co. I, 37th Infantry, aged 27, was wounded on September 24, 1867, by a conoidal ball, in the left shoulder. He was admitted from the field on September 25th. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He was returned to duty in September. CXCVI.—Mention of a Gunshot Flesh-Wotmd of the Shoulder. By J. W. Williams, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal Edward Nolan, Co. C, 5th Cavalry, was admitted to the post hospital at Atlanta, Georgia, on January 9, 1869, with a gunshot wound of the left shoulder, received in a brawl on January 2d. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on January 28th.EEPORT OF SUKGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 60 CXCVII.—Account of a Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Shoulder. By J, H. Patzki, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Samuel Wagoner, Co. A, 6tli Cavalry, aged 24 years, received, a gunshot flesh-wound of the left shoulder, by a conoidal ball, in action Avith Indians, near North Fork of Little AVichita Eiver, Texas, July 12, 1870. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Richardson, Texas, on the 11th, where simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on August 3d. CXCVin.—Rexwrt of a Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Scapular Region. By Edwaed Cowles, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal John Pilot, Co. L, 9th Cavalry, aged 26 years, was shot, by a sergeant, on December 27,1867, by a conoidal carbine bullet which caused a flesh-wound of the right scapular region, and inside of the right arm, below the axilla. He was admitted into the post hospital at Browns- ville, Texas, on December 27th. Simple dressings were apiflied. He was returned to duty in February, 1868. OXCIX.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Shoulder. P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William McCulla, Troop E, 1st Cavalry, aged 22 years, was wounded in a'drunkeu row at Prescott, Arizona Territory, December 18, 1867, by a conoidal ball, which entered at the centre of the belly of the biceps muscle, passed upward and inward toward the shoulder-joint, thence beneath the scapula, and lodged under the deep muscles, about two inches from the first dorsal vertebra. He was admitted to post hospital at Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory. On December 26th, I made an incision and removed the ball. Healthy suppuration then followed, and the patient did well. On February 5, 1868, he was transferred to Camj) McDowell, where his com- I)any was stationed. CC.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Shoulder. By F. Geisdorff, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Merritt E. Brown, Co. A, 27th Infantry, aged 22 years, received on August 4, 1868, an accidental gunshot wound. A bullet, ploughing the skin and muscles underneath, caused a wound five inches long, two inches wide, and one inch deep, superior and parallel to the spine of scapula of the left shoulder. He was admitted to the i)Ost hospital at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, on the same day. Cold-water dressings were applied. He was transferred to the field hosx)ital of a detachment of the 27th United States Infantry, nearly recovered. CCI.—Memorandtm of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Shoulder. By J. H. Patzki, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Albert Ford, Co. H, 6th Cavalry, aged 42 years, received a gunshot flesh-wound of the left shoulder by a conoidal ball, in an action with Indians, near the North Fork of Little Wichita River, Texas, July 12, 1870. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Richardson, Texas, on the 14th, and carbolic acid dressings applied. He was returned to duty on August 19th. ecu.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Shoulder and Thigh. By E. Powell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Camp Warner, Oregon, December 3, 1867, Private John Ryan, Co. B, 23d Infantry, aged 20 years, was accidentally wounded by the discharge of his own pistol, while stumbling and falling- over rocks. The missile, a conoidal ball, inflicted a wound of the left shoulder and thigh, and remained in the shoulder behind the head of the humerus. He was admitted to the post hospital on the same day, where the ball was excised. Cold-water dressings were applied. He returned to duty January 20, 1868.GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPER EXTEEMITIES. 61 OCIir.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Shoulder. By Thomas S. Tuggle, M, D., Acting Assistaut Surgeon. At Columbus, Georgia, January 7, 1868, Private Durant, Co. G, 16th Infantry, received a I)istol wound in the fleshy part of the right shoukler by a round ball. He was admitted into the post hospital on the same day, where the ball was excised and simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty January 19, 1868. CCIV.—Abstract of a Beport relative to a Gunshot Wound of the Shoulder-Joint. By B. B. Wilson, M. D., late Surgeon and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, U. S. V. Private James Curry, Co. M, 20th Pennsylvania Cavalry, was discharged the service on surgeon's certificate of disability, June 28, 1865. He had been wounded in the late war by a conoidal bullet, which fractured the upper extremity of the humei'us, involving the surgical and probably the anatomical neck, and had lodged upon the external margin of the scapula. The missile having been retained in that position for more than three years, and the patient having become exhausted, nervous, and irritable from i^ain and suppuration, was induced to have the ball removed. On November 27, 1867, he presented himself at the Howard Hospital, Philadelphia. There was complete anchylosis of the shoulder-joint, with enlargement of the upper portion of the humerus; several cicatrices existed in the region of the joint and scapula, and a fistulous orifice at the -inferior angle of the scapula discharged tolerably healthy pus. Examination with a Nelaton probe revealed the presence of the ball; the sinuous orifice was enlarged, and the ball, which clung with tenacity to the edge of the scapula, was extracted. The fistulous orifice closed immediatelj^ after the removal of the missile. At the time of this report, April, 1868, the patient had a very useful arm, the great mobility of the scapula seeming to compensate for the anchylosis of the shoulder- joint. Tlie missile, a conoidal ball split by contact with the humerus, and having adherent small portions of bone, is represented in the wood-cut, and was presented to the Army Medical Museum, with the history, by the operator. Fig. 10. Conoidal ball grooved by impact upon the liumerus. ,Spec. 5257. Sect. I., A.M.M. Gunshot Wounds of the Arm.—Special reports were received of four cases of gunshot fractures of the humerus. COV.—Mention of a Gunshot Fracture of the Humerus. By T. M. Chaney, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Samuel Bailey, Co. C, 12Sth Colored Troops, was shot by a sentinel on March 7, 1867, causing a compound comminuted fracture of lower third of the right liumerus. The ball entered at the i)oint of the external condjde, traversed the arm, making its exit one inch above the internal condyle. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Macon, North Carolina, on March 8, 1867. Simple dressings were applied. He was discharged the service May 21, 1867. CCVI.—Report of a Gunshot Fracture of the Neclc of the Humerus. By H. G. Tiedman, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James Sumner, Troop G, 1st Cavalry, was wounded in an action with Apache Indians, in Chilicowley Mountain Pass, Arizona, October 8, 1869. The missile entered under the scapu- lar clavicular articulation, passed through the deltoid downward, shattered the neck of the humerus, barely avoiding the brachial artery, and forced its way out of the triceps muscle. Two pieces of the neck of the humerus were extracted on the field. On October 9th, he was admitted to the hospital at Camp Bowie, Arizona Territor^^, where another piece of bone was extracted. He was returned to duty in November, 1869.EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 62 CCVII.—3Ientio7i of a Ounslwt Fracture of the Humerus. By B. E. Fryer, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Frank Critb, Co. G, 3Stli Infantry, was accidentally wounded on September 4, 18G7, by a couoidal ball which fractured the right humerus at the middle third. He was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas, on September 5th, from the garrison. Simple dressings were used, and angular splints were api)lied. He was returned to duty.* CCVIII.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Humerus. By J. V. D. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, IT. S. A. At Austin, Texas, June 24, 1869, William Bently, a citizen prisoner, aged 38 years, was shot while attempting to escape. The missile, a conoidal ball, fractured the left arm. He was admitted to the post hospital on the same day. Splints and bandages were applied. He was discharged from further treatment on October 17, 1809. Gunshot Wounds of the Eibotv.—Besides reports of cases requiring operations, four special reports were made of gunshot wounds of the elbow, two referring to cases in which the articulation was opened. CCIX.—Account of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Humerus. By W. H. Hopper, Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Lebanon, Kentucky, August 21, 1869, Private Alexander C. Moore, Co. I, 14th Inf^mtry, aged 23 years, was wounded by a conoidal ball, which passed through the inferior extremity of humerus, splitting off' the external condyle, and lodged in the mixscular tissue on the anterior surface of the arm. He was admitted to the regimental hospital. Simple dressings were applied and the wound was daily injected with solution of carbolic acid, and covered with lint saturated with the same. September 30th, union of the fractured ends had taken place, and the wound healed with scarcely any suppuration. He was discharged January 21, 1870. There was partial anchylosis of the elbow-joint. CCX.—Mention of a Gunshot Wound of the Elbow-Joint. By J. O. D. CreaGHE, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Willis Graves, Co. F, 19th Infantry, aged 18 years, received on August 29, 1806, at Camden, Arkansas, a penetrating gunshot wound of the left elbow-joint. He was at once admitted to the iiost hospital. The bullet had passed through the upper part of the articulation, shattered tlie whole of the external condyle of humerus, and passed out posteriorly. Acting Assistant Sur- geon J. O. D. Creaghe enlarged the posterior orifice, and removed all fragjuents of bone. Septem- ber 30th, the wound was nearly healed. He was discharged October 30, 1806, his disability being rated one-third. CCXI.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Elbow-Joint. By J. O. D. Creaghe, Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. At Camden, Arkansas, December 14, 1866, Private Eobert Clarke, Co. B, 28th Infantry, aged 22 years, received a wound from a conoidal pistol ball, which peneti*ated behind the internal con- dyle of left humerus, and passing in front of elbow-joint made its exit external to, and a little below, the head of the radius. He was admitted to i)ost hospital December 18, 1806. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty in January, 1867. * Nearly a year later, in August, 18()8, this soldier entered the post liosjiital at Fort Hays, and underwent an excision of the shaft of the humerus. The further history will be given in the chapter on operations.—Ed.GUNSHOT FRAOTUEES OF THE UPPEE EXTEEMITIES. 63 CCXII.—Report of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Wound of the Elhotc-Joint. By W. E. Eamsey, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George Fray, Co. E, 36tli Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded at Fort San- ders, Dakota Territory, February 22, 1868, by the accidental discharge of a musket in the hands of a comrade. The missile passed through the elbow-joint. He was admitted to the hos- pital in a very feeble condition; there was htemorrhage from the wound, which it was difflcult to control by digital compression, as the artery rolled under the finger on account of the size of the biceps. At 11 P. M. the hemorrhage ceased by coagulation, and the patient reacted gradually, but continued weak. He remained in the same condition until February 2oth, when he, for the flrst time, asked for something to eat. He seemed restless, and complained of being sick at the stomach and of pain in the arm. On the evening of February 24th, he had a chill and tympanites appeared shortly afterward. He died on February 25th. From the sudden change on the even- ing of the day previous to his death, and from the prevalence of intermittent fever at the time, the case was supjiosed to be one of congestive chill. There was no indication of pyajmia. GnnsJiot Wounds of the Fore-arm.—Twelve special reports relate to cases of this class. Two of these, resulting from the premature explosion of cannon, terminated fatally; three patients were discharged for disability, and seven returned to duty. CCXIII.—Mention of a Qunshot Fracture of the Radius and Vina. By O. Smith, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, Corporal James Bohan, Co. H, 4th Cavalry, aged 27 years, was shot by a drunlien sol- dier, November 9, 1870. The ball struck the right fore-arm and fractured the radius completely and the ulna partially. He was admitted to the field hospital on the same day, when Acting- Assistant Surgeon Orsamus Smith removed all detached pieces of bone, and ai)plied splints. The case progressed favorablj^, and on November 11, 1870, the patient was transferred to Fort Eichardson, Texas. He was sent to his company at Fort Grifilu. CCXIV.—Mention of a Qunshot Fracture of the Left Radius. By P. J. A. Cleary, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Christopher Boats, Co. D, 9th Cavalry, aged 21 years, was wounded by a weapon in the hands of a fellow-soldier. The missile, a conoidal ball, caused a compound comminuted frac- ture of the radius of the left arm at the middle third, then struck the tenth rib, and passed under the integuments, and lodged two inches to the left of the spine. He was admitted, on June 27, 1870, to the post hospital at Fort Stockton, Texas, where the ball and some small spiculje of bone were removed; chloride of lime and water dressings were applied to the wounds, and splints to the fore-arm with a view to save the limb. He was returned to duty in September, 1870. CCXV.—Mention of a Gunshot Fracture of the Radius. By G. W. TowAR, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private Thomas Hubbard, Co. C, 2d Cavalry, aged 22 years, was wounded in a fight with Indians on May 17, 1870, by a rifle bullet, which struck the left fore-arm near the wrist, fracturing the radius. He was admitted from the field on May 17, 1870, to Camp Bingham, Little Blue River, Nebraska. The treatment consisted of simple dressings, with splints. He was transferred to the hospital at Omaha Barracks on June 7, 1870, and returned to duty during the same mouth.EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 64 CCXVI.—Mention of a Gunshot Fracture of the Eadhis. By F. Geisdorff, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Sergeant Edward Oliver, Co. A, 27tli Infantry, aged 25 years, received, on August 4, 186S, an accidental gunsliot wound. A rifle ball had entered the right fore-arm anteriorily one inch above tlie wrist-joint, fracturing the radius, and made its exit two inches above the joint. Wound of entrance four lines in diameter; of exit, sixteen lines; area of wound, 12.56, 176 in square lines. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, on the same day. Cold-water dressings were applied. He was transferred to the field hospital of a detachment of the 27th Infantry, He was discharged February 27, 1869, for anchylosis of right fore-arm. CCXVII.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Ulna. By J. W. Williams, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private John Tracey, Co. B, 16th Infantry, was admitted to the post hospital at Atlanta, Georgia, on November 28, 1868, with a pistol shot wound of the right fore-arm, fracturing the ulna, received November 27th. He was transferred to his company at Dahlouega, Georgia, on January 28, 1869. CCXVIII.—Report of a Gunshot Fracture of the Vina. By B, EoCTOE, M. D,, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Ti-owell, Co. G, 128th Colored Troops, was wounded in a mutiny on Folly Island, South Carolina, July 19, 1866, by a pistol ball, which fractured the ulna of the left arm. He was admitted to the post hospital at Charleston, South Carolina, the same day, and returned to duty August 22d. CCXIX.—Eeport of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Fore-Arm, By W. H. Smith, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Welcome Joseph, Troop B, 8th Cavalry, aged 18 years, was wounded May 6, 1869, in a fight with Indians near Camp Verde, Arizona Territory. The ball fractured the radius, pass- ing through the left fore-arm between the radius and ulna, diagonally from the end of the elbow in front'to the middle of the fore-arm behind. He was admitted to the post hospital, where the frac- tured bone was set. Small pieces of bone were from time to time removed, and on June 17th, a large piece, grooved by the ball, was cut down upon and taken out. On June 30th, the wound was healing rapidly, the limb promising to be serviceable, and without deformity. CCXX.—Mention of a Gunshot Fracture of the Ulna. By E, Tanszky, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant George Smith, Troop A, 9th Cavalry, aged 21 years, was wounded at Fort Stockton, Texas, December 26, 1868, by a pistol ball, which fractured the ulna of the left fore-arm. He was admitted to the post hospital, where foreign bodies were removed from the wound, and cold-water lotions were applied. He was returned to duty in February, 1869. CCXXL—JSeporf of a Gunshot Wound of the Fore-Arm. By F, Mbacham, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A, Private Edward Jones, Co. G, 36th Infantry, aged 22 years, and of scrofulous diathesis, was wounded at Camp Douglas, Utah Territory, on March i, 1868, by a conoidal ball which entered near the lower third of the right ulna on the inner side, passed through the llexor muscles of the carpus and of the hand, injured the ulnar nerve, and emerged near the internal condyle of the humerus. He was admitted to the post hospital at Camj) Douglas, Utah Territory, where water- dressings were applied. The case did well until April 22d, when eczema set in, which gave way to appropriate treatnu'ut. On July 27, 1S68, he was discharged from service ; there was considera- ble loss of motion in the elbow and wrist-joint, with loss of sensation in the little linger and outside of the ring-finger.GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPER EXTEEMITIES. 65 CCXXII.—Note of a Case of Premature Diseliarge of a Cannon. RigM Fore-Arm carried away. By William Oeaig, M, D., Acting Assistant Surgeou. Sergeant John Soutliwood, Co. K, 40tli Infantry, aged 39 years, was wounded May 1, 18G7, by tlie premature discharge of a cannon, Avbicli carried away tlie left fore-arm, eight inches below the elbow, and severely contused the left breast and shoulder. He was admitted to the post hospital the same day. Stimulants and tonics were administered, and cooling lotions ajiplied externally. He died May 13th from pneumonia. CCXXIII.—Memorandum of a Case in toliicli the Fore-Arm teas torn off by a Large Projectile. By William Craig, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant Charles H. Peterson, Co. K, 40th Infantry, aged 25 years, was wounded May 1, 18G7, by the premature discharge of a cannon, which carried away the right fore-arm, sis inches below the elbow, and severely contused the right breast. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Caswell, North Carolina, the same day. Stimulants were administered, and olive oU and lime water applied externally. He died May 1st, from the great shock. CCXXIV.—Note of a Case of Ounshot Fracture of Radius and Ulna. By G. H. GuNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Foster, Co. I, 9th Cavalry, aged 24 years, was wounded August 24, 1870, by a conoidal ball, which fractured both bones of the right fore-arm. He was admitted to the post hos- pital at Fort Quitman, Texas, on the same day. The treatment consisted of splints and simple dressings. On December IGth he was discharged from service on surgeon's certificate of disability. Gunshot Wounds of the Hand.—Special reports were made of twenty cases. Sev- enteen patients went to duty, and three were disclaarged. CCXXV.—Note of a GunsJiot Wound of the Hand. By P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A, Sergeant P. W. Bryant, Co. G, 14th Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded at Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory, on December 17, 1868, by the accidental discharge of a pistol; the ball entered to the right of the median line, midway between the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation and the articulation of the first and second phalangeal bones, and emerged directly opposite, fracturing the first phalangeal bone without injuring the tendons. He was admitted to the post hospital, where the finger was placed in a splint and cold-water dressings applied. He recovered and was returned to duty in February, 1869. CCXXVI.—Bejyort of a Gunshot Wound of the Hand. By A. C. Gieard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Martin Cramer, Co. A, 19th Infantry, aged 24 years, was accidentally wouded at Baton Eouge, Louisiana, April 23, 1870, by a conoidal ball, wliich caused a partial fracture of middle finger of left hand. He was admitted to the post hospital, where several small splinters of bone were extracted. The wound suppurated freely, and had healed on May 16, 1870, when the patient was returned to duty. CCXXVII.—Ifeniion of a Case of Ounshot Wound of the Hand. By E. Cowles, Assistant Surgeon, U. S, A. Private Bernard Cunningham, Co. K, 4th Cavalry, aged 27 years, was accidentally shot on September 15, 1868, at Brownsville, Texas. A ball entered the volar surface of the left hand, and fractured the second and third metacarpal bones. There was considerable hfemorrhage 966 EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. from small vessels, and the wonud of exit vras considerably lacerated. He was, on September 16th, admitted to post hospital. Several fragments of bone were removed, and cooling lotions applied. October 1st: The hand and fore-arm were much swollen, and almost in a si)hacelated condition. The patient was greatly depressed, and suffered from hectic fever and diarrhoea. Liberal diet was given, and a gradual improvement took place. During the first quarter of 1809, the wound remained open, there being necrosis of carpal and metacarpal bones. Sequestra were removed, and on March 31, 1869, the patient was doing well. He was returned to duty in July, 1869. COXXYIII.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Sand. By W. Porter, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Sergeant Thomas Downey, Co. 0, 7th Infantry, aged 37 years, received a gunshot wound of the left hand, on February 3,1808, at Gainesville, Florida, while quieting a riot among civilians. The ball passed into the palm of the hand, and fractured the metacarpal bone of middle finger. The ball was taken out from under the skin at the back of the hand. He Avas admitted to the post hospital, where chloroform and ether were administered, and several pieces of fractured bone were removed. He was returned to duty February 23, 1808. CCXXIX.—Mention of a Gunshot Wound of the Hand. By C. E. Goddard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Martia Flannery, Co. E, 2d Battalion, IGth Infantry, aged 28 years, was wounded (by himself) on December 20, 1860, by a couoidal bullet, which passed between the index and second fingers of the right hand, near their phalangeo-metacarpal articulation, injuring both joints, and the periosteum of the phalangeal bones. He was admitted into post hospital at Chattanooga, Tennessee, on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty in February, 1807. CCXXX.—Eejyort of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Metacarpal Bone. By H. S. Schell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Andrew Likarte, Co. A, 2d Cavalry, aged 20 years, received a perforating gunshot wound of the hand, at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, March 1, 1807, by a conoidaL ball, which fractured the fourth metacarpal bone. He was admitted to the post hospital March 3d. Lead-water and laudanum dressings were applied. He was returned to duty March 29, 1807. CCXXXI.—Note of a Gunshot Woiind of the Carpus. By James P. Kiiviball, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Lavelle, Co. F, 7th Infantry, aged 21 years, accidentally received on June 7, 1870, a gunshot-wound of the left wrist, the ball passing through the center of the carpus. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, where fragments of bone were removed from the wound, and the injury was dressed with carbolic acid. He was discharged November 30,1870. CCXXXII.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Hand. By H. McEldery, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William F. Lcete, Co. K, 0th Cavalry, aged 24 years, was accidentally wounded on December 20, 1807, by a conoidal ball, which entered one half inch above the second phalango- metacarpal articulation of the left hand, and emerged on the dorsal surface, comminuting the metacarpal and first phalangeal bone of that finger. He was admitted into the post hospital at Camp Wilson, Texas, on October 27, 1S()7. Tlie treatment consisted of cold-water dressings, isinglass plaster, solution of muriatic acid, and ointment of subnitrate of bismuth ; anodynes and tonics were administered internally. He was discharged March 5, 1808.GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. 67 COXXXIII.—Wote of a Gunshot Fracture of the Metacarpus. By Charles C. Fuelet, M. D., Act- ing Assistant Surgeon. Private Christopher C. Minnigan, Co. E, 41st Infantry, aged 27 years, accidentally received a gunshot wound of the left hand, by an Enfield rifle ball. He was admitted from his regiment on June 30, 1867, to the post hospital at Brownsville, Texas. At the time of the admission he had nearly recovered. Simple dressings were used. He was returned to duty in July, 18G7. CCXXXIV.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Eand. A. L, Flint, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Murphy, Co. C, 5th Cavalry, aged 24 years, was wounded October 15, 1868, in a street brawl, by a conoidal ball, which injured the bones of the left hand. He was admitted to Camp Emory, Atlanta, Georgia, on the 16th. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on the 27th. CCXXXV.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Hand. By J. F. Boughton, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Brice Perkins, Co. D, 22d Infantry, aged 20, was wounded at Fort Dakota, Dakota Territory, on April 5, 1868, by a pistol ball, which entered the outer border of the palmar surface of the index finger of the left hand, and, traversing around more than half the circumference of the second phalanx, made its exit at the inner border of the dorsal surface, near the second joint. Very little hsemorrhage occurred. He was admitted to the post hosi)ital at Fort Dakota, when water-dressings were apj)lied. He was returned to duty on April 30, 1868. CCXXXV I.—Eejjori of a Gunshot Woxmd of the Hand. By E. C. Fox, M. D., United States Colored Troops. Private Breboy Eeed, Co. G, 128th United States Colored Troops, aged 22 years, was wounded in a mutiny on Folly's Island, South Carolina, July 19, 1866, by a pistol ball, which entered the dorsal aspect of the left hand near the metacarpal bone of the index finger. He was at once admitted to the post hospital, where, on July 31st, the ball was extracted from near the ulnar artery. He was retui^ned to duty October 12, 1866. CCXXXVII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Metacarpal Bone. By G. H. GuNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Felix Ross, Co. H, 9th Cavalry, aged 25 years, was wounded November 16, 1870, by a conoidal ball, which fractured the metacari)al bone of the second finger. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Quitman, Texas, on the 18th. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty in February, 1871. CCXXXVIII.—Eepori of a Gunshot Woxmd of the Hand. By C. S. DeGraw, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George Overton, Co. K, 10th Cavalry, was accidentally wounded January 19, 1869, by a conoidal ball, which fractured the second metacarpal bone of the right hand. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Dodge, Kansas, on May 18, 1860. Simi)le dressings were applied. Several small pieces of bone were discharged from the upijer wound. He recovered, and was returned to duty in June, 1869.EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 68 COXXXIX.—Mention of a Gunshot Woimd of the Sand. By Bedford Sharp, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private Philip Reese, Co. D, ■itli Cavalry, aged 19 years, received a gunsliot wound of the metacarpal bone of the left hand. He was admitted from field hospital to the post hospital at San Antonio, Texas, on December 18, 18G6. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He was returned to duty in March, 18G7. CCXJj.—Beiiort of a Case of Pistol- Wormd of the Left-Rand.—By Reese B. Berkey, M. D,, Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Humboldt, Tennessee, February 5, 1871, Private John Dotzel, Co. G, 16 Infantry, aged 23 years, accidentally shot himself with a pistol in the left-hand. The charge, birdshot, entered the second finger of the left-hand, injuring the first metacarpal bone. He was, on the same day, ad- mitted to the post hospital. The shot and pieces of bone were extracted from the wound, and cold water dressings were applied. The man was returned to duty February 10, 1871. CCXLI.—Mention of Four Cases of Gunshot Wounds of the Band. By W. T. Hendrickson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Case 1.—Private George Thompson, Co. C, 10th Cavalry, aged 23 years, was accidentally wounded by a conoidal carbine ball which passed through the second phalanx of the middle finger of the left hand, destroying the bone. He was admitted on December 13, 1809, from post hospital Fort Sill, Indian Territory, to the United States Army i)ost hospital at Fort Arbuckle, Cherokee Nation, Indian Territory. Simple dressings were used. He was discharged from the service on June 20, 1870, on surgeon's certificate of disability. Case 2.—Private Albert Tasker, Co. M, 10th Cavalry, aged 25 years, was accidentally wounded on July 28, 1809, by a conoidal carbine ball, which destroyed the second, ring, and little fingers of the left hand. He was admitted from company quarters to the post hospital at Fort Arbuckle, Cherokee Nation, Indian Territory, on May 8,1870. Siujple dressings were used. He was returned to duty in May, 1870. Case 3.—Private Charles Stanton, Co. M, 10th Cavalry, aged 25 years, was accidentally wounded on February 11, 1870, by a conoidal carbine ball which passed between the second and thii-d phalanges of the middle finger of the left hand. He was admitted from company quarters on the same day to the United States Army post hos^iital at Fort Arbuckle, Cherokee Nation, Indian Territory. The treatment consisted of cold-water dressings and poultices. He was retui'ned to duty on May 10, 1870. Case 4.—Private Lyman Tasker, Co. M, 10th Cavalry, aged 20 years, was accidently wounded by a conoidal carbine ball between the third and fouth metacarpal bones of the right hand, distal end. He was admitted from post hospital Fort Sill, Indian Territory, on December 13, 1809. Simple dressings were used. He was returned to duty on April 27, 1870. Gunshot Flesh- Wounds of the Upper Extremities.—Special report of twenty-one cases of this class were made. Twenty of the patients recovered and returned to duty; one recovered and was discharged for disability. Seven were cases of wounds of the arm, five of the fore-arm, and nine of the head. Private John ('onnclly, Co. IT, 5th Cavalry. Fort McPherson, Nebraska, November 20, 1870. Gunshot ricsh-wound of the right arm. Duty, December 22, 1870. Private Thomas Gavin, Co. I, 37th Infantry, aged 24 years. Near Fort Dodge, Kansas, Sep- tember 29, 1807. Gunshot ficsh-wound of the left arm. Duty, October, 1S07.GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPEE EXTEEMITIES. 69 Private Charles Hall, Co. K, 9tli Cavalry. Near Fort Davis, Texas, November 17, 1869. Guusliot flesh-wound of the left arm, near the elbow. Duty, Jauuary 20, 1870. Private Wardlow Irving, Co. D, 9th Cavalry. Gunshot flesh-wound of the arm ; received in a fight with Indians, near Fort Stockton, Texas, September 10, 1808. Eemoval of ball. Duty, November 8,1808. Private Benjamin Jones, Co. H, 10th Cavalry. Near Fort Harker, Kansas, August 29, 1807. Gunshot flesh-wound of the right arm. Duty, October 1, 1867. Private Anthony Lambert, Co. A, Cth Cavalry, aged 49 years. Gunshot flesh-wounds of the arm, hand, and leg by buckshot; received in a skirmish with Indians at Farmersville, Texas, November 19, 1868. Duty, December 17, 1868. Private Michael Welsh, Co. L, 6th Cavalry, aged 25 years. Gunshot flesh-wound of lower third of the left arm. Fort Eichardson, Texas, May 9, 1870. Duty, June 11, 1870. Private Walter H. Clapp, Co. K, Gth Cavalry, aged 22 years. Fort Belknap, Texas, June 20, 1867. Gunshot flesh-wound of the middle third of the left fore-arm. Discharged February 4, 1868, on account of partial paralysis of hand and finger. Private Peter Dunn, Co. E, 33d Infantry, aged 21 years. Near Fort Macon, Georgia, March. 14, 1808. Gunshot flesh-wound of the right fore-arm by a pistol baU. Duty, April, 1808. Sergeant James Stevenson, Co. F, 10th Cavalry. Gunshot flesh-wound of the left fore-arm and left thigh. Near Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, March 10, 1809. Duty, May, 1809. Private Eobert Stuart, Co. H, Otli Cavalry, aged 32 years. Gunshot flesh-wound of right fore- arm; received in an action with Indians near the North Fork of the Little Wichita Eiver, Texas, July 12, 1870. Carbolic-acid dressings. Duty, August 0, 1870. Private Frederick Smith, Co. E, 19th Infantry, aged 23 years. Camden, Arkansas, September 27, 1806. Gunshot wound of the fore-arm and hand by buckshot. Duty, October, 1866. Private Alfred Brown, Co. L, 10th Cavalry, aged 20 years. Gunshot flesh-wound of fingers of the left hand. Fort Arbuckle, Cherokee Nation, December 19, 1869. Duty, March 9, 1870. Private Nathan Dedman, Co. B, 41st Infantry, aged 23 years. Point Isabel, Texas, December 27, 1807. Gunshot flesh-wounds of the third and fourth fingers of the left hand. Duty, January, 1808. Private James Downs, Co. K, 1st Artillery, aged 38 years. New Orleans, Louisiana, June 11, 1808. Laceration and dislocation of the second phalanx of the left thumb by the premature discharge of a cannon. Duty, August, 1868. Private Joseph Lather, Co. C, 117th Colored Troops. Brazos Santiago, Texas, January 17, 1867. Gunshot flesh-wound of the left hand. Duty, February 26, 1867. Private James Mitchell, Co. I, 13th Infantry, aged 24 years. Fort Shaw, Montana Territory, April 3, 1870. Gunshot wound of the right fore-finger. Duty, June 4, 1870. Sergeant Moses Morris, Co. D, 38th Infantry, aged 21 years. Central City, New Mexico, December 24, 1868. Slight flesh-wound of the finger. Duty, January, 1869. Corporal M. Eeinhold, Co. H, 17th Infantry, aged 23 years. Brenham, Texas, February 20, 1807. Gunshot wound through flexor brevis pollicis muscles. Duty, May 16, 1867. Private William Thompson, Co. C, 9th Cavalry. Near Fort Davis, Texas, February 18, 1870. Gunshot wound of ring-finger of the left hand. Duty, April, 1870. Private James Wilson, Co. H, 10th Cavalry. Fort Harker, Kansas, September 17, 1867. Gunshot flesh-wouud of the left hand. Duty, October, 1867.EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 70 Gunshot Wounds of the Lowee Extremities.—The reports of many cases will be found in the next chapter. Only those relating to cases treated without operative interference will be recorded here. Gunshot fractures of the Femur.—The nine following reports give the particulars of three fatal cases of fracture of the upper third of the femur, one involving the hip-joint— of three cases of fracture of the middle third, with one recovery—and of three fractures ol the lower third, all terminating favorably: CCXLII.—Report of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Fracture of tlie Right Feimir. By J. Basil Gieard, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private Emmet Smith, Co. B, 7th Infantry, aged 23 years, was wounded on May 6, 1870, by a musket ball from a Eemiugton breech-loader. The missile entered the right thigh anteriorly some four or five inches below the anterior superior spinous process on the right side, fractured the femur, and lodged in the limb. The patient, a Frenchman, enlisted under an assumed name, and to all appearances not over 18 or 19 years of age, was conveyed to Fort Steele, a distance of about thirty-eight miles. When admitted to the hospital he was in a state of col- lapse, and suffered acute and severe pains. Stimulants were given every half hour during the following night, until reaction took place. On May 7th, chloroform was administered. The ball was found under the skin, two or three inches back of the great trochanter, and was removed through a small incision through which I introduced a finger in each wound. The femur was found shattered to a feaiful extent. The incision for the extraction of the ball was then enlarged upward and downward, thus making an oi)eniug four inches in length, crescentic in shape, with the concavity forward, and the soft tissues were separated from the boue. This oiiening was intended as part of the incision necessary in extracting the head of the femur, should that opera- tion become necessary, or as a free passage for sloughs and pus during after treatment. The examination disclosed a fracture just below the trochanters and almost horizontal. The upper fragment was tilted forward and a little outward by the action of the flexor and rotator muscles. No fracture, communicating with the joint, could be detected. Accordingly the operation was confined to the removal of foreign materials and loose fragments of bone, a number of which were extracted. No ligation was required. The wound was j)]ugged with lint saturated with a solu- tion of persulphate of iron. After the operation the ijatient remained for a long time unconscious, cold and almost pulseless, and when reaction set in, he was restless and appeared delirious. Opiates were given, but with little effect. He suffered from intense thirst until the large quantity of water drank brought on vomiting. The wounded limb was disturbed by severe spasms, for which bromide of potassium was given in ten-grain doses every half hour. At ten o'clock P. M. he became quiet, and died on May 9,1870, at 1 A. M. At the autopsy, a line of fracture was found extending into the hiiJ-joint, but owing to it being only a partial rent, I had failed to discover it at my first examination. Had I been aware of that fact at my first examination, I would have excised the joint, but very probably with the same result, as the patient doubtless died of nervous shock and ex- haustion. The fatal issue in the last five months of two such cases, both treated expectantly, as well as the recovery of Private Erne, at Fort ri-. 11. Upper third of right Larauiic, iu whose case excision was performed, suggest in my mind feniurfractiin'dby.T colloidal ball. , , ,,. - ij^i j.t ■ ■ ±. i Spec. 5m. Sect. i. A. M. Ji. the query whether, when the femur is shattered so near the joint, and the upper fragment with its pointed spicula is thrust among the mus- cles, nerves, and bloodvessels of tlie anterior part of the thigh, the patient would not be exposed to local irritation, muscular spasm, and secondary luemoiThage; in short, whetlier he would not stand a better chance of recovery if that fragment was extracted. At any rate, should he re- cover under the expectant treatment, it is very doubtful whether union would be very firm AvithGUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTEEMITIES. 71 the lower fragment; it wonld at least, certainly be very tedious, if not imperfect. It seems to me I'rom what little experience I have liad in the West, that in this dry and bracing climate where wounds generally do well, excision of the hip-joint in cases like the present, would benefit the patient far more than expectant measures. If another case of this kind comes under my care, I will be strongly temi)ted to excise. The specimen is figured in the adjoining wood-cut, (Fig. 11.) OCXLIII.—Report of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Bight Femur. By Dr. 0. C. Eau- MORE, 114th Eegiment of Colored Troops. Private Henry Jefferson, Co. F, 19th Colored Troops, of a delicate constitution, was admitted, August 30, 1865, to the post hospital at Brownsville, Texas. The ijatient had accidentally received, two weeks before his admission, a severe gunshot wound, which was found upon examina- tion that the ball had entered about two inches anterior and inferior to the trochanter major, i>ro- ducing a compound comminuted fracture of right femur. The ordinary dressings were applied, and the patient seemed to be doing well during the first two weeks of his stay in the hospital. On September 20th, it was deemed necessarj', in consequence of the profuse suppuration and extensive sloughing of the muscular structures of adjoining parts, which bad set in a few days previous, to cut down uj)on, and examine the condition of the wound. A free incision was consequently made, and a few small spiculse of bone removed, and, after a careful examination of tbe parts was made, was unable to find the location of the ball, yet nothing presented itself to warrant an unfavorable issue. The same profuse suppuration continued, notwithstanding the free use of tonics and stimu- lants, together with good nutritious diet. The patient continued to sink, and died November 17, 1865, being two months and eighteen days from receipt of injury. Sectio cadaveris 24 hours after death. The body considerably emaciated. On examining the fractured limb, found an oblique fracture to exist extending across the inter trochanteric line, one half inch inferior to the trochan- ter major, with two radiating fractures extending from the main fracture in a superior direction within the capsular ligament. The ball must liave fractured itself in two j)ieces as soon as it came in contact with the bone, as eacb piece was found to be firmly embedded in each end of tlie frac- tured bone, and distant from each other about lialf an inch, with no i^rospect of reunion taking- place. CCXLIV.—Report of a fatal Case of Oimshot Fracture of the Femur. By Wm. M. Notson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Haller, a citizen, aged about 21 years, bad a gunshot fracture of the femur, in the upper jiart of the middle third, caused by the accidental discharge of a pistol in the hand of a soldier, on the evening of August 25, 1870. The parties were bunting about fifteen miles from Fort Concho, Texas. Ui)on reception of the injury, he was assisted into the river, and sat in tbe water all night, for tbe purpose of keeping off insects, and to relieve the pain. He was brought to the post the next day in a wagon. It was determined, on account of his youth and temperate habits, to make an eftbrt to save the limb. Being wearied from his journey and exiiosure, he was placed in a com- fortable position, and an anodyne administered; the next morning a wire splint was applied, and an examination of the parts made, some spiculse of bone removed, and an operation determined on; the intervening time was occupied in arranging permanent appliances for the continued use of the anterior splint. August 28th, 11 A. M., an incision was made through the Avound, and the loose fragments of bone, and i^ortion of the ball removed, and the extremity of the broken bone cut off with bone forceps, until about two inches had been removed. Opportunity was afforded for free drainage, and carbolized water dressing applied. The next day pointing being noticed in the under portion of the thigh, it was opened, and the remainder of the ball removed. This being a favorable direction, the track of the ball was kept open by a tent until suppuration was fi-eely established. The patient was placed in the ward under the charge of Acting Assistant Surgeon J. A. McCoy, by whom the surgical dressing, treatment, and care of the case was efficiently carried out. On the twenty-sixth day after the operation, some union being evident, on account of much fever of a typhoid character being in the hosiiital, and the exhausted and debilitated condition ofKEPOKT OF SUKGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 72 the patient, he was removed to a bed arranged for him in a wheeled litter, and the leg placed on an inclined plane. On the thirty-fifth day this w^as changed for a starch bandage. He died on the forty-first day after receiving the injury, from pyiemia. The discharge the day preceding the application of the starch bandage had changed from its healthy hue and consistence to a grumous, fetid character. The imst-mortem revealed considerable attempt at union, and the limb in uearlj^ the natural position. It is thought more favorable results would have been attained except for the moral, and perhaps physical, effects of the surrounding disease. Fig', la.—Gmi-sliot Iracture of the upper third of tlio left femur. SiJec. 5663, Sect. I, A. M. M. CCXLV.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Femur, with Fatal Result, treated at Fort Fetterman, Wyoming Territory. By J. Basil Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John W. Keller, Co, H, 4th Infantry, aged 21 years, of temperate habits and fair con- stitution, was wounded in the left thigh, on December 22, 18G9, by the accidental discharge of a Springfield musket in the hands of a comrade. At the time of the accident he was sitting- on the edge of his bunk in the company barrack-room, with his right thigh tlexed at right angles with the trunk and sustaining the weight of the body, and the left limb stretched and half flexed at the hip joint. The shot was fired from behind, at a distance of about five yards, the ball entering the limb on the outside of the gluteal region, five inches from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and issuing on the front of the thigh, seven inches below the same process, fractured and com- minuted the femur in its course. The man was immediately brought to the hospital in a collapsed state, suft'ering acute pain'from the action of the sharp, pointed spiculse of the shat- tered bone. Upon examination the hfemorrhage was found to have been moderate, but owing to the prostrate condition of the patient further x^roceedings were postponed until the next day; in the meantime he was put to bed, a sufiflcient dose of mor- phia administered to allay suffering, and one ounce of brandy ordered every hour until reaction was brought about. When seen again, late in the afternoon, he had fully reacted, felt quite strong and comfortable, and spoke confidently of his future recovery. He slept well diu-ing the night and awoke in excellent coudi tion. On the morning of the 23d an anaesthetic was administered and the wound examined. The orifice of entrance was sufficiently enlarged to allow the passage of the index fingers from each orifice down to the broken bone. The comminution was very great along the track of the ball. The lower fragment presented an oblique line of fracture and moved in accordance with all the motions impressed to the limb, showing that the injury did not extend further downward. The ui»per fragment was immovable, contained both trochanters, and did not appear to be broken or fissured in any way. Having removed all the loose fragments of bone and foreign substances, among which was a piece of the ball weighing seventy grains, the administration of chloroform was stopped, the patient placed on a bed with an unyielding bottom, and w^eight and pulley exten- sion applied to the limb, counter-extension being made by raising the foot of the bed four inches. The thigh itself was left free from splints or bandages so as not to interfere with future swelling and (lis(tharges. Cold-water dressing was applied to the wound. The patient bore the action of the chloroform well, and was (piite comforrable the rest of the day. His condition varied but little until the evening of the 2!)th, when he complained of great pain in the wounded limb. The wound commenced to discharge fetid pus in large quantity. He was very restless, and disarranged the limb, on account of which his bed was thoroughly cleaned and newly arranged, and a long side splint applied from the lower ribs down to the loot, in order to retain the limb on a line with the body. Brandy and morphia were administered. He slept well during the night, but, on the morning of the 2!»th, a profuse hu'inorrhage occurred, and, before it could be stoi)ped, from two to three jnnts of I)lood were lost. Conq»resses, wet with iiciuid persuli)ha(e of iron, finally arrested the bleeding. Stimulants were given freely, ))ut the ])atient sank and died in one hour after the occurrenc e of the73 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. lijBmorrhfige. A post-mortem examination was made four hours after death. The body was found in good condition and well nourished, very little emaciation having taken place. An artery, with a diameter of one-sixteenth of an inch, probably a branch of the profunda, if not the profunda itself, was found with its orifice patulous. The hip-joint was totally uninjured. The pathological specimen, consisting of the head and fragments of the femur, is represented in the opposite wood- cut. Fig. 12. COXLYI.—Report of a Case of Compound Comminuted Fracture of the Femur^ treated hy the Anterior Suspensory Apparatus. By Carlos Carvallo, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William S. Smith, Troop D, 6th Cavalry, aged 31 years, was Avounded on March 30, 1868, by a conoidal pistol ball, which entered the anterior internal aspect of right thigh at the lower third, and emerged on the opposite side, not far from the popliteal fold. On admission to hospital, at Fort Richardson, Texas, an examination revealed a compound comminuted fracture, but on account of the swelling it could not be ascertained whether any fragments were detached. Smith's anterior splint was applied, and sulphate of morphia was administered. On the next day, the leg becoming painful, the splint was removed and afterwards reapplied, when the pain ceased. On April 1st the wound was again exposed, and syringed with a solution of carbolic acid. The slightest motion would cause pain, indicating displacement of bony fragments. On April 2d, the wound began to discharge freely, and the jiatient improved steadily. On May 13th, the splint was removed ; the femur had united with only one inch shortening. On the following day a bandage, supported by binders' boards at the fracture, was applied to the limb. On May 20th, a pocket of pus on the inner side of the thigh was discharged from the wound of entrance. On May 21st, the wound was examined, and but one small piece of dead bone could be detected. A few days later the limb began to swell again, but a solution of chlorinated soda was applied, and the swelling readily subsided. On August 10th, the i)atieut was retiirned to his quarters, able to walk on crutches. November 1st, he was able to walk with a cane ; the right knee was still swollen, and became painful in cold or damp weather. The knee could be flexed to an acute angle only, and was turned inw ard; the right ankle, though pliable, would flex but little ; the motions of the hip joint were normal, but the right hip was lower than the left. The patient suffered from intermittent fever and a bed-sore while under treatment. He was returned to duty (iiolice duty in quarters) on December 16, 1868. CCXLVII.—Report of a Gunshot Fracture of the Femur. By John Campbell, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Tooher, Co. H, 42d Infantry, aged 25 years, received a comminuted fracture of the femur above the knee-joint on July 11, 1867, from a conoidal bullet. He was admitted from his company to the Madison Barracks post hospital at Sackett's Harbor, New York, on July 11,1867. His leg was placed on a double inclined plane. Simple dressings were applied. In September, 1867, union of bone had taken jjlace, but wound was still open; fragments of bone were still being removed therefrom. CCXLVIII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Femur. By A. B. Campbell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Soohen, Co. E, 13th Infantry, aged 23 years, was accidentally shot in the upi^er portion of middle third of thigh. The femur was fractured and comminuted, the femoral artery ruptured. He was admitted to the post hosi)ital at Camp Cooke, Montana Territory, on November 5, 1868. Brandy, morphine, and tincture of cannabis Indica were administered, and the wound was dressed with creosote water. The patient died comatose on the afternoon of November 7, 1868. CCXLIX.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Thigh. By J. W. Brewer, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Thomas, Co. L, lOtU Cavalry, aged 22 j ears, was accidentally wounded on July 1,1868, by a conoidal carbine ball, which passed through the lower third of the left femur, implicating 1074 EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. the bone. He was adinitted from tlie post hospital at Fort SiU, Indian Territory, on December 13, 1869. The treatment consisted of simple dressings and poultices, and removal of fragments of bone. He was discharged from service on surgeon's certificate of disability, on March 11, 1870. COL.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Femur. By G. H. GuNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A, Private Joseph Phillips, Co. H, 9th Cavalry, aged 26 years, was wounded September 22, 1870, by a conoidal ball, which fractured the left femur, at middle third. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Quitman, Texas, soon after the reception of the injury. The limb was placed in a fracture-box, until November 26th, and simple dressings were api)lied. At the date of this rejiort the case was doing well. There were twenty-three special reports of gun-shot flesh wounds of the thigh, all the cases resulting favorably, and five reports of grave and fatal lesions of the great vessels or nerves. OCLI.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Thigh. By B. E. Fryer, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Musician William Corin, Co. B, 38th Infantry, accidentally received, on September 17, 1867, a slight gunshot wound of the right thigh from a conoidal ball. He was admitted from the garrison on the same day to the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas. The treatment consisted of simple dressings. He was returned to duty on October 1, 1867. CCIAI.—Account of a Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By W. E. SAVAGE, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George Coleman, Co. G, 117th Colored Troops, aged 25 years, was accidentally wounded on August 3, 1867, by a conoidal pistol ball, in the centre of the vastus externus muscle of the right leg. The missile passed ui)ward and backward forty-five degrees, and lodged in the centre of the adductor longns muscle, from which j)lace it was cut out. He was admitted from Brownsville, Texas, to the post hospital at Brazos Santiago, on August 11,1867. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He was mustered out of the service on August 14, 1867. CCLIIL—Mention of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Thigh. By John T. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Elias Simpson, Co. B, 40th Infantry, aged 23 years, received a gunshot wound on Feb- ruary 13, 1869. A small conoidal ball entered the posterior portion of the thigh, passed in a direct course almost entirely through. He was admitted to the post hospital at Goldsborough, North Caro- lina, on February 13, 1869. Ball extracted through counter opening. He was discharged April 2, 1869. CCLTV.—Mention of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thigh. By W. R. Steinmetz, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Corporal Henry E. Taylor, Co. E, 24th Infantry, aged 22 years, received a gunshot wound of the lower third of the right thigh, on December 24, 1869. He was admitted from quarters, on December 25th, to the post hospital at Fort Grillin, Texas, and was returned to duty on February 2, 1870.75 GUNSHOT WOUiTDS OP THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. CCLY.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Thigh. By B. E. Fk yer, Assistant SurgeoD, U. S. A. Private Andrew Warner, Co. E, 38t.li Infantry, on July 10, 1867, was accidentally wounded by a pistol ball in the right thigh. On the same day he was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas, from the garrison. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He was returned to duty on July 12, 1807. CCLVI.—Report of a Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Thigh. By H. R. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Anthony Welber, Co. I, 3d Infantry, received an accidental gunshot wound of the right thigh on May 4, 1869. A rifle ball entered the front of the thigh at the middle third exter- nally to the femur, and lodged in the biceps muscle. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, on May 6, 1809. On May 8th, the ball was removed by a counter open- ing, and simple dressings were applied. On May 20, an abscess was opened, and a short time afterward a j)iece of cloth was removed from the wound. By June 15th, the wounds were entirely healed. He was returned to dut}^ July, 1869. CCLVII.—Report of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By W. J. Wilson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant John Mullins, Co. K, 4th Cavalry, aged 31 years, received a wound of the thigh from a pistol ball on February 16, 1870. He was admitted from his quarters into hospital on February 17th. Water dressings were used. He was returned to duty on March 14,1870. CCLVIII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thigh. By A. 0. Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Smith, Co. F, 19th Infantry, aged 29 years, was wounded on February 8, 1870, while leaving a steamboat on his arrival at Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The shot was fired from above, and the weapon was said to be a pistol. The ball entered over the trochanter of the left thigh, took a direct downward course between the aponeurosis and skin, and made its exit ten inches lower. Some part of the underclothes, being carried into the canal, were extracted, and a free suppuration was established. The missile could not be found. During the inflammatory stage, cold applications, with solution of carbolic acid at 57°. After suppuration was established, poultices of linseed, with the same solution, and finally a carbolic cerate. Convalescence was slow. He was admitted to the post hospital at Baton Rouge on February 8, 1870, and was returned to duty on March 20,1870. CCLIX.—Account of a Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By F. G. H. Bradford, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles Osborn, Co. E, 1st California Veteran Volunteers, was wounded at Los Piuos, New Mexico, on June 21, 1866, by a j)istol-ball, which entered the left thigh two inches anterior, and a little below the great trochanter, and passed slightly inward, upward, and backward, between the tensor vagiufe femoris, and sartorius muscles. He was at once admitted to the post hospital. The track of the ball could not be traced with a probe beyond three inches. But little pain was experienced by the patient on examination of the limb. Water dressings were applied. Five days after, the ball was found lodged in the gluteal muscle, two inches to the left of the anus, being plainly felt through the skin, and was removed by an incision three-quarters of an inch long. The ball was considerably flattened, having struck ftie femur in its passage. On June 27th, the imtient was doiug well, and the wound healing kindly.EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 76 COLX.—Eeport of a Gtmsliot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By James F. Weeds, Surgeon, JJ. S. A. Private Walter E. Oliver, 14th Infantry, aged 21 years, received a gunsLot wound on July 15, 3809, from a couoidal ball, which entered at the front of the left thigh, and passed directly through the limb on the inner side of the bone. He was admitted to the post hospital at Nash- ville, Tennessee, on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on August 21, 1809. CCLXI,—Report of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- Woimd of the Tliigh. By W. S. Tre3IAIne, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Peter Badamy, Co. D, 25th Infantry, aged 18 years, received in a street fight on February 18, 1868, a slight flesh-wouud of the anterior aspect of the left thigh, from a couoidal pistol-ball. He was admitted into the hospital at Memphis, Tennessee, on February 18, 1868. The treatment consisted of simple dressings. He was returned to duty on February 21, 1868. CCLXII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- "Wound of the Thigh. By J. B. Brooke, Assistant Surgeon, U. S, A. Private Herrarra, Co. B, 1st New Mexican Infantry, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Sumner, New Mexico, July 18, 1866, with a pistol-shot wound of the right thigh, received accidentally. Simple dressings were applied. He left the i)Ost with his company on September 2, 1806. CCLXIII.—Report of two Cases of Gunshot Wounds of the Hip. By W. M. Notson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case 1.—Private Henry Johnson, Co. E, 9th Colored Cavalry, aged 26 years, received a gunshot wound of the left hip, on June 28, 1869, by a couoidal ball. He was admitted from Fort Stockton, Texas, into the post hospital at Fort Concho. The treatment consisted of cold applica- tions. He was returned to duty on August 18, 1869. Case 2.—PriA^ate James Feaster, Co. F, 41st Infantry, aged 24 years, received a gunshot wound of the left thigh, in a scufitie with a comrade, on July 14, 1869, by a couoidal ball. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Concho, Texas. Cold applications were made to the wound. He died on July 10, 1869. CCLXIV.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Thigh. By J. W. Brewer, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Shields, Co. M, 10th Cavalry, aged 25 years, was shot on October 15, 1805, through the fleshy part of the middle third of the right thigh, on the mail route between Fort Sill. Indian Territory, and Fort Arbuckle. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Arbuckle, Cherokee Nation, Indian Territory, on October 16, 1869. The treatment consisted of cold-water dressings and poultices. He was returned to duty on December 12, 1809. CCLXY.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thigh. By C. S. De Graw, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Charles Kennedy, Co. F, 1st Artillery, aged 22 years, was accidentally wouiuled at Madison Barracks post hos])ital. New York, j\[ay 0, 1870, by a pistol ball, which entered the right thigii, middle third, and l^dgeil. lie was admitted to the hospital (he same day. Carbolic acid, half an ounce to one pint of water, was applied freely to the wound. He died October 30, 1870, of typhoid fever.GUNSHOT WOin^DS OF THE LOWEE EXTKEMITIES. 77 CCLXVI.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By J. Eidgely, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant John Cappiugs, Co. H, 26th Infantry, aged 27 years, received a wound of the right hip, from a conoidal musket ball, on September 20, 1867. He was admitted from hospital at Waco, Texas, to hosi^ital at Austin, on March 20, 1868. He was returned to duty on May 1, 1868. CCLXVII.—Report of Two Cases of Gunshot Flesh Wounds of the Thigh. By Jules Le Oarpen- TIER, M. D.j Acting Assistant Surgeon. Case 1.—Private James Francis, Co. A, 38th Infantry, aged 23 years, while on a scout on Sep- tember 24, 1868, received a gunshot flesh-wound of the inner and upper portion of the left thigh by a round ball. He was admitted into the post hosijital at Fort Baj^ard, New Mexico, on October 9th. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He was returned to duty on November 16, 1868. Case 2.—Private Logan Goodpastor, Co, A, 38th Infantry, aged 22 years, received a slight gunshot flesh-wound of the thigh from a pistol ball on December 24,1868, in a riot at Central City. He was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Bayard, New Mexico, on December 25th. Simple dressings were used. He was returned to duty in January, 1869. CCL:K.Y1U.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Thigh. By L. G. Holmes, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Lieutenant D. W. Walcott, 1st Cavalry, aged 34, was wounded by the accidental discharge of his pocket pistol while riding on horseback near Camp Logan, Oregon, August 16, 1868. The ball entered the thigh on the outside, one inch posterior to, and three inches below, the trochanter major, passed downward and inward and lodged in the belly of the adductor muscles. He was admitted on the same day to the post hospital at Camp Logan, where all foreign substances which could be detected were removed, and an anodyne administered. On the 18th, slight inflammation set in, which increased until the 23d, when some fluctuation was detected on the inside of the thigh. An incision was made over the point of fluctuation, and the ball was found and removed. On August 24th, the leg was greatly inflamed and i^ainful. The pulse was weak and the wound discharged considerable pus. Under the application of cold to the limb and stimulants internally, the ijatient commenced to improve, and on the 27th, the swelling had somewhat subsided. On September 23d the patient was dropped from the sick report, the wouud being completely healed. There was slight lameness from contracted tendons, which was, however, gradually lessening. CCLXIX.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By H. E. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Eobert Garnet, Co. K, 10th Cavalry, aged 18 years, received October 9, 1868, while on the march, a wound of the left thigh, by a conoidal ball from a pistol in the hands of a sergeant which entered two inches from the great trochanter. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, on November 11th, where the ball was extracted from the point of entrance. The patient was returned to duty February 7, 1869. CCLXX.—i\rofe of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By John B. WhiTE, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Patrick Burke, Co. B, 17th Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded at Ealeigh, North Carolina, in a street aflray between the police of the city and men of the above command, by a conoidal pistol ball, which entered and lodged in the thigh. He was admitted to the post hospital at Ealeigh, North Carolina, April 14, 1870. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on May 10, 1870.EEPOET OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 78 OOLXXI.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By H. S. S(!HBLl, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Colonel Henry B. Carrington, 18th Infantry, was accidentally wounded, on February 5, 18G7, by a conoidal ball, wliicli entered the apex of Scarpa's triangle, and, passing obliquely downward and outward, glanced from the bone and lodged under the skin on the outside of the thigh. He arrived at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, on February 9th. The limb was swollen and inflamed, and there was partial loss of sensation in the lower jjart of the thigh and leg. The patient was feverish and suffered much pain. On February 10th, having administered ether, I made a linear incision, and removed the ball. The inflammation subsided, and the wound of incision healed rapidly. On Februar3^ 21, 18G7, the jjatient had sufiELciently recovered to resume his journey to his station. Fort McPherson. The three following reports relate to cases of wounds of the great vessels or nerves of the thigh, and two reports that have come to hand while these pages were passing through the press, which should have been placed here, will be found near the close of the chapter. CCLXXH.—Report of a Case of Gtinshot Flesh- Wound of the Thigh. By C. E. Greenleap, Assist- ant Sui-geon, U. S. A. Henry O. Clinton, Artificer, Co. C, 2d Infantry, was shot in a street brawl, at Louisville, Kentucky, on October 19, 18G8, through the right thigh, by a round pistol ball, which i>assed obliquely through from behind, severing the femoral artery and vein, at the point where the artery jjasses through the adductor magnus. Death occurred in a few minutes, from hnemorrhage. CCLXXIII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thigh and Leg. By S. M. Hokton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Thomas Carnovan, citizen, aged 17 years, was wounded by Indians, at night, while sitting by a camp fire, just outside the stockade of Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Tei-ritory. The missiles were suioposed to be slugs from a shot-gun. Two of them entered the inner side of the right thigh, in the middle third, two inches apart, and passed through just behind the femur. Two others passed through the calf of the leg of the same side; another comminuted the bones of the second joint of the forefinger of the right hand. He was admitted to the hospital of the post on Novem- ber 2,18GG. Simple dressings were applied, and liquor of the persulphate of iron was used to arrest venous h;emorrliage. The patient died on November Gth from shock, venous h;cmorrhage, and gangrene of the leg. An autopsy revealed laceration of the femoral nerve, and injury to the femoral vein. CCLXXIY.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thigh. By R. Sharpe, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private Williams, Co. D., 21th Infantry, was accidentally wounded by the discharge of a rifle in the hands of anotlier soldier, March 25, 1870, on the North Llano, Texas, while in the line of duty. The wound was dressed on tiie spot, and the i)atient was brought to hospital at Mc- Kavett next day. The ball was found to have entered the left thigh, externally, at about the upper third, and, emerging almost opposite, had entered the right thigh, and made its final exit about four inches below the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, on outer surftice of limb, the l)all in its i)assag('just grazing botli femoral bones. Imniodiatcly after the accident he complained of a feeling of numbness of the left leg, and was unable to move it or the foot. The79 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWEE EXTKEMITIES. wouud was dressed with a solution of permanganate of potash, and opium was given. The patient was tolerably comfortable till April 1st, when he complained of much pain. He rested badly at night, pulse almost imperceptible; left leg much swollen, and temperature diminished, giving tbe premonitions of gangrene. Ordered morphine, egg-nog, and beef-tea, and warm api)lications to leg. Eleven A. M.: Patient, after taking a spoonful of egg-nog, vomited. Twelve M.: Eapidly grow- ing worse, and died at 2 P. M. Autopsy by Dr. De Loffre. Much effusion of serum in areolar tissue of left leg; gangrene of the large muscles around the wounds. Great sciatic nerve much contused by ball; not otherwise injured. All the internal organs healthy. Large clots of blood in the aorta and in the right auricle. Gun-shot wounds of the Knee-joint.-—-There are four reports of cases of recovery after gunshot wounds, believed to have involved the knee-joint. The details of evidence will hardly satisfy skeptical military surgeons. COLXXV.—Report of a Case of Ounshot Wound of the Knee-Joint. By H. E. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Murray, Co. B, 7th Cavalry, who was shot through the knee-joint at Fort Lyons, Colorado Territory, in January, 1887, recovered without an unfavorable symptom. He could move the joint slightly on the 4th of February. February 19th, just four weeks from the ' date of the injury, he was able to stand on the foot and walk a few steps without crutch or cane- At present, in walking, he has to keep the joint stiff, but eventually there will be very good motion, and little inconvenience from the injury. At the time Murray was shot, January 22,1867, the only probe which I used was the end of my little finger. I was satisfied that the ball had not passed around the joint. No benefit would have been derived by the patient by making further efforts to determine the exact course of the ball. I was under the impression that it had jiassed through the head of the tibia. I am satisfied by the result that it could not have done so ; but the ball could open the synovial membrane and pass through the joint without injury to either the femur or tibia. The result is remarkable. He was returned to duty on March 4, 1867, but riding caused the knee to swell. He was returned to duty again in March, 1867, able to attend to any duty except riding. I remember a case in the Vicksburg campaign, where the ball struck the patella without fracturing it or opening tbe joint, and passed up the thigh superficially, escai)ing four inches above, and yet the man died of inflammation of the knee-joint. CCLXXVI.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Woimd of the Knee-Joint. By Joseph Kugler, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles Willis, Troop G, 3d Cavalry, was wounded, October 3, 1866, in an engagement with Ute Indians at Purgatory Creek, Colorado Territory, by a rifle bullet, which entered a little above the external condyle of the right femur, fractured the patella, opened the knee-joint and lodged, it is supposed, in the internal condyle. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Garland, Colorado Territory, on October 12th, having been carried in an ambulance from Trinidad, over a very rough mountain road. When admitted he was in such a weak and exhausted condition that it was thought inadvisable to submit him to an operation; his system being very irritable, the wounded part painful, and dreading symptoms of pysemia, he was put on nutritious diet, with stimulants and narcotics, together with soothing and emollient applications to the knee. Although several abscesses formed, and the discharge was very plentiful, he seemed to be in a much better condition on October 31st than when he entered the hospital. His situation was still very critical, but it was thought he might so far improve as to make it possible to save his life by an operation, even should the limb have to be sacrificed. In December, 1866, Willis was reported as still con- fined to his bed, and despite the greatest care taken to prevent tliem, suffered from bed-sores. SomeEEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 80 of tlie old abscesses were of an erysipelatous character, and formed above and below the knee, dis- charging a great quantity of purulent matter, which gradually became healthier. He evidently suffered from iiytemia, and an abscess of the right lung was suspected. The treatment consisted of tonics and stimulants. In January, 1807, he was doing well, and was able to sit up several hours each day. During this month the missile, or one and a quarter ounce lead slug, was ex- tracted, after which all the abscesses but one healed kindly. He gained strength daily until attacked with influenza. The ultimate termination of the case does not appear, but he most prob- ably recovered, as he does not appear upon the report of sick and wounded for February, 18G7. CCLXXVII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Knee-Joint. By Ferdinand Axt, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Eattlesnake Station, Nevada, on September 16, 1867, Sergeant Patrick Corcoran, Co. D, 8th Cavalry, was shot through the upper part of the left knee, the ball entering on the outer side, and passing out on the inner side apparently through the anterior and upper segment of the inner condyle of the femur. He was conveyed to the hospital at Camp McDermit, Nevada, a distance of sixty miles, over a rough road. It was supposed, from the nature of the discharge, that the wound communicated with the knee-joint. The treatment in the case is not recorded. In November, 1868, Corcoran was returned to duty. CCLXXVIII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Knee-Joint. By J. V. D. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Austin, Texas, March 29, 1869, John Glascock, citizen prisoner, aged 30, shot himself, while being arrested, inflicting a wound of knee, involving the joint; the missile, a conoidal ball, lodged. He was admitted to the post hospital. Cold water dressings, poultices, carbolic acid and oil were a])plied. He was discharged from further treatment, October 17, 1869. Gunshot Wounds of the Leg.—The seven following reports describe gunshot fractures of the tibia in five instances, of the fibula in one, and of the tibia and fibula in one. All of the cases had favorable terminations. CCLXXIX.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wounds of the Thigh and Leg. Condensed from detailed Eeports by Acting Assistant Surgeon Irving C. Eosse, M. D. Major George A. Forsyth, 9th Cavalry, received two severe and dangerous wounds, in a fight with Indians, at Dry Forks, Eepublican Eiver, Kansas, on September 17, 1868. The first wound was caused by a Henry rifle ball, which entered the left leg posteriorly about the centre, and, passing directly through, fractured and crushed the tibia on the aspect of entrance, transversely fracturing it anteriorly. The second wound was caused by a similar missile, which entered the right thigh at the outer anterior aspect at the juncture of the upper with the middle third, penetrated to the deep fascia, ranged thence upward and inward across the centre of Scarpa's triangle, and lodged deeply on the inner aspect of the thigh, severely contusing the right testicle. The circumstances attend- ing the wounded after this engagement were exceediugly unfavorable. They were not relieved until the evening of the ninth day after the fight ; the weather at first was very warm, and the men lay in the sand beside their dead horses, subjected to noisome gases and swarms of flies. Two cold, rainy nights occurred on the 22d and 23d ; they were without surgical attendance, dressing, &c., the surgeon having been killed in the fight;* and their only diet was the limited and offensive flesh of their dead animals. The dangerous nature of the wounds mentioned above rendered the drain upon ]\Iajor Forsyth more severe tlian on others. Ho was taken with other wounded to Fort Wallace, distant one hundred and thirty miles, the journey taking neai-ly four days. On arrival * John H. Moovo, Acting Assistant Surgeon, was mortally wounded at Arickaveo Fork of the Eepublicau Kiver, Septeuibor 17, 18G8, and died ou the luorniiig of September 20, lb68.—Ed.81 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. there every facility in the way of hospital accoiriniodatioii was afforded by Dr. T. H. Turner, U. S. A. A few days afterward, decided symptoms of septictemia manifested themselves with the wounded, more especially with Major Forsyth. The symptoms were excessive irritability or nervousness, a hectic form of fever, diffuse abscesses, »&c., from which he became rapidly reduced in flesh and strength. An abscess under the scalp, anterior to the vertex, resulted in the death of a small portion of both tables of the skull, which was thrown off by exfoliation. Indications of necrosis of upper part of the lower half of tibia came on in November; but all interference was avoided until January 20, when loose bone being detected, fragments of the tibia, to the extent of nearly three inches, were removed. After this operation the patient improved rapidly, the wound filling up with new material of a cartilaginous nature. About the last of January he was lifted from his bed for the first time in four months, and had his first airing in a Tompkins's wheel-litter. A few days afterward he used crutches, and got about feebly. This case was treated by first placing the leg in a common fracture box; then in a suspension splint of leather and telegraph wire; next in a double inclined lilane, made light, and suspended; lastly, in a "Smith's anterior," modified.- Quinine and tincture of iron were administered in small doses for some three months, and decided benefit was derived from fifteen-grain doses of hyposulphite of soda. On February 18th he was transferred to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, 415 miles by rail, where he yet more rapidly gained in flesh and strength, his wounds filling up and the leg acquiring some solidity. On April Sth, he reached Chicago, entering there upon his duty as military secretary to General Sheridan. Assistant Surgeon J. A. Fitzgerald, U. S. A., who furnished most of the above particulars, stated, under date of August 25, 1809, that it was not until about May 10, 1809, that he first became con- vinced of a real bony union. In the latter part of April he applied a new splint in the form of long upholsterers' needles, ajiplied as follows: First. Applied two roller bandages from toes to knee, then introduced the long needle interruptedly by catches one or two inches ajjart, putting alternate needles in the intervals of preceding catches. In this manner were applied three externally and two internally to the leg, over which another roller was closely applied, and lastly a firm elastic stocking. When this was applied there was no discharge whatever, and with it he could get about on crutches with facility. When he left him on May 13, 1809, he walked about five squares twice daily, and to his office in a third story. He could bear considerable weight on the leg without pain at that time. Dr. Fitzgerald also states that he heard from his patient about four weeks previously, and that he expected to be walking by September 1, 1809.* COLXXX.—Mention of a Case in whicJi there ivas Removal of a Portion of the Fibula after a Gunshot Injury. By H. R. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Kelly, Co. B, Sth Cavalry, aged 22 years, received an accidental gunshot wound of the left leg, on November 15, 1808. The ball entered the inner side of leg, two and a half inches below the tibia, and passed out at the middle third of the leg, externally, fracturing the fibula. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, on April 30, 1809. The patient states that a portion of the fibula was removed by Assistant Surgeon Turner, U. S. A. The wound was nearly healed. The patient was in hospital only two days when the 5th Cavalry left the post. [He was returned to duty on May 2, 1809.—Ed.] CCLXXXI.—Mention of a Gunshot Wound of the Leg. By B. E. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Peter Eustace, Co. H, 5th Infantry, aged 26 years, was accidentally wounded on Feb- ruary 23, 1868, by a small conoidal ball, which fractured the right tibia and fibula at the lower third. He was admitted from Fort Hayes, on April 28, 1868, to the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas. The wounds had healed, and the bones had united prior to admission. Some little lame- ness still exists. There is no shortening or other deformity. He was returned to duty in May, 1808. * In May, 1871, Mnjor G. A. Forsyth met Assistant Surgeon General Crane, and boasted of the peifection of his cure, speaking in enthusiastic terms of army surgery, and the skill of his attendants, complimenting particularly Dra. Fitzgerald and Ascb, ■\vitli endless grateful expressions toward the former, who had charge of the case at first. There Avas no apparent shortening of the limb.—Ed, 1182 EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. CCliXX.XU.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Leg. By J. M. Best, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, Private James Farrall, Co. E, 25th Infantry, was wounded in a street fight, on December 1, 1868. The ball entered the integuments on the anterior and inner part of the upper third of the tibia of left leg, passed out about two inches from the place of entrance, in an almost transverse direction, burying about half the width of a small ball in the substance of the tibia. He was admitted to the post hospital at Von Schrader Barracks, Paducah, Kentucky, on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on January 8,1869. CCLXXXIII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of Tibia and Ulna. By W. H. Hopper, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John McWilliams, Co. I, 14th Infantry, aged 23 years, received, near Somerset, Ken- tucky, February IG, 1870, five balls in his body, the first causing a flesh-wound in the right shoul- der, the second on the left side, just above the crest of the ilium, the third in the left arm, just below the elbow, the fourth in the right arm below the elbow-joint, fracturing the ulna, and the fifth in the right leg, about four inches below the patella, shattering the tibia. On April 9th he was admitted to post hospital at Lebanon, Kentucky. A ball which had been overlooked was now cut out. The first three wounds had healed before his admission. The fourth healed rapidly, leaving perfect anchylosis of the joint. The fifth wound was still ojien, and slightly suppurating, June 30, 1870. He was sent to his regiment on October 24, 1870. CCLXXXIV.—Memorandum Relative to a Gunshot Wound of the Leg. By W. M. Austin, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Joseph Shaw, Co. D, 3d Cavalry, was wounded on October 17,1867, in a fight with Indians, by a ball which caused a wound of the right tibia. He was admitted at Fort Bliss and Camp Concordia, Texas, on October 25,18G7. On February 2,1868, the necrosed bone was excised. He was returned to duty on March 9, 1808. CCLXXX V.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Bight Tibia. By J. F. Hammond, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Eobert Bnrgi, Co. H, 4th Cavalry, aged 23 years, received a gunshot wound of the right leg by a conoidal ball, June 13, 1870, while on his way to supper, from a soldier who was standing in the door of a tent, ten yards distant, the ball striking the posterior aspect of the limb in the median line, three inches below the knee-joint, passing horizontally through the leg and comminuting the tibia in its transit. He was admitted to the post hospital at Austin, Texas, the same day. Treatment consisted of lead-water, solution of permanganate of potassa, poultices, and solution of carbolic acid. The man was still under treatment January 1,1871. He was dis- charged April 30, 1871. Special reports were made of nineteen gunshot flesh-wounds of the leg. In four instances foreign bodies were extracted. Seventeen patients went to duty; one was dis- charged and one died of pysemia. CCLXXXVI.—A Case of Gunshot Wound of the Leg. By Ferdinand Axt, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Welsh, Co. E, 23d Infantry, aged 34 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Cami> McDermit, lievada, July 23, 1808, with a gunshot wound of the left leg. The ball entered on the inside of the middle of the leg, traversed tlie cellular tissue posterior to the tendo Achillis, and emerged on a level with the u])])er end of the malleolus. Chloroform being administered, a large number of minute shreds ol' clothing were removed from the wound. Ice-water dressings were applied. The patient was discharged from hospital September 13, 1868. The wound had nearly closed and the movement of the foot was not impaired.83 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTREIMITIES. COLXXXVII.—-Eepor* of a Case of GunsJiot Flesh- Wound of the Bight Leg. By William Thomson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Jolin Oonroy, Battery D, 4th Artillery, aged 40 years, received at Washington, D. 0., July 4, 186G, a gunshot wound of the upper third of the right leg, by the bursting of a rifle. He was admitted to post hospital July 5th. A piece of cast iron, one and a quarter inches long and one-half inch wide, was imiiacted near the internal surface of the tibia near the insertion of the sar- torius muscle. On July 11th, I enlarged the wound by a crucial incision, and extracted the iron with bone forceps; water dressing was then applied to the knee-joint for two days, when the wound was poulticed. September 6th, the wound had healed, and on September 13, 1806, the patient was returned to duty. COLXXXVIir.—AccoMn^ of a Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Leg. By J. B. Grand all, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James Collins, Co. F, 37th Infantry, aged 23 years, received a gunshot flesh-wound of the right leg, in a fight with Indians, on July 19, 1867. He was admitted from the field into the post hospital at Fort Dodge, Kansas, on July 20th. Simple dressings were used. In Septem- ber the wound had healed, and he was awaiting transportation to his company. CCLXXXIX.—Mention of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Leg. By G. Gwynther, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Aaron Smith, Co. C, 23d Infantry, aged 25 years, shot himself accidentally at Camp McDermit, Nevada, October 25, 1808. The missile entered on outer aspect of calf of right leg, took a superficial course, and lodged immediately under the skin on the astragulus. He was admitted to the post hospital, where the ball was extracted through a longitudinal incision by Act- ing Assistant Surgeon George Gwynther. The wound healed rapidly, and the patient was dis - charged November 9, 1868. Fifteen other cases of gunshot flesh-wounds of the leg, in which special reports were made, presented no peculiarities of moment, with one exception, in which pyemia was developed, and the medical officer omitted to make notes of the autopsy. Private William Barry, Co. G, 6th Cavalry, aged 30. Jefferson, Texas, May 7,1869. Gunshot flesh-wound of the right leg. Duty, June, 1869. Private Herman S. Brown, Co.E, 17th Infantry, aged 21. Fort Stephenson, Dakota Territory, July 20,1870. Gunshot flesh-wound of left leg. Duty, November, 1870. Corporal James Burnside, Co. F, 114th Colored Troops, aged 26. Accidental, December 25, 1866. Gunshot flesh-wound of right leg. Duty, April, 1867. Private George Cox, Co. H, 8th Cavalry, aged 30. Fort Union, New Mexico, December 9, 1870. Gunshot flesh-wound of right leg. Missile extracted December 10. Duty, December 31, 1870. Private James Davis, Co. O, 5th Cavalry, aged 29. Atlanta, October 15,1868, Gunshot flesh wound of right leg. Duty, October 29,1868. Sergeant William Gleason, Co. I, 37th Infantry, aged 29. Fort Dodge, Kansas, September 29, 1867. Gunshot flesh-wounds of right knee, left leg, and scalp. Duty, October, 1867. Private Martin McMahon, Troop E, 1st Cavalry, aged 27. Prescott, Arizona Territory, De- cember 18, 1867. Gunshot flesh-wound of right leg. Duty, January, 1868. Private Charles Michael, Co. A, 38th Infantry, aged 23. Central City, New Mexico,December 24, 1868. Gunshot flesh-wound of left leg. Duty, January, 1869. Sergeant Joseph Myers, Troop L, 3d Cavalry, aged 21. Fort Wiugate, New Mexico, May 5, 1808. Gunshot flesh-wound of right leg. Duty, June 6, 1868.EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 84 Private John Mann, Troop B, 3d Cavalry, aged 24. Fort Bayard, New Mexico, November 12, 1869. Gunshot flesh-wound of right leg. Duty, February 24, 1870. Private Isom Paine, Co. H, 24th Infantry, aged 25. Fort Quitman, Texas, November 16, 1869. Gunshot flesh-wound of right leg. Duty, February 13, 1870. Private Gustavus Smith, Troop H, 6th Cavalry, aged 26. Little Wichita Eiver, Texas, July 12, 1870. Gunshot flesh-wound of the right leg. Duty, August 9, 1870. Private Eobert Smith, Troop L, 10th Colored Cavalry, aged 20, Fort Arbuckle, Indian Terri- tory, February 21, 1870. Duty, April, 1870. Private John Turner, Co. H, 9th Cavalry, aged 23. Fort Quitman, Texas, August 17, 1870. Gunshot wound of left leg. Died, September 2, 1870, of j)yremia. Private George W. Younas, Troop H, 0th Cavalry, aged 27. Fort Quitman, Texas, June 20, 18G9. Gunshot flesh-wound of right leg. Duty, October 31, 1809. Gunsliot Wounds of the Foot.—Six special reports were transmitted of cases of fractures belonging to this class. They all resulted favorably under simple treatment. CCXC.—Mention of a Case of Gunsliot Wound of the Foot. By A. A. Woodhull, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Corporal Patrick Dwyer, Co. K, 3d Infantry, aged 31 years, accidentally discharged his car- bine ; the missile, a conoidal bullet, passed through the first metatarsal. He was admitted from the field, fifty miles distant, to the post hospital at Fort Larned, Kansas, on September 15, 1870. The treatment consisted of simple dressings. He was returned to duty in October, 1870. CCXCI.—Remarls on a Case of Gunsliot Wound of the Left Second Toe. By E. Tanszky, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Taliaferro Hall, Co. E, 9th Cavalry, aged 21 years, was accidentally wounded near Fort Stockton, Texas, August 20, 1868, by a conoidal ball, which shattered two phalanges of the second toe of the left foot. He was, on August 30th, admitted to post hospital. The foot was very much swollen, the wounded parts being oedematous with threatening gangrene, and discharg- ing ichorous and fetid pus. On August 31st, Acting Assistant Surgeon E. Tanszky removed tbe shattered portions of bone, and applied antiseptic lotions. A new pbalaux formed. The first joint is anchylosed, but in other respects the toe is iu the same coudition as before the accident. Hall was returned to duty October 4, 1868. CCXClI.—Bei)ort of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Foot. By C. E. McChesnet, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles Green, Co. D, 7th Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted, on July 20, 1870, to the post hospital at Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, with a gunshot wound of the left foot. Frag- ments of bone were removed and carbolic acid dressings applied. He was discharged from service December 18, 1870. CCXCIII.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Foot. By D. Hershby, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Huft', Co. C, 25th Infantry, aged 26 years, accidentally shot himself in the left foot, at Fort St. Philip, Louisiana, on March 30, 1870. The ball entered over superior surface of second joint of great toe, and escaped on under surface, fracturing both phalanges. He was admitted to the post hospital, where spicuhB of bone were removed. He recovered, and was returned to duty in IMay, 1870.85 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. CCXOIV.—Mention of a Case of Gtimhot Wound of the Foot. By John T. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private J. H. Lewis, Co. B, 40tli Infantry, aged 21 years, received, on January 17,1S69, a gun- shot wound of the right foot, from a revolver fired from his own hand, while carelessly handling it. The ball entered the plantar surface of the foot, and became flrndy imbedded in one of the tarsal bones. He was admitted to the post hospital at Goldsborough, North Carolina, on January 17, 1869. The ball was permitted to remain. He was returned to duty on March 31, 1809. COXCV.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Foot. By H. E. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Wilmot, Co. M, 5th Cavalry, aged 18 years, received an accidental gunshot wound. A carbine ball passed by the inner side of the right patella, producing a flesh-wound, and then between the great and second toes of the right foot, wounding both, and fracturing the second phalanx of the second toe. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado, Terri- tory, on January 23, 1869. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on March 17, 1869. There were also special reports made of seven cases of flesh-wounds of the foot. The patients returned to duty a few weeks after the reception of the injuries, and their cases presented no particulars of special interest. Private Henry Clay, Troop M, 10th Colored Cavalry, aged 22 years. Fort Arbuclde, Indian Territory, February 27, 1870. Gunshot flesh-wound. Duty, Aj)ril, 1870. Private Alexander Gordon, Co. A, 38th Infantry, aged 22 years. Central City, New Mexico, December 24, 1868. Slight flesh-wound of foot. Duty, January, 1869. Acting Assistant Surgeon G. W. Hatch, aged 36 years. Little Wichita Eiver, Texas, July 12, 1870. Gunshot flesh-wound of left foot. Furloughed, August 20, 1870. Private Henry Hight, Troop H, 9th Cavalry, aged 21 years. Fort Quitman, Texas, November 6, 1868. Gunshot flesh-wound of right foot. Duty, January, 1869. Private Thomas Navin, Co. H, 18th Infantry, aged 19 years. Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, October 14,1866. Gunshot flesh-wound of great toe, right foot. Duty, October 23,1866. Private William O'Neal, Co. B, 5th Cavalry, aged 21 years. Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, March 16, 1869. Gunshot flesh-wound of foot. Duty, April, 1869, Private William Wilson, Co. H, 18th Infantry, aged 23 years. Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, October 9, 1866. Gunshot flesh-wound of right foot. Duty, October 25, 1866. There were also two reports of gunshot lesions of the femoral vessels, received too late to be inserted in their proper place after report OCLXII. OCXCVI.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Femoral Artery and Vein. By R. Tanzky, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private William Neff, Troop B, 9th Cavalry, was admitted to hospital at Fort Stockton, Texas, in a moribund condition, having nearly bled to death from the efiects of a gunshot wound of both thighs. A tourniquet was put over each femoral artery, and carbonate of ammonia, with other stimidants, administered, but the latter were immediately rejected by the stomach. The condition of the patient precluded an operation for ligating the injured vessels. The autopsy showed the femoral artery and vein to be severed.86 EEPORT OP SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. CCXCVII.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Femoral Vein. By F. M. Holly, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Eberharcit, Co. A, ITtli Infantry, aged 21 years, was shot, on October 29, 1868, at Belton, Texas, wliile an attempt was being made by a party of eight men to arrest a desperado. A ball from a Colt's Navy revolver entered the right thigh three inches below Poupart's ligament, internal to sartorius muscle, passed backward and slightly upward, nearly severing the femoral vein, grazed the femur internally at the junction of the shaft and neck, passed through the gluteal muscles, and lodged under the cuticle opposite the great ischiatic notch. The patient, unaware of being wounded, continued walking or running until he fell faint from loss of blood. He was seen some fifteen or twenty minutes after the occurrence, when the ball was removed from its i^lace of lodgement, an efficient compress placed over the wound, and stimulants administered. Reaction never took place. The patient died in about two hours from htemorrhage. ANALYTICAL EEVIEW. The two hundred and ninety-seven preceding reports furnish more or less complete data respecting three hundred and eighty-seven patients with gunshot wounds. The results appear in the following statement: Tabular Statement of the Results of Three Hundred and Eighty-seven Cases of Gunshot Wounds. Natnre of injury. Fractures of the Skull. Scalp Wouuds Fractures of Bones of the Face Flesh-Wounds of the Face Wouuds of the Neck Woiinds of the Chest Wounds of the Chest and Abdomen Wounds of the Abdominal Cavity Flesh-Wounds of the Abdomen Wounds of the Pelvis Wounds of the Genito-Uriuary Organs Flesh-Wounds of the Trunk Fractures of the Upper Extremities Flesh-Wounds of the Upper Extremities . Fractures of the Lower Extremities Flesh-Wounds of the Lower Extremities. Totals. 38 9 13 7 16 75 9 37 5 8 4 7 45 34 26 54 387 6 28 6 5 1 3 7 36 31 18 43 214 C3 23 31 10 44 9 30 150 The mortality rate of the cranial fractures is very large, but the fatal cases were nearly all examples of perforations of the brain, at short range. The large proportion of cases of suicide is noticeable and lamentable. It is interesting to note that, except to remove detached spicula), operative interference was not attempted except in a single87 ANALYTICAL REVIEW. case—one of the cases of recovery—wliere it was necessary to extract a piece of iron that had penetrated the cranial cavity. The two instances of recovery after fracture of the mastoid process are uncommon, and the case reported by Assistant Surgeon Patzki, (III, p. 6), in which the yielding integument of the forehead was pared and approximated by sutures, suggests an expedient which may be of occasional utility. The fatality of the wounds of the face was unusually small; while, as has been already remarked, the mortality rate in wounds of the neck was excessive. The reports of wounds of the chest indicate that depletory measures in gunshot inju- ries of the lung have quite fallen into desuetude in our army practice. The wounds of the abdomen and pelvis include some remarkable examples of recovery from accidents of the gravest nature; but the general mortality is so very large as to furnish an additional argument in behalf of M. Legouest's proposition to incise the abdominal walls, and explore the track of the projectile, in certain gunshot penetrating or perforating wounds of that cavity. Thus only, in many cases, can the patient exchange the probability of inevitable death for the possibility of recovery, either through the preven- tion of extravasation by enterorrhaphy, or the bringing of the wounded viscus into apposi- tion with the abdominal walls. For one, I am free to assert that where there is evidence that internal hsemorrhage or fsecal extravasation is going on, what may be termed the "ostrich plan" of giving opium, and "making the patient comfortable," should be aban- doned. And I believe that prejudices similar to those that ovariotomy has successfully overcome in the last quarter of a century, will be dispelled by the results of exploratory incisions in gunshot wounds of the abdomen, before many years have elapsed. The most curious and interesting feature in this series of reports of gunshot wounds is the large proportion of instances of wounds of arteries. Leaving out of view the wounds of the aorta and pulmonary vessels, there were not less than twenty cases of division of the carotids, subclavian, axillary, external iliac, and femoral arteries. Those familiar with field surgery, are aware how rarely such lesions came under the observation of medical officers in campaigns. This is partly explicable by the fact that men may bleed to death in battle before the hospital attendants can reach them. Yet an examina- tion of the dead on battle-fields shows a very small proportion of wounds of the secondary arterial trunks. I believe that the proportionately large number of such cases contained in the reports of garrisons is explained by the fact that the wounds observed are generally inflicted at short range, and by small projectiles, and that a musket or pistol ball, moving with great velocity, will cut or divide an artery, which, at a greater distance, would only be contused, or, by its resiliency, might escape injury altogether.88 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. INCISED AND PUNCTURED WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. The number of incised and punctured wounds, lacerations, and contusions reported is very large in proportion to the mean strength of the Army, as will be apparent from the tabular statement presented further on. The extraordinary proportion of such casual- ties may be ascribed partly to the fact that the troops were generally posted where the population was most lawless and turbulent, and partly to the laxity of discipline which was generally noticed for several years after the close of hostilities, A few reports illustrating the different forms of incised, punclured, lacerated, and contused wounds will be cited. Incised Wounds.—Several reports of remarkable cases are given, and other cases are quoted simply as examples of the accidents likely to be observed in the garrison routine. The total number of incised wounds reported was nearly seven thousand. CCXCYIII.—Mention of a Stvord Cut of the Slcull. By EiCHARD Powell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Camp Warner, Oregon, December 25, 1867, Private Michael Gillaney, Co. D, 23d Infantrj-, aged 29 years, received, in a brawl, a sword cut of the cranium, directly over the right frontal Xirotuberance, slightly incising the bone. He was admitted to the post hospital on the same day, and the wound was stitched together. Cold-water dressings were aijplied. The wound healed promptly, and the man returned to duty January 21, 1868. CCXCIX.—Account of a Penetrating Wound of the Occipital Bone. By W. K. D. Blackwood, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John O'Niel, Co. I, 2d Infantry, aged 35 years, was wounded December 16, 1870, by a knife which penetrated the occipital bone, severing the left occipital artery. He was admitted to the post hospital at Patoua, Alabama, soon after the reception of the injury. The person who was called in neglected to ligate, or to employ any other means than adhesive strii>s to control the haemor- rhage. No medical officer was present, and the patient lost a large quantity of blood by repeated hicmorrhages. Dr. Burlce, of Jacksonville, late Surgeon U. S. V. assisted by Dr. McMahon, of the Selma, Home and Dalton Railroad, finally stopped the loss of blood by compresses dip[)ed in the i^ersulphate of iron, two days after the reception of the injury. The man was returned to duty January 12,1871. CCC.—Note Relative to an Incised ^yo^^nd of the Eye. By D. D. Tuompson, M. D,, Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private William Hobin, Co. E, 25th Infantry, aged 31 years, received, while intoxicated, Feb- ruary 2, 1869, an incised wound by a knife, resulting in the entire loss of the left eye, cutting through the cornea and iris to the i)()sterior chamber, allowing the escape of the aqueous luuuor. The wouiul was obliquely from within out, entirely across the cornea. He was admitted to the post hospital. Von Schrader Barracks, Paducah, on the following day, where simple dressings were applied. The patient recovered, and was returned to duty in April, 1869.INCISED A^D PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 89 CCCI.—Mention of an Incised Wound of the Face. By 0. H. EowE, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Galveston, Texas, June 2, 1867, Eecruit John Barney, 6tli Cavalry, aged 20 years, received an incised wound of the lower lip, which was followed by profuse haemorrhage, which had con- tinued to the date of his admission to hospital, on June 4, 1867. Solution of persulphate of iron was applied to the wound, and the h:emorrhage being controlled, the parts were brought together, and the patient was returned to duty on the following day. CCCII.—Report of an Incised Wound of the NecJc. By J. P. Wright, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Patrick Pender, Co. H, 22d Infantry, received a fatal stab in the neck, from a soldier, on the evening of November 15, 1870, at Fort Sully, Dakota Territory. The man was dead when first seen by the post surgeon. The internal margin of the wound was two inches from the median line of the neck. It was rather more than an inch long, the slit in the integument extending in a direction outward and backward. The wound, upon dissection, was found to have passed abruptly backward, downward, and inward, into the thoracic cavity, penetrating in its course the sterno- cleido-mastoid and the deep cervical fascia and platysma. The deep veins of the ueck were found to have been deeply incised at a point corresponding with the junction of the internal jugular and left subclavian vein. Immediately posteriorly, the left subclavian artery was found to have been partially divided in that portion of the vessel interior to the insertion of the scalenus anticus. The left lung was penetrated antero-posteriorly through the apex of the upper lobe. The pene- trating instrument was finally arrested by impinging upon the vertebral column, at a point corre- sponding with the third costo-vertebral articulation, or with the union of the second and the third dorsal vertebrce. The depth of the wound from the surface was four inches, dividing the structures above mentioned, in a direction downward, backward, and inward. The left lung was found to be entirely collapsed and floating in a large quantity of coagulated blood and serum. The greater I)ortion of this fluid was removed, and measured five i^iuts. CCCIII.—Note Relative to Incised Wounds of tlie Neck and of the Arm. By C. E. Greenleaf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Cogan, Co. F, 2d Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Taylor Barracks, Kentucky, May 26, 1868, with an incised wound four and a half inches long in the posterior cervical region in a direct line between the two mastoid processes. He also received a stab in the lower third of the left arm. The wounds were dressed with interrupted sutures and adhesive plaster. He was returned to duty June 13, 1868. CCCIV^.—Account of a Self-inflicted Wotmd of the Neck. By J. W. Williams, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Peter Jennings, Co. G, 6th Infantry, while in a drunken fit, at Ealeigh, North Caro- lina, attempted suicide by stabbing himself with a clasp knife in the region of the neck. The knife entered one inch below the cricoid cartilage, in the median line of the trachea, and took a direction downward and toward the left lung, the apex of which it penetrated. At first the haemorrhage was very violent, both from the mouth and the wound, inducing prompt syncope, and apparent death, leading the attending surgeon to believe death had actually occurred. The patient slowly revived, however, after a time, under the stimulating effects of strong ammonia. The haemorrhage was arrested by the prompt action of the steward, who injected a solution of persul- phate of iron into the wound and applied a compress over it. Emphysema ensued, and extended over the whole body in spite of careful bandaging. The resulting inflammation of the lung was easily subdued by cyanide of potassium, which had also the effect of arresting a troublesonie cough. The emphysema has now completely subsided, except in the scrotum, and the patient is in a fair way of recovery. [He returned to duty June 17, 1868.—Ed.] 12EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMT. 90 CCCV.—Report of Several Incised Wounds Inflicted with a Razor. By Dr. C. B. Bkaman, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private McManus, Co. A, 20t]i Infantry, while a iirisoner in tlie guard-liouse at Baton Eouge, Louisiana, in May, 18G8, was cut in the hip, shoulder, and throat by a razor in the hands of a drunken comrade. The first wound was slight; the second, a deep flesh-wound over the trapezius muscle; the third extended from the right sterno-cleido mastoid, midway upward to the angle of the jaw, and downward to the raphe of the trachea. The external jugular, the thyroid and facial arteries were severed. I did not find it necessary to ligate, but was able to check hfemorrhage by lint and persulphate of iron in powders, with comi^ression. After fourteen hours, I closed the wound. The patient recovered, and was returned to duty May 14,1868. CCCVI.—Report of a Suicide from an Incised Wound of the Throat. By J. H. Baetholf, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Cody, Co. C, 11th Infantry, committed suicide at Camp Grant, Virginia, on the night of September 3, 18G7, at 11 o'clock, by cutting his throat with a razor, half severing the left internal jugular vein, and cutting the larynx through the crico-thyroid to the mucuous membrane at the back part of the cartilage. A second cut was made, diverging a little from the middle of the first, and going to the same depth. These two very thorough gashes, made with energy, were the extent of the suicidal eflbrt. Death ensued in a few moments. CGCYll.—RemarTis on the Monthly Report of Side and Wounded at Camp Lincoln, California, for February, 1868. By Dr. F. Kkox, Acting Assistant Surgeon. The case, entered under the head of convulsions, and resulting in death, was that of Private Gustavus Louiston, Co. G, 9th Infantry. He was relieved in three hours by venesection and sinapisms. After four hours of quiet sleep he appeared perfectly rational and quiet, but with evidence of inflammation of the brain. A ten-grain dose of calomel was admiuistered. About five hours after he got a razor and cut his own throat, completely severing all the integuments to the spinal column. The razor passed through the larynx at the front, but within an inch passed above it. The oesophagus could be plainlj- seen, entirely divided. He lived ten days. The treatment was solely to alleviate suffering. CCCYIII.—^ccoMn< of an Incised Wound of the Head and Thorax. By F. A. Wilmans, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private J. W. McClinchey, Co. E, 17th Infantry, aged 21 years, received on August 12, 1868, an incised wound of the head and right side from a knife blade, which penetrated the lung, letting the air escape freely. The wound on the head was three and a half inches long, exposing the right parietal bone. On the following day he was admitted to the post hospital, Brenham, Texas, where sutures and simijle dressings were used, and on September 26th, he was returned to duty. CCCIX.—Report relative to Two Incised Wounds. By Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. First Sergeant John Jones, Co. C, 24th Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded June 14, 1870, ill a brawl, by a pocket-knile, which entered in front of acromion process, passing directly down- Avard two inches deep. Also an incised wound, three inches below the left axilla, two inches long, l)enetrating to the ribs. He was admitted to the post iiospital at Fort Clark, Texas, on the following day. Dilute carbolic acid dressings were ai»plied. He recovered, and was sent to duty July 7, 1870.INCISED AND PUNCTUKED WOUNDS. 91 CCOX. Report of an Incised Wound of the Heart. By Dallas Bache, Assistant Sargeou, U. S. A. Artificer Tiiomas Darclis, Co. F, lOtli Infantry, was stabbed with an ordinary jaclc-knife, in the hands of a comrade, on September 19, 18G9, at San Antonio, Texas. Upon being wounded he ran probably thirty yards, with his arms folded across his chest, and then fell. He was instantly removed to the barracks, where respiration ceased in twelve minutes after the reception of the injury. A j)ost-mortem examination, made fifteen hours after death, disclosed three wounds upon the anterior parietes of the chest—one superficial over the lower third of the sternum; the second, two and a half inches in length, dividing the cartilage of the sixth rib and penetrating the thoracic cavity, without however wounding the lung; the third and fatal wound, two and a quarter inches in length, two inches below the left nipple, opened the pericardium, and, splitting across the apex of the heart, made an opening in the right ventricle sufficiently large to admit an ordinary silver probe. The clothing on the left side and below the wound was soaked with blood. CCCXI.—Report of an Incised Wound of tTie Sternum and Heart. By C. S. De Graw, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Fort Dodge, Kansas, on the night of June 2, 1867, a quarrel arose between two men, one known as Buckskin, in Government employ at the post, the other an employ^ of the Santa Fe Mail Stage Company. Both men were under the influence of liquor. From words they came to blows, and during the fight Buckskin drew a knife, with which he inflicted several superficial cuts upon the other, who at last succeeded in catching Buckskin, by the wrist of the hand holding the knife, and, turning it upon him still holding it, drove it with great force against his breast. Buckskin fell at once to the ground. Upon being summoned, and reaching the spot a few minutes after, I found Buckskin dead. Upon inquiry, I learned that after falling he had continued to breathe from five to eight minutes. A post-mortem examination, held the next morning by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. B. Ci'andall and myself, demonstrated the wounds as shown by the specimens. The knife is a case-knife such as is in common use among men on the plains. [The specimens, Nos. 4869, 4870, 4871, Section I, A. M. M., are the heart, with an incised wound of the right auricle; the sternum, with an incision obliquely downward from right to left through the gladiolus; and the knife by which the wounds were inflicted.—Ed.] CCCXII.—Account of a Penetrating Wound of the Thoracic and Abdominal Cavities. By W. D. WOLVERTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Bernhard Kelly, Co. C, 1st Infantry, aged 20 years, received July 23, 1868, a wound by a case-knife in the hands of Private Kennedy, Co. A, 1st Infantry, which penetrated the left side between the seventh and eighth ribs, grazing the left lung, passing through the diaphragm downward into the stomach, causing peritonitis and death, which resulted on the 2Cth. CCCXIII.—Note of a Penetrating Wound of the Abdomen and Thorax. By C. E. Goddard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant William Tynes, Co. E, 16th Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded by a dagger during an encounter with Private Barlow of the same regiment, on November 16, 1866. The weapon penetrated the abdomen and thorax. The patient was admitted to the post hospital at Chatta- nooga on the same day, and simple dressings were applied. Death resulted on the day of admission. CCCXIV,—Report of a Case of Incised Wound of the Stomach, Terminating in Recovery. By B. A. Clements, Surgeon, U. S. A. George Smith, an unassigned recruit, aged 22, a robust German, was stabbed in the abdomen, during an altercation at Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, on the evening of January 2, 1870. He was at once brought to the post hospital. Upon examination, a clean incised wound was found, inflicted with a dirk, the blade of which entered two and a quarter inches to the left of the median92 EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. line, on a level with a line drawn transversely two inches above the umbilicus. The wound was one inch in lengtli, its long axis being nearly parallel to the long axis of the body. On inserting the fluger into the Mound, it was found that the wall of the abdomen was entirely penetrated, beyond which the finger passed without resistance, obliquely through another layer of tissue, into a cavity which was believed to be the left end of the stomach. He complained mainly of pain in the left shoulder, and vomited freely of recently ingested food unmixed with blood, and was some- what agitated. The wound bled but slightly, and was at once closed by two silver sutures and adhesive plaster, the patient having jireviously been turned on his abdomen, without any dis- charge of blood, beyond a few drops, taking place. He was placed in bed, and ordered to have no food or drink. During the night he vomited twice, throwing up in all a pint of dark semi- coagulated blood. His pulse was 84, and small, though he appeared unwilling to take a full insjuration. He complained of a "cramp-like" pain in the fore part of the left shoulder, and also of some pain at the epigastrium, especially about the ensiform cartilage. There was some tumefaction at the seat and in the vicinity of the wound, and a crackling sensation, as well as gurgling, was perceived on palpitation. An incised wound of the stomach, with infiltration of gas or air into the areolar tissue about the wound, was diagnosed. He was allowed to rinse his mouth with water under the supervision of the nurse, and to assume such position in bed as he preferred. On the afternoon of the next day he was quiet and uncomplaining, but the pulse was 120 and wiry, and the face rather pallid. He had not vomited since daylight, but felt nausea all the time, and thought he would feel better could he vomit. He spat up freelj', without vomiting, a mucilaginous coffee-colored fluid, evidently altered blood. The abdomen was somewhat tymi>anitic, and the bowels had not moved. A cathartic enema was given, which operated slightly in the evening. On January 4, the patient lay quietly in bed on his back; bis countenance was pale, but not indicative of distress; pulse 112, small, wiry, and feeble; respiration normal, and tongue clean. The whole abdomen was somewhat distended and resonant, and he complained of slight pain at the epigastrium. The emphysema in the vicinity of the wound had not increased, and the gurgling was no longer perceptible. During the night he vomited three times, throwing up in all about one quart of blood, much of which was coagulated and thrown up in mass. The vomiting gave him much relief. An injection of beef essence was given every three hours, and flannel wet with the spirits of turpentine applied to the whole abdomen. In the evening he again A^omited a full pint of dark semi-coagulated blood. An anodyne injection w^as administered, and he rested quietly during the night. He continued to spit up freely, and at times to vomit the same mucilaginous dark-looking fluid, which was evidently blood altered by admixture with the fluids of the stomach. The injection of beef essence was continued until January 7th, when beef tea Avas given every alternate hour by the mouth. He ceased to spit up the dark fluid, and did not vomit during the night. On the 11th, he complained of liain at the seat of the wound, and that he could feel a swelling there on sitting up. He was examined in a standing posture, but no bulging or protrusion could be felt, but the abdomen had become generally tympanitic, and his bowels did not move. A cathartic was at once ordered, which moved the bowels during the night, and on the next day the tympanitic distension had disappeared. Somewhat above and outward from the wound there w\as a decided dittused swelling, which was red at one point, and very tender to the touch. He was not allowed to take any food by the mouth, only water by the wiueglassful, with an injection of a teacupful of beef essence. On the morning of the 13th, the swelling had plainly diminished, and was not so tender. In consequence of sickness, I did not see him until the IGth, when I found the tumefaction near the seat of the wound was much greater, being as large as half an ordinary-sized orange, very red, and tender to the touch, and seejued resonant on percussion and quite tense. The swelling continued to increase until the morning of the 17th, when a sudden discliarge of thin offensive pus took place through tlie original wound, amounting in all to about eight ounces, that which flowed last being creamy, aud streaked with blood. Tliere were some shreds of semi-decomposed coagulated blood passed out with the pus first discharged. The swelling at once greatly diminished ; alight broad poultice was ai)plied to the wound without pressure, and Ih^ was ordered to lay on his side. During the evening he expressed himself as feeling greatly relieved. On tlie lOth, his pulse was regular but feeble, and he was quite pale. The swelling bad entirely disai)peared. Tliere was no discbarge from the wound except from the small granulating surlace, which bad assumed by ulceration a triangularmCISED AND PUifCTUEED WOUNDS. 93 shape. Meat aud soup were ordered for tlie first time, but no vegetables. He gradually improved, and on the 31st was able to walk about. He complained of being- weak, and of having pain in the left shoulder, and also " inside" about the wound when he attempted to lift anything. There was a slight soft iiainless swelling a little to the left of the wound, but the color ot the skin over it was entirely natural. He was retained in hospital until he regained his strength, and was returued to duty in February, 1870. COOXV.—Report of a Case of Incised Wound of tlie Addomcn with Puncture and Escape of the Intestines, followed by Traumatic Peritonitis. By W. H. Doughty, M. D. I was called at midnight of June 11,1808, in Augusta, Georgia, to see Private James Merchant, Co. I, IGth Infantry, who had just received the following wound, in a street altercation with a negro : As first seen in the street he was laying upon his back, with the abdomen exposed, and covered with the largest mass of protruding intestines that I ever saw, almost the entire region being thus covered. Having been removed to the barracks near by, with the assistance of Dr. John S. Cole- man of this city, I proceeded to examine and dress the wound. The intestines were covered with sand and grit, derived from contact with the ground and clothes of the man, and the small intes- tines (ilium) incised at one point, and scratched by the passing knife at another. This incision, being about an inch in length, was closed with a single stitch of silk thread, and after thorough cleans- ing the whole mass was with great difficulty returued to the abdominal cavity. In this hernial Ijrotrusiou we recognized four or five feet of the ilium, the caecum with its appendix, part of the ascending colon, with corresponding i:)ortions of the mesentery, the distribution of the superior mesenteric artery to these several portions made more apparent by its living pulsation, was more beautifully displayed in the series of its successive arches than in any dissection that I ever wit- nessed. Eaising the mass, I found that the wound in the peritonaeum, through which it had escaped, was about two and a half inches in length, and tightly embraced its neck ; witli the hips of the l^atient raised higher than the chest so as to favor the gravitation of the viscera, it was replaced in the abdomen, whereupon was disclosed an incision commencing two inches below the umbilicus, and two inches to the left of the linea alba, running horizontally above the crest of the ilium, nearly to the spine, fourteen inches long, opening the abdomen near its inner or anterior extremity, and severing the muscular parieties as far back as the thick muscles of the lumbar region. Eelaxing the abdominal walls as far as possible, the wound was accurately closed with hare-lip pins, and annealed wire sutures. Suitable compresses were applied and a roller firmly encircling the body. There was also a superficial wound upon the chest, six inches in length, extending obliquely from right to left. The shock from these wounds was very severe indeed, the patient at onetime becoming pulseless. We were apparently dressing the wounds of a dying man. Whiskey and laudanum were administered, and next morning the patient was comi^aratively comfortable, reaction being complete. Perfect quiet and isolation in a dark room were enforced; two grains of powdered opium were administered every four hours; ice was given to quench thirst; poultices of the same were applied to the abdomen, and the left thigh was kept j)ermanently flexed. On June 16th the pulse and tempera- ture being very high, the patient became delirious, and it was necessary to restrain him by force. Bromide of potassium and whiskey were freely administered. Failing to induce sleep they were discontinued, and one-third of a grain of morphine was administered hj^perdermically, which caused sleep in half an hour, and deeply narcotized the patient. Next day all the symptoms were much improved; medicine was discontinued, aud a stimulating and nutritious diet allowed. The local applications were continued. Hyi^erdermic medication was again resorted to on the next evening. On the 19th a very decided improvement had taken place; the ice poultices were dis- continued, and a more liberal diet, with stimulants, allowed. The wound was subsequently dressed with adhesive strips and a solution of carbolic acid. On June 21st he continued to improve. Muriated tincture of iron was prescribed. By the 23d granulation had begun. Between this date and the 26th the temperature remained normal. At the latter date the patient was doing well, aud the wound granulating finely, when he was transferred to Acting Assistant Surgeon Petard.* * Dr. Felix Petard takes up this case ou his Juuo report, aud in July, 1868 reports ouo case of vnhiii.s hu'wuni returned to duty.—Ed.94 EEPORT OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. In connection with tlie above report, we may be allowed to call attention to the peculiar method employed in the application of cold for the abatement of local iuiiammation, particularly its appli- cability to the management of wounds. Without presuming to call the attention of the Department to a subject with Avhich all medical men are more or less familiar, we may yet be pardoned for offer- ing a few reflections prompted by this particular mode. A military experience of more than three years has made us familiar with the great need for improved methods of applying cold for the reduction of inflammation, and with that afforded with the use of ice poultices in this case, we can readily recall occasions where such an application wonld have been embraced with delight. Cold water, j^roperly emjiloyed, is the " sine qua non^^ in inflamed wounds. Its interrupted ajjplicatiou, as by cold cloths, frequently changed, is always troublesome where long continued, and more or less partial in its effects, if not judiciously used. It is well known that water dressings may increase local heat by retaining a moist surface in contact with a heated body. Irrigation, when practica- ble, is a decided improvement upon this, well adapted to wounds of the extremities and head, but not so much so to those of the trunk. Besides this, we have all the inconveniences of a special apparatus for applying it. The flow of water from the irrigated surface must also be provided for as well as other things needless to mention. Again : Ice-bags or bladders are too intense in their effects—always painful upon prolonged contact with the part, and dangerous to its vitality ; and when brought in simple proximity to the part, they involve too much inconvenience for permanent and satisfactory use. Jcej^oit/^ieei', properly made, combine all of their advantages with none of their disadvantages, being safe, convenient, and producing a permanent uniform reduction of the temperature. They cause no pain, no chillness, no inconvenience from their weight, and admit of easy application to wounds of the trunk as well as the extremities; do not endanger the integrity of the part, do not require removal oftener than two or three hours ; do not saturate the clothes of the patient with superflous water, and require no special arrangement for their employment. Hence, so far as the local abstraction of tbe heat tends to arrest inflammation, they are, excel- lence, the remedy. To Maisonneuve we ascribe the credit of their suggestion, from whom the fol- lowing directions for their manufacture are taken in substance. We saw a notice of them in one of the periodicals of this year, to which, however, we cannot now refer directly : Take of linseed meal a sufiticieut quantity to form a layer from three-quarters to an inch thick ; spread on a cloth of proper size; upon this, at intervals of an inch or more, place lumi)s of ice of convenient .size— of a marble—then sprinkle them over lightly with the meal, cover with another cloth, folding in the edges to prevent the escape of the mass, and apply the thick side to the surface or wound. Closely enveloped with the meal, the exclusion of air retards the melting of the ice, and the thick layer, intervening between it and the surface prevents painful or injurious contact. The linseed meal is better than bran or similar materials, because its mucilaginous properties render it somewhat tenacious and adhesive. Then there you have a uuiforin abstraction of heat. In the case reported we made special inquiry of the soldier as to the comfort of the application, with a response always favorable; we felt the under surface of the poultice, and found it always cool; we took the temper- ature with the thermometer, which stood at or about 8G degrees ; we continued them seven days without intermission, and firmly believe that the favorable progress of the case was in no small degree attributable to their judicious employment. It is always unsafe to draw inferences for gen- eral application from a few cases, and the blind man's rule, '■'■post hoc, propter hoc,''^ recurs with this thought; and yet we may not ignore the value of individual cases, and may err by pushing our skepticism to a fallacious extreme. We look to our personal experience with this eligible mode of applying cold for interrupting—perhaps controlling—the inflammator3' process, as derived from this case, with i)ecnliar satisfaction, and hopefully await opportunities for its confirmation in other similar ones. Possibly it may occur to some that the non-union in the wound was referable to the application. When we discovered the want of reparative force, we thought of this, but happily the wound upon the chest, to which they had not been applied, set aside the objection, for it also failed to unite, thus clearly indicating where the defect existed, namely, in the general system. The habitual use of alcohol had produced ii pathogenetic state of the system ; hence the delirium tremens, and the want of reparative power in the wounds.95 INCISED AND PUNCTUEED WOUNDS. CCCKYL—Account of a Wotmd of the Abdomen followed by Peritonitis. By E, A. Koerper, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Joliu Gill, Co. H, 19tli Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Baton Eouge, November 9, 1869, having, a few minutes before admission, received a wound of the abdomen, inflicted with a pocket-knife. The wound was on the median line, on a line between the hypogastric and umbilical regions, and was two and a half inches long in a transverse direction. At each inspiration a copious stream of blood escaped from it. A portion of the omentum pro- truded. There was no escape of the contents of the stomach or bowels. A cautions examina- tion did not reveal any lesion of the intestines. The omentum was replaced, the wound sewed up externally, ice applied to the abdomen, and opium given. Patient vomited soon after. The pulse, which had been very high and excited, became almost imperceptible, and death was expected to take place. In three hours, however, he rallied and became extremely restless. Peritonitis, with high pulse, set in, and he complained of much pain. Blood continued to escape between the sutures. The ice and opium were kept up, and small pieces of ice were given to allay thirst. The most alarming symptoms gradually subsided, and the colon was emptied after six days by an injection. Encouraged by this, citrate of magnesia was given on the following day, bringing away a great quantity of fteces, without blood or any appearance of lesion of the intestines. He continued to improve, and on December 31st lie could sit up half an hour at a time, but was very much emaciated and suffered from pain in the abdomen. He was returned to duty in January, 1870. CCCXVII.—Account of an Incised Wound of the Abdomen. By J. P. A. Cleaky, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. George Adams, Co. A, 9th Cavalry, aged 23 years, of healthy constitution, while iu a quarrel with another soldier, at Fort Stockton, Texas, in September, 1870, received two cuts with a knife; one extended from the right elbow to within a few inches of the wrist; the other com- menced on a line with the sternal end of the ninth rib, and running in a horizontal direction, ter- minated within half an inch of the linea alba, being, altogether, two and a half inches long. He was wounded about 3 o'clock, on the 4th, and I saw him about ten minutes after. Condition when brought to the hospital, ten minutes after receipt of wound: Almost the entire stomach protruded through the wound, and about 18 inches of the transverse colon, with a considerable amount of omentum. He was in collapse, covered with i^rofuse cold sweat; pulse weak and 130; constant vomiting. Treatment: Endeavored to replace the protruded mass, having first admin- istered an ounce of whiskey. Failing in this, the wound was extended about half an inch toward the linea alba, but the mass could not be returned; frequent vomiting to considerable extent pre- vented its return, and forced fjecal matter into the protruded intestine. The wound was then slightly extended at its other extremity, and by a little manipulation the entire mass was returned and the wound closed by three suture-pins and one common suture at either end of the wound; cold-water dressings were applied. The wound in the arm was treated with five sutures and strips of adhesive plaster and cold water. He was kept under the influence of opium, combined with calomel, from the date of admission to the 7th, He slept well every night, and at no time did he sufier severely with abdominal pain, though he complained frequently of tenderness over right hypogastric region. Sutures removed on 7th; bowels moved once on the 7th, the first time since he was wounded. He convalesced rapidly and was soon able to walk about the camp. He was returned to duty in October, 1870. CCCXVIII.—An Incised Wound of the Abdomen^ through which protruded a Portion of the Colon, the entire Stomach, and nearly all of the 8mall Intestines, together with Mesentery and Omentum. By F. Barnes, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Edward Brown, colored, aged 25 years, was admitted to the Freedmen's Hospital, New Orleans, May 15, 1868. About 10 o'clock on the night of May 14, I found the patient in a cab. about to be removed from the first district lock-up, and ordered him back that his wound might be dressed. IEEPOKT OF SURGICAL CASES IK THE ARMY. 96 found eiglit inches of the colon, all of the stomacb, and nearly the whole of the small intestines, together with the mesentery and omentum protrndiug through a wound in the left epigastrium. About two and a half feet of the small intestine having a whitish color, a])peared filled with food, and had much the characteristic feeling of a sausage. The rest of the small intestines being col- lapsed, had a dark brown color. The stomach and colon, distended with gas, were leaden colored. The viscera had been out and exposed to the atmosphere for over an hour. Having nothing but cold Mississippi water to wash them with, I preferred returning them without any effort at removing blood and dirt, fiu'ther than wiping with a cambric handkerchief and trusting to the stripping, if I may so term it, that they would naturally be siibjected to while being returned through the wound by which they were tightly packed and almost strangulated. In about ten minutes, I had returned them all, carefully examining inch by inch for a wound or tear in them, but finding none. The first portion returned was the ilium, next the jejunum. The stomach required the gas to be gently pressed out before it was returned, as was the case with the colon, which I presume was the first to escape from, as well as the last to be put back, into the abdomen. The food in the jeju- num had also to be partially manipulated out of it before it could be returned. The wound exter- nally was three inches long, and nearly x)erpendicular. The internal opening was nearly at right angles with it, and allowed easily the introduction of three fingers. The conjoined cartilage at the end of the seventh rib was also divided. The omentum, although frequently returned, could not be made to remain in the cavity of the abdomen, and must still form a plug in the internal wound. The instrument inflicting the wound was said to be a cotton-hook. Three silver sutures through the skin, with long adhesive straps, kept the edges of the wound together. A compress over the wound, and a bandage eight yards long and six inches wide, was tightly applied around the epigas- tric region. Two persons were ordered to keep watch over the patient, who was not removed from the table upon which his wound was dressed that night. He went to sleep as soon as his wound was dressed, and slept soundly all night, and in the morning was admitted as before stated. During his stay in the hospital he never had a single bad symptom. As a i^roper precautionary treatment, however, he was allowed no food for four days. Some toast-water, and a moderate quantity of mor- phine was given him to keep his bowels at rest and allay pain. His food was gradually and cau- tiously increased after that date, until it appeared that extra diet agreed with him. He had no opera- 1 tion of the bowels until the 22d instant, when he passed a healthy stool without medicine. He was discharged on May 24th, the wound being entirely healed, and no other apparent difi'erence exist- ing from that of a state of health, except that the cartilage of the rib had not reunited. He was directed to wear his bandage and compress for a month. CCCXIX.—Account of an Incised Wotmd in the Hypogastrium. By Samuel W. Blackwood, Surgeon, 81st U. S. Colored Troops. Sergeant Edward Thompson, Co. A, 81st Colored Troops, received an incised wound in the hypogastric region, at New Orleaus, on October 25, 1865. The wound was two and a half inches long, and iierforated the small intestines at five i)oints from which its contents escaped. These Avere closed by the interrupted suture. Upon attempting to return the bowels the abdominal cavity was found to be filled with arterial blood, which issued from a wound in the mesentery, the artery of which was tied. Brandy and opium were exhibited. The wounded man survived twelve hours. CCCXX.—Report of an Incised Wound of the Arm. By W. H. Eippard, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. The incised wound mentioned in this report was a wound of the brachial artery, made by a disreputable practitioner of medicine while in a state of intoxicjation, in attempting to abstract blood from the median basilic vein. The coats of the artery were not quite cut through, as the artery did not commence to bleed for two hours after, when the patient, while romping in the quarters, noticed the blood oozing through the bandage. Ilis comrades brought him to the dispen- sary, where the steward proceeded to take off the bandage. Blood immediately gushed out in jets97 INCISED AND PUNCTURED WOUNDS. about as thick as a quill, and spirted to a distance of over two feet, A compress of lint soaked in solution of persulphate of iron was immediately applied to the wound, while an assistant applied the tourniquet. The arm was then bound up very tightly in a roller bandage. About an hour after- wards the tourniquet had to be removed, owing to the intense pain and swelling in the fore-arm and hand. When the tourniquet was removed, the radial pulse was very weak, and continued so for twenty-four hours, after which it gradually increased in strength; there was no after h;emorrhage, and in ten days the bandage was removed, when the wound was found to be entirely healed. Pa- tient is entirely well now, except a slight stiffness of the muscles of the arm, which is being relieved by manipulation and friction. The man was returned to duty in July, 1869. CCCXXI.—Account of an Incised Wound of the Fore-Arm. By O. Caughill, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Gustave Mueller, Co. I, 19th Infantry, was admitted to the post hosj)ital at Dovei', Arkansas, Ajiril 10, 1868, having been accidentally struck on the back of the fore-arm with an axe, in the hands of a comrade, while in the act of choi>ping wood. On examination the extensor cari)i ulnaris, communis digitorum, carpi radialis brevior, and ossis metacarpi i)ollicis muscles w^ere found divided, making an incision about three and a half inches long. The posterior interosseous recurrent artery and one of its principal branches were severed. The radius was fractured at its middle in three pieces. The patient was extremely weak and very much exhaiisted from loss of blood. I immediately proceeded to ligatethe severed arteries and extract the loose pieces of bone; the lips of the wound were then brought together by an iuterruiited silk suture and the two edges of the bone in apposition ; splints were applied on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the fore-arm. While the arteries were being ligated and bones brought in apposition, chloroform was adminis- tered. At 9 o'clock P. M., the patient was suffering extreme i^ain. An anodyne was adminis- tered and quiet enjoined. He was doing well until midnight of the 12th, when the arm commenced swelling rapidly and he seemed to experience intense pain. On the next day the arm was much inflamed; w^ound suiipurating slowly, and extreme heat extending up to the shoulder-joint. At 12 M. the patient had a chill, attended with little or no fever. His appetite was good. The pos- terior splint was removed, together with the dressings. The anterior splint was kept under the arm without being bound to it; pulse 90. Cold applications were made, and stimulating diet given, and on April 16th the inflammation had subsided to a great degree. At 6 o'clock P. M. arterial hajinorrhage took place from a branch that had evidently become enlarged from the colla- teral circulation. I immediately cut down and ligated it, and api)lied persulphate of iron to the wound to check the capillary bleeding, the arm being very vascular. The patient lost about twelve ounces of blood and was very much weakened. After ligating the artery the arm became considerably engorged, and he experienced intense pain. On Aiiril 17th the collateral circulation throughoiit the arm was thoroughly established. Under the administration of stimulants and nutritious diet his condition improved, the inflammation subsided and healthy granulations sprang up. The wound filled up rapidly, and on May 31st had entirely closed, leaving a very deep scar. He was discharged from service November 16, 1868. CCCXXII.—Account of an Incised Wound of the Thigh. By E. Alexander, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private Joseph B. Smith, Co. G, 25th Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Jackson, Louisiana, on January 18, 1870, with a cut four and a half inches long, inflicted with a razor, about the middle of the thigh, cutting deeply the adductor iongus, sartorius, and part of the rectus muscles. There was little haemorrhage, although some veins seemed to be torn. The lips of the wound were brought together in accurate contact, and secured with sutures, adhesive straps, and roller bandages, interspaces being left for the purpose of drainage. There was little tendency to suppuration, but the discharges were frequently removed with a soft sponge satiirated with a solution of carbolic acid. He recovered, and was returned to duty in March, 1870. 1398 EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. CCCXXIII.—Account of an Incised Wound of the Thigh and Femur. By J. H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeou, U. S. A. At Camp Grant, near Eiclimond, Virginia, on January 4,1868, Private Jolin Joye, Troop F, 5tb. Cavalry, aged 22 years, received a blow with an axe, in the hands of a comrade, on the outer aspect of the right thigh, chipping up and nearly severing a portion of the femur an inch and a half in length, an inch and a half wide, and about a quarter of an inch thick, the instrument entering two inches below the tip of the trochanter major. He was at once conveyed to the post hosi)ital. The end of the cut bone protruded from the wound, which gaj^ed very much. The piece of bone adherent at the upper end was pushed back into its place, as nearly as possible, and two sutures were applied, leaving an ojjening at the most dependent point. On January 17th, two pieces of bone becoming loose were removed from the wound. The i^atient made a good recovery, and was retmued to duty March 1, 18G8. CCCXXIV.—Bemarlcs on Monthly Report of SicJc and Wounded at Fort Ahercromhie, DaJcota Territory, for May, 1868. By W. H. Gardner, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. The incised wound reported in tabular statement was situated over the inner and anterior aspect of the right knee-joint. It was immediately sealed hermetically with fine gauze and collodion, and cold dressings continuously applied, and by the fifth day was entirely healed up. He was allowed to sit up that day for the first time, but abused the privilege, and walked about so much that at night the joint was inflamed and painful, and the next day acute synovitis was declared. The cicatrix opened and pus flowed freely from tlie cavity of the joint. Treated by absolute rest, nutritious diet, tonics, and the hyposulphite of soda, and is at this date in a fair way to recover, with good motion of the joint. [This man was discharged from service September 21,1868, for "false anchylosis of the right knee joint, following acute synovitis." Disability was rated one-half. —Ed.] CCCXXV.—Extract from Monthly Report of Side and Wounded at Fort Gaston, California, May, 1866. By Peter Moffatt, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. The case reported as a suicide was one of the most deliberate attempts at self-destruction ev er witnessed. The subject, a private of Co. K, 9th Infantry, was returned to duty from the hospital on the morning of May 12, 1866, and at the time was observed to be laboring under dejection of spirits. At evening roll-call he was absent, and it was then noticed by his comrades that he had not been present at either dinner or supper. Between sundown and dark he was found at some distance from the quarters, in a secluded place, among some bushes, cold, almost lifeless, and covered with blood. I was immediately sent for, and upon my arrival at the place found the man lying on the ground in a nicely shaded spot, his coat regularly folded beneath his head, his shirt, vest, and trousers smeared with blood, partially dried and stiffened, the surface of the body cold, the limbs almost rigid, and the pulse imi)ercei)tible. On the inner side of each leg, between the knee and ankle, were two transverse gashes through the skiu and cellular tissues, so that the muscles lay exposed, and completely severing the superficial veins. The prominent places of the veins had evidently been selected. On each arm the operation was repeated; the lower transverse incision just above the wrists were not sufficiently deep to injure the radial artery, nor the tendons of the flexor muscles; but just below the bend of the elbow, at the point usually selected for venesection, a deep gash was inflicted in each arm, partially severing some of the flexor muscles. I found a razor, covered with dried and hardened blood, lying by the man's side, and a small memorandum book, upon the first leaf of which were a few lines written in lead pencil, and giving reasons for the deed he was about to commit. Upon the administration of brandy and water, and other restoratives, and the application of lu'at internally, the patient gradually recovci'ed strength. So completely had the system been depleted of blood tbat the least elevation of the head and shoulders was immediately followed by convulsions. As soon as consciousness was restored the sensations usually experienced in cases of great and sudden depletion were urgent, and the first words were " water, water." Tlic man is still in liospital, but lias abnost regained his former strength.INCISED AND PUNCTUKED WOUNDS. 99 CQGXXYL—Mention of an Incised Wound of the Foot. By A. L. Buffington, M. D., Actiug Assistant Surgeon. Private Fontanice Singleton, Co. D, 20tli Infantry, aged 20 years, was admitted to the post liospital at Jefferson, Texas, on December 3, 18G7, with an incised wound upon the dorsal surface of tlie left foot, inflicted witli an axe. The parts were retained in apposition by adhesive plaster. He was returned to duty December 11, 1867. PuNCTUEED Wounds.—A few of the reports of the more important punctured wounds may be cited. The most interesting injuries of this class were those inflicted by arrows. These will be considered in a separate section. CCCXXVII.—Mention of a Bayonet Wound of the Scalp. By E. Alexander, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Alexander Kay, Co. D, 39th Infantry, aged 28 years, was wounded October 7, 1868, by a bayonet, wliicb entered tbe scalp between tlie sagittal suture and the left parietal protuber- ance, making a wound about two inches long. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort St. Philip, Louisiana, on the same day. Haimorrhage occurred to the amount of fifteen or twenty ounces. The wound was carefully explored, but no injury of bone could be detected. The treat- ment consisted in cold applications to the head and a brisk cathartic. Ho compresses of any kind were used for several days, but the pus that formed was frequently pressed out. After this a few- adhesive straps were applied twice daily, and the wound healed kindly. On November 3, 1868, the l)atieut was returned to duty. CCCXXVIII.—Mention of a Sword Wound of the Eye. By EiOHARD Powell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Camp Warner, Oregon, December 25,1867, Private John Waltsh, Co. D, 23d Infantry, aged 36 years, received in a brawl a punctured wound of the right eye from a sword, which penetrated the cornea and iris. He was admitted to post hospital December 27, 1867. Cold-water dressings were api^lied to the eye, cantharides j)laster was placed behind the right ear, and saline cathartics were administered. He returned to duty April 12,1868. CCCXXIX.—Note Relative to a Bayonet Wound of the Loicer Jaw. By C. E. Goddaed, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Fry, Co. E, 16th Infantry, aged 21 years, received a bayonet wound at the hands of the sergeant of the police guard, while resisting arrest, November 23, 1866. The bayonet thrust fractured the lower jaw. The wounded man was admitted to the post hospital at Chatta- nooga, on the next day, and the fracture was coaptated, and retained in position by splints of binder's boards. [The man was returned to duty in December, 1866.—Ed.] CCCXXX.—Mention of a Bayonet Wound of tlie Thorax. By John B. White, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. In the case of Private Hilary Herbert, I woidd state that at the post-mortem examination, fourteen hours after death, the autopsy being limited to the cavity of the thorax, there was nothing of additional interest elicited, other than the facts communicated in my report of April 5, 1868, in which I stated " that he received a stab by a bayonet upon the inner or thoracic side of the left100 REPOKT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. arm, which iiassed into the cavity of the axilla, and also entered the cavity of the thorax, pene- trating the superior lobe of the left lung, and terminating by a small opening into the aorta, a few lines without the pericardial sac." An interesting feature of this case was the rapid cooling of the body, after the stab, to the temperature of the surrounding medium, arising from the rapid and profuse loss of blood, both externally aud internally. [This man died April 4, 1868.—Ed.] CCCXXXI.—Minute of a Bayonet Wound of the Pectoral Muscles. By J. E. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Hugh McClinty, Co. 11, 45th Infantry, aged 30 years, was wounded on January 3, 1SG9, by a bayonet, which entered the left side of the thoracic parieties, one and a half inches, at a point two inches above the nii)ple, passing upward and outward, and did not enter the thoracic cavity. He was admitted to the post hospital at Nashville, on the same day, and Avas returned to duty January 0, 1809. CCCXXXII.—Mention of a Penetrating Wound of the Lung. By C. C. Bykne, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Tobin, Co. C, 19th Infantry, received, April 14, 1870, a penetrating wound of the lung, hj a pocket knife. He was admitted to the post hospital at Little Eock, Arkansas, ou the following day. Simple dressings were applied. He died on the ISth, from htemorrhage, CCCXXXIII.—Aceount of a Suicide from Stabbing the left Chest. '•^Hermetically Sealing'''' unavail- ingly employed. By J. Jorgekson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Ambrose Zepp, Co. I, 31st Infantry, on January 18, 1868, while in an intoxicated con- dition, attempted to commit suicide at Earmville, Virginia, by stabbing himself with a sharp, long-bladed knife, in the left side of the chest, between the fourth and fifth ribs, about an inch to the left of the nipjile, perforating tlie pleural cavity. Tliere was very little bleeding from the orifice of the wound, and no expectoration of blood. The wound was closed and hermetically sealed; but, in the course of three or four days, it was found necessary, on account of accumula- tion of pus, to reopen the wound. Until six weeks ago he seemed constantly to improve. The inflammation of the pleura was reduced, and he suffered very little from cough. At that time diarrhoea set in, and he died on July 18th. CCCXXXIV.—Report of a Punctured Wound of the Stomach, ivith other Injiiries. By Edwin Bentley, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal George Williams, Co. B, 12th Infantry, aged 24 years, a strong and robust man, received a punctured wound of the left side, in an encounter with a comrade, near Eussell Bar- racks, at Washington. A physician applied a roller bandage around the chest, and had the man conveyed to the post hospital twenty minutes after the reception of the injury. He had been eating and drinking freely, aud when admitted was suffering the most excruciating agony. He was immediately put under the influence of chloroform and the wound was examined. An inci- sion about three aud half inches in length was found between the sixth and seventh ribs, ou the anterior [)ortion of the left side. Through this opening nearly a handful of the greater omentum was luojecting. In rei)laciug this, two fingers were found to readily pass into the stomach, without enlarging the wound. The anterior portion of the stomach was drawn through the wound, and a portion of its engorged contents was taken out. A branch of the right gastro epiploic artery was ligated. The incision of one and a half inches in length was closed by the glover's stitch, and the organ, with its omentum, was replaced and the external wound closed by suture and pledgets of lint. A bandage was then api)lied. He was kept i)erfectly (piict and sufficiently easy to obtain several hours sleep, by the hypodermic use of a solution of morphia. He was allowed no nourishment but milk, a few teaspoonfuls of which relieved his throat and the inllanimation of the stomach very satisfactorily, much better even than ice, pieces of wliicli he was allowed to have con-INCISED AND PUNCTUEED WOUNDS. 101 tinually in his moiitli if lie desired. He retiiined his reason perfectly and lived nearly thirty-six hours after being wounded, death resulting on September 14, 1SG7. The i?os#-?«orim examination showed three wounds in the left side of the chest; one in the infra-clavicular region, about half an inch in length and non-penetrating; one in the infra-scapular region, also non-penetrating, and an extensive wound betweeen the sixth and seventh ribs, passing through the lower and anterior por- tion of the left pleural cavity, perforating the diaphragm, and entering the stomach near the middle and lower side of the anterior surface to the right of the spleen. The wound in the stomach had contracted very much since the injury, as also the organ itself. The left cavity of the chest con- tained twenty ounces of serum and flocculent lymph, and a deposit of coagulated lymph lined the pulmonic and costal pleurte. The left lung was partially compressed; all the other organs were healthy, except the spleen, which was enlarged and softened, and contained four masses of cheesy tubercle. COCXXXV.—i^e/jori of a Punctured Wound of the Stomach. By A. J. HoGG, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Maynard, 9th Infantry, just after eating a hearty dinner, was stabbed on June 7,1870, near Looking-glass Creek, Nebraska, with a common pocket knife, the blade of which, four inches in length by one-half inch in breadth, cut through the cartilage of the ninth rib of the left side, and penetrated the stomach. The shock lasted about six hours, and was followed by moderate reaction. About four hours after the receipt of the injury, he threw up the contents of his stomach, consisting of what he had eaten for dinner and several ounces of clotted blood. The treatment Xmrsued was very simple; the wound of the integument was closed with an adhesive strij) and a compress applied. Nothing was given him for the first forty-eight hours but pounded ice. On the third day he was allowed a small quantity of boiled sago; on the fifth day he was permitted to walk about, and on the thirteenth day after the receipt of the injury was returned to duty. CCOXXXVI.—Report of a Punctured Woxmd of the Abdomen. By J. H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Patterson, Co. A, 29th Infantry, aged 23 years, received a punctured wound of the abdomen in a drunken brawl at Lynchburg, Virginia, October 21, 18G7. After being Avounded he walked a distance of half a mile to camp, when he was admitted to hospital. Upon examination, a wound one-half inch in length, such as would be inflicted by a common clasp-knife, was observed one-half inch from the mesial line and two and one-half inches above the crest of the jjubis. A portion of the omentum, about the size of a large walnut, protruded from the wound. This was at once passed within the abdominal walls and the wound brought together and united by three interrupted sutures. Shortly after dressing the wound the bowels moved, followed imme- diately by vomiting. There was extreme tenderness on pressure over the entire abdomen, particu- larly over the left iliac region. There was general peritonitis; pulse 120. A narcotic was admin istered, and he slept during the night. Vomiting occurred during the night of October 23d. He contiiuied to fail and died at 4 o'clock on the morning of October 24, 1807. At the autopsj^, on openiijg the cavity of the abdomen, about one-half gallon of bloody serum was found; the usual characteristics of serous inflammation were observed. An examination of the intestines revealed the fact that the knife inflicting the wound had passed directly through the ilium, causing a double wound. CCCXXXVIL—i\^o^e of a Punctured Wound of the Abdomen. By John T. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private William Moller, Co. C, 8th Infantry, aged 24 years, was wounded by a knife. May 15, 1870, which penetrated the abdominal walls, just below the umbilicus. He was admitted to the post hospital at Spartanburgh, South Carolina, the same day. Interrupted sutures and anodynes were used, and on June 3d he was returned to duty.102 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMT. CCCXXXVIII.—iV^ofe of a Punctured Wound of the Abdomen. By C. W. Young, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Private John Carey, Co. G, lOtli Infantry, was wounded in a quarrel, November 26,1SG9, by a pocket knife, which entered the left side, jjenetrating the abdominal cavity. He was admitted to the post hospital at Helena, Texas. Simple dressings were applied, and the man was returned to duty January 16, 1870. CCCXXXIX.—Bejyort of a Bayonet Wound in tlie Hypochondriac Region. By J. W. Williams, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William H. Huber, Co. K, 5th Artillery, was stabbed with a bayonet on the night of November 21, 1870, at Fort Sullivan, Maine. The point of the bayonet entered the left hypochon- driac region, between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, and from before, backward and below, upward, apparently injuring the spleen. The patient lost about twenty ounces of blood in a few minutes, from which he fainted. Dark-colored blood continued to issue from the wound for two days. The abdomen was considerably distended with blood, but no evident symptoms of peritonitis set in at any time. The patient was kept under full doses of opium. At the date of this writing the Ijatient is convalescent. [He was returned to duty in December, 1870.—Ed.] CCCXL.—Notes of two Cases of Lance- Wounds. By J. H. McMahon, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Case I.—Private John Foster, Co. K, 9th Cavalry, received a punctured flesh-wound of the right gluteal region, by a lance, September 12,1868. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Davis, Texas, on the 14th. Simple dressings were applied, and he was returned to duty on September 18, 1868. Case II.—Private Gilbert Colyer, Troop F, 9th Cavalry, was wounded at the battle of Horse- Head Hills, Texas, September 12, 1868, by a lance which penetrated the thorax, entering on the right side, seven inches from the spine, between the sixth and seventh ribs. The lung was unin- jured. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He recovered and was returned to duty in October, 1868. CCCXLI.—Note of Ptmctured Wounds of the Arm and Shoulder. By G. H. GUNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Samuel Eidley, Co. I, 9tli Cavalry, aged 24 years, was wounded, October 22, 1870, by a kuife, Avhich entered the superior and inner angle of the scapula and middle of right arm. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort (Juitman, Texas, the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He died on October 30th, from hamiorrhage. CCCXLII.—Note of a Puncttired Wound of the Thujh. By Aakon Ansell, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort Inge, Texas, August 4,1867, Lieutenant N. J. McCafiferty, Co. K, 4th Cavalry, received a punctured wound of the thigh, penetrating the femoral artery {sic). He was admitted to the post hospital, where simple dressings Avere applied. The ha-morrhage was controlled, and the ollicer returned to duty, August 17, 1867. CCCXLIII.—Report of an Incised and Punctured Wound of the Knee-Joint, having a Fatal Besult. By Calvin DeWitt, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal Henry Atley, Co. E, 3d Cavalry, received an incised and punctured wound of the right knee-joint, on April 10, 1870, while on escort duty near Camp McDowell, Arizona Territory; liis horse becoming restive, crowded his right leg against the saddle-bags of a comrade, from which a large knife was i)rotrudiiig. The knife entered at the outer side of the ])()])liteal s])ace, passed obli<iuely Ui»\vard and inward, struck the head of the tibia, from which it glanced, and entered the103 LACEEATED AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. cavity of the knee-joint. The hfemorrliage was very severe, but was finally controlled by cold water. He was admitted on the next day to the hospital at Fort McDowell, where the liinb was bandaged, constant applications of cold water ordered, and absolute rest enjoined. On April 12th, the bandage becoming tightened from swelling, was removed. The knee was ijainful. The wound was dressed with carbolic acid and olive oil, and the limb was placed, slightly bent, in a cradle; the application of cold water was continued, with nourishing diet and opiates at night. No improve- ment having taken place, on April 16th, the administration of Gross's antimonial and saline mixture was directed, with continuance of the dressings, and application of cold water. Tonics, with beef- tea and wine, were given at regular intervals during the day. Imi^rovement was manifest, and continued until May 23d, when blisters and tincture of iodine were applied, and subsequently iodide of potassium was administered to encourage absorption, which took place slowly. By May 23d, the knee was reduced to its normal size, and almost all evidence of inflammation had disap- peared, and the patient's condition was most satisfactory, the wound having healed, except on the surface, over which the new skin was closing rapidly. On the night of May 28th, notwithstanding- stringent directions had been given that the leg must not be moved unless iiermission was given, the patient bent the knee " in order to try it," as he said. The result was manifest the next day; inflammation set in ; the knee became hot, swollen, and painful, and in a few days there was effu- sion in the knee-joint, and constitutional sympathy. He gradually lost his appetite and strength. The wound reopened, and in two weeks suppuration commenced and pus was discharged. Tonics, stimulants, and nourishing diet were given, but without effect. He wasted rapidly until June 12, when a severe diarrhoea set in, which increased in violence until June 23, when he died from exhaustion. Laceeated and Contused Wounds.—The reports usually contain a rather large pro- portion of cases of bruises and lacerations. A few instances may be cited, among them two interesting examples of laceration of internal organs without breach of continuity in the integument. CCCXLIV.—Note relative to a Wound of the Scalp. By Oaelos Cakvallo, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George T. Atwood, Co. K, 5th Cavalry, aged 22 years, admitted to hospital at Sedg- wick Barracks, Washington, on September 20, 1867, with a triangular lacerated wound of the scalp, received in a fracas with a policeman, in Washington, the previous day. The gaping wound was drawn together with adhesive strips, and on the 21st, proud flesh appearing on the edges of the w-ound, it was cauterized. The wound healed rapidly, and, on October 6th, the patient was returned to duty. CCCXLY.—Note relative to a Wounct of the Scalp. By James F. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. At Ash Barracks, Nashville, February 1, 1870, Frank Morton, corporal, Co. K, 14th Infantry, Avhen intoxicated, received, by falling from a railroad tressel-woi'k, on a rough stone, a severe wound on the left side of the head, six inches long, over the parietal and temporal bones. He was admitted to post hospital the next day, and a lotion of a solution of carbolic acid on lint was applied. He recovered and returned to duty February 24, 1870. COCXLVI.—Mention of a Contusion of the Scalp. By D. McLean, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Eiley, Co. F, 19th Infantry, aged 27 years, received a contusion of the scalp over the left parietal bone, by a fall on a steamer when returning from absence with leave, from New Orleans, on November 9, 1870. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Pike, on the same day, and cold-water dressings applied. He was returned to duty on November 14tli.104 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. CCCXLVII.—Note of a Case of Contused Wound of the Forehead. By Daniel McLean, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Eugene Navarra, Co. F, lOtli Infantry, aged 33 years, received a lacerated wound over the frontal bone, by a blow of the butt of a musket, in a quarrel in company quarters, on December 13, 1870. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Pike, the same day. The edges of the wound were brought together by adhesive strips, compresses, and bandages. He was returned to duty on December 17, 1870. CCCXLVIII.—Note of a Lacerated Wound of the Head. By Aaron Ansell, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. First Lieutenant N. J. McCafferty, Co. K, 4th Cavalry, aged 27 years, received, by falling iiom a horse, a lacerated wound of the head, severing the left ear from above to the lobe, at Fort Inge, Texas, on June 2, 18G7. He was admitted to the post hospital on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He rapidly recovered, and returned to duty on June 9, 18G7. CCCXLXI.—Mention of Scalp Wounds with Laceration. By W. H. Hopper, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Dennis G. Milane, Co. I, 14th Infantry, aged 26 years, received, by a club, lacerated and contused wounds of the scalp, at Lebanon, Kentucky, April 10, 1870. He was admitted to the post hospital on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He returned to duty on June 20, 1870. CCCL.—Remarks on a Case of Wound of the Scalp. By John B. White, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Andrew Lewis, Co. B, 40th Infantry, appears, in the report for December, 1868, from the post hosjutal at Raleigh, as having received a wound of the scalp over the left of the frontal bone, extending from the median line to the centre of the orbital arch, dividing the integument to the bone. The injury was inflicted by a brick, in the hands of one of his comrades. Symptoms of concussion were present from the first. Careful attention was directed to the open wound, the edges of which were secured by sutures and adhesive strips. Irrigation was kept up for about twelve hours. Patient made a good recovery, and was returned to duty in three weeks from the reception of the injury. CCCLI.—Report of a Contusion of the Head. By B. A. Clements, Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant M, Dougherty, Co. G, 0th Cavalry, aged 28 years, was injured Januarj' 31, 1868, at New Orleans. While mounting his horse he received a violent fall upon a stone pavement, in consequence of the parting of the girth, the horse having started at full speed. The scalp was contused and lacerated at the vertex of the cranium, three-quarters of an inch long, but not extending down to the bone ; there was also a severe contusion of the forehead. He Avas stuiiiu'd by the fall, but did not become insensible. He was at once sent to the post hospital at Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, where he was visited by Surgeon B. A. Clements, United States Army, and Acting Assistant Surgeon Payne, within a few hours after the occurrence of the injury He was sensible, though somewhat slow in speech; pulse 04, full, but rather weak; respiration, unaffected, and skin cool; he vomited at frequent intervals, and complained only of paiu in his head, both at the vertex and in the forehead; the pupils were jjerhajis dilated to a slight extent, but readily contracted on exposure. The case had been considered one of depres- sion, and ])robable fracture of the skull, but there were no evident signs of such an injury. The next morning the pulse was TiO, skin still disi)osed to be cool, pui)ils still slightly dilated; had continued to vomit occasionally during the night. In order to determine with accuracy the stateLACERA^D AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. 105 of the cranium at the seat of the wound, and feeling some assurance there was no fracture, Surgeon Clements made an incision at the seat of the wound, and introducing a finger, found no evidence either of fracture or depression ; there was no effusion beneath the scalp. Bowels moved freely; there was a purplish ecchymosis at the inner angle of both eye-lids, not extending to the mucous membrane of the eye or eye-lids, and some tumefaction of the skin of forehead. He was quiet and disposed to sleep; i^atient improved, and by February 15th, the wound of scali) had entirely healed; he complained at times of acute pain at the seat of the wound, otherwise he was quite well. He was returned to duty February 27,1868, and advised not to ride on horseback for a month, and to be temperate. He still at times had a rather acute pain at the seat of the wound of scalp. One point of interest in this case was the character of the ecchymosis around the eyes, which might have been confounded with that which is seen at times in fracture of the base of the skull, but for its superficial character. CCCLII.—Bemarks relative to a Case of Contusion. By P. J. A. Cleary, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Daniel Sullivan, Co. E, 45th Infantry, was admitted to the post hospital at Chatta- nooga, November 25, 1867, having, while intoxicated, been engaged in a fight. His face was cov- ered with blood and bruises. On washing awaj^ the blood, a flesh-wound was found over the left eye, about an inch in length, and another on the left side of the head, about an inch and a half from the median line, commencing at the coronal suture, and passing downward and inward for two inches. This wound had evidently been made with a blunt weapon, probably brass knuckles. On examination, the lower iiart of the Avound was found to extend to the bone, which was denuded of its periosteum to the extent of about half a square inch, but neither depression or fracture could be detected. He also complained of severe pain in the back from a kick. There was discoloration over the third and fourth lumbar vertebrte, with great tenderness on pressure. The patient was fully conscious, but very restless. Cold applications were made to the head, and Hoffman's ano- dyne administered. Patient slept well during the night, and the next morning felt much relieved. He continued to imj)rove, and on December 13th was returned to duty. CCCLIII.—Note of a Case of Contusion of the Chest. By W. T. Hyson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Delaney, of Battery F, 5th Artillery, aged 24, while at drill on November 6, 1867, at Camp Williams, near Eichmond, Virginia, was knocked down by the wheel of the limber, and immediately run over by the gun-oarriage, the wheel passing transversely over his thorax, immediately above the nipples. Incredible to say, he was not killed by the immense weight of the gun (a three-inch Eodmau rifle), but was not even hurt seriously. He rode from the drill-ground on the caisson-box. The track of the wheel was distinctly shown by discoloration on the left side and front of the thorax. On the folloAving day, November 7th, he was well, except a slight sore- ness in the region of the bruise. On the second day he was returned to duty, well, and continued so at the date of this report. CCCLIV.—Report of a Case of Contusion folloiced by Pleuritis and Hepatitis. ByD. Meeritt, Surgeon, 4th Veteran Volunteers. Lieutenant Daniel K. Springer, 4th Veteran Volunteers, was taken with a severe pain in the right side, in the region of the liver, the symptoms being those of acute inflammation of that organ. He was admitted on August 8, 1865, to the hospital at Camp Chase, Ohio. An abscess soon after formed in the right hypochondriac region, the tumefaction spreading toward the epigastrium, and between the floating ribs and liver. Poultices of flaxseed meal were applied, and the tumor was opened, giving exit to more than two quarts of bloody pus of a very unhealthy character. Gan- grene soon after supervened; then extensive sloughing, involving a portion of the rectus abdomi- nis muscle, and causing an opening into the trausA'crse colon, through which fecal matter escaped until, by enemata, it was passed through the natural way. The gangrene was arrested by appli- 14EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY, 106 cation of nitric acid. Under subsequent applications of lint saturated witli a solution of chlorate of potassa, the abscess was doing very well; healthy granulations were being thrown out; ftecal matter was discharging by the rectum, and the patient doing well, when an untoward condition set in. He became weaker, notwithstanding the administration of stimulants and nourishing diet, and died October 2, 1865. Throughout the case the patient evinced the utmost heroism. The abscess, as far as could be learned, was the result of injuries received by being knocked down and kicked in Philadelphia while on the way to Camp Chase. The autopsy revealed adhesions between the pleura pulmonalis and pleura costalis. The liver was healthy except on the outward surface, where there was slight evidence of the abscess having burrowed in the hepatic tissue. The kidneys and stomach were normal. The lungs were very much surcharged with dark venous blood. The transverse colon was ulcerated. COCLV.—Report of a Case of Contusion from a Railway Accident. By G. S. EoSE, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private John Holden, Co, C, 29th Infantry, age 23, was injured at Keswick, Virginia, Sep- tember 28, 1868, by a railroad accident. Being admitted on the next day to the post hospital at Camj) Schofield, Lynchburgh, he stated that, while riding on the top of a box-car, and seeing the car in front of him rolling over the embankment, he sprang from the top, but was unable to get away in time, and was struck in the back by the car as it rolled over. He comj)lained of intense pain over the sacrum, extending between the anterior sui^erior si)inous process and the right tuber ischii. The parts over the sacrum were exceedingly tender on pressure, the slightest motion or touch, causing him to scream with i^ain, I was unable to elicit crepitus. He could flex the leg on the thigh without pain, but was unable to flex the thigh on the pelvis. The soft parts were much ecchymosed, and he had a dull, moving, continuous pain, extending across the whole front of the pelvis. Anodynes, with nourishing diet, were given. The patient, making a good recovery, was returned to duty November 26, 1868. CCCLVI.—Note of a Case of Contusion of the Bach. By A. F. Mechem, Surgeon, U. S. A. At Fort Porter, New York, on October 5,1867, Private Thomas Carroll, Battery L, 1st Artillery, aged 23 years, presented himself at surgeon's call, stating that some time during the previous night he had been struck in the back with the butt end of a musket in the hands of a sentinel. The blow knocked him down, when he was struck twice in the splenic region with the same weapon. On examination, a slight wound, such, as might have been made by the percussion hammer of a musket, was found about an inch and a half to the left of the articulation of the twelfth rib with the twelfth dorsal vertebra. About two inches lower, at the same distance from the second lumbar vertebra, was another wound of the same character. He was treated in the post hospital, at Fort Porter, until October 21, 1867, when he was returned to duty entirely cured. CCCLVII.—Mention of a Case of Contusion of the Bade. By C. R. Geeenleap, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. August Burtz, artificer of Co. H, 2d Infantry, aged 38, was admitted to the hospital at Taylor Barracks, Kentucky, on November 7, 1868, having fallen from a ladder to the floor, a distance of fourteen feet. He complained of pain in the bowels and inability to pass water, and suftered considerably from shock. A stimulant and an anodyne were administered. He was improved on the 8th; but, on the 10th, was taken Avith intermittent fever, which yielded to quinine aiul iron. Ho recovered and was returned to duty November 15,1868. CCCLVIII,—Report of Case of Contusion., with Rupture of the Liver and Kidneys. By G, H. GuNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S, A, Private Henry Greene, Co. H, 9th Cavalry, entered hospital at six in the evening of December 15, 1870, at Fort Quitman, Texas, having been run over by a wagon at eight o'clock the morning of the same day, while on his way to Fort (Jnitnian from Eagle Si)rings. lioth wheels of one sideLACERATED AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. 107 were thought to have passed over him, from the right hip, over the thorax. The patient was suffering, upon admission, from shock and extreme depression, his extremities cold, his wrist almost pulseless. But he was perfectly conscious, the action of the heart was feeble but regular, 104 to the minute; respiration, 44. Any movement was evidently repressed and painful. No rales upon auscultation, some dullness over lower portion of right lung; great tenderness over hepatic region, with nausea and vomiting. Upon percussion over the right hypochondriac region, much pain was experienced. The diagnosis arrived at was, that there was a rupture of the liver. Stimu- lants and anodynes were ordered, the former continued every hour during the night; hot applica- tions to extremities. Patient rallied a little after a few hours, but no permanent improvement was observed. Death occurred at 7.30 A. M. of the following day, the patient having passed, through the night, a quantity of nearly pure blood from the bladder. A post-mortem examination, ten hours after death, revealed a rupture of the liver, through nearly the entire extent of its antero posterior diameter, following the junction of the right with the left and quadrate lobes, to withiu one inch of the anterior border of the organ. Also, a fracture of the sternum, at the junction of its upper and middle third, fracture of the eighth rib, two inches in front of its angle. The right lung was engorged, with a small puncture over the anterior aspect of its upper lobe, from the broken end of sternum. A large effusion of blood into the abdominal cavity was found, and a longitudinal mix- ture of the right kidney, throughout nearly its entire extent. The bladder was normal and empty. CCCLTX.—Case of Rupture of the Spleen. By J. F. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Michael , Co. C, 45th Infantry, while boxing with a comrade in the store of the post-trader at Nashville, Tennessee, July 3, 1869, received a comparatively light blow with the palm of the hand in the left hypogastric region. Eyan turned away, saying nothing, and walked on to the veranda, where, in a few moments, he fainted, and was carried to his company quarters. I visited him eight or ten minutes after the accident, at which time the j)ulse had ceased to beat at the carotid ; the skin was blanched; the jjupil fully dilated, and respiration, merely a gasp, repeated three or four times a minute. Death supervened in less than a quarter of an hour after the recep- tion of the blow, with symptoms of shock and htemorrhage. An autopsy, two hours after death, revealed the abdominal cavity filled with blood. This flowed from extensive fissures in the spleen, which was enlarged and softened, measured five by seven inches in diameter, and was two inches thick, weighing fourteen ounces. All the other abdominal viscera were normal; there were old pleuritic adhesions of the left side ; in all other respects, the thoracic viscera was in a healthy con- dition. The pathological specimen, consisting of the spleen, is number .5600, Section 1, Army Medical Museum, and was forwarded with the history of the case. CCCLX.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Contusion of the Abdomen. By B. E. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Lewis Metcalf, Co. H, 5th Infantry, on duty as teamster in the Quartermaster's Department, was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas, August 20, 1870, just after the reception of a kick in the abdomen from a mule. He was bordering on a collapsed state ; the pulse was scarcely perceptible at the wrist, and the surface was cold, with a clammy sweat resting on it. No marks of the kick were visible, though the man stated, after reaction had fol- lowed on careful use of stimulants, that the blow was received on the abdomen in the left hypo- chondriac region. He now complained of severe pain, which was promptly relieved by ten-grain doses of chloral hydrate. On the fifth day after the injury the bowels were relieved by an enema, and on August 28th he was able to be about the ward. September 4, 1870 : Metcalf was returned to his duty in the Quartermaster's Department, with a request that, for a time, some light work be assigned him. From this period until the date of readmission into the hospital, (42 days'interval,) he was watchman at the quartermaster's stable, which gave him nothing but the lightest duty. On October 15th, the man, comi)laining of being weak and constipated, was given a mild aperient, marked " sick in quarters," and directed to keep quiet; but, disobeying this injunction, he got per- mission from his commander to go to the neighboring town, some three miles distant, where he pur- chased and ate a large quantity of pies, huts, &c., which, he said, made him vomit. He reportedEEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 108 the next morning at sick-call as " feeling no better," and was readmitted to the hospital. On admission, his pulse was 72, and rather feeble; respiration somewhat labored, but otherwise nat- ural ; temperature normal; bowels still constipated; vomited several times ; no pain or abdominal tenderness. Half-grain does of calomel, with one grain of opium, soon stopped vomiting. Enem- ata were given without avail, to move the bowels, though a careful examination of the abdomen showed no great accumulation of ftecal matter. Milk and beef essence, with small doses of whiskey, were administered every hour to supijort strength, which ai)peared to be rajjidly failing, but the man continued, however, to run down in spite of the supporting treatment and faithful nursing, and died early on the morning of October 19th. Post-mortem examination, eight hours after death ; rigor mortis well marked; muscular system well developed ; very slight wasting of adipose tissue; thoracic organs healthy ; small abscess, about the size of a large hazel-nut, in the lower and posterior portion of the spleen, the pus being of a dirty yellowish-brown hue—the whole organ slightly shrunk, and somewhat hardened. Other abdominal organs, save a slight congestion of the mucous coat of the intestines, normal. No febrile symptoms exhibited themselves after readmission, and no i^ositive indications of the spleen trouble were manifest, though it was feared, by exclusion, that a lesion of the spleen existed. CCCLXI.—Bciwrt of a Case of Contusion of the Pelvis. By A. G. Skinner, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Morgan, Co. A, 42d Infantry, aged 34, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Niagara, New York, on October 2, 1867, the wheel of a loaded cart having run over his pelvis on the day previously. There was swelling, with extensive ecchjnuosis over the upper portion of the sacrum, and he complained of much pain. The patient was unable to walk. A stimulating lotion was applied to the contused i)arts, and anodynes were administered. A tumor, which formed over the injured ijart, was several times opened, and its contents evacuated. The patient suffered from chill and fever. By November, his general health had improved under expectant treatment; but the wound was still open. On December 6th, he was iiermitted to do light duty, the wound being frequently examined. Being returned to hospital on the 27th, the wound was swollen, inflamed, and freely discharging dark, piirulent matter. The swelling having subsided by January 13, 1868, and the condition of the wound remaining unchanged, an incision three inches long was made down to the diseased structure, which was found to be a hard, cartilaginous growth, with bony deposit, between which and the periosteum the purulent matter had been lodged, and escaped by means of an opening. On dissecting out this diseased growth, and touching the walls of the remaining cavity with nitrate of silver, the wound was closed with adhesive strip and a compress. But little suppuration followed, and on the 28th, the wound being nearly healed, the patient was returned to duty. CCCLXII.—Report of a Case of a Contused Wound of the Perincewm. By John T. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles May, Co. E, 2d Infantry, aged 25 years, while intoxicated, fell astride of a board as he was descending the steps in the rear of his company quarters, on February 22, 1870. Immediately after the fall there was great swelling and induration of the periniiium, and the calibre of the urethra was encroached ujion to such an extent that the x^a^tient was unable to micturate. On the next day he complained of severe pain behind the pubes. An attempt was made to introduce the catheter, which failed. On February 27th the bladder had become enor- mously distended Avith urine, and every local symptom was aggravated. There was great hypcr- aisthesia of the entire abdomen, and considerable swelling and slight fluctuation in the perina-um. There was intense thirst, (luick pulse, nausea, and headache* A second attempt was made to introduce the catheter, but the great pain, enormous swelling, and spasmodic contraction, compli- cated with acute gonorrluea, proved obstacles not readily overcome. Still the effort M as persisted in to relieve the bladder in this way rather than resort to either recto vesical or su])ra-i)ubic punc- ture. After considerable ettbrt the catheter was introduced and about six quarts of fluid drawn, ol' wliich it was estimated fully one-half was blood. On March 1st the swelling of the i»erina'umLACEEATED AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. 109 had not abated. On attempting to introduce the catheter the urethra contracted spasmodically. Unfortunately, in continuing the effort the wire was thrust through the end of the catheter, which punctured the walls of the iirethra and entered an abscess. Whether this puncture with the wire only anticipated what nature would have done, has been a question in my mind. While I believe tliat any oijeuing into the urethra was of all things to be feared and guarded against, as likely to produce extravasation of urine and urinary fistulse, yet I believe that the abscess woidd have pointed there eventually. On March Gth, incisions were made into the perinajum to give vent to the contents of the abscess; the discharge was profuse and offensive; the abdomen was tense, swollen, and very tender; the pulse frequent and feeble ; tongue parched with extreme thirst; the appetite impaired, and the bowels constipated. A catheter was retained for several days, through which the bladder was frequently evacuated. Large clots of blood passed, with considerable mucus. Upon the bladder being emptied there would be spasmodic contraction, accompanied by intense pain, which was attributed to the contact between the walls of the bladder and the point of the catheter. The patient was taiight to introduce the catheter, which he did with comparative ease. Occasionally the eye of the catheter would become occluded with blood and mucus, so that the contraction of the bladder and the abdominal walls would force the urine by the catheter and discharge it through the fistulous openings in the perina^um. Warm fomentations were applied to the abdomen and stimulants given. Under the treatment adopted there was gTadual abatement of the symp- toms, and a decided im^jrovement in general health. Ou March 15th, the hjematuria had almost disappeared, but the discharge of mucus had become more manifest. The urine was still drawn through the catheter that nature might heal the abnormal outlets. On the 20th, the patient discharged uriue with little pain in ordinary amount and with scarcely a trace of mucus. He continued to improve, and on March 31st, two of the fistulous openings had healed, and the only remaining one looked healthy and was contracted very much. The patient had recovered strength, though he still retained the recumbent posture. CCCLXIII.—Note of a Case of Contusion of the Thigh. By Carlos Carvallo, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Arthur Calquhoun, Troop K, 5th Cavalry, aged 22 years, was kicked by a horse, Sep- tember 26, 1867, causing a contusion of the right thigh, just above the knee. On admission to the post hospital at Sedgwick Barracks, Washington, the injured limb was swollen and tender. Plaster of Paris bandage was applied. He recovered, and was returned to duty October 8, 1867. CCCLXIV.—Memorandum of a Contusion of the Knee-Joint. By W. S. Adams, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Corporal William H. Hoffman, Troop A, 5th Cavalry, aged 25 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Morganton, North Carolina, October 10, 1867, with a contusion of the right knee-joint, caused by the kick of a horse received about October 1st. The joint was found swollen and roughened, with slight redness and much heat. The patella was elevated at least half an inch above the condyles. He complained of but little pain, nor had he any well-marked chill. The limb was placed in a straight splint and a blister applied to the joint, to be followed by tincture of iodine. Ou October 15th the patient was much imiH'oved; elfusion apparently absorbed. The splint was removed, but rest enjoined; and on October 25th he was returned to duty, motion nearly perfect. CCCLXV.—Note relative to a Contusion of Foot. By C. E. Greenleap, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Albert J. Furay, Co. I, 2d Infantry, aged 32 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Taylor Barracks, Kentucky, July 17, 1868, with a contused wound of the left foot, caused by tlie falling upon it of an iron safe which he was assisting to move. Warm fomentations were applied, and on July 28th, he returned to duty entirely recovered.110 EEPOET OF SUEGIOAL CASES IN THE ARMY. Concussion and Compression of the Brain.—Examples of slight stunning from falls or blows are of course very common in military practice, and the graver cases of concussion, contusion, laceration, and compression of the brain are not infrequent. The Cases of fracture of the skull will be reported in the next section. Some of the instances of concussion and compression may be here recorded: CCOLXVI.—Report of a Case of Concussion of the Brain. By A. G. Bates, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private W. E. Burrouglis, Co. I, 40tli Infantry, at Fort Macon, July 2, 1867, received two blows from a hammer, in the hands of an escaping prisoner, upon the front and right side of the head, above the temporal ridge, producing severe concussion of the brain. He remained in a comatose state for several hours. After reaction took place he was put upon proper treatment. There being no perceptible fracture of the bones, the flesh-wound was allowed to heal, which it did readily. He suffered from headache, giddiness, loss of memory, impaired vision, confusion of thought, and was very dull of comprehension. To a casual observer his recovery would appear complete, but the injury received had left the brain in such an unstable state that it would be disturbed by the least excitement, and the man was therefore discharged on August 21, 1807. CCCLXVII.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Concussion of the Brain. By H. M. Cronkhite, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Daniel Isaacs, Co. I, 10th Infantry, while attending a fandango at Eio Grande City, Texas, on the night of December 21, 1869, received a severe blow upon the head with an unknown weapon, supposed to have been a brick, in the hands of a Mexican, from the effect of which he lay insensible until 5 o'clock P. M., December 25,1869, at which time he died. Upon post-mortem examination the following pathological conditions were exhibited: In the cellular tissue of the scalj), over the superior curved line of the occipital bone, on the left side of the occipital i^rotuber- ance, there was extensive ecchymosis; on remo\ing the skull-cap several ounces of effused, coagu- lated blood were found between the dura mater, covering all the posterior half of the loft hemisphere of the cerebrum. On close examination no fracture of the cranium could be found in either table. CCCLXVIII.—Memorandum of a Fatal Case of Compression of the Brain. By Elliott Coues, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Columbia, January 11, 1868, John Kelly, hospital steward, aged 24 years, received, by a fall, a wound of the head, causing compression of the brain. He was admitted to post hospital on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He died January 16, 1868. CCCLXIX.—Remarlcs on a Case of Severe Concussion of the Brain. By J. P. Foot, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Patrick Eagau, Co. B, 42d Infantry, was brought to hospital at Plattsburg, New York, about 6 o'clock P. M., April 9, 1867, in an unconscious condition, and bleeding profusely from a M ound upon the head, the result of a blow which he had received from a musket, in the hands of an intoxicated soldier. On examinatiou, a lacerated wound, one inch in length and one-(|uarter of an inch in depth, was discovered upon the right orbital ridge; also, a slight tumefaction in right temporal region. Blood was oozing slowly from the ixose and mouth; the eyes turned upward and fixed ; pupils contracted and insensible to light; pulse feeble; countenance pallid ; and the surface of the body cold. The breath was of a decidedly alcoholic character, indicating some degree of inebriation coexisting with concussion of the brain. The case was treated as concussion of the brain. Cold water to the head, hot applications to body and feet, aiul sinapism to spine. At 11 o'clock P. M., patient exhibited symptoms of a reaction; he replied to questions, but rather con-Ill CONCUSSION AND COMPEESSION OF THE BEAIN. fusedly; complained of great pain in tlie head. He was kept quiet, and the treatment continued. He slept a little during the night, but was restless at intervals. The next morning, April 10th, the patient appeared quite sensible; pulse 76 and stronger; complained of severe frontal headache; skin dry and hot; no appetite and considerable thirst. Continued cold water to the head, and gave four grains of nitrate of potass, every two hours. The febrile symptoms subsided during the day, and patient slept during the night without interruption. From this time the patient rapidly improved, and on Aj>ril 18, 18G7, was dismissed from the hospital and returned to duty. CCCLXX.—Note of a Concussion of the Brain. By John E. Tallon, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort Bayard, New Mexico, September 17, 1869, Private John Fracker, Co. B, 3d Cavalry, aged 25, had a fall from his horse, producing a severe concussion of the brain. He was admitted to the post hospital the same day, and was treated by cold-water dressings, with stimulants inter- nally. The patient was gradually recovering at the close of the month, and was returned to duty some time in October. CCCLXXI.—Mention of a Case of Concussion of the Brain. By John Vansant, Surgeon, U. S. A. At Little Eock Arsenal, Arkansas, Private Michael Mooney, Co. D, 28fch Infantry, aged 19, was admitted to post hospital, December 29,1866, with concussion of brain. Eemained in the hos- pital ; nearly well at the end of the month, and was returned to duty in January, 1867. CCCLXXII.—Memorandum of a Fatal Case of Concussion of tlie Brain following a Bloic. By D. W BosLEY, Assistant Surgeon, 3d United States Colored Artillery. Private Isaiah Williams, 3d Colored Heavy Artillery, was admitted to the regimental hospital, October 31, 1865, suffering from a wound of the scalp over the right parietal bone. Tlie external table of the cranium was not fractured; but, judging from the symptoms which followed, loss of consciousness and convulsions, it was supposed that the internal table was f):actured or deiJressed. Death resulted November 15,1865. CCCLXXIII.—Case of Traumatic Apoplexy. By L. Y. LoRiNG, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John W. Thomas, Light Battery A, 2d Artillery, aged 23, was brought to the hospital at Fort Eiley, Kansas, on the morning of December 20, 1870, having been thrown from his horse to the frozen ground a few mmutes before. There was a contusion of the left cheek over the malar bone, from which there was some hfemorrhage; the lid of the left eye was bruised and congested, and a very slight bruise of the skin over the left edge of the frontal protuberance. The most careful examination failed to discover any fracture of the skull or signs of injury other than those mentioned. He was in a semi-conscious condition when admitted, and complained of the cut on his face, which he was constantly picking. He vomited several times. The pupils were con- tracted, breathing slow and labored, pulse slow and soft. Compression of the brain was diagnosed from fracture of the skull, causing either some pressure of bone upon it or rupturing a blood ves- sel, causing extravasation, accompanied by some concussion of the brain, from which he was slightly recovering. The prognosis was unfavorable, and operative interference out of the ques- tion, as there was nothing at all to indicate the seat of injury. He was covered with warm bed- clothing and warmth applied to the feet, with sinapisms to the abdomen, in order to bring about reaction. He grew rapidly worse, becoming entirely unconscious in the course of twenty minutes; the pupils became dilated and the eyes fixed and insensible. The contents of the bladder were evacuated, but not of the bowels. At 6 P. M. respiration became stertorous and sighing, and he gradually failed, dying at 9 P. M., eleven hours after the reception of the injury. A post-mortem examination was made sixteen hours after death. Biyor mortis intense; body well nourished andEEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 112 developed. In dissecting np the scalp, some congestion was found over the temporal muscle, as if it had been contused, but there was nothing whatever to indicate it externally. Upon removing the calvarium a clot of blood weighing three ounces was discovered between the bone and dura mater, over and at the side of the middle lobe of the right hemisi)here of the brain; there were also spots of extravasation between the dura mater and arachnoid, at the upper iiart of both hemi- spheres over the middle lobes, presenting the appearance as if encysted. The brain at the seat of the large clot presented the appearance of being contused and disorganized by the pressure upon it; with this exception the brain substance appeared normal throughout. There was a fracture of the base of the skull, beginning at the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, extending posteriorly to the body of the lesser wing of the sphenoid where it branched, one branch extending to tlie optic foramen of the left side, and the other taking a course indicated by the optic foramen, the foramen rotundum, and the foramen ovale, and then posterior to the foramen spinosnm of the right side, curving around it, and, wlien at a point one inch external to it, again branched, one branch extending forward through the squamous portion of the temporal bone and across the anterior inferior angle of the parietal into the frontal, ending at a point one inch anterior to the jnnction of the lower with the middle third of the fronto-parietal suture, the other posteriorly in a line between the squamous and petrous portion of the temporal bone and then into the parietal bone parallel to the occipito parietal suture and ending at a point two inches anterior to the posterior superior angle of the right parietal. This fracture in its course involved both tables of the skull, and divided the grooves in which run both the anterior and posterior branches of the middle meningeal artery. The large clot formed at the side of the brain was cansed by the rupture of the anterior branch. It was moulded and flattened by pressure, and seemed as if covered by a membrane, ren- dering it tough. The smaller clots api^eared to be caused by the rapture of minute veins ramify- ing in the dura mater. The thoracic and abdominal viscera were healthy throughout, excepting the spleen, which was considerably hypertrophied and somewhat indurated. The intestines were much distended with semi-fluid substances. CCCLXXIV.—Report of a Case of Concussion of the Sjnnal Cord. By Henet Lippincott, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Surgeon A. F. Mechem, U. S. A., was accidentally injured at Hays City, Kansas, June 21, 1870, by jumping from a railway train while in motion. The fall caused partial concussion of the spinal cord, and violent shock to the sympathetic nervous system. When seen, shortly afterwards, by a medical officer, slight reaction had taken place; but there was extreme hypenesthesia of the chest, neck, and ui)per extremities, which were of a cyanotic hue. The cerebral functions were undisturbed. The heart's action, almost suspended when first seen, came up under the influence of stimulants. When reaction had fjiirly taken place, there was violent arterial action at the wrist, which was unaccompanied by like action in the temporal and carotid arteries; in fact, the action of these vessels coincided neither in force nor frequencj^ with that of the radial and ulnar arteries. Nor was the action of the heart, at any time after the pulsations became normal, other than healthy, although the extraordinary throbbing at the wrist continued several days. Excepting slight paralysis of the bladder, there was no loss of motor power. At first, the terrible hyperiies- thesia of the hands and arms inclined me to the belief that there might be a fracture, dislocation, or something of this kind, which, by pressure upon the nerves, might possibly account for the symp- toms described. However, a careful exajuination i>roved that there was neither fracture nor dislocation, but that the cause of the symptoms was only to be found in the spinal cord and sym- l>athetic nervous system. The effect of the previous medication proving inefficient, morphine was administered hypodermically, and afforded much relief. This Avas soon repeated, selecting the region of the fourth dorsal vertebra for the operation. The application of cui)s, with liot applica- tions of lead and laudanum, alternating with fomentations of liops and laudanum to the arms, hands, and thoi'ax, assisted materially in mitigating the pain of the parts imi)licated. Some three days subse(iuent to the reception of the injury, the patient was conveyed on a litter to liis quarters- at I'^ort Hays. Arriving there, tlie use of the m()r[)liine was in a great measure (lisi)ensed witli, Indian hemi) and hyoscyauuis being substituted. The hop fomentations were superseded by localCONCUSSION OF THE BEAIN OE SPINAL COED. 113 applications of chloroform and camplior, with suli)hate of morphia aud simple cerate. Tonics, nourishing diet, and stimulants, contributed much toward recovery. There was a decided tendency to typhoid depression, but this gave Avay to proper measures. [Surgeon Mechem's health remained delicate. In January, 1871, he availed of a leave of absence of one month, which was extended six months longer, for the benefit of his health. He died at Pleasantville, Maryland, at his father's home, July 14, 1871. The certificate of disability, forwarded to Adjutant General Townseud with the application for extension of leave of absence, was signed by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. B. Chase, at Fort Hays, and clearly traces the shattered condition of Doctor Mechem's health to the accident he had incurred.—Ed.] The foregoing seventy-seven reports aflbrd information regarding twenty-nine cases of incised wounds, eighteen of punctured wounds, twenty-two of lacerated or contused wounds, and nine instances of concussion or compression of tlie brain. Of the twenty- nine cases of incised wounds, eight were fatal, and two resulted in disabilities incapacitat- ing the men for service. One of these was an interesting instance of a recovery from a wound exposing the cavity of the knee-joint. In three of the eight fatal cases, the great vessels of the neck were divided, in two the heart was wounded, in three the abdominal cavity was penetrated, and in one of the latter the small intestine was divided in five places, and enterorrhaphy was practiced under hopeless conditions, the abdomen being filled with blood from the divided mesenteric artery. Among the nineteen patients who recovered and returned to duty, several survived the protrusion through the abdominal walls of large portions of the viscera. Of the eighteen reports on punctured wounds, seven refer to fatal cases. One was an example of wound of the aorta, two were stabs in the lungs, three involved the abdominal viscera, and one the knee-joint. There was an interesting instance of recovery after puncture of the stomach. Of the twenty-two cases of contused and lacerated wounds reported, four were fatal. They were examples of lacerations of internal organs without wounds of the integument. The special reports of concussion or compression of the brain or spinal cord related to nine cases, five of which had a fatal result. 15EEPORT OF SUEGIOAL GASES IN THE AEMY. 114 SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FRACTURES AND LUXATIONS. There were returned, for the period covered by the reports, fifteen hundred and ninety- nine cases of simple and compound fractures, and six hundred and twenty-five cases of luxations. Some cases in which special reports were made are cited here, and others in connection with the reports on operations. COCLXXV.—Report of a Case of Fracture of the Shull. By J. Simons, Surgeon, U, S. A. Corporal George Adams, Co. E, 4tli Artillery, was brought to hospital about two o'clock on the morning of September 1, 1SG9, hy two of his comrades, who stated that he had been assaulted by unknown parties at Locust Point, about a mile from FortMcHenry, Maryland. Upon examiuatiou, an incised wound one and a half inches long was found at the back of the head, and a small, lacerated wound on the forehead, above the right eye. The man was questioned as to how and by whom the wounds wei^e inflicted; but he was too much under the influence of drink, and the effects of the injuries he had received, to give intelligible answers. He was placed in bed, and his wounds were dressed with cold applications. During the night he was delirious, and had convulsious, from which he passed into profound coma, with sterterous breathing, in which condition he remained until his death, at half-past ten the following morning. The autopsy made next day by the coroner, in the presence of a jury, revealed an extensive fractvire, about three inches long, commencing at the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and running in^ semicircular line through the posterior and inferior portion of the parietal bone, and extending also into the occipital. Another small fracture, joining the anterior termination of the first at an acute angle, detaching a small piece of the temporal bone. A thick layer of extravasated blood was found covering a large portion of the right cerebral hemisphere, in the neighborhood of the fractures. It is remarkable that, with such a severe injury of the head, the man was able to walk, with the assistance of his comrades, the distance of a mile from the place where he was wounded. CCCLXXVI.—Abstract of a Report of a Fracture of the Base of the Skull and of the Fibula. By John Ashhurst, Jr., M. D., Surgeon to the Episcopal Hospital. Joseph K. Alderfer, a discharged soldier, aged 25 years, was thrown from a wagon in Philadelphia, on August .31,1805, causing a fracture of the sphenoid bone, arising in the left greater wing, ijassing through the olivary i^rocess and right greater wing, and ending in the jjetrous portion of the right temporal bone. The upper end of the left fibula was also comminuted. He was admitted into the Episcopal hospital about an hour after the injury. There was a gTeat deal of ecchymosis of the left orbit. Blood flowed from the nose and mouth, and a large quantity had been swallowed and afterwards vomited. Pulse, 04; respiration somewhat labored; right pupil slightly contracted. He was restless, but rational. The injured limb was wrapped in pillows, ice applied to the head, and a teacupful of milk ordered every four hours. On the following day he Avas slightly delirious, pulse 68, arising to 112 on September 2d. Both pupils were contracted. Death resulted on Sep- tember 3, 180.5. At the autopsy, the membranes of the brain were found very much congested, containing about four ounc(!S of reddened serum, and there was slight congestion of the brain and lateral ventricles.* * Tliis abstract was w.idv by Hospital Steward Sawicllc, V. 8. A., froin notes h.v J)r. Jioiliuc. A lull account of Mic case is ])rintc(l in the AmirUnu Joiinial of thr .Vcdicdl Scioias, \dl. 1,11, p. 7u'.SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEACTURES. 115 CCOLXXVir.—A Condensed Account of a Fracture of the Skull, in which Death occurred Three Years subseqiiently. From a report by John Taylor, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. James H. B , a private of Co. G, 20tli Inftintry, a robust man, but a confirmed inebriate, was admitted to hospital at New Orleans, Louisiana, on September 12, 1868, in an epileptic fit, which lasted about twenty minutes, and left him in a state of stupor for hours after. From the patient's history, it was ascertained that he had received a blow qn the head some three years pre- viously, and had been subject to epilepsy- ever since. He was not aware of suffering from other serious disease. Eeference to the hospital register of the post showed that he had, at various times, been under treatment. His sufferings, so far as they came under special notice, seemed invariably to have been excited after the excessive use of alcoholic stimulants. For five days after admission, the patient seemed better. The treatment consisted of bromide of potassium and a nourishing diet. On the 18th and 19th, he became slightly feverish and complained of headache. Castor oil and turpentine were administered with good effect, and ice applied to the head. Although free from fever, headache still continued; he looked sulky and dull, and on the 22d there was another epileptic fit. On the following day head symptoms with fever and obstinate constipation became intense. Mercurial purgatives aiul a terebinthinate enema failing to move the bowels, the negative pole of a battery was applied to the tongue and tlie positive to the anus with the desired result. Forty ounces of blood was drawn from the arm, lowering the pulse from 120 to 75, and ice was applied to the shaved head. The symptoms becoming worse on the 25th, blood was again taken from the arm and the temples; a mercurial was administered; injections and cold applications were continued, and later in the day a sinapism was applied to the nape of the neck. The patient, gradually growing worse, sunk into a profound coma, and died on the after- noon of the 27th. The antiphlogistic regimen was strictly observed from the 18th to the 25th, but on the last two days beef tea was given, both by the mouth and rectum. At the autopsy, fourteen hours afterward, two old cicatrices were found in the scalp; one over the posterior i^art of the parietal suture, about half an inch from its occipital termination, measuring about one and a half inches long; the other was over the left parietal eminence, measuring about one inch long; other- wise the scalp seemed whole and perfect. The brain and its membranes seemed to be in a state of general inflammation; the brain, throughout its substance, showed a large number of bloody l)oiuts; the gray matter was more intensified in its color, and the substance of the brain soft in general. The lateral venticles contained a small quantity of straw-colored fluid, and the vessels in them were in a state of congestion. That portion of the cerebum immedi- ately under the first described cicatrix was found closely adherent to the dura mater, and the dura mater itself, at this point, although loosely connected to the skull, was with difficulty removed; in fact the knife had to be used to detach it for about one square inch from the surface of the hemispheres, indicating ijre- vious inflammation and adhesion; the Pacchionian bodies were more numer- us here, larger, and standing prominently out from the surface; immediately below this point and between the hemispheres, a splinter of bone was found embedded in the falx cerebri; the appi'oxiraate surfaces of the hemispheres at this spot were redder and the minute vessels more injected. The pituitary body was found to be a little larger than usual and darker in color. From the history of the deceased, and the symptoms during his illness, with the appear- fig. i3. osteophyte in ance of the brain in general after death, but one conclusion could be arrived *1 ^^^^ ^^T^"' ^Z'^""' ' 5d17, Sec. I, A. M. M. at: That he died of general cerebritis, brought on from drink, exposure to the sun, and the irritation which appeared to be set up by the splinter of bone discovered in the falx-cerebri. A portion of the falx cerebri, having a splinter of bone embedded, was forwai ded to the Army Medical Museum. It is represented in the wood-cut, (Fig. 13.) CCCLXXVIII.—Wote relative to a Fracture of the SlaiU. By Dallas Bache, Surgeon, U. S. A. At the Post of San Antonio, Texas, March 10, 1868, private John Banan, Co. L, 4th Cavalry, aged 23 years, received a blow from a spade, causing a clean fracture in the left occipital region.REPORT OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 1]6 about one inch and a half iu leugth, with no depression of the outer table. He was admitted to the post luispital March 17, 1868. Simi^le dressings were applied. Discharged September 13, 1868. Compound fracture of the skull. CCCLXXIX.—Report of a Fracture of the Shull By Francis Barnes, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Prosper Behan, colored, aged 32 years, was admitted to the Freedraeu's hospital, New Orleans, Louisiana, having been beaten into a state of insensibility the night previously, for the purpose of robbing him. There were two wounds of the head, one on the right of the median line, a little over one-half inch, and one over the parietal bone, one inch from its frontal junction. This wound was circular and ragged, and sufficiently open to detect easily that the outer table was depressed, and to allow^ the passage of a probe to feel the fissure which surrounded it. The next day after admission, the patient had a slight epileptic convulsion, and it was suggested that the trephine should be applied to his head. On the night of May 3d, the patient had a chill, followed hy a fever, and the next day the plump appearance of his face was gone, the skin shiruuken, and the eyes sunken. The pulse became feeble, and over 100. In the wound a tliin sero-pus could be seen, welling through the fissure of the fracture every time he breathed. On May 5th, the patient could not lie down, and he had difficulty in swallowing. There was rigidity of the muscles of the neck and abdomen, as well as the chest; the body was thrown slightly backward; pain in right side under point of ribs. Auscultation detected nothing abuornuil save the short and hurried movements of the walls of the chest, causing corresponding vermicular murmurs of equal duration with them. There was liernia of the right side, which was reduced and a truss applied, but he tore it off as often as adjusted, saying he wanted room to breathe. Moderate doses of opium were given, whicli had such prompt effect in relieving the muscular rigidity, that on May 6th, doubt was thrown on the theory that it was due to tetanus. Death resulted May 9, 1868. At the post-mortem examina- tion, u])on removing the calvarium the outer table was found depressed but not detached, the Assure having an oval form about six-eighths of an inch in the short diameter, and seven-eighths of an inch in the long. The inner table, at a point corresponding, was separated a quarter of an inch greater, and divided into four equal fragments, one of which was completely detached. The opposite parietal bone had a fissured fracture running through the temporal bone, down to the floor of the temx»oral fossa. This fissure was nearly seven inches long, and extended to and com- municated with the first described fracture. The dura mater beneath the depressed fracture had a circle of altered structure, one-fourth of an inch greater than the bony lesion, being thickened to this extent with false membrane, which next the bone was covered with a thin secretion of serous pus. The sinuses were very full of blood, but the other bloodvessels of the dura, mater were not unusually congested. Upon removing the dura mater, the pia mater presented three spots of inflammation, manifested by effusion of bloody lymijh: one under the depressed fracture, the second corresponding to the fissured fracture, and the third in the posterior part of the two hemispheres of the cerebrum, extending into the fissure between them. The brain itself aj)- peared very firm and healthy. The choroid vessels were pale, and the ventricles had no finid in them. The heart was healthy, and there was no lesion of the substance of the lungs. The pleura^, however, had thin false membranes over their whole extent, and there was about a pint of thin sero-pus in both cavities. The patient had a reducible inguinal hernia. The organs and peritonaeum of the abdominal cavity were healthy. The pathological specimen, consisting of the fissured calvarium, was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum, and numbered 5461, of the Surgical Section. CCCIiXXX.—RemarliS on a Case of Fracture of the Skull. By E. P. Vollum, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Buchanan, Co. I, 42d Infantry, fell over the cliff in front of Madison Barracks, New York, on the night of Novemlier 6, 1868, while iu a state of intoxication, and struck upon his head. When found the next morning, he was lying near the w^ater's edge—dead. After washingSIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEACTURES. 117 tbe body, the integnineut of the face and neck whs of a decidedly bright red color, and a number of cuts and bruises were found on the face and head, evidently produced by falling- on loose stones, and blood issued from the right ear. An extensive clot was found under tlie temporal fascia, and the skull was fractured by a blow on the lower border of the parietal bone, near the posterior inferior angle. The fracture extended posteriorly through the right ])osterior fossa of the occipital bone, severing the lateral sinus, and anteriorly, through the petrous portion of the temporal, great wing of the sphenoid, near the sella Turcica, and through the right orbital plate. An immense blood-clot covered the dura mater on the right side. CCCLXXXI.—Account of a Fracture of the Skidl—By J. V. D. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major James -, 4th Cavalry, had been drinking hard for several weeks, and was threatened with delirium tremens, when on the night of March 19, 1870, about 10 o'clock, he went to the store of the post trader, at Austin, Texas, and linding' three recruits there in a state of noisy intoxication, ordered them to their quarters. They refused to go, when a scuffle ensued, and Lieutenant was knocked down. While down one of the men struck him with a cane, the handle probably coming in contact with his head. He was stunned for a few moments, after which he got up and walked to his cpiarters, [ two hundred yards distant, and in the absence of the doctor sent for / the hospital steward, who examined the injui'y, and found a wound about an inch long. There was considerable haemorrhage, which was readily controlled by means of a compress. The wound was brought together by adhesive straps, and cold water api)lied. He vomited freely immediately after getting back to his quarters. The next,raorning the doctor saw him, but as there were no s.ymptoms directing his attention to the wound, made no examination of it. His right hand was much i swollen from a sprain he received in striking one of the men, and this | was all he complained of. The symptoms were those of delirium im. ii. segment of ricrhtparieta tremens, and he was treated accordingly. On Sunday, March 20th, he "'"^ ""f, p"'*'""! ^ " ' " occipital bones, with punctured frac- was visited by Assistant Surgeon J. Y. D. Middleton, U. S. A., about t.ire at point of parietal eminence, twenty hours after the reception of the injury. He was extremely s™.i. a. m. m. restless, and looked upon every one who came near hiin with suspicion, imagining many absurd things, and wanting to get up and go out. Pulse 130, and full; breathing natural; skin bathed in perspiration; tongue moist and tremulous; eyes injected; pupils dilated, but responding to light; hands tremulous, and constantly picking at imaginary objects. He w^as ordered a drachm of bromide of potassium and ten grains of capsicum, with a teacupful of beef essence every four hours, alternating so that he took a dose every two hours. His condition remained about the same except that there was a disposition to sleep for a few moments at a time, and the treatment was continued until the morning of March 24th, when he had a chill, followed by fever and profuse sweating, the paroxysm lasting two hours. Two doses of chloroform, one drachm each, were administered in mucilage, one during the day, the other at bed-time, with but little effect. The beef essence was kept up, also cold applications to head. On March 25th, having passed a sleepless night, he was ordered one-half grain of morphia, to be repeated in an hour if sleep was not induced. Before the expiration of the hour he fell into a quiet sleep, which continued until about 3 o'clock, when it assumed a comatose character, which increased until 6.15 P. M,, when he expired. Autopsv, eighteen hours after death, revealed a wound over the right parietal eminence; ecchymosis through the temporal muscle; the parietal bone was found fractured and comminuted; an oval piece of the outer table was driven in. On removing the calvaria the inner table was found to be depressed; clots were found in brain under wound, and a large amount of bloody serum beneath the whole of the dura mater and in cavities of brain. The vessels of the brain were enlarged under the wound. The specimen was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum. [It is illustrated by the wood-cut, (Fig. 14). The interior view is still more interesting.—Ed.]118 REPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. OCCLXXXII.—Mention of a Case of Fracture of the SJcnll. By A. A. Yeomans, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Cbarleton, Co. F, IGth Infantry, died at tlie post hospital at Vicksburg, Mississippi, on April 6, 1870, from compression of the brain, with fracture of the ba.se of the skull, the ettects of a blow with the stock of a musket. No further particulars are recorded. CCCLXXXIII.—Remarlcs on a ease of Fracture of the Sludl. By B. F. Pope, Assistant Surgeoiij U. S. A. George Clapp, artificer of Battery H, .3d Artillery, aged 37 years, went from Fort Adams to Newport, Rhode Island, on November 4, 1867, in company with a comrade, and while there both drank very freely. He was drunk when he started to return to the fort, and while on the way fell in the road ; his companion, who was equally intoxicated, attempted to carry him, but failed, and leaving him, dead drunk as he supposed, returned to the fort, but gave no notice of the affair until the next morning. The case w^as not reported to the surgeon in charge until about 9 A. M. When found Clapp was lying in a stable near the fort; he was comatose, breathing stertorous, pupils dilated, and breath smelling strongly of liquor; countenance natural in color. The head was minutely examined, but no evidence of contusion could be discovered save a slight ecchymosis of the left eye. He was immediately taken to the post hospital at Fort Adams, where cold appli- cations were made to the head and sinapisms to the feet. The pulse was full and slow, and he appeared better than when first seen in the morning. Another minute examination was made, but no injury of the head could be found; the case was diagnosed intense inebriation. The patient died suddenly at 1.30 P. M. without convulsion. An autopsy was made twenty hours after death. The frame was large and muscular; the abdomen and thorax well developed. On removing the integuments with the occipito-frontal and temporal muscles a simple fissured fracture of the left tem- poral bone was discovered, commencing about one inch above the left ear in the squamous portion of the temporal bone, traversing forward and downward to the base of the cranium, involving the left greater wing of the sphenoid bone. The skull-cap was removed and exposed a large clot of blood, four ounces, occupying the left tem^ioral fossa, extravasated between the cranium and the dura mater. The left hemisphere of the brain was compressed to two-thirds of its original bulk. Detached from the inner table of the temporal bone was found a small spicula of bone, which had wounded some of the small arteries that ramify the dura mater, producing cerebral hfemor- rhage and subsequent death. The lungs, liver, and heart were found healthy. The lungs were singularly free from the carbonaceous deposit noticeable in adults, presenting almost the delicate pink color of infancy. The obscurity of the leading symptoms prior to death, complicated as they were by excessive iuebiiation, and the absence of any marks to lead one to suspect injury of the brain, caused a natural error in diagnosis. In regard to trephining, it is questionable whether (even could the locality of the injury have been discovered) the operation would have relieved the brain from so large a mass of clotted blood, since, even on post-mortem examination, the fibrinous coagulation came away with difficulty. [The preparation of the fractured teniporal was not for- warded to the Museum.—En.] CCCLXXXIV.—Bemarlis on a Case of Fracture of the Skull tvith Recovery. By John H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Edward Cross, Battery F, 5th Artillery, aged 22 years, was kicked by a horse at Camp Williams, Virginia, on October 22, 18G7. The wound was just above the nasal emi- nence, and was two inches long; there was a fracture of the outer table of the frontal bone with depression, and the margin of the undepressed bone presented a serrated edge. It was not certainly known whether there was also depression of the inner table; but Acting Assistant Surgeon Hysore, who examined the wound at the time of the accident, was of the opinion from the de])th of the depression on the surface that the inner table was also driven in. The symptoms were dilated pupils with insensibility for one hour, and so far indicated depression ; but there was noSIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEACTUEES. 119 stertor. Cold-water dressiugs were applied, and when he had improved somewhat, he was con- veyed to the hospital at Cami) Grant, near Eichmond, Virginia. After three hours uo cerebral symptoms remained with the exception of a severe headache. On October 23d, a creasote paste was applied to exclude air; a clot filled the wound. The patient continued to imijrove. On November 6th all cerebral symptoms had ceased, and on the 17th Cross was returned to duty; the wound had healed with an irregular linear cicatrix. CGGLXXXY.—Account of a Fatal Fracture of the Slaill. By J. M. Best, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, Private J. H. Danney, Co. F, 25th Infantry, aged 21 years, died at Von Schrader Barracks, Paducah, Kentucky, on December 8, 1868, from the effects of a blow upon the head with a club. At the autopsy, a fracture was found extending from the orbit of the left eye, running upward nearly two inches through the frontal bone, then ranging backward in a crescentic shape through the left parietal bone to the occiput; then transversely forward to the orbit, continuing into the floor of the orbit, leaving in this space detached bone nearly two inches in width and four inches long, which was taken out with the fingers. Upon opening the membranes witliin this space a clot of grumous blood was found, amounting to nearly three ounces. [Specimen not forwarded.] CCCLXXXVI.—Report of a Case of Compound Comminuted Fracture of the Slmll. By F. W. Elbrey, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James C. Dixon, Troop H, 5th Cavalry, was injured at Fort McPherson, Nebraska, by the falling of a blacksmith shop, a beam striking him on the forehead in the median line, between the frontal eminences, the blow jiroducing a compound comminuted fracture, which extended down to the nasal eminence. In the upper part of the wound both tables were involved, and the fragments much deijressed. In the lower part, the frontal sinus was laid open, but the inner table only fissured and not depressed ; the frontal bone was also comminuted at its left external angular process. Notwithstanding the greatness of the injury, neither symptoms of concussion of the brain nor compression occurred. He was at once conveyed to the ])ost hospital, where the loose fragments were removed and the depressed bone elevated. On the fourth day, considerable ecchymosis became manifest near the wound over the left orbital ridge, but uo effusion of blood appeared under the conjunctiva of the eye. On the eigiitli day, a suppurative fever was ushered in by a severe chill, which subsided on the 6th. Dnring its exist- ence, both pupils became dilated and irresponsive to light, but with its subsidence they returned to a normal condition. On the thirty-fourth day, absorption of the ecchymosis had taken place, and this wound, as well as the main one over the forehead, was in a favorable condition for healing, the granulations being healthy, and cicatrization having begun. No symptoms of meningeal or brain lesion had occurred. His treatment consisted in absolute rest, milk diet, cathartics, water dress- ings for the wounds, and cold compresses for the head. The pathological specimen, consisting of four fragments of cranium removed from over the orbital ridge at the right angular process of the frontal bone, was forwarded to the Army Bledical Musum, and is represented by the wood-cut above. (Fia. 15.) Fig. 15. ri'asmeiit.s from a comminuted fracture of the frontal. Spec. 5582, Sect. I, A. M. M. OCCLXXXVIL—Accowttf of a Fracture of the Skull By S. S. Boyeb, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal George Fairbanks, Co. G, 4th Artillery, aged 35 years, was struck with a shovel during an aff'ray, the blow knocking him senseless, and producing a simple fracture of the riglit parietal bone, with slight depression. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Johnson, North Carolina, March 17, 1870. Treatment consisted of cold-water dressings, saline purgatives, and anodynes. He recovered and was discharged July 23, 1870, by reason of expiration of service.EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 120 CCCLXXXVIII.—Notes of a Fatal Head Injury, with Fracture of the Inner Table only. By A. C. GiRABD, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A, Private A. Grevenberg, Co. C, 39tli Infontry, was beaten on the head with a club, by a soldier, in a quarrel. The aftray took place at Fort Pike, Louisiana, in April, 18G8. Although stunned at lirst, he soon recovered his senses, and remained conscious about an hour. After that time, he commenced to be wandering, and gradually became violently delirious. He had antiphlogistic treatment. After a protracted coma and muttering delirium, he died the next day, thirty hours after injury. The autopsy was made twelve hours after death. There was a large extravasation of blood between the scalp and periosteum. The exteriml lamina of the occipital bone was intact. The internal lamina was splintered at its junction with the parietal bones; one splinter, sharp as a needle, protruding into the torcularHerophili. The dura mater was in a state of hyperaemia. Between the hemispheres, and specially on the right side, there was large extravasation of blood; in the naiddle fossa, a clot the size of a pigeon's egg. The lateral ventricles were filled with bloody serous fluid; the subarachnoidal interstices contained much serum. The right ventricle of the heart was flabby, the heart filled with dark blood clots. Other organs in a healthy condition. In my opin- ion, death was the consequence of the opening of the venous sinus by the constant friction of the splinter of bone, referred to, during the pulsation of the brain. [The specimen, unhappily, not forwarded to the Museum.—Ed.] CCCLXXXIX.—Account of a Fatal Fracture of the SI hU. By H. S. Schell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Savannah, Georgia, September 10, 18GG, William Hier, seaman, aged 18 years, received an accidental wound of the head by a fall, fracturing the left temporal bone. He was admitted to the post hospital on the same day. Cold-water dressings were applied, and purgatives given. He died September 21, 18G6, from effusion of blood on the dura mater causing meningitis. CCCXC—Remarlcs on a Case of Fracture of the SJcull. By J. T. Augur, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Lieutenant Louis M. Hughes, Co. K, 7th Infantry, while in search of a man who had stolen some Government mules, near Camp Miner's Delight, Wyoming Territory, February 13, 1870, was fatally injured by falling down a miner's shaft, thirty-six feet deep, striking upon his head. When taken out he was profoundly insensible; skin pale and cold; pulse feeble and intermittent; and res- piration stertoi'ous. There was a transverse wound eight inches long, situated about an inch above the juncture of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. The right parietal bone was fractured and depressed, and accompanied with alarming hi^morrhage from the ears and nose. There was also a severe cut on the forehead which extended to the frontal bone, and contusion and bruises of the right hip and hand. Death took place at 12.20 o'clock A. M,, February 14, 1870. CCCXCI.—Memorandum of a Case of Compound. Fracture of the Skull. By J. K. Corson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Michael Hurley, Co. F, 30th Infantry, was believed to have been struck by a locomo. five on the Union Pacific Bail way, near Fort Fred Steele, Wyoming Territory, on October 15,1868, his body having been found near the railroad, where he had probably been lying since the evening before. His injuries consisted of a compound comminuted fracture of the temporal bone, with depression, the fracture, evidently, extending to the base of the skull. A number of fragments were extracted, and the depressed bone was elevated; the wound was lightly dressed, and the patient was kept lying on the injured side. After pressure was removed, he was able to speak, so far as to ask for water, but would answer no questions. He was entirely pulseless and blanched. He had bled profusely before assistance arrived, but had no hsemorrhage afterward. Stimulants were administered, and every means was used to bring on reaction, but without effect. He died October 18.SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FRACTURES. 121 CCCXCII.—Account of a Fatal Injury of the Read. By 11. M. Cronkhitb, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. First Sergeant Daniel Isaacs, Co. I, lOtli Inftintry, aged 27 years, received December 24,1869, a contusion, by a club or brick, over the os occipitis. He was admitted to tlie post hospital at Ringgold Barracks, Texas, on the 25th, in a comatose state, and died the same day. Post-mortem examination showed that death was caused by effusion of blood under the dura mater, covering all the posterior half of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum. COOXCIII.—Remarks on a Case of Fracture of the Base of the iSlcull. By B. F. Pope, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas M. Johnson, Battery B, 3d xlrtillery, at Fort Adams, Rhode Island, was dis- covered, on November 18, 1807, in an insensible condition at the foot of a stairway leading from the outer iiarapet of the fort into the main ditch. When last seen on the previous evening, he was hurrying through the darkness toward the fort to attend tattoo roll-call. In his haste he undoubtedly mistook his way, and walked off the parapet, falling a distance of some twenty feet. When conveyed to the hospital, he was nearly frozen, having lain iu an unfrequented place some eleven hours, with the thermometer 19° above zero. He was in a profound coma; breathing irreg- ular and feeble; thoracic muscles at times convulsed; diaphragm and abdominal muscles appar- ently paralyzed ; pulse 76, feeble and intermittent; blood trickling from the left ear and nose; the right pupil dilated more tiian the left. The only evidence of contusiou that could be discov- ered on the head was a slight abrasion of the skin covering the frontal region. Fracture at the base of the skull, and probable compression at the origin of the pneumogastric nerve was suspected. The iiatient was immediately iilaced iu bed. The treatment consisted of warm appli- cations, while vigorous friction was employed to restore circulation in the extremities. A few drops of brandy were administered, but on account of almost coaiplete aphagia, and its embarass- ment to the respiratory efforts, the exhibition of stimulants was discontinued. Enemata of brandy, carbonate of ammonia, and milk were ecpially ineffectual. They could not be retained on account of the comj)lete paralysis of the sphincter ani. In about an hour reaction commenced, the pulse increasing in frequency and volume, but lost nothing of its intermitting character. As reaction continued, the respiration became far more labored, and the face a little darkened. His head was raised to relieve the pressure of blood. The symptoms continued to improve until 1.15 P. M., when he died without convulsion, having survived the injurj' probably about fifteen hours. An autopsy being held twenty hours after death revealed rigor mortis well marked. The left hip and the fron- tal region were contused. There was no discoloration about the eyes. Blood had trickled from the left ear during the night, and had formed somewhat of a clot upon the table. On removing the integuments and exposing the cranium, a double-fissured fracture, without depression, was dis- covered, which commenced near the left parietal eminence, and trav^ersed downward and forward through the squamous portion of the temporal bone, to the base of the skull. Tiie contents of the cranium were then exposed. The brain appeared congested, the great longitudinal sinus remark- ably so. The brain was removed, and at its base were discovered two ounces of clotted blood. The fissures were traced, one through the greater wing of the sphenoid bone to the foramen lacerum anterius. The other involved the petrous portion of the temporal bone to such an extent as to per- mit of hiemorrhage from the meatus auditorius externus, which was the earliest and most noticeable symptom in the case. The internal table was not splintered or depressed. The blood at the base of the brain, between the dura mater and the skull, accounted for the marked derangement of both the circulatory functions, and also for the sudden death of the patient. CCOXCIY.—Account of a Linear Fracture of the Slcull. By J. F. Hartigan, M. D., Hospital Steward, U. S. A. John, aged 32, was wounded in a melee at Washington, July 11, 1869, by being struck on the head with a cobble-stone. The patient lingered about twelve hours. An autopsy, six hours after death, revealed no evidence of any external violence, with the exception of a few slight 16REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 122 scratches on the forehead. Upon removing the scalp, however, there was found a contused appear- ance of the lelt temporal muscle, under which was an extensive fissure of the squamous portion of the temporal bone, commencing at the point of junction with the parietal, downward about three- quarters of an in(!h, and forward and outward two inches, to the temporal surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. A smaller fracture, involving only the internal table at its beveled edge, was also detected. Directly under the seat of injury lay a large clot, weighing about six ounces, pressing upon the unruptured dura mater—the result of laceration of one of the branches of the middle meningeal artery. The pathological specimen is numbered 5579, Surgical Section, Army Medical Museum, and is a good example of linear fissure. CCCXCV.—Memorandum of an Autopsy of a Pensioner at the Soldiers^ Home, who had his SJiull Fractured by a Fall. From data furnished by Hospital Steward E. F. Schafhirt, U. S. A. Charles L., a pensioner, aged 34 years, suffering from erysipelas and caries of the nasal bones, having committed some misdemeanor while under the influence of liquor, was confined to the guard-house. Being very violent, he was supposed to have the " horrors." On October 29, 1870, he leaped from the window of the guard house, and, striking on the right side of his head, fractured his skull. He had other internal injuries, and survived the accident but half an hour. On examining the exterior of the head, a great eflusion of blood was found under the occipito- frontalis. The orbits were distended with blood. It was thought that a long-fissured fracture extended along the vault of the skull, through the right parietal and temporal bones. Sub- _ sequent examination jiroved this opinion to be correct. On ~ October 30th, Hospital Steward E. F. Schafhirt, U. S. A., by direction of Brevet Lieutenant Colonel C. H. Lanb, Surgeon, U. S. A., made an autopsy, and brought the cranium to the Museum. There was an extended linear fissure of the right parietal and temjioral, with fracture of the base of the skull, extending through the wing of the sphenoid, and radiating. There was no extravasation of blood between the skull and dura mater; but the sinuses and vessels of the pia mater were gorged with blood. Near the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, the dura mater showed marks of chronic inflammation, having the greenish-yellow fringed processes with adherent curdy pus over a space about an inch and a half in diameter. The skull is specimen 5721; the brain is specimen 5722, and portions of the dura mater 5723. Fig. 16. Simple fissured fracture of the right parietal and temporal. 5jjec. 5721, Sect. I, A. M. M. CCCXCYL—Accotmt of a Fracture of the Sicull by a Bumb-Bell. By W. H. Geokge, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Michael Lawrence, Co. D, 20th Infantry, was accidentally wounded, September 16, 1870, by an iron dumb-bell, which lacerated the forehead and slightly fractured the external plate of the skull over the frontal sinus. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Ransom, Dakota Territory, on the following day. Simple dressings were applied. Returned to duty October 9th, cured. QOCXGYll.—Account of a Fracture of the SMIL By D. Stevens, M. D., Acting Assistant Sur- geon. At Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Sergeant Frank Lightner, Co. C, 65th Colored Troops, aged 22 years, received, by explosion of the steamer City of Memphis, May 31, 1806, a compound commi- nuted fracture of the outer table of the occipital bone, near the junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. He was admitted to the post hospital July 1, 1866. He returned to duty August 26, 1866. •SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FKACTURES. 123 COOXCVIII.—Mention of a Case of Compound Fracture of the Skull. By J. V. D. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private William Manalian, Co. M, 3cl Cavalry, aged 23 years, received near Prescott, Arizona Territory, May 14, 1870, a compound fracture of tlie skull, caused by a stone thrown by a com- rade. He was admitted to the post hospital at Port Whipple. The external wound was about two inches in length, and was located immediately over the left frontal eminence. The outer table of the skull was fractured; three days after admission the patient was taken with chills, and suf- fered for a week with cold sweats, dizziness, headache, and slight fever, with intervals of delirium. June 26th chloroform was administered, and an incision about one and a half inches in length was made over the seat of the fracture, and a piece of the outer table, over one inch in diameter, was removed. On June 30th the patient was still under treatment. CCCXCIX.—BemarTcs on a Case of Contusion with Injury to the Skull and Brain. By S. M. HoRTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Charles Miller, musician, 27th Infantry, was reported on sick report of Omaha Bar- racks, Nebraska, March 11, 1869, as suffering from contusion around both eyes, with partial detachment of the cartilage of the septum, producing flatteniug of the nose—the result of a blow with the fist. It was reported that a good deal of epistaxis occurred immediately on receiving the injury. By the 17th of March he suffered from headache; bowels were constipated, and the appearance of debility manifested itself. Active treatment was resorted to, and the condition of the patient varied until death, which occurred, apparently suddenly, on the night of the 1st of April, 1869. A post-mortem examination, held the same afternoon, revealed, upon removing the skull-cap, a small quantity of pus in the foramen caicum and in the grooves for the bulbs of the olfactory nerves. The crista galli of the ethmoid was found to be broken off at its base, with its upper edge or point toward the left side, and was very easily lifted up by the forceps. Some purulent matter was found in the meshes of the pia mater and between it and the arachnoid mem- brane, on three-fourths of the entire under surface of the brain. About one-sixteenth inch to the. left of the longitudinal fissure, at anterior end of cor^ms callosum, a longitudinal slit, three-eighths of an inch long, with dark edges, was found in all the three membranes. On detaching the mem- branes at this point, a sinus was found leading to an abscess in the left anterior lobe, which, when examined, proved to be as large as a hen's egg. It was filled with pus, broken down brain-matter, and, on the outer wall, dark grumous matter. On exploring this abscess, a communication was found between it and the anterior coruu of the left ventricle. On further dissection, I found the left ventricle and the right ventricle, and the third ventricle, through foramen of Monroe, and fourth ventricle through aqueduct of Sylvius, all distended with pus and broken-up cerebral matter with some serum. The lining membrane of the fourth ventricle was of a dusky red color. On pressing up through the nostrils, nearly half an ounce of pus exuded from that part of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone from which the crista was broken off, and flowed down over the inner portion of the base of the skull. CCCC.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Fracture of the Skull and of the Bibs. By A. W. Wiggin, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Samuel D, Bobbins, Co. I, 23d Infantry, aged 22 years, was admitted to hospital at Camp Warner, Oregon, on January 10, 1870, at 4 o'clock P. M., suffering from injuries about the head and right side. He stated that while driving a six-mule team, loaded with wood, down a steep declivity, his saddle-mule stumbled and threw him over the pole. One of the mules stepped on his head or kicked him, and two wheels of the wagon passed over his body. An examination revealed a fracture of the ninth and tenth ribs of the right side, about three inches from the ver- tebral column, with severe contusion of right side, as well as minor contusions about the back and shoulders. Bloody serum was issuing from the right ear and blood from the left ear, as well as from the rnouth and nose. The fiice was much bruised and abraded, and the left eye closed by a flesh-wound, the pupil of the right eye being much dilated and irresponsive to light. The patient was suffering severely from shock, and complaining of sensations of cold; pulse 50, and breathing124 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. labored. When reaction had taken place, some four or five boiirs after bis admission to hospital, the broken ribs were adjusted by applying strips of adhesive plaster and a broad bandage about the chest and abdomen. His pulse at this time had risen to 110, and breathing easier. A small quantity of serum and blood continued to ooze from his ears, and once he vomited four or five ounces of coagulated blood. He complained querulously of the pain in his side. Morphine was cautiously administered during the night, but oidy partially succeeded in quieting his pain and fretfulness. On the next day he seemed easier, and was fully conscious most of the tinie; pulse 116, i)ui)ils still dilated. There were physical signs of engorgement of the lower lobe of the right lung, and of presence of fluid in the i>leural cavity, as also of air in the areolar tissue about the chest and neck. During the day the patient passed blood in small quiintities with his urine, and vomited blood twice; in tlie evening the pidse was 130, and feeble; patient unconscious and breathing labored. At 11 o'clock P. M. the pulse was 150 and fluttering. Death resulted at 1.30 o'clock A.M., on January 12th, about thirty-five hours after the reception of the injury. An autopsy was made fifteen hours after death. On removing the scalp, a fracture which had not been previously noticed was detected, through the squamous i)ortion of the temporal bone without displacement. The dura mater at the base of the brain was ccmsiderably lacerated, the openings extending into the ventricles. An extensive fracture was discovered running oblicpiely across the base of the cranium ; starting at the outer edge of left orbit, it passed through the greater wing of the sphe- noid and squamous portions of the temporal bone of the left side, and then obliquely through the body and botli lesser wings of the sphenoid, and througli the whole length of tlie petrous portion of the temporal bone of the right side. The fracture was considerably comminuted, and six or eight fragments of bone about the left orbit were easily detached with the fingers. The heart was normal; the left lung uninjured and healthy; the lower lobe of the right lung presented a lacerated wound about two inches long, evidently produced by the ragged extremity of one of the broken ribs which had penetrated the pleural cavity; there was about eight ounces of blood in the right pleural cavity, and a lacerated opening existed in the diaphragm. An examination of the abdo- men showed the cavity filled with blood, the intestines being bathed in it. Six or eight ounces were removed from the pelvis. The right lobe of the liver was congested and much lacerated; the right kidney presented a slight bruise and a laceration an inch long. The right supra-renal vein was torn across, and the right renal vein wounded but jiot completely divided. No other abdomi- nal vessels presented lesions. The ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs were fractured about three inches from the vertebrae. CCCCI.—Bemarls on a Case of Fracture of the Slcull tvith Concussion of the Brain. By C. S. De Gkaw, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Shields, Co. H., 3d Infantry, presented a case of fracture of the zygomatic i^ro- cess of the temporal bone and of the nasal bones, com])licated with concussion of the brain, of an aggravated character. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Dodge, on November 17, 1808, where it was ascertained that he had been knocked down by another soldier, and severely kicked and trampled upon about the head and face. When brought to the hospital there was comi)lete prostration of all nervous and physical powers. The means taken to bring on reaction, though pursued for an hour or more, seemed of little or no avail. The man remained in the same condition for eight or ten hours, and shortly after midnight, when aroused and spoken to, he answered, but immediately relapsed into his foi mer condition. On the morning of the 18th he seemed somewhat relieved; was more easily aroused, and, when sharply spoken to, would give unintelligible or irrelevant replies. His face was greatly distorted by swelling, his eyes completely closed, and there were several cuts upon his forehead and face. Examination discovered the fractures mentioned above. During the day violent inflammatory symptoms, pointing to brain trouble, set in. He became exceedingly restless, tossing himself about so violently that it became necessary to hold him down in bed; cold ap]jIicatious were made to his head, sinapism applied to the back of the neck, and blisters behind each ear. This condition lasted about five days, when he gradually became calmer, but his mental faculties were much impaired. He improved gradually during December and January, and in March, 1809, he was returned to duty.125 SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEACTUEES. COCCIL—Bemarlcs on a Case of Fracture of the Skull. U. S. A. By Elliott CoueS; Assistant Surgeon, Private Emil Sliiilder fell from tlie gallery of the clmrcli where the troops are quartered, a distance of about eighteen feet, striking his head on the edge of a stair. Profuse htemorrhage of chiefly venous blood from the left ear, and some from the nose, with instantaneous and complete insensibility. Was conveyed to the hospital, where I saw him fifteen minutes afterward, in con- dition as follows: Entire insensibility; temperature of blood normal; complete muscular relaxation. Pupils of normal size, insensible to light. No pulse perceptible at wrist or arm, though a feeble, fluttering, irregular, and interrupted motion of the heart could be felt. Respirations about five per minute, labored (but not stertorous), and amounting to little more than gasping. Utemorrhage of both venous and arterial blood still continued from the ear; a well-marked depression of con- siderable depth and extent just over the left ear; none others perceptible. A trivial cut over the left eye. Much ecchymosis about the right eye. The patient was in articulo mortis^ and died in about ten minutes. The pupils, which had been before fixed, dilated to a remarkable degree just before death. Autopsy, twelve hours after death. Skull: On removing the pericranium and left temporal muscle, the squamous portion of the temporal bone was found fractured and depressed for one-third of an inch or more, the posterior edge of the fracture comminuted, and the fragments driven in upon and lacerating the brain. A compound comminuted fracture of the petrous portion of the OS temporis, leading into the meatus auditorius externus, through which a probe readily passed, and through which the haemorrhage had occurred (for the tympanum was intact). A very extensive fracture began at the mastoid portion of the os temporis, and arched over the side of the skull (above, and distinct from the depression of the squamous iiortion of the os temiwris above mentioned), involving parietal and frontal bones to the left orbit, at about its middle, and thence extended into the lelt orbital plate of the frontal. This was a clean, smooth, fracture, gaping one- twelfth of an inch. The right orbital j)late of frontal was also fractured. The cribriform lamella of ethmoid fractured and comminuted. Fracture of left sphenoidal ala. Brain: Anterior lobe of left hemisphere lacerated, from impact of fragments of temporal bone, the dura mater being there ruptured. Several large, firm, black clots about the optic commissure and crura cerebri. The ves- sels of the pia mater all congested, and numerous minute clots from their rupture among the cere- bral and cerebellar convolutions. A little blood in the ventricles, and some clots in the meshes of the choroid plexus, but no great amount of serous effusion. The brain substance was studded more thicklj' than usual with red points. It was impossible to ascertain the exact amount or origin of the ha;morrhage. It was profuse at first, and continued in a degree until death, and during the autopsy it flowed freelj*, as soon as the temporal depression was exposed. I believe it originated from either the lateral or superior petrosal sinus, and from one of the meningeal arteries. The internal carotids were intact, as wei'e the superior and inferior longitudinal sinuses, as well as those about the cerebellum. From the indications afforded by the pupils, I presume the i^atient first suffered chiefly from the concussion, and afterward experienced the full effect of the compression of the brain. CCCCIII.—Remarks on a Case of Fracture of the Frontal Bone.—By George M. Sternberg Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal William S- -, Co. F, 37th Infantry, was, on March 2, 1807, at work at a pontoon bridge across the Eepublican Eiver, drawing up a boat with three men with a windlass. The windlass, in some way, escaped from their control, and while revolving rapidly the end of the crank struck him in the forehead. He re- mained about two hours at the bridge, and then walked to the post hospital at Fort Riley, Kansas. About ten minutes after he came to the hospital, he had a convulsion, and was unconscious from that time until he died, JMarch 7,18G7. Several fragments of bone were removed by Assistant Surgeon W. H. Forwood, U. S. A., soon after the man arrived at the hospital. The specimen is figured in the accompanying wood-cut, (FiG. 17.) Fig.17. Segment of frontal l)one, giving an interior view of ,a fracture by a blow from a wiuillass. Spec. 4861, Sect. I, A.M.M.REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 126 CCCCIV.—Memorandum of a Case of Fracture of the Cranium. V. B. Hubbard, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. Army. Private U , TJ. S. Military Academy, detachment of Cavalry, was admitted to the post hospital at 9 o'clock P. M., December 23, 1870, in an unconscious state, bleeding profusely from the left ear. He had fallen down-stairs while intoxicated, receiving the full force of the blow upon his head. There was no laceration, contusion, or swelling of the scalp to indicate tlie precise locality of the injury. A careful examination of the head revealed nothing. The soldier was so intoxicated as to render it difficult if not impossible to ascertain defluitely how much of his comatose condition was attributable to the injury received. Pulse 70, full but compressible, intermitting twice in the minute; respiration 16; temperature 98°; pupils somewhat dilated, though responding to light; his breatliing was of the heavy stertorous character usually present in drunk- enness. He was extremely restless, requiring two attendants to keep him in bed ; muttering inces- santly and unintelligibly during the night. The flow of blood from the ear was reduced shortly after being admitted into hospital to an oozing, which continued until his death on the 2Tth, the fourth day after the receipt of the injury. The blood was chiefly arterial ,• no serum could be detected. Cold applications were made to the head, and the extremities were kept warm by hot bottles. Saturday, 24th: Patient still remains unconscious; pulse 51, full, compressible, and inter- mitting as of the previous night; pupils responsive to light; slightly but equally dilated ; tempera- ture 98°, respirations IG, their character unchanged; restlessness continues; is constantly making attempts to get out of bed, and is only restrained by close watching and the exercise of a good deal of physical force on the part of his attendants; muttering continuous; bowels moved by enema; moveaieut involuntary; bladder evacuated unconsciously twice during the day; quantity and color of urine normal. Injections of beef tea administered during the day, as the patient was unable to swallow. Sunday, 25th : No perceptible change in the condition of the patient; pulse, respirations, and temperature remain the same as of the day previous ; bowels moved and urine voided involunta- rily, muttering and restless as before. Upon being slapped quite smartly upon the cheek with the flats of the fingers with the view to rouse him from his comatose condition, he gave utterance to an expression of disgust in a single word—the only evidence of consciousness given by the patient after the receipt of the injury. Injections of beef tea and brandy, largely diluted, every two hours, as the patient was still unable to swallow. Monday, 26th, 6 A. M.: Patient still unconscious ; pulse 66; respirations 17; temperature 98°; restlessness continues, i^atient rolling from side to side, making frequent attempts to get out of bed. 12 M.: Pulse 50 ; temperature 100°; respira- tions IG. 4 P. M.: No change worthy of mention in the pulse, respirations, or temperature. At 8 P. M. reaction set in violently, pulse 150; temperature 105°; respirations variable, from 14 to 19. From this hour the patient sank rapidly, pulse running up to 200. Died at 5 A. M., Tues- day, 27th. The decubitus in this case was either dorsal or left lateral; chiefly the latter. The jactitation was the most marked symptom throughout. Post-mortem, at 2 P. M., 27th: Remov- ing the scalp, extensive extravasation of blood was found, chiefly on the left side, but no clots. The fracture aud depression, their character and extent, are shown in the specimen.* A description of them is therefore omitted. Upon removing the calvarium, a clot, nearly circular in form, two inches and one-half in diameter, and half an inch in thickness at its centre, lying between the dura mater and the skull, was found immediately under the seat of depression. Dark fluid blood mixed with serum, estimated at six ounces, escaped upon removing the skull. At a point diagonally opposite the seat of injury (the force of the blow evidently coming from behind and being directed forward and upward), immediately under the right frontal protuberance, the surface of the brain was found lacerated and contused, by contre-coup, over a space and to a depth nearly equal in extent with the dimensions of the clot mentioned above. *Tiie specimen (No. 5919, Sect. I, A. M. M.) is interestiug. It is the left side of tlie cranium, sliowing a sliglitly depressed fracture over tlie parietal eminence, with fissures extending to the petrous bone. At the place of direct impact the outer table is driven into the diplc, and is fissured by two lines, an inch and a half and an inch in length, respect- ively, crossing at right angles. The inner table is very slightly depressed at this point. Extanding from this depres- sion to the auditory caual is a broad fissure which passes through the petrous bone. Wood-cuts of the specimen were prepared, but they were unsatisfactory and were discarded.—Ed.SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEAOTUKES. 127 At tliis stage of the post-mortem examination I was called to attend a case of labor, wbicli detained me until the forenoon of the next day, by which time decomposition had set in to such an extent as to render a further examination of the lesions of the brain nugatory. The specimen is No. 5919, Army Medical Museum. CCCOV.—Bemarlcs on a Fracture of the Skull from Railway Injury. By De Witt C. Peters, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. The body of an unknown man, aged about 40 years, was brought to the Jarvis Hospital, Balti- more, Maryland, on July 7, 1865, for burial. He had been killed by falling from a railroad car while in motion. The body was much bruised in different places. There was a large and deep wound on the right side of the head above the external auditory meatus, from which blood was escaping. The head, ears, and face were much bruised. Upon removing the calvaria, both tables of the skull were found fractured and driven in upon the brain, compressing it at that point. The fracture com- menced on the right side in front of the petrous portion of the temporal bone; the lesser wings of the sphenoid bone and a portion of the orbital plate of the frontal bone were separated from the frontal bone on the right side and extended across to a similar point on the left side. Clots of blood were found effiised at the seat of fracture and all through different portions of the brain, and effused blood was found in all the ventricles. The skull was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum, and is represented in the ad- ^•''■''i'' sutures of the base aud right side. Spec. ^, ^ ' 3019. Sect. I, A. M. M. joining wood-cut. OCCCVI.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Fracture of the Shull. By Charles S. Merrill, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Corinth, Mississippi, on the afternoon of April 9, 1868, Private Edmund H. Wells, Co. K, 34th Infantry, was fatally injured while assisting in loading post-logs upon a wagon, his head being caught laterally between a log already loaded and another which was being thrown upon the wagon. As soon as his head was released he fell unconscious, bleeding from both ears, nose, and mouth. He was brought to hospital with all the symptoms of severe concussion of brain, rapidly followed by those of compression. Hjemorrhage continu.ed from ears, nose, and mouth; deep coma, stertorous respiration, and dilated pupils rapidly followed, and continued until April 11,1868, when death resulted, evidently from compression of the brain, dependent upon extravasation of blood, fracture of base of skull being diagnosticated. CCCCVII.—RemarTcs on a Case of Fracture of the Slcull. By J. H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S.A. Private Charles Williams, Co. F, 5th Cavalry, aged 40 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Grant, near Richmond, Virginia, September 28, 1867, with a coini)ound fi'acture of the outer table of the skull, inflicted by a blow with the barrel of a jjistol in the hands of a drunken sergeant. The flesh-wound was two inches in length over the left parietal region, and the outer table very slightly depressed; the patient had no cerebral symptoms; cold-water dressings were applied, and quiet enjoined. On October 3d, the wound, which had united by soft adhesions, reopened. Simple cerate dressings were ordered. The next day the patient had severe headache at the back of his head and over his left eye ; his bowels were regular; the wound gaped open to the skull, discharging a small amount of healthy-looking pus. On October 9th the wound was granulating finely, and discharging but little pus. The patient continued to improve, and was returned to duty November 10, 1867. The wound had entirely healed, but the patient suffered from occasional headache.128 EEPOET OF SUEGIOAL OASES IN THE ARMY. Fractures of the Bones, of the Face.—Special reports were made of five cases of fractures of the bones of the face. Pour of the patients went to duty, and one, with a complicated fracture of the lower jaw, was discharged. OOCOVIII.—Account of an Injury of the Head and Face,, with Fracture of the Ualar Bone. By James P. Kimball, Assistant Surgeou, U. S. A. Private E. Gibson, Oo. F, 31st Tnfautry, aged 2G years, while at work in a saw mill. May 5, 18G8, 11 o'clock A. M., at Fort Bnford, Dakota Territory, was strnck by a skid three inches in diameter, suddenly thrown up by a heavy log falling upon one end of it. The blow was received upon the left side of the face and head, fracturing the left malar bone, severely contusing the cheek and scalp, cutting the upper lij) against the teeth, and causing concussion of the brain. When first examined, fifteen minutes after the reception of the injury, he was insensible, the pulse was barely perceptible, the pupils were contracted, and the countenance of a deathly pallor. He was imme- diately carried to the post hospital at Fort Bnford, sinapisms were applied to the feet, warmth and friction to the anus and legs, and ammonia held to the nostrils. After a vigorous use of these measures, for nearly half an hour, the patient evinced signs of reanimation, and soon after vomited, and at the expiration of an hour he was able to speak and to move the extremities. The pulse was 90 per miiuite, soft and weak. Oloths, wet in cold water, were constantly applied to the contused portions of the head and face, and i^erfect quiet was enjoined. At 5 o'clock P. M. the patient remained sensible, and could move without diflflculty. The pulse was 85 per minute, and soft. He had severe pain in the occiput. The left eye was entirely closed by the swollen tissues, Avhich were deeply ecchymosed. On May C, 1868, at 8 o'clock A. M., the pupils were normal, responding readily to light. The pulse was 80 -per minute, soft but stronger. Cloths, wet in a mixture of zinc, camphor, and water, were applied. At 5 o'clock P. M. the pain in the head was very severe. He vomited several times during the day. The pulse was 85, and soft. A sinapism was api)lied to the pit of the stomach. On May 7, 1808, the pulse was 78, full and moderately strong. He urinated freely. The head and face were kept wet with an evaporating lotion of hjdrochlorate of ammonia and water. On May 8th the ionise was 72, and of natural strength. The swelling of the soft i)arts had diminished. On May 11th the pulse was 72. The tongue was lightly coated. The swelling and ecchymosis had diminished. The cold applications were dis- continued. The patient continued to improv^e under tonics and nourishing diet, and was able, on May 10th, to sit up. On May 20th the ecchymosis had nearly gone, and the deformity of the cheek was very slight. The patient improved steadily, and on June 2, 1808, was free from i)ain and vertigo, and, on June 3d, he was returned to duty. CCCCIX.—Remarhs on a Case of Fracture of the Loioer Jaw. By Elliott Coues, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Bowers, Co. E, 3d Artillery, aged 24 years, received, on April 20, 1808, a compound comminuted fracture of the lower jaw, left side, by a kick of a horse. On the following day he was admitted to the post hospital at Columbia, South Carolina. The case was complicated by extensive laceration of the soft parts over both the up]3er and lower jaw, and i)robable slight fracture of the alveolar process of the superior maxilla. Union was delayed by the successive detachment of spicnl.ie recpiiring removal. No proper splint could be adopted to the case, nor was the fitting of one deemed advisable, in view of the condition of the soft parts. A simple bandage was used with good results. [He was returned to duty May 6, 1808.—Ed.] CCCCX.—IJote 011 a Fracture of the Lower Jau-. By J. V. D. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Eobert Pye, Troop B, 4th Cavalry, aged 27 years, received, on February 0, 1808, at Camp Verde, Texas, a compound fracture of the lower jaw from the kick of a horse. He was admitted to the i)ost hospital, where two pieces of bone were removed. Carbolic acid and linseed oil, with sling bandages, were applied. The man was returned to duty in July, 1808.SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEACTUEES. 129 CCCOXI.—Account of a Case of Fracture of tJie Lower Jaw. By Irving C Eosse, M. D., Act- ing Assistant Surgeon. Private Edward Sbeeliy, Battery 0, 5tli Artillery, aged about 30 years, and of fair condition, was admitted to the hospital of the artillery school at Fort Mouroe, ou October 15, 1870, with a transverse fracture of the body of the inferior maxilla to the right of the symphysis. He stated that he was kicked under the chin, a few hours previously, while in an altercation with another soldier. A suitable splint of pasteboard having been made, and immersed in hot water, was moulded to the chin and jaw. This Avas retained by a combination of the four-tailed bandage with that of Gibson. That i)art of the appliance covering the lower jaw was starched, and the bandages were tightened nearly every day. Quiet was enforced, liquid nourishment given, and the patient lirohibited from talking. This treatment maintained the parts in steady apposition, and the soldier was returned to duty November 17, 1870. CCCCXII.—Note on a Fracture of the Lower Jaw. By J. H. Bayne, Acting Assistant Sui-geon. Private Henry Wimsett, Co. I, 4th Artillery, was discharged March 14,1868, from Fort Foote, Maryland, on account of compound comminuted fracture of the lower maxillary bone, caused by the wheels of a wagon passing over it. The accident was followed by grave inflammation, pro- ducing rigidity of the jaw, ami such impairment of the power of mastication, that his disability was rated one-half by the i)eusiou examining surgeon. .Fractures of the Vertebres.—Brief mention is made in the reports of some instances of compound fracture of the spine from railway accidents. Of simple fractures details have been given in two instances only. CCCCXIII.—Account of a Fracture of the Fourth Cervical Vertebra. By G. H. GuNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Waco, Texas, March 5, 1870, Private John Harkey, Co. E, 6th Cavalry, aged 30 years, received, by a fall through an open door on the second floor of a building occupied as barracks, a fracture of the fourth cervical vertebra. Complete paralysis of both motion and sensation of the lower extremities, and most of the trunk and upper extremities immediately ensued. He was admitted to hospital the same day. He died, on the morning of the 7th, of acute myelitis, his intelligence remaining unimpaired throughout. Treatment sedative and stimulant. CCCCXIV.—Abridged Account of a Fracture of the Fifth Cervical Vertebra. From reports furnished by H. E. TiLTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Emmet J , Co. A, 5th Infantry, aged 19 years, and of splendid physical organiza- tion, was in the habit of bathing in the Arkansas Eiver, at a place near Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, where the wtihzr was ordinarily from six to eight feet deep, and so muddy as to render an object unseen at a de^th of six inches. On July 3, 1868, in diving from the bank he struck his head against the bottom, which, being sandy and constantly shifting, was upon this particular occasion only eighteen inches below the surface. Becoming immediately powerless from the effects of the concussion, he would have drowned had not help been given. The legs and arms being paralyzed he was carried on a stretcher to the hospital, lying ou his abdomen. Upon admis- sion, at 1 o'clock P. M., the pulse, respiration, and temperature were not counted, nevertheless they appeared nornuxl; the pupils were unaffected; there was priapism. The power sooi*-returned to the arms, although feeble. The extremities were warm, and when touched the sensation was more 17130 EEPORT OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. riG. II). rrat-tm-e of body of fifth cervical vertebra. Spec. 5724. Sect.I.A. M. M. acute in the left tlian in the right leg. The patient complaining of feeling dead below the neck, the spine was carefully examined. No irregularity was found, but there was tenderness over the sixth cervical vertebra. A sinnpisui was applied to the nape of the neck, and in an hour he requested to be turned over. At 5 o'clock P. M. the pulse was 104; respiration 18; temperature 105°. The patient was directed to hold small pieces of ice in his mouth; tlje same was api)lied to the upper portion of the spine, and a saline aperient was prescribed. At 9 o'clock, the pulse was 100; respiration 24; temperature 102°. The urine was drawn off with a catheter, and the patient was placed on a water bed. On the morning of July 4th, the pulse, respira- tion, and temperature Avere all diminished. The cold applications to the spine were continued in the form of ice-cold water; a special diet was ordered; and the catheter was used twice during the day. At 5 o'clock the bowels were moved involuntarily. On July 5tli, there was considerable diminution of the temperature, sensation was wanting in the lower extremities, and respiration was abdominal. Tonics, nutritious diet, and dry rubbings were prescribed. On the Gth, sensation had partly returned in the left leg, and the breathing was better, there being more movement of the (;hest. By the 11th, the patient was able to pass his urine without a catheter, but there was no improvement in the sensibility of the right leg. The pulse, respiration, and tempera- ture had diminished. On the morning of the loth ho had a chill, which recurred on the morn- ing of the 17th, and again in the afternoon. After this his countenance became dusky, and there was a rise in the temperature. He had not perspired since the injury. On the morning of the 18th the urine became turbid, the patient complained of his lungs feeling like stone, and his stomach was irritable. By the morning of the 20th, the pulse had become so feeble that it could not be counted, the bowels were loose, the urine "was ammoniacal and thick with mucus, and he had an attack of vomiting. These symptoms were followed by increased respiration and a very high temperature, (105°.) The patient, at this time, was again able to pass his urine without the use of a catheter, but on the 21st this instrument was used with difficulty, owing to the formation of clots in the bladder. The patient also suffered from decubitus, and bj^ July 24th his stomach became so irritable as to retain scarcely anything. On the day following his appetite was entirely gone. On the 2Gth, the temperature was 91.8°. He died at noon on the 28th. At the post-mortem the brain was found perfectly healthy, so far as the unaided senses could determine. The spinal cord showed nothing abnormal in the dorsal region, except the fluid which escaped. This was filled with transparent, float- ing globules resembling volatile oil water. The body of the fifth cervical vertebra Avas fractured, and it was ascertained that hfemorrhage had compressed the cord at and around the seat of fracture. There was no displacement of the ver- tebra. The lungs were healthy, except the pos- terior portions, Avhich were hypostatically con- gested. The liver was slightly enlarged, the splenic extremity of the stomach congested, and the kidneys were en- larged and gorged with Fig. -20. Thermograph of a fatal ca.se of fracture of the fifth cervical vertebra.SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FRACTUEES. 131 blood; tlie pelvis of the left being filled with pus, (?) br.t upon careful examination no abscess could be found. The ureters were very dark, and one of them contained a clot at the entrance of the bladder. The walls of the bladder were of a dark purple color, inflamed, and thickened; the mucus membrane being absent in patches. The pathological specimens, consisting of the riglit kidney, the bladder, the urethra, and the cervical vertebrfs (Fig. ID), were contributed to the Army Medical Museum, and are numbered 5724, 5725, 5720,5727 respectively, of the Surgical Section. Fkaotures of the Bones of the Trunk.—But few cases were reported in detail. Fractures of the ribs were not infrequent accidents ; while fractures of the spine and pelvis were rare. Fractures of the Fibs.—Special reports were made of a fatal case, of a case compli- cated by necrosis, and of a third with fractured clavicle.* CCCCXV.—Report of a Casein ichich the Ribs were Uxtensively Fractured. By J. H. Frantz, Surgeon, U. S. A. James B , a laborer, aged 33 years, was injured at Fort Sanders, Wyoming Territory, April 3, 1870, by the passage over him of the wheel of a heavilj^ laden wagon. Death resulted April 21, 1870. The autopsy revealed twelve fractures of the ribs of the riglit side ; the first to the seventh, both inclusive, w^ere broken, with relation to each other, nearly on a line with the angles of the larger ribs; while the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh were again broken about four inches nearer their sternal extremities. The cavity of the pleura was found almost obliterated, the vis- ceral and parietal layers of that membrane being adherent to each other. The right lung contained three or four abscesses, having tough-lined membranes, filled with what seemed laudable pus; the remaining portion was broken down, disorganized, and filled with serum darkly covered with blood. [The specimen, presented by Surgeon Frantz, is a ligamentous preparation of the thorax, and is numbered 5G92 in the Surgical Section of the Army Medical Museum.—Ed.] CCCOXVI.—RemarTcs on a Case of Contusion, with Fracture of the Rihs, followed hy liecrosis. By F. H. Barbarin, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal James Kelly, Co. K, 5th Cavalry, aged 25 years, was injured April 2,18G7, while riding. His horse fell, throwing him with his left side upon a railroad track, and falling upon his left leg. He was taten upon sick report for April 3d, and treated for bruise of leg, no mention being made of pain of any kind in the side. On November 10th, Kelly was admitted into the post hospital at Sedgwick Barracks, Washington, on account of the injury to his side. On Deceniber 1st, there were two openings, one inch apart, over the anterior portion of the ninth rib, which were discharging pus. The point of a probe introduced, discovered the bone denuded of periosteum for about one inch. An incision was made uniting the two openings, and flax-seed poultices applied, with the hope that, as he was otherwise in perfect health, the portion of necrosed bone would be thrown oft". On Feb- ruary 28, 1868, chloroform was administered, and after making an incision of some four inches in the course of the rib, a ])iece of bone one and a half inches in length was extracted. Exposing the bone in the operation, it w'as found that in the fall he had received, the rib had been fractured one and a half inches from its sternal extremity, and had become separated from its cartilage. After removing the piece, the end of the remaining ])ortion of the rib was smoothed, and a small Ijortiou of the superior portion of the tenth rib found to be diseased was also removed. On November 3d, the patient was in fine condition, and the wound healing kindly. He was returned to duty in April, 1868. *Almost every variety of fractures of the ribs, either united, with or without deformity, or ununited witli attempt at repair, are illustrated by specimens 4917, 5027, 5172, 5173, 5174, 5177, 5178, 5180, 5181, 5504, .5r>00, of the Surgical Series, A. M. M.—Ed.132 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AUMY. 4^ CCCCXVII.—Memorandum of Simple Fractures of the Ribs and Clavicle. By J. V. Artiiuk, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant Joseph I. Allen, Co. C, 4tli Cavalry, aged 27 years, received in a fall, December 16, 1S70, a fracture of the left ninth and tenth ribs and of the clavicle. He was admitted to the post hos- pital at Fort Mcintosh, Texas, on the same day. Levis's apparatus was applied. He was returned to duty in February, 1871. Feactures of the Upper Extremities.—Of the numerous injuries of this group, particulars of comparatively few cases were reported Several reports will be quoted here, and others may be found in the chapter on operations, further on. Fractures of the Clavicle.—There were five special reports of fractures of the collar bone, besides that on page 131. This accident, common in military as in civil practice, is usually entered on the reports by medical ofiicers without any details. It is desirable that the cause and seat of the fracture, the method of dressing, the duration of treatment, and the degree of deformity left, should be noted on the records. CCCOXVIII.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Fracture of the Clavicle. By P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private F. Biirnham, Co. D, 14th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory, February 2, 1868, with a fracture of the midtUe third of the left clavicle, caused by falling from a mule. The apparatus of Levis* was immediately applied, and continued until February 27th, when the fracture was found to be fairly united, with scarcely' any deformity, and the apparatus was removed and a bandage to support tlie arm was substituted, with instructions to exercise the arm daily. On February 29, 1868, the patient was convalescent. CCCCXIX.—Account of a Fracture of the Clavicle. By A. Heger, Surgeon, U. S. A. At Fort Snelling, Minnesota, February 20, 1870, William Goblke, musician, 20th. Infantry, aged 35 years, received, by an accidental fall, a fracture of the left clavicle. He was admitted to the post hospital the same day. Bandages were applied. He returned to duty March 21, 1870. CCCCXX.—Bemarls on a Case of Fracture of the Clavicle. By C. B. Greenleap, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private F. Hofner, Co. A, 25th Infantry, aged 26 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Taylor Barracks, Louisville, Kentucky, July 27, 1868, with a fracture of the outer third of the left clavicle, received by falling a distance of four feet upon his shoulder, while intoxicated. Fox's apparatus was applied, which, although it did not secure complete reduction, kept the shoukler and arm fixed. On July 31st, Fox's apparatus was removed, and a flgure-of-eight bandage, with axillary pad and sling used. There was some ecchymosis over the fiacture, which was ordered to be rubbed with a stimulating liniment. On August 21st, callus had formed, and the bandages Avere removed. There was shortening of the arm, but no great deformity. He was returned to duty October 2, 1868. CCOCXXI.—Account of a Case of Fracture of the Clavicle. By Irving C. Eossb, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James Eeynolds, of Battery A, 3d Artillery, was taken on sick report at Fort Mon- roe, Virginia, February 16, 1870, having sustained an oblique fracture near the middle of the left * Dr. Richard J. Levis described Lis apparatus for fracture of the clavicle iu the Amcrimn Journal of the Medical Sciences, Vol. XXAVI, p. 100. It is also figured and commended in Professor Gross's Si/stem of Siirycry, 4th ed., 1866, Vol. I, p. 900. [The attention of medical officers is invited to Specimen 5302, Surgical Series, A. M. M., which demonstrates the usual modes of distortion and deformity in nine united fractures of the clavicle.—Ed.]SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEACTURES. 133 clavicle, from indirect violence. There was luucb displacement, swelling, and suggillation. The indications for keeping tlie shoulder upward, outward, nud backward were fulfilled by placing a wedge-shaped pad in the axilla, which was held iu position by strings of tape i)assing around the shoulder of the opposite side; a triangular bandage was next applied, the initial end being placed on the shoulder of the sound side, and a few turns taken over it and the elbow. The arm was then fixed to the side by several more turns around the elbow aud the body, and the fore-arm was placed in a sling. Through the patient's indulgence in frolicking, the fragments, after partial union, were twice misi^laced. He recovered, and was returned to duty May 5, 1870. COOCXXII.—Remarks on a Case of Fracture of the Clavicle. Hy J. P. Kimball, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Samuel Wright, Co. C, 13th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, October 17, 1809, with a simple fracture of the left clavicle, produced by being- thrown from a horse, and falling upon his left shoulder. The fracture was oblique, and situated near the outer end of the middle third of the clavicle. The sternal fragment overlapped the acro- mial about one inch. The patient stated that when about 10 years of age the same clavicle was broken in the same i)lace bj' direct violence, but that no subsequent deformity resulted. He does not remember to have received any treatment at that time. The present fractui^e was treated with Hamilton's apparatus.* Union appeared complete on November 9th, twenty-three days after admis- sion, and the patient was returned to duty November 13th. The limb was shortened one-quarter of an inch, with slight displacement of the outer end of the inner fragment above the inner end of the outer fragment. Fractures of the Humerus.—Besides the gunshot fractures and the cases referred to in the chapter on operations, special reports of but two cases of fracture of the arm were forwarded. Both were instances of compound and comminuted fractures. CCOCXXIII.—Remarlcs on a Case of Compound Fracture of the Humerus. By J. P. Kimball, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Anthony Welsh, Company H, 13th Infantry, aged 27 years, was injured October 8, 1809, about eight miles from Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, by the passage of a heavy Army wagon over his left arm, producing a conipound fracture of the liumerus at its middle third. When first seen by the ])OSt surgeon, about an hour after the accident, the lower fragment was found protrud- ing through the skin covering the lower portion of the deltoid muscle, having apparently been thrust through after the fracture had taken place by the ill-directed efforts of the persons about liim. The arm was temporarily put up in splints made from a cracker-box, and the patient was taken to the post hospital at Fort Buford. The arm was severely bruised, greatly swollen, and the wound bleeding moderately. The next morning the patient was hot and feverish; pulse 105, full and strong; arm still greatly swollen and discolored. On October 12th, the patient was doing- well; the febrile excitement had greatly diminished; the swelling and pufi&ness of the arm were subsiding, and the woiand suppurating moderately. The patient continued to do well, and on November Oth the splints were removed; the wound had healed, and the union of the fracture was complete ; there was very slight false anchylosis of the elbow. On November 21, 1809, Welsh was returned to duty ; the anchylosis of the elbow was completely removed; there was no shortening of the arm. The next report is interesting as including an instance of rupture of the liver without breach of the integument. * A figure of "The Author's Apparatus" may be found at page 199 of the third edition of Dr. F. H. Hamilton's Pntctkal TrcaiiiiC on Fmciiiirs and Dislomlions, Pliiladclphia, 1866.134 KEPORT OF SUKCHCJAL CASES IN THE ARMY. COCCXXIV.—Account of a Fatal Itallway Injurij. By Elliott Coues, Assistant Sni-geon, U. S. A. Piiv^ite Robert Matenie, Co. H, Gtli Iirf'aiitry, was injured at Columbia, Soiitli Carolina, on December 30, 1867, by a railroad accident. The case terminated fatally iu about ten hours. The right humerus was fractured a little above the joint, and drawn through the skin. Internal inju- ries, however, were the immediate cause of death. On examination, the liver was found lacerated iu tliree directions, being completely ruptured into three pieces, which were only held together by the peritoneal investment. A great quantity of coagulated blood lay about the parts. The lungs were much contused, and many of their smaller vessels rui)tured. Singularly enough, no ribs were broken. Fracture of the Radius and Ulna.-—Apart from those cases of injuries of the fore-arm which demanded operations, details were given of but two fractures of the radius, and one of the ulna. CCCCXXV.—Note of a Fracture of the Radius. By J. H. Baetholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Edward Jamison, Co. A, 11th Infantry, aged 24 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Grant, near Richmond, on December 19, 1867, with simple fracture of the left radius at the middle third, caused by falling down a stairway. Tlie fore-arm was placed in a supine position, and straight board splints, somewhat wider than the fore-arm, applied, and held in place by adhesive straps, isear the upper and lower extremities of the splints, the sides being left to give a view of the parts. The arm was then put iu a sling. On February lOth, the splints were removed. There was good union, and free motion without deformity. A slight callus marked the seat of the fracture. Patient was returned to duty on February 10, 1868. CCCCXXVI.—Note of a Fracture of the Radius. T. F. Azpell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private W. Chapman, general service, was injured September 24,1868, by falling about seven feet from the seat of a wagon truck, which caused a simple fracture of the lower extremity of the left radius. He was admitted to the hospital at David's Island, on October 13th; the fractured extremities of the radius being approximated, and the hand kept between pronation and supina- tion, a wooden adaptable splint was placed upon the posterior aspect of the fore-arm ; a piece of binder's board of the proper size, well dampened and pliable, was iilaced upon the anterior portion, and both kept in position by a roller bandage, which was so adapted as to draw the extremity of the lingers downward, so as to produce extension. Patient recovered without any bad symptoms ; the motion of the fore-arm and wrist was perfect, without any deformitj". Returned to duty. CCCCXXVIL—i\^ofe of a Simple Fracture of the Ulna. By C. C. Gray, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private H. Hampton, Co. I, 31st Infantry, aged 19 years, presented himself at surgeon's call, at Fort Stevenson, Dakota, on February 10, 1808, with a transverse fracture in the middle of the right ulna, the result of a fall against a box, which lie had received a few moments before. Pistol- shaped splints, cut from a shingle and j)added, without an interosseous compress were applied. On March 7th, the splints were dispensed with, the limb being still retained in a sling; occasional passive and volnntary motion was prescribed. The patient recovered without any deformity of the limb whatever, and was returned to duty on March 21,1868.SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEAOTURES. 135 Fractures of the Carpal FJiala,nges.—A. single case is specially reported. CCOOXXVIIl.—Minute of a Case of Compound Fracture of a Phalanx. By E. F. Baker, M. D., Acting Assistaut Surgeon. Private Eli Hubbard, Co. K, loth Infantry, aged 19 years, on fatigue duty at Cleburne, Alabama, May 27, 18G8, had his hand crushed by a weight, causing coinpouud comminuted fracture of second phalanx of the left middle finger. At the post hospital, the fractured ends of the bone were placed in opposition, the wound was closed with sutures, and kept in position by compresses and roller bandages. The soldier was returned to duty on June 30, 1868. Feacturbs of the Lower Extremities.—In regard to the numerous cases of this category, special reports were made in fourteen instances, in addition to the reports of cases in which operations were practiced. Details were given of four examples of fracture of the femur, one of which was believed to be intra-capsular, of one fracture of the patella, and of nine fractures of one or both bones of the leg. Fractuo-es of the Femur.—Special reports were made of four cases treated by angular splints. CCCCXXIX.—Mention of a Fracture of the Femur. By E. F. Bakee, M. D., Acting Assistaut Surgeon. At Savannah, Georgia, in October, 18G8, Private John Carroll, Co. F, 12th Infantry, while laboring under an attack of delirium tremens, leaped from the second story balconj^ of the post hospital to the ground, causing a slightly oblique fracture of the right femur, a short distance below the great trochanter. The limb was placed in splints, and extension and counter-extension made by means of adhesive strips applied to the leg, and a perineal band. The case progressed favorably, and in January, 1809, Carroll was transferred to Fort Pulaski. CCCCXXX.—Remarlis on a Case of Fracture of the Femur. By A. G. Skinner, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas McCann, Co. A, 42d Infantry, aged 40 years, was brought to the hospital at Fort Niagara, New York, September 23, 1868, having fallen the earlier part of the preceding night, while intoxicated, and, being unaole to assist himself, had lain where he fell until morning. On examination, the left thigh was found fractured near the small trochanter, but the swelling was so immense that the exact condition of the bone could not then be determined. The limb was nearly two inches shorter than its fellow, with no eversion of the toes. The muscles of the upper portion of tlie thigh were in a state of spasmodic contraction. Two assistants were directed to make extension and counter-extension ; as not the slightest eft'ect was produced by this force, two others were directed to aid; for ten minutes this force was continued without effect; two more men were then added to the force, when, after a few minutes steady efibrt, the bone came to its place with an audible crepitus, resembling the sound heard in reducing luxations. Impaction of fragments had doubtless occurred at the seat of fracture. The limb was placed in an Amesbury splint (the only one within reach), the thigh piece being lengthened to come firmly to the buttock ; adaptation splints were applied, and a roller bandage to embrace the whole limb. During the day, the patient recovered from his inebriation, with loss of api)etite and sick stomach ; but complained ot of very little pain. The limb continued swollen for about a week, when the swelling abated, and almost entirely disappeared at the end of the second week. The patient did not complain of pain throughout the treatment, except from the occasional chafing of bandages, and being confined in one position. The dressings were removed at the end of seven weeks, at which time the bone136 EEPOET OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. seemed well nnited at the seat of fracture, and the patient was able to walk on erntches. The limb was shortened from one-half to tive eighths of an inch. McOanu was returned to duty in March, 1869. OOCCXXXI.—Abstract of a Beport of a Simple Fracture of the Upper Third of the Right Femur. By E. H. Bowman, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Lieutenant W. E. Sweet, Co. A, 24th Infantry, being thrown from a carriage on April 5, 1870, by a mule team running' away, had his right femur fraetured at the ui)per i^art of the middle third. He was taken to the post hospital at Fort Bliss, Texas, soon after the accident. The treatment consisted in bringing the fractured bones in apposition, securing by, splints and bandages, and plaeing the limb on a double-inclined plane. On the twenty-lirst day after the injury, I was discharged from attendance on the patient. The limb had less than the usual shortening. Drs. Marsh and White pronounced the shortening only one inch. The case had a favorable issue, and the lieutenant was returned to duty on July 11, 1870. CCCCXXXII.—Account of a Fracture of the Femur, supposed to he toithin the Capsule. By Irving C. RossE, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. About July, 1870, my professional attention was called to a female child of six years, an inmate of the laundress's quarters at Fort Monroe, Virginia, whom I at first believed, from the history given by its parents, to be suffering from infantile paralysis. Having the patient stripped, my attention was called by George E. Cooper, Surgeon, U. S. A., to the peculiar everted jjosition of the right foot, and the Inability to place it on the floor. Manipulation of the limb was exceed- ingly painful, and further examination revealing crepitus in the femur, fracture within the capsule ■was diagnosed. A fracture-bed was at once improvised; the limb was ijlaced on a pillow, and extension iiroduced by means of a weight of several pounds suspended over a pulley bj'^ a cord, Avhich was attached to the leg by broad bands of adhesive plaster. This mode of extension not being satisfactory, and productive of much discomfort to the little patient, I was induced to aban- don it after a few days and to try the anteiior wire splint with suspension. An appropriate one was made and applied, care being taken to bandage it firmly around the body, and to preserve the obliquity of the suspending cord. The remainder of the treatment was conducted on the iirinciples peculiar to fractures in general. Although this case did not get the attention I desired, owing to the carelessness and indifference of the mother, yet recovery, after a reasonable time, was com- plete. On May 10, 1871, Charles Smart, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Avrites that he found a perceptible shortening in the limb of one-fourth of an inch, but not enough to give anj- halt in the gait. Fractures of ihe Patella.—A single case was specially reported. The cause of injury was not mentioned, nor was the direction of the fracture described. It is hoped that hereafter medical officers will note such particulars in their reports.* CCCCXXXHL—AVi>o/t of a Case of Fracture of ihe Patella. By W. Ckaig, M, D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George Johnson, Co. A, 40th Infantry, aged 24 years, received a fracture of the patella of the left leg on April 2, 1807. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Caswell, Xorth Carolina, on the 4th. The fragments were retained in close apposition by means of adhesive strips. He was discharged June 17, 1868. * Officers can consult;, in the Army Medical Museum, an excellent series of fractnres of the patella united by liouy or by ligauientons union. The are numbered 5353, 5354, 5355, 5364, 5413, 5414, 5415, Snnjlcal Scricx.—Ed.137 SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FRACTURES. Fractures of the Leg.—Kine special reports come under tins class. In four cases the tibia and fibula were fractured, in five the tibia only. • COCCXXXIV.—Eemarfcs on a Case of Fracture of the Tibia. By G. S. Rose, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Ira V, Beam, Co. B, 29tk Infantry, aged 2G years, was riding on a box-car on Septem- ber 28, 18G8, when the car rolled over an embankment. His leg was caught under a large box of freight and crushed, causing a compound fracture. He was taken to the jiost hospital at Camp Schofield, Lynchburg, Virginia. The external wound was not large; the soft parts were not greatly destroyed. The wound was situated just over the spine of the tibia, about its middle and to the inner side. The leg was bandaged and a small splint applied along its outer side, the wound having been left exposed so as to have constant and ready application of carbolic acid, with which the limb was dressed. The patient made a good recovery, and on December 3, 1868, was reported as entirely well, walking without the aid of crutches. The limb was not shortened. COOCXXXV.—Mention of a Case of Fracture of the Tibia. By F. Meaciiam, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Janke, Co. K, 9th Infantry, met with a simple oblique fracture in the lower third of the right tibia at Omaha Barracks, Nebraska, on January 15, 1871. The injury was treated with immovable plaster splints. The patient made a good recovery. There was but little deformity, and no percej^tible shortening. CCCCXXXVL—iV^o^e on a Case of Fracture of the Tibia. By W. H. Elbridge, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Pomfort, Co. H, 5th Cavalry, received on January 7, 1868, a kick from a horse, causing a fracture of the tibia four inches below the knee. He was admitted to the post hos- pital at Aiken, South Carolina, where a fragment of the tibia, three quarters of an inch in diameter, was removed by Assistant Surgeon A. C. Girard, U. S. A., and Acting Assistant Surgeon T. M. Stuart. On March 20th, Smith's anterior splint was applied to the limb. This man was returned to duty in September, 1868. CCCCXXXVII.—Bemarlis on a Case of Fracture of the Tibia. By J. J. Puroell, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Henry Noyes, Co. H, 1st Artillery, aged 21 years, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Schuyler, New York Harbor, on September 26, 1867, with a simple fracture at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the right tibia, caused by the falling of a gun-carriage upon it that morning. The fracture was nearly transverse, and was set without difficulty and placed in a frac- ture-box, the ends remaining in apposition. The case progressed favorably, and on January 21, 1868, he was returned to duty, at which time he had entirely recovered. Upon careful measure- ment no perceptible shortening could be discovered, and there was but slight deformity at the seat of fracture. CCCCXXXVIII.—Note relative to a Case of Fracture of the Tibia and Fibula. By J. Saunders, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Pumphrey, Co. E, 6th Cavalry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hos- pital at Pilot Grove, Texas, December 15, 1868, with a compound fracture of the left tibia and fibula at junction of middle and lower thirds. The tibia projected through the integument and was covered with mud. The limb was placed in a Butcher's box, and carbolic acid lotions Avere applied. On December 31st the case was progressing finely. He was admitted to the hospital at Greenville, Texas, convalescent, on April 12, 1869; and was discharged the service April 20, 1869, his term of service having expired. 18EEPORT OF SUEGIOAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 138 CCOCX.XXlX.—3Iention of a Case of Frachire of the Leg. By W. E. Day, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George Scott, Co. M, 3d Artillery, aged 21 years, sustained June 26, 1869, a com- pound fracture of tbe tibia and fibula of the right leg, by a blow from a lever of a capstan. He • was admitted to tbe post hospital at Fort Jefferson the same day. Cold water and simple dress- ings were applied. He was discharged from service March 5, 1870, on surgeon's certificate of disability, " by reason of shortening of the right leg." CCCCXL.—Mention of two Cases of Fracture of the Leg, successfully treated by Smithes Anterior Splint. By Irving C. Eosse, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Case 1.—On March 17, 1868, I was requested to see a Mexican vaquero who had broken his right leg in attempting to lasso a wild ox near Point Isabel, Texas. The animal had thrown the horse by means of a lariat made fast to the saddle, and both bones of the rider's leg were crushed by the fall. An anterior suspension wire splint was applied a few honrs after the reception of the injury. Several days subsequently, the friends of the patient desired to take him to his home, a ranche distant about twelve miles. Without seeking medical advice they caused him to make this journey on a mustang pony, the Eio Grande Eiver being crossed on the route. Strange to say, he suffered but little inconvenience from the ride, and made a good recovery in about six weeks. The patient was a young man accustomed to a diet of beef, beans {frijoles), and maize, and pos- sessed the physique common to persons of his vocation. Case 2.—John Wilson, aged about 50 years, mate of the brig ''Peerless,'' bound to Eio Janiero, had both bones of his right leg broken by getting caught in the cable whilst letting go anchor in Hampton Eoads on April 30, 1869. He was brought ashore at Fort Monroe, Virginia, and when seen was much depressed. The fragments of bone were properly adjusted, and Smith's ante- rior splint was applied to the injured member. Shortly afterward the patient was sent to his home in Baltimore, from which place he advised me of his successful recovery and return to his ordinary avocation. CCCCXLI.—Bemarlis on a Case of Fracture of the Tibia. By John I. Hulsb, M, D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private Louis Wilson, Co. F, 4th Cavalry, on April 16, 1868, while driving a quarter- master's team, on the road to Fort McKavett, Texas, being intoxicated and reeling to one side, was thrown from his seat by a wild mule, both wheels of the wagon going over both legs, bruising the left leg, and producing a compound comminuted fracture of the right tibia, jiist above the ankle-joint. He was brought to Fort Mason, Texas, a distance of sixteen miles, in an ambulance, and his injuries treated with simple dressings, the fractured leg being placed on a padded board, having a slight elevation. Inflammation soon subsided, and on the 27th instant he was returned to his command, with good jjrospect of complete recovery, and the following month returned to duty. Seven of these fractures of the leg were compound, and two were simple. All the patients recovered without much deformity except two, who were discharged for disability. Treatment by some form of suspensory apparatus appears to be generally preferred by the medical officers.139 DISLOCATIONS. Dislocations.—Six hundred and twenty-five cases of luxation of joints appear upon the returns for the loeriod covered by this report; but special histories were forwarded in a few instances only. Dislocations of the Vertebrce.—Histories of two fatal cases of luxation of the cervical vertebrae were received. COCOXLII.—Memorandum of a Case of Luxation of the Atlas on the Axis. By J. K. Walsh, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Lieutenant Justinian Alman, Trooi) I, 4th Cavalry, was killed March 17, 1868, in a collision between the boat in which he was returning to town (Jeiferson, Texas) and the steamboat J. M. Sharpe. He was struck the i)addles of the wheel and carried under. His body w^as once thrown to the surface by the eddies of the water, and then sank. Every eftbrt was made to secure his remains, but without avail, until the sixth day after the disaster, when the body, in a very advanced stage of decomposition, rose to the surface. The remains were buried the following day, in the Hebrew Cemetery, in compliance with the wish of his family. An autopsy revealed a dislocation of the atlas upon the second cervical vertel»ra, with rupture of the transverse ligament, and the odontoid process impinging upon the spinal mari'ow. CCCCXLIII.—Report on a Dislocation of the Fifth Cervical Vertebra. By C. C. Gray, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A, On the morning of February 10, 18GG, I was called to see Private John F , Co. B, Ud Infantry, who was reported badly hurt by a fall. I found the patient, a muscular, powerful, Ger- man, aged 35, laying upon a table in the company kitchen ; face pale, respira- tion sighing; pulse slow and full. It appeared that about ten minutes before he had invited the bystanders to witness a gymnastic feat. A few yards awaj- the ground was thickly- littered with short straw which had been emptied from bed-sacks. Starting toward this straw he ran a few steps and bounding two or three feet into the air, attempted to throw a somersault without touching hands or head. Although accustomed to perform this exploit, he from some cause failed upon this occasion ; instead of alighting upon his feet, his head struck the earth, and he rolled over upon his side and lay motionless. As he did not arise his comrades approached and found him in the condition before mentioned. Upon examination, T found that sensation and power of motion were alike wanting from the neck downward. The walls of the chest were motionless and respiration was effected by the diaphragm alone. He was unable to raise his head, but moved it freely from side to side. In attempting to examine the ^ „ ^ . ' 1 » YlG. 21. Luxation oi neck, it was necessary to lift the head from the table, which movement caused the fifth upon the fourth so much distress that I was obliged to desist. I however discovered, as cervical vertebra, spec. I thought, a slight but unusual depression immediately below the spinous pro- cess of the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra. The patient was conveyed to the regimental hospital and placed upon a hard mattress, all pillows having been removed. Assistant Surgeon S. H. Hor- ner, U. S. A., was called in consultation, and we endeavored to ascertain the nature and extent of the injury. By carefully supporting the head, the patient was turned partially upon his side and a clear view of the posterior parts of the neck obtained. The examination was very unsatisfactory, for so thick were the layers of muscle and fat that the usual landmarks, the spinous processes, were confused, and we were unable to arrive at a positive diagnosis. It was clear, however, that there was an abnormal gap or depression between the spinous processes of the fourth and fifth or fifth and sixth cervical vertebra;; that pressure at this point of depression gave slight i)aiii; that there was an absence of crepitus, and that the movements of the head upon the atlas, and of theEEPORT OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE AEMY. 140 atlas npon tlie axis, were sucli as to prove that tliese articulations were not involved. Eespiratiou indicated tliat the lesion, whatever its nature, was below the origin of the phrenic nerve, while the total paralysis of the upper extremities could not be explained u])on any other theory than that of injury higher than the origin of the brachial plexus. It was further agreed that we were not likely to benefit the patient by atteinijting to rectify a distortion concerning the nature of which we were ignorant. From this time forth he was accordingly undisturbed. My function consisted in direct- ing such small attentions as were i^ossible in the case, and in watching the process of dying. He lay perfectly supine, breathing by the diaphragm, suffered no pain, and was able to swallow small quantities of fluids. His pulse, which immediately after the accident had been 78, in two hours had fallen to 72. Eespiratiou 20 per minute. In the evening about three ounces of turbid urine was drawn off by the catheter. He sank gradually, dying at G A. M. on February 12, forty-four hours after the reception of tlie injury. An autopsy was made five hours after death ; the rigor mortis- was imperfectly established; suggillation general over posterior portions of body; ulceration had already commenced over sacrum. The lower and back part of the neck exhibited slight tumefac- tion, yet sufficient to obliterate the depression which had been felt during life. The whole of the cervical portion of the spinal column was exposed by dissection, revealing a dislocation backward of the fifth vertebra. Both the superior articulating processes of this bone looked directly back- ward, and its bifid spinous process was astride of, and locked fast upon, the neck of the spinous process of the sixth cervical vertebra. So perfect was this impaction or locking that the spinous processes of the fifth and sixth vertebrte could only be felt as one until after all the soft tissues covering them had been dissected away. The luxation was " symmetrical" in respect to lateral displacement. Of course there was a wide interv^al, one and a half inches, between the spines of the fourth and fifth vertebrae, which interval contributed the depression felt upon the first examina- tion of the patient. There was no fracture of the body, pedicles or laminae of the displaced bone, but on the right side a poi'tion of the anterior tubercle of the transverse process had snapped off. The tip of the left division, of the spinous process of the third cervical verteb'ra was separated, Xjossibly in the dissection. The subflavian and capsular ligaments between the fourth and fifth vertebrae had given way, as had also the attachment of the ligamentum nuchae to these bones. The anterior and posterior common ligaments were not ruptured. There was a slight extravasa- tion of blood external to the sheath of the spinal marrow and a considerable quantity between the sheath and the cord. The upper and posterior edge of the fifth cervical vertebra encroached to such an extent upon the spinal canal, that the cord at this point was bent at an abrupt angle, and its antero posterior diameter reduced more than half. The meninges of the cord were not toin nor was the cord itself lacerated, which may perhaps be accounted for by the fact that the wide sepa- ration of the bones allowed it to bulge out posteriorly and thus escape fracture. The lungs Avere generally congested, the left more than the right. The posterior portions were especially engorged; crepitation was nowhere entirely absent. The heart was slightly hypertrophied and all of its cavities enq)ty. The cervical portion of the spinal column was removed entire; the luxation unre- duced. Indeed, I failed in my attempt to reduce it, and that after the bones were removed from the body and were held together by nothing save their ligamentous attachments and the interlocking mentioned before. The specimen, a ligamentous prej^aration of the first six cervical vertebrae, was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum and is represented in the wood-cut.* Dislocation of the Clavicle.—One instance of this rare accident is repSrted: COCCXLIV.—Remarlcs relative to a Subluxation of tlie Sternal Extremity of tlie Clavicle. By G. McC. Miller, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant William Dow, Co. D, 5th Infantry, was thrown from a mule, while hunting antelope, near Fort Eeynolds, Colorado Territory, on Januaiy 3, 1869, striking the ground with the point of his right shoulder. On his return to the fort I examined the injury, and found a sublux- * Dr.^Gray has already published this abstract iu th« American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Vol. LI, p. 10L».141 DISLOCATIONS. ation forward of the sternal extremity of the right clavicle, the end of the bone being advanced about the one-sixth of an inch beyond its proper level. He complained of pain at the seat of injury, and there was some tumefaction, as well as tenderness on pressure. I reduced the displaced bone, and applied Fox's apparatus for fractured clavicle. Compresses were also placed over the seat of injury. The apparatus, which was made of stout materials, so long as it was worn and kept moderately tight, maintained the bone in place admirably well, but when it was removed, or became slack, the bone was again displaced. He wore the apparatus until February 28th, a period of two months, when I removed it, and finding that no improvement had taken place, I omitted its further use, believing that if an apparatus does no good for two months after the injury, a reposition of the displaced bone is not to be anticipated. The unsuccessful result of treatment in this case accords with the experience of the best surgeons. Nevertheless, the patient will most probably have a very useful arm, as, according to the best authorities, the functions of the limb in these injuries are but slightly impaired. The ultimate result will be made known at a future time. Dislocations at the /Shoulder.—Since the general adoption of the methods of reduc- tion by manipulations under anaesthesia, cases of this class have seldom presented difficulties, unless complicated by fracture, or unless the attempt to reduce was too long postponed. Though the accident was common enough, especially in the cavalry, the particulars were rarely reported. CCCCXLV.—Report of a Case of Irreducible Luxation of the Head of the Humerus. By W. B Lyon, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Edward Logan, Co. H, 38th Infantry, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort McEae, New Mexico, on July 31, 1868, having dislocated his right humerus into the axilla, by falling from the tongue of an Army wagon on July 1st; at the same time he received severe flesh wounds on the head and face from mule kicks. No attempt had been made at reduction. On August 2d, he was placed under chloroform, and manipulation and extension employed for two hours without success. Another attempt was made on the 13th with iiulleys, and persisted in for two hours, with the same result. He was discharged for disability November 27, 1868. CCCCXLYI.—Note relative to a Dislocation at the Shoulder-joint. By W. S. Adams, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Ford, 5th Cavalry, aged 27 years, while wrestling with a comrade at Mor- gantown. North Carolina, on September 15, 1867, had his left arm dislocated, the head of the humerus being thrown downward and forward beneath the pectoral muvscles. The dislocation was reduced by manipulation (Eeed's method), and the joint was supi)orted by a figure-of-eight bandage. On October 1st the i)atient was returned to duty, with good use of the limb. Dislocations at the Elbow.—Of the nine varieties of luxations of the ulna and radius upon the humerus, a special report of one only was given ; a case of complete luxation backward of the bones of the fore-arm. CCCCXLVII.—Extract from the Monthly Report from Hoicner^s Station, Kansas, for January, 1868. By L. Y. LoRiNG, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. The case of dislocation entered on the report was that of a soldier of Co. E, 5th Infantry, and was one of displacement of the elbow of the right arm, in which the ulna ami radius were thrown backward upon the posterior surface of the humerus, i)roduciug a characteristic deformity, easy142 EEPOET OF SUEGIOAL CASES IN THE AEMY. of diagnosis. The luxation was caused by a lai-ge stick of wood striking the humerus upon its posterior and outer aspect, and thus, in reality, throwing the humerus forward upon the ulna and radius. The patient was placed in a recumbent position upon the floor, and anaesthetized by means of equal parts of chloroform and ether. A guy of strong material, having a loop, was attached just above the wrist of the afiected arm, and the loop was passed around my neck and shoulders, thus increasing the power of extension. Counter-extension was produced hy placing my heel in the bend of the arm, and thus also furnishing a fulcrum over which the forearm was bent, when the bones began to yield by'extension. Eeduction by this mode was soon accomplished. Bandages carefully applied over splints, and the usual antiphlogivstic remedies and evaporating lotions were resorted to. Passive motion, the swelling having diminished, was also resorted to, in order to prevent anchylosis. The man was returned to duty in February, 18G8. Dislocations at the Wrist.—A single special report on this subject furnishes an additional fact for those surgeons who do not share Dupuytren's incredulity as to luxa- tions at the wrist, without concomitant fracture of the radius. CCCCXLVIII.—On a Case of Dislocation of the Wrist. By D. F. Damour, M. B., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Joseph M. Choate, Troop B, 1st Cavalry, aged 23 years, while acting in the capacity of teamster, was injured by falling from one of the wheel mules while the animals were stamped- ing, dislocating- his left wrist. The carpiis was displaced backward, and the lower end of the radius and xdna toward the palmar surface; the pisiform bone was also displaced. He was admitted to the hospital at Camp McGarry, Nevada, and the dislocation reduced at the time, and treated by applying- splints and bandages, which were continued to October 1, 1867, without producing the desired result. The carpal bones were displaced on the dorsal surface, on the removal of the splints and roller, the same as before, and the joint remained loose and flabby. The soldier was returned to light duty on October 1st, but, on the 7th, readmitted to hospital, and, on November 17tli, the splints and roller were reapplied, with a view of giving support and ease to the injured parts. He was discharged from service March 20,1808, at which time it was believed he could not regain the use of his left hand. Dislocations of the Metacarpals.—The rarity of luxations of the last four meta- carpals, the cases observed by Bourguet, Blandin, and Roux, being cited by authors as altogether exceptional, adds to the interest of the following abstract; CCCCXLIX.—Mention of a Dislocation of the Second Metacarpal Bone. By J. F. Head, Surgeon, U. S. A. At West Point, New York, in the beginning of April, 1868, Charles Conway, corporal. Ord- nance Department, was holding a drill in his right hand for another man to strike, when, sud- denly, the hammerhead flew oft", and struck a glancing blow on the back of his hand. Although the hand was covered with a thick buckskin mitten, it was rendered helpless by the blow; and on taking off the mitten, he noticed an irregularity in its appearance. I saw him about half an hour after the accident, when there was, already, some swelling, but not sufiScient to conceal a marked depression on the back of the hand, over the carpal end of the second metacarpal bone. The bone was felt running- down toward the palm, and with its base on a lower level than the next bone. It was fixed in this position, and no crepitus could be detected. As there was, evidently, a dislo- cation, I attempted to reduce it by making extension from the finger, and at tiie same time pressing, with my thumb in the palm of the hand, against the base of the metacarpal bone. It almost imme- diately, and with a snap, returned to its proper place. I then bandaged the hand, with a ball of tow ill the palm. The swelling gradually disappeared, and on April 13, 1868, the man was returned to duty.143 DISLOCATIONS. Dislocations at the Hip.—Of dislocations of the lower extremity, only one case was reported in detail, or by name. This was a case of luxation at the hip, in which the difficulty of reduction was increased by the inevitable delay in procuring surgical aid. COCCL.—Note relative to a Case of Luxation at the Eip. By L. E. Holmes, M. D., Actiug Assistant Surgeon. Private Edward Hollen, Co. K, 23d Infantry, aged 24 years, was admitted to tbe liospital at CamiJ Logan, Oregon, in February, 1868. His right hip-joiut was dislocated upward and back- ■ward on the dorsum of the ilium. The injury was received while travelling on snow shoes, from Canon City to Soda Springs, February 6, 1808, and the patient had been lying six days in a private hospital at Caiion City. The limb became slightly swollen. On February 13th, the dislocation was reduced by pullies, after several unsuccessful attempts by manipulation. A splint was placed upon the outside of the limb, covering the joint, and bandaged closely. Slight inflammation of the joint and ligaments followed. The patient was discharged the service August 17, 18G8, on account of lameness of a permanent character.144 REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. ARROW ¥OUNUS. The illustrious Baron Percy was wont to declare* that military surgery had its origin in the treatment of wounds inflicted by darts and arrows, and used to quote his favorite poetf in behalf of his belief, and to cite Chiron, and Machaon's patients, Menelaus and Philoctetes, and Eurypiles treated by Patroclus. He was even tempted to believe, with Sextus,J that the name (V-r/x)?, medicus, was derived from idq, which anciently signified sagitta, and that the earliest function of our surgical predecessors was the extraction of arrows and darts. An instrument called belulcum, from /?t^/!»?, telum, a dart, was invented during the long Peloponnesian war (B. 0. 431, 405). It" was a rude pincers or extracting forceps, and was used by Hippocrates in the many campaigns in which he served. His immediate successor. Diodes, invented a complicated instrument for extracting foreign bodies, called graphiscos, and consisting of a canula with hooks.|| It was not until the wars of Augustus that Heras of Cappadocia designed the famous duck- bill forceps, which, with every conceivable modification, has continued in use to our time. Celsus § instructs us that, in extracting arrow-heads, the entrance wound should be dilated, the barb of the arrow-head crushed by strong pliers, or protected between the grooves of a split reed, and thus withdrawn without laceration of the soft parts. Paulus JEgineta"[[ also treated fully of arrow-wounds, and described an atracton used in his day to remove firmly impacted arrows. Albucasis and the Arabian school did little or nothing toward advancing our knowledge of the means of extracting foreign bodies. After the fourteenth century the attention of surgeons was directed to wounds from projectiles impelled by gunpowder. Yet the use of bows and arrows in warfare continued, and we find Par^ treating of this class of injuries with the sovereign good sense that characterized all he wrote. As the use of fire-arms became prevalent, the literature of arrow-wounds became meagre, and the subject is now rarely referred to in systematic works. The considerable number of cases reported by our medical ofl&cers possess therefore the greater interest. Multiple Arrow-Wounds.—Dr. Bill, who has printed an interesting essay** on this subject, remarking upon the rapidity with which the American Indians discharge their arrows, states that it is exceptional to meet with a single wound ; that if one arrow takes effect it is immediately followed by two or more others. Of the seven following cases, six were fatal: CCCCLI.—Report of a Case of Three Wounds from Arrows. By C. 0. Gray, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Imbler, Co. H, 31st Infantry, while a few hundred yards from camp, at Fort Stevenson, Dakota Territory, on October 10, 1867, was severely wounded by Indian arrows, one of * Manuel du Cbirurgien d'Aim^e, p. 4. || See Andrea della Croce, Lib. 7, p. 173; Venet. 1574. t Homer, Iliad, Book XI. § Celsus, De Medicina, Lib. VII, cap. V. \ Sextus, Advers. Math., Lib. I, cap. 2. H Paulus ^gineta, De re Medica, Lib. VI, cap. 88. ** Bill, American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Vol. XLIV, p. 365.145 ARROW-WOUNDS. which was extracted at the angle of the jaw, aftei^ it had entered above the left scapula and trans- fixed the left posterior triangle of the neck. A second passed through the fleshy portion of the right fore-arm; and a third pierced the ulnar side of the left fore-arm near the elbow-joint, and, becoming twisted and wedged in the interosseous space, severely lacerated the tissues. With some difficulty the distorted head of this arrow was pushed downward and extracted near the wrist. The wounds were treated with simple dressings. Save partial paralysis of the left hand, the patient did well. OCCOLII.—Report of Death from Ilultiple Wounds^ most of tchich were from Arrows. By W. H. Smith, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Robert Nix, Co. G, lith Infantry, Avas wounded near Camp Lincoln, Arizona Territory, in October, 18G8. He received a gunshot flesh-wound in the upper portion of left arm; a slight cut from an arrow in the left ear; two flesh-wounds from arrows, from one of which the hiemor- rhage was profuse; two arrow wounds in the right knee, the synovial membrane having been penetrated, but no bones broken; one gunshot wound in the right elbow, but not through the joint; and another through the metacarpal bone of the third finger of the right hand. During tlie eight hours following, while being conveyed to camj), he became very weak from loss of hlood, and riding part of the time on a horse with a comrade, and the remainder in a Government team. He suddenly died the next luorning. Decided symptoms of fatty degeneration, with dilata- tion and hypertrophy of heart, had been previously observed. CCCCLIII.—Note of a Case of 3Iultij_)le Arrow-Wounds. By R. B. HiTZ, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Con stand Queswelle, Co. E, 13th Infantry, aged 26 years, received May 24, 1808, while on herding duty about half a mile from Camp Reeve, Montana Territory, seven arrow-wounds. One arrow entered the cavity, through the eighth dorsal vertebra, and one through the ninth; three passed through the fore-arm, one between the fifth and sixth ribs on the right side, and one through the palmer surface of the right hand. Death was appai^ently instantaneous. CCCCLIV.—Bejyort of a Case of Death from Arroiv-Wounds. By G. L. Porter, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Nat. Crabtree, a citizen, aged 38 years, while looking for his cattle, April 21, 1868, was shot by Indians, receiving nine arrow-wounds; one in the post gluteal region, one in the left lung, one in the abdomen, one penetrating the humerus, one in the hand, one in the testicle, one in the back to the left of the dorsal vertebra, one in the bladder, and a glance-shot five inches long below the ninth rib. He was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Cooke, Montana Territory. Some of the arrows had been removed by his friends, and fiv^e, including the one in the gluteal region, which had penetrated ten and a half inches, were taken out at the post. The man died a few hours after admission to hospital. COCCLV.—Report of a Remarlcahle Case of Arroiv- Wounds. By J. H. Peabody, M. D., Late Surgeon, U. S. V. Private George Osborn, of Troop D, 2d Nebraska Cavalry, was wounded by arrows in a skirm- ish with Indians near Pawnee Reserve, Nebraska, on June 23, 1863. Eight arrows entered at dif- ferent parts of his body, and were all extracted except the head of one, which had entered at the outer and lower margin of the right scapula, and had passed upward and inward through the upper lobe of the right lung, or trachea. Haemorrhage at this time was so great that all hope of recovery was abandoned. The patient, however, rallied, but continued to suffer great pain upon swallowing or coughing, and occasionally spit blood. In July, 1866, more than three years subsequent to the receipt of the injury, he called at the office of Dr. J. H. Peabody, to undergo an examination, with a view of applying for a pension, stating that his health was much affected from the presence of the arrow-head. He was much emaciated, and expressed himself tired of life. Upon probing 19EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 14G through a small flstiilons openiug just above the superior end of the sternuin, the point of the arrow was found resting against the bone, about an inch and a half below, the head lying flat ngainstthe traehea and wsophagus, with the carotid artery, jugular vein, and nerves overlying. After some little difficulty, the point of the arrow was raised above the sternum, and it was extracted without the loss of an ounce of blood, the edge grating against the sheath of the innominata artery during the operation. The missile measured an iucli at the base, and was four inches long, (Fig. 22.) Its form is shown in the annexed wood-cut, nearly, but not accurately, of half the natural size; The patient, appearing highly gratified at the result, rode ^ _ ^ , , . . , ^ to his home. His health underwent a remarkable improvement, Fid. 22. Ii'on aiTow-liead extracted irom the . ^ ' chest. ,si)ec. 5C42, Sect. I, A. M. M. hihI iu J aiiuary, 1809, tlic operator reported him perfectly w^ell. CCCOLVI.—Report of a Case in tvMch the Patient received Floe Arroiv- Wounds, and was Scalped. By S. M. HoRTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Patrick D. Smith, of Co. H, 18th Infantry, was attacked about six miles from Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, ou the evening of September 26, 18G6, by three Indians, who inflicted five arrow-wounds, and removed iiart of his scalp. On the next morning he was seen bj^ two physicians. Two of the arrows still remained in his body—one in the right side below the region of the kidney ; the other had pierced the cartilage at the junction of the first rib with the sternum, inflicting a wound three inches in depth. The arrows were extracted, the wound dressed, and the patient supported until 10 o'clock the next morning, September 28th, when he expired. At the autopsy it was found that the wound in his chest had been the cause of death. The arrow had cut the edge of the right lung, and had inflicted a slight wound, one-eighth of an inch in length, in the descending vena cava. The right lung and surrounding tissues were considerably infiltrated with blood, and a large amount of coagulum was found in the cavity of the thorax. CCCOLVII.—Account of a Case of Fatal Wounds from Arroics. By 0. S. De Graw, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Spillman, Troop B, 7th Cavalry, aged 22 years, was wounded ou the morning of June 12, 18G7, about a mile from Fort Dodge, Kansas, by a party of Kiowa Indians, who made a dash upon the herd of horses he was guarding, and inflicted three arrow-wounds: The first in the right shoulder; the second in the right side, the arrow glancing from a rib, and making a wound similar to a stitch, about three inches in length; and the third through the right lumbar region, penetrating the abdominal cavity to a depth of about eight inches or more. The arrow causing the wound in the side was removed by cutting the arrow in two, and then drawing out the parts. The arrow in the lumbar region was removed with great difficulty. The wound being enlarged, two fingers were inserted on either side of the shaft until the base of the iron head was reached, the fingers thus inserted serving as a guide and as a protection to the parts, when, traction being made, the arrow was withdrawn. This latter wound proved mortal, the man dying the next day about 3 o'clock, P. M. His true name was Wise, of Washington. No post-mortem. The two arrows removed were contributed to the Army Medical Museum, and are numbered 5G51 in the Surgical Section. Arrow- Wounds of the Head and Neck.—Special reports of eight cases were received, In five, tlie cranial cavity was penetrated, and four of tlie patients perished. CCCCLVHI.—-Bei^or^ of an Arrow-Wound of the SJcuU. By C. O. Gray, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Krumholz, of Co. H, 22d Infantry, was accidentally wounded at Fort Sully, Dakota, on June 3, 1869, by an arrow, which, entering at the outer canthus of the left eye, penetrated the skull to the extent of two inches, and is supposed to have passed between theARROW-WOUNDS. 147 skull and diiKi mater. Being aclmitted to hospital on the same day, he was chloroformed, and ail operation for extraction was immediately performed. This consisted in sawing nearly through the skull v.'itli a Hey's saw, in close proximity to the arrow. The condition of the injured parts Avas healthy at the time of operation, and the patient's constitutional state was good. The treat- ment consisted in rest, low diet, elevation of the head, cold applications, and saline cathartics. Recoverj^ was rapid, and he returned to duty on June 7, 1869. COCOLIX.—Extracts from Reports of Side and Wounded at Fort McDotvell, Arizona Territory. April and May, 186G. By Charles Smart, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Andrew Snowdon, Co. B, 3d Battalion, l-ith Infantry, was one of a party surprised by Apaches, March 22, 1860, while en route from Maricopa Wells to Fort Goodwin. He was struck on the back of the head by an arrow, which iienetrated his skull. It is said that he was nine days in traveling to Maricopa Wells from the place where he was wounded. On his arrival there he is stated to have been weak and fatigued, but with his intelligence unimpaired. He believed the arrow-head to be within the cranium, as in liulliug on the shaft after the reception of the injury, nothing but the shaft came away. On or about the 10th or 12th of April, he lost his appetite, felt considerable nausea, and appeared to those around somewhat dull and stupid. He rapidly grew worse, so that it was considered advisible to send him to the post for treathient. He was placed on a hay wagon, and made the journey to Salt River on that conveyance—a distance of thirty miles. At this time I was notified concerning the case, and instructed to proceed to Salt River with our ambulance for him. I found him with a full pulse, slow, and somewhat hard; his mental faculties much clouded; hearing distinctly, and giving answer to every question, althongh the answer seldom contained the information desired. He tried to remember his name, but could not. He was troubled with a very persistent vomiting. On April 19th, he was received into the liost hospital; an active cathartic was administered, his head shaved, and cold dressings applied. During the day his stupor increased to such an extent that the sharpest tone failed to make an impression on him. His pulse 50, full and hard ; vomiting much abated. On the 20th, the purgative was repeated, as it had as yet been without effect. The scalp was examined, discovering a small tumefaction, in which was an ill defined sense of fluctuation, situated over the i)arietal side of the left occipito parietal suture. Pressure exercised upon it caused the issue of a small quantity of serous matter from a point in the cicatrix of the arrow-wound. This was enlarged, and a probe passed into it was made to feel along a fissure in the bone, when it struck upon some- thing metallic. The cranium was laid bare by a crucial incision, and with considera- ble difflcidty a hoop-iron arrow-head, one and three-quarter inches long, and half an inch in breadth, was withdrawn from the brain. About a drachm of pus followed it in its exit. During the i^rocednre the patient laj" quiet, except when at times, with- out any assignjible cause, he would burst into a violent scream. After the operation, which was not noticed previous to it, the right side was observed to be paralyzed. April 21st: Pulse as before. Insensibility great. Paralysis of right side more marked ; features drawn to wounded side. Has not eaten anything since his admit- tance, nor for several days previous to that time. Passes his urine when the nurse solicits him, by the application of the urinal. Bowels unmoved, a cathartic enema was administered. 22d: Seems slightly improved. Enema brought away nothing, but during the afternoon of yesterday he had a large involuntary passage. Has eaten nothing; swallows a mouthful of tea occasionally. Pulse 50, 24th: Has eaten nothing—no improvement—pulse less full, and more compressible. 26th: Yesterday, fig-23. ii ou took a few teaspoonfuls of custard. In afternoon, was feverish and delirious. Enema tractld Ti 0*^0 administered. Features sunken and distorted. 27th: Much improved. Has eaten tbebiain. spcc. considerably of a farinaceous preparation. Face more regular in expression. Pulse ^54^sect.i, a. 54, softened. Answers questions readily, but not to the purpose. Cannot remember his name. 30th: Steady improvement. Has eaten well every day since last report. Pnlse G8. Hemiplegia unobservable. Has remembered name, and at times take an interest in what is going on in the ward. Wound of operation healing kindly.148 EEPOET OF SUEGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. During the first ^vcek of May lie continued to improve; caution concerning- diet and an occasional ]>urge being all that ^'aa considered necessary. On tbe 7tb, after eating heartily of some soup, which I afterward learned to have been " somewhat greasy," be became slightly feverish, and during the succeeding night did not rest well. On the 8tb, skin hot; pulse 65, bard, a little head- ache, and occasionally sickness at stomach. Cold to head ordered, and an enema administered. From this time be gradually grew worse, complaining mucb of pain in the bead, and stiffness in the back of the neck, while on the lltb aud 12tb, muscular tremors were the most prominent objective symptom. Unconsciousness set in on the morning of the 13th, and be died quietly about six hours thereafter. Post-mortem examination seven boars after death. Body muscular, rigid, not emaciated. A firm cruciform cicatrix on posterior and left side of scalp. The centre of this cica. trix adherent by finn fibres to bone beneath. In the bone almost corresponding in situation witb the centre of the cicatrix, was a slit half an incb long, and one-eighth of an inch wide, filled in witb recently formed soft tissue, wbich broke down before the handle of a scalpel. From the upper end of this slit a fissure one incb and a half in length, extended to the inter-parietal suture, while from its other extremity another fissure stretched in curved direction toward the ear two inches. The dura mater was adherent to the margin of the slit in the bone, and to the soft tissue which filled it in ; but external to the membrane there was no collection of matter. In the poste- rior lobe of the left cerebral hemisiibere, the track of the arrow-bead was followed downward, forward, and inward, communicating with the posterior cornu of the left ventricle. The brain tissue, to the extent of three-quarters of an incb around the track as a centre, was softened and disorganized. The track of the arrow-bead was filled witb a thick pus, wliicb bad extended thence into the ventricle. The right ventricle was also filled, as were the sub-arachnoidean spaces. No other organ examined. CCCCLX.—Memorandum relative to the SlciiU of a Mexican Killed hy an Arroio. By W. M. NoT- SON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. An unknown Mexican was killed by an arrow-wound in an Indian figbt, whicb occurred seventy-five miles northwest of Fort Concbo, Texas, on February 22, 1868. The arrow perforated the frontal. When I opened the skull, I found an incision extending clear across the opposite hemisphere, touching the dura mater just above the tentorium. The dura mater was stained, but I could find no mark on the skull. When I made the post- mortem I found the arrow-head in the brain. When the Mexican was bit he seized the arrow-shaft witb both bands and pulled it out, tbeu dropped and of course remained unconscious until be died, about six hours. The specimen was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum. [It is figured in the adjacent wood-cut, (Fig. 24.) The arrow-head has been removed from the cavity of the skull and fastened at the point of entrance. Apart from the lesion, the skull is a highly interesting specimen.—Ed.] OCOCLXI.—Memorandum of an Arroic-Woiind of the Face. By P. Middleton, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S.A. Private William Drum, Co. G, 14tb Infantry, aged 20 years, was wounded in a figbt witb Apacbe Indians on November 11, 18G7. One arrow entered over the malar bone of the left side of the face, passed along tbe lower border of the orbit to within half an incb of the nose. Another arrow entered tbrougb the tendon of the latissimus dorsi muscle on the right side, and passed directly backward toward tbe spine under tbe deep muscles, penetrating two and a half inches. He was admitted to the post bospital at Fort Whipple, Arizona Territory, on tbe following day. On November lOtb, I cut down upon the aiTOW-bead in the side, and removed it. The parts healed by tbe first intention,.aud on December 3, 1867, the patient was returned to duty. riG. 24. Cranium penetrated by an arrow tLiougli the left superciliarj'%'idgo. Spec. 5044, Sect. I, A. M. M.AEEOW-WOUNDS. 149 CCCV'JjXII.—Account of an Arrow- Wonnd of the Scali) and of the Le(j. By Henry McElderky, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Eosback, Troop F, fith Cavalry, aged 20 years, was wounded during the niglit of August 29, 1867, in an attack by Indians on Fort Belknap, Texas, by two arrows ; one striking tlie scalp, the other the outer aspect of the left leg three inches below the knee-joint. Missile passed backward and inward, the spike lodging. He Avas admitted from company quarters on September 1, to hospital at Camp Wilson. Cold-water dressings were applied. The arrow- head was excised posteriorly in the popliteal space. Isinglass plaster and fused nitrate of silver locally. He vras returned to duty on November 24, 1867. CCCCLXIII.—Efj9or^ of an Arrow-Wound, of the Neclc. By B. Semig, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Button, Co. K, 32d Infantry, aged 23 years, was wounded in an attack by Apache Indians upon a wagon train in the lower Senorita Valley, Arizona Territory, on May S, 1869, by an arrow which caused a flesh wound of the posterior portion of the neck. He was admitted on the next day to the post hospital at Cami) Crittenden, Arizona Territory. He recovered, and was returned to duty May 17, 1869. CCCGIjXIY.—Accoimts of Two Fatal Arrow-Wounda of the Sl-uU. By W. M. Notson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case 1.—J. C , with two others, were attacked by Indians on September 1, 1870, near the Pecos Eiver, Texas. One man was killed, another escaped, and C received an arrow-Avound of the head, and three gunshot flesh-wounds—one in the arm, another in the breast, and a third in the leg. Seven days afterward he was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Concho, Texas, having traveled part of the distance on foot and the balance by wagon and stage. When admitted his mental condition was good, and as clear and bright as usual. He complained only of weariness from his ride and some slight soreness of the gunshot wounds, and spoke very lightly of the scratch on the side of his head. Water dressings were i ai)plied to the wounds and rest enjoined. The gunshot wounds healed kindly. On the fourth day after admission, the indications being something jnore than irritative fever, special diet was ordered, and aromatic spirits of ammonia was given in small doses. This prescription was afterward replaced by an ordinary fever mixture. On the night of Cianiumwith aiiariw hoadimparteaiuthe ^ ,, , , , , . ? , ligUt sq uaaious bone. Sjiec. 5907, Sect. I, A. M. M. the Sixth day the cerebral symptoms becoming more violent, hydrate of chloral was ordered. On the eighth day a saline cathartic was given, and an etfbrt made by Acting Assistant Surgeon C. W. Knight to reopen the wound of tlie temple. This attempt proved unsuccessful on account of the resistance of the temporal fascia. Doubt as to the cause of the existing symptoms prevented him from making a free incision. The treatment from this u^) to the fatal termination of the case, September 19, 1870, was with counter-irritants, nutriment, and stimulants. The autopsj'^ revealed the site of the injury of the bone half an inch from the external incision, which, when first seen upon admission, was a clean cut nearly healed. Pus was found in the wound, ventricles, andmeniiiges. The pathological specimen, showing an iron arrow-head lodged in the petrous portion of the right temporal bone, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum, and is figured in the wood cut Fig. 25. The following therniograpli (Fig. 26) exhibits the variations of the temperature, as observed from the seventh to the eighteenth day of disease, inclusive.EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 150 Date r 8 9 10 11 12 13 u 15 16 17 18 Tmw of DAV 105 / 103' T 1 1 - V V '— \ \ -A- i 101 r\ -v —\ A- / w 1 I ; 98° — Pulse, j 100 92 84 86 91 80 85 ' ■ 80 90 89 86 78 86 82 80 89 90 74 84 89 Respi- ration, j •JO IS IS 17 I'.i is ■JO 17 U) 19 18 19 18 17 18 18 19 10 1() 10 ir> i:j ! » Fig. 26. Tliennogi-aph of a Case of Arrow-'n'oiind of Brain from September 7, 1870, to September 18, 1873. Fig. 97. in the M. M. Cranium with an iron .^rrow-head impacted left temporal bone. /Spec. 5908, Sect. I, A. Case 2.—Private Martin W , Co. E, 4tli Cavalry, was killed by Indians, on September 30, 1870, twenty miles from Fort Concho, Texas, while on dnty as one of the mail-stage guard from Fort Cbadbonrne. The escort being attacked by a band of Comanches, this soldier was wounded by an iron-headed arrow, which entered the squamous portion of the left temporal bone, and penetrated the left cerebral hemisphere to a depth of an inch or more, causing intracranial bleeding which was speedily fatal. In the specimen which was for- warded to the Army Medical Museum, and which is represented in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 27) the puncture of tbe thin calvaria, without tissuring, is well indicated. Internally there is no splintering. The vitrous table is as cleanly- divided as the outer table. It was Dr. Bill's belief {loc. cit., p. 375,) that penetrations of the skull by arrows were unusually characterized by a linear puncture of the outer table, corresponding to the size of the arrow-head, with a crack usually extending from either edge, proportionate in length to the momentum of the arrow, while the inner table, struck by the arrow's point at a reduced velocity was splintered and depresssd. But such is not the testimony of the specimens in the Army Medical Museum. They show both tables of the calvaria punctui'ed with little or no tissuring externally or internally. In all of the specimens, the151 ARROW-WOUNDS. arrow-lieads have been literally impacted, tlie vitreous table being penetrated as cleanly as the outer. This is in such marked contrast to the results of bayonet or sword thrusts or of the impact of gunshot projectiles as to merit notice. Arrow - Wounds of the Chest.—Seven cases were specially reported. Among them were two remarkable instances of recovery after penetration of the plueral cavity by arrows. CCCCLXV.—Note of an Arroiv-Wonnd of the Chest. By F. Damoitr, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George Duggau, Troop K, Stli Cavalry, was wounded near Camp Willow Grove, Arizona Territory, November 8, 1867, by an arrow, which penetrated the posterior side of the right chest. He died December 17,1867. At the autoi^sy, the arrow was found to have penetrated the chest a little above the diaphragm, with which the head of the arrow was lying in contact. There was also an abscess containing much purulent matter. CCCCLXVI.—Mention of a Fatal Arrow-Wound of the Lung. By Henky Lippincott, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Benjamin McOasey, Troop IT, 7th Cavalry, was wounded at the engagement of Washita Eiver, November 27, 1868, by an arrow which entered the left side at the fourth intercostal space, and passed backward and upward into the lung. Stimulants and opiates were administered with cold-water dressings to the wound. The i)atient expectorated a great deal of blood. Death resulted on November 30, 1868. CCCCLXVII.—Account oj Tivo Cases of Arroic-Wounds, compiled from Memoranda on the Montlily Report of Sid: and Wounded at Fort C. H. Smith, for September, 1866. By H. M. Matthews, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Case 1.—Corporal Alvin H. Stables, Co. D, 18th Infantry, received September 20, 1866, two arrow-wounds in addition to a gunshot wountl of the head. One arrow entered the left chest --.posteriorly, and transfixed the thorax, the arrow-point raising the skin above the right nipple; the other arrow passed through the chest to the left of the median line. The soldier was then scalped by the Indians, and killed. Case 2.—Private Thomas Fitzpatrick, Co. D, 18th Infantry, in an engagement with Indians in Montana, was killed by numerous arrow, gunshot, and contused wounds. One arrow penetrated the chest through the left axilla; another, entering under the right nipple, penetrated the vertebral column; a third perforated the left elbow-joint; a fourth and fifth had entered the thorax pos- teriorly above and below the scapula, A musket ball had passed through the heart, and a second through the right knee-joint. The skull was crushed in from behind by a war club, and there was a tomahawk wound of the left temporal region. CCCCLXVIII.—Report of an Arrow-Wound oj the Lung, resulting in Pleurisy, and follotoed hy Recovery. By A. Muller, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. John Fenske, a civilian, aged 19 years, came to Fort Ridgely, Minnesota, on the night of August 20, 1862, for surgical aid and i)rotectiou, having been w^ouuded on the previous day by an Indian arrow, which was shot a distance of about twelve feet, and had entered the back horizontally between the third and fourth ribs of the left side, close to the vertebrre. The arrow, a barbed one,152 EEPOET OF SUKGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. with tlie head about three inches long, was buried one inch below the surface of the skin, and had penetra ted the left lung. On account of the barbs, it became necessary to make a large perpendicular incision in order to remove the arrow-head, Avhich required for its extraction considerable pulling, the sharp edges having been wedged in between the ribs with such force as to bend them over on each side. After its removal, there was a considerable flow of blood for a few minutes, probably from an intercostal artery. The bleeding, however, was entirely arrested by cold-water applications. The wound having been cleansed and its edges brought together by a strip of adhesive plaster, cold-water dressings were ordered and continued for three days. A healthy suppuration then set in, and the wound closed by granulation in thirteen days. It was evident in this case that the arrow had penetrated the left lung through both pleurfe, which diagnosis was fully corrobo- rated by the objective as well as subjective symptoms. The patient complained of severe pleuritic pains (or stitches) through the whole of the left lung at every inspi- ration. The respiration was greatly accelerated, dyspncea was often very alarming and palpitations of the heart very severe, obliging the patient to rest in an upright position. Occasional bloody sputa? were observed, and his pulse varied, during the i-io. 28. Barbed iutlainmatory process, from 95 to 140. Auscultation and percussion of the thorax iicl^rrroTa revealed an extensive effusion of fluid on the left side, with subsequent hepatization drawing by of the Upper lobc of the left lung to the extent of the palm of the hand. The Dr. Mulier. treatment was strictly antiphlogistic: Eepeated bleeding, (five times in two weeks,) capping intervening, (from six to ten cups each time,) repeated four times in ten days, affording the patient great relief at each repetition; and application of blisters. Internally tartar emetic in progressive doses, nitre and digitalis, were successively administered, under which treatment, aided by low diet, chiefly milk, the effusion gradually disapiieared, and all alarming symptoms subsided. On the twelfth day of treatment, his pulse did not exceed eighty, the effusion in the left pleura had entirely disappeared, with the exceiition of a small accumulation in the lower left lobe. Light vegetable tonics, with iodide of potassium, were now administered, and a full and select diet adopted. The patient left for home on September 30, 18G2, forty-two days after receiving the injury, having so far recovered that only an occasional slight dyspnoea re- mained. The percussion at this time gave a clear tympanitic sound in the vicinity of the wound, followed by a distinct metallic sound to be heard on auscultation of the parts, entirely similar to pnenmo-thorax, which, in this case, was believed to exist to a circumscribed extent, adhesions having formed along the posterior surface of the left lung. He was dismissed with advice to use cod-liver oil. Dr. Mulier reports lately that he had occasion to meet this patient four years after- ward, and that the remaining untoward symptoms, above described, were considerably ameliorated. CCCOLXIX.—Abstract from Ue^ports of an Arroio-Wound of the Thorax. By JosephKuglee, Acting Assistant Surgeon. William Livingston, a private of Troop G, 3d Cavalry, was wounded Indians while herding horses at Fort Stevens, Colorado Territory, on October C, 18(36, an arrow having entered the right side of thorax between the first and second ribs. It was forcibly extracted by the patient, who stated that a great gush of blood followed. After being conveyed in an ambulance over a rough mountain road, he was adjnitted to hospital at Fort Garland, Colorado Territory, on the 12th, in a very Aveak condition, and suffering frightfully from dyspncea. An examination showed effusion of blood into the right pleural cavity, and the lung impervious, owing to the entrance of blood into the bronchii. Hot fomentations were applied to the wound, and stimulants, afterward followed by stimulating expectorants, were administered, under which treatment the patient was gradually improving on the last of October. On the monthly report for November, the patient is borne as convalescent. He was able to walk about, but there was still a collection of serum or pus in right pleural cavitj', and the respiration of that side was merely bronchial. The treatment still consisted of stimulating expectorants, with stimulants and generous diet. In December, he is still reported convalescent. The effusion in the right pleural cavity was diminishing, and air entere*!- more freely into the lung. He was daily gaining strength and spirits, and little doubt Avas entertained of his making a good recovery. He was returned to duty in February, 18G7.153 AEROW-WOUNDS. CCG(JljX^X.—A[emoran(limi of a Case of Arroic-Wounds of the Thorax. Assistant Snrgeoii, U. S. A. " I send to the Army Medical Mnseuiu a specimen of an arrow-wound of the spine. It was taken from the body of a white man wlio was killed by Indians in 1869, at an outpost near Fort Concho, Texas. I found the man dead. There were extracted from his lungs and heart no less than four arrow-heads, and a fifth was impacted at the junction of the rib with the transverse process of the fourth dorsal vertebra. I removed the fourth and fifth vertebrfe and portions of the third and sixth, and forwarded them to the Army Medical Museum. The si)ecimeu shows the arrow-head impacted in the right transverse process of the fourth dorsal vertebra and posterior extremity of the rib. The wound does not intersect with the vertebral canal. I could learn no particulars of the case. Any one of the wounds of the thorax would have been fatal." (FiG. 29.) By William M. Notson, Tig. 29. Arrow iiiiijacted m the transverse process of tlie fourth dorsal vertebra. Spec. 5G73, Sect. I, A. M. il Arroiv-Wound of the Abdomen.—Three instances of penetrating wounds of the abdomen by arrows have been recorded among the cases of multiple wounds in an earlier portion of tliis section. Special reports were made of six other cases of this class. Of the nine cases seven were fatal, and in the two cases of recovery, there is room for doubt whether the arrow-head penetrated the peritouEeal sac The great fatality of arrow-wounds of tlie abdomen is well known, so well known to the Indians that. Dr. Bill tells us, they aim always at the umbilicus. Dr. Bill (loc. cit., p. 385) mentions that Mexicans are accustomed, when fighting Indians, to envelope the abdomen as the most vulnerable part in many folds of a blanket. CCCCLXXI.—i2ej9orf of an Arroic-Wound of the Ahdomen. By H. S. Kilbourne, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Samuel Brown, Troop F, 10th CavalTy, was wounded near Canadian River, Texas, December 2, 1868, by an arrow, which entered the abdomen in the left hypochondriac region, making a punctured wound three-quarters of an inch in length, through which about eighteen inches of the small intestine protruded. Tlie intestine was cut in four places. The wounds in the intestine were closed by sutui'e, and the protruding portion of the gut returned through the wound, which was enlarged for that purpose. When found, the rnan had lain out all night, and was in a state of collapse. He was carried along in an ambulance, but died on the second day, not having rallied from the shock of the injury. CCCCLXXII.—Note of a Fatal Arrotv- Wonnd involving the Liver., complicated hy Gunshot Injuries. By S. M. HoRTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Bugler Edwin L. Train, Troop D, 2d Cavalry, aged 17 years, was wounded at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, June 11, 1807, in a fight with Indians. He received a gunshot fracture of tlie riglit arm, a gunshot wound in the left side of chest, and an arrow-wound of the liver. He was admitted to the post hospital. Several fragments of bone were removed from the right arm, and the arrow was extracted by forcing it tlirough the body. He died on June 12, 1867 CCCCLXXIII.—Mention of an Arroic- Wound hy ichich the Body teas Transfixed. By C. E. Goddard, Surgeon U. S. A. John Locke, an emx^loye of the sutler at Fort Rice, Dakota Territory, was accidentally wounded in February, 1868, by an arrow, which entered the back, three inches to the right of the 20154 EEPOET OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. fifth Inmliar vertebra, and emerged about two iiiclies to the right of the eiisiforin cartilage. During the evening following, the patient lost about eight ounces of blood externallj', and a small amount internally. He was confined to his bed some two weeks, suffering from irritative fever and circumscribed peritonitis. In four weeks he was walking about; and by July 1st, was actively employed. The arrow was contributed to the Army Medical Museum. CCCCLXXIV.—Account of an Arrow-Wound of the Abdomen. Bj- J, P. Kimball, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James W. Cooper, Co. E, 31st Infantry, aged twenty years, received, in a fight with Indians near Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, August 20, 18G8, an arrow-wound of the abdominal parietes. The missile entered over the centre of the eighth rib of the right side, and passed downward and forward, to near umbilicus. He also received an incised wound of the right hip. He was admitted to the post hospital on the day of injnrj', complaining of excessive pain. Chloroform was administered, and cutting down upon the head of the arrow, immediately above the umbilicus, it was withdrawn through the incision. The patient reacted promptly, and was doing well until September 25th, when he suddenlj- experienced a severe pain in the right hyi>ochondriac region, and complained of a gurgling sensation. He became faint, and evinced symptoms of internal haemorrhage. Cold water was applied to the abdomen, and anodynes were administered. On Sei)tember 30th, he was slowly imi)roviug; and on December 31,1.808, he was still under treat- ment. This man was returned to duty in February, 1809. CCCCLXXV.—.Report of an Arrow-Wound of the Bad: and Kidney. By Calvlnt DeWitt, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Conrad Tragesor, Troop I, 8th Cavalry, was wounded in an engagement with Apache Indians, at Sunflower Valley, Arizona Territory, March 9,1870, by an arrow, which entered the left side, about four inches from the spine, and above the crest of the ileum, from below upward. The kidney evidently' was injured, as the patient passed bloody urine in small quantities, and frequently. His face was pale, anxious, and expressive of great pain; pulse weak. He was couvej'td in an ambulance to Camp McDowell, Arizona Territory, a distance of thirty miles, over a rough, stony, and hilly road. He died the next day. At the autopsy, it was found that the arrow had trans- fixed the kidney, entering it on the external border, at the juncture of middle and lower thirds emerg- ing f rom the posterior surface near the internal border, a few lines below the pelvis. A large irregular piece, about one inch long, and half an inch thick, was torn from the posterior border of the kidney at the place of entrance, evidently by the traction made in extracting the arrow, leaving the head behind. The kidney was otherwise normal; the abdomen was filled with blood. CCCCLXXVI.—Account of an Arrotv-Wound of the Pelvis and Abdomen. By J ames P. Kimball, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. To-Kah K-ten, or " he that kills his enemy," an Indian scout, in a quarrel with a fellow-scout, at Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, Januar^^ 3, 1870, received a penetrating arrow-wound of the pelvis and abdomen. The arrow entered midway between the right ischium and the anus. The shaft of the arrow having been withdrawn before he came under surgical observation, the exact direction of the arrow could not be determined, but, as the blood marks on the shaft showed that it had penetrated about twelve inches, and the arrow-head would make at least three inches more, it is sui)posed that the arrow had passed up through the i^elvis into the abdomen. Opiates were administered, and light diet and perfect quiet enjoined. The case apparently progressed favorably for several days, when peritonitis supervened, and death ensued January 18, 1870.155 AEEOW-WOUNDS. Miscellaneous Arroio- Wounds.—None of the forty-eight cases of arrow-wounds men- tioned in the nine following reports proved fatal. With one exception the lesions impli- cated the soft parts only. The regions injured were the scalp or face, or neck in three instances; the parieties of the chest in six; the long muscles of the back in seven; the abdominal muscles in two; the hip or buttocks in three; the testis in one ; the shoulder or arm in thirteen ; the fore-arm or hand in six; the thigh or leg in seven. A few cases of extraction of arrow-heads, and an instance of brachial aneurism cured by digital com- pression are noticeable in this series. CCCCI;XXVII.—Remarl{s on an Arrow- Wound of the Bad-. By J. P. Kimball, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal Edward Monagban, Co. C, 31st Infantry, aged 24 years, was wounded in a skirmish with Indians near Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, on November 6,1867, by an arrow, which entered just below the inferior angle of the right scapula, and, passing around the ribs, came so nearly through in front, that the position of the head could be clearly made out. He was at once admit- ted to the post hospital. There was no swelling or discoloration, and but little haemorrhage. He was somewhat excited, having walked nearly two miles after the reception of the injury. An incision one inch in length, and about one inch in depth, was made through the pectoralis major muscle, two inches above and a little to the outside of the right nipple. The arrow-head was then removed through the'incision, and the shaft removed through the wound of entrance. Three days later, the anterior wound was healing by first intention; the posterior wound suppurated slightly. On November 26, 1867, both wounds had healed, and the patient was returned to duty. CCCCLXXVIII.—Wote concerning an Arrow- Wound of the Lumbar Region. By Eedfoed_Sharpb, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Captain E. M. Heyl, Co. M, 9th Cavalry, aged 26 years, Avas admitted to the post hospital at Fort McKavett, Texas, on November 28, 1869, with an arrow-wound of the left lumbar region, midway between the spine and nmbilicus, received in an engagement with Lipan Indians, at the headwaters of the Llano River, Texas. The wound had a direction oblique and backward. He recovered, and returned to duty December 25, 1869. CCCCLXXIX.—Report of an Arrow- Woimd of the Arm, follotved by Aneurism, By J. N. McChand- LESS, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. PriA-ate James Burridge, Co. C, 14th Infantry, aged 22 years, was wounded near Bower's Eanche, Arizona Territory, November 11, 1867, by an arrow, which struck the arm about two inches above the elbow. Traumatic aneurism followed, and on January 3d, digital compression was employed, and continned for twenty-four hours. Before compression, the tumor was about the size of a pigeon's egg, soft and pulsating. One week after the compression, it was reduced to half the size. On January 15th, the compression was repeated for twenty-four hours, and on January 18th, the tumor was almost imperceptible. The patient was returned to duty January 20, 1868. CCCGLXXX.—Mention of an Arrow-Wound of the Hand. By J. B. Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U.S.A. « Private Edward M. Detterer, Co. G, 4th Infjxntry, was wounded at Smoky Hill, Kansas, July, 1867, by an arrow, which split the metacarpal bone of the right thumb down to the trapezium. Ampntation at the metacarpal jf)int was performed, and the radial artery ligated above the wrist on account of haemorrhage. He was discharged from service August 26, 1867.REPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 156 CCCCLXXXI.—Account of Tioo Cases of A^-row-WouncIs occurring near Bower^s Bamhe, Arizona Territory. By P, Midbleton, Assistant Surgeon, U, S. A. Private William Hardwiclc, Co. C, 14th Infantrj', aged 45 years, was wonnded in an engage- ment witli Indians on November 11, 38G7, by arrows, in the left thigh and right arm. One missile penetrated the rectus femoris muscle at the centre, and passed upward and inward to the bone. Another arrow entered through centre of belly of biceps muscle, and penetrated to the bone. I administered chloroform, enlarged the wound of the thigh, and removed the arrow on the field. On the following day, he Avas admitted to the post hospital at Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory. On December 15tli, both wounds had healed, but the patient had onlj- slight use of his leg. He was, however, steadily improving, and on December 28th, was able to walk on crutches. He was returned to duty in January, 18CS. CCCCLXXXrr.—E^yor^ 0/ an Arrow Wound of the Thigli. By B. Semig, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James F. Tompkins, Co. K, 32d Infantry, aged 2G years, was wounded April 20,18G9, in an attack by Aijache Indians upon a wagon-train, in the Santa Rita Mountains, by an arrow, which caused a flesh-wound of the anterior portion of the lower third of the left thigh. He Avas admitted, on the same day, to the post hospital at Camp Crittenden, Arizona Territory. He recovered, and was returned to duty May 22, 1869. CCCCLXXXIII.—Note relative to a Case of Becoverij after numerous Wounds from Arrows. By W. S. Tremaine, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant James Murray, Co. B, 3d Infixntry, aged 34 years, in an attack by hostile Indians on the Marl Station on Bear Creek, Indian Territory, May 31, 1870, received seven arrow-wounds; two on the anterior surface of the right arm, one in the right axilla, one on the right side of the chest near the border of the axilla, two on the left arm, posterior surface, near the elbow-joint, and one on the left temple. He was admitted on June 1st to the i)ost hospital at Fort Dodge, Kansas. The wound on the right arm, uear the deltoid, discharged, and there was slight exfoliation from the humerus. He was treated with simple dressings, and was returned to duty in July, 1870. CCCCLXXXIV.—Memorandum relative to an Arrow - Wound of the Testis. By A. H. Smith, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. While serving at Fort Bliss, Texas, in 186G, I had occasion to attend a Mexican herdsman, who had received a wound in the testis from an arrow shot by an Apache Indians. The hoop-iron arrow-head had lodged in the testicle, and the external wound had nearly healed over at the time I saw him, about three months after the reception of the wound. It was not difiicult, however, to detect the position of the foreign body and to extract it. Upon its removal the wound cicatrized Fig. 30. Arrow-lirad of Apache Indians. „ ^ ™, . . -,^1^x1 a nTni;,™! .vpec. 5641, Sect. I, A. M. M. (Nat. size.) Anely. The spccimcn was transmitted to the Arm;y Medical Museum. [It is figured in the Avood-cut, Fig. 30.—Ed.] CGCCLXXXY.—31 einoranda of Forty Cases of Arrotc - Wounds. Condensed from reports. By D. C. Peteks, Surgeon, U. S. A.; J. M. Dickson, M. D., T. H. Snow, M. D., R. Westeri.ing, M. D., J. H. McMahon, M. D., B. Semig, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeons: S. M. Horton, H. McElderry, J. P. Kimball, H. Turner, Assistant Surgeons, U. S. A., and Surgeon J. F. Weeds, U. S. A. Private John Ahern, Troop L, 8th Cavalry; Camp Willow Grove, Arizona Territory, Novem- ber 8, 18G7; slight arrow-wounds in the back and left shoulder. He had recoA'ered December 9, 18G7. Sergeant George Aldrich, Troop C, 2d Cavalry, aged 33 years; Peno Creek, Dakota Territory, Decembe;', 18GG; wound in right lumbar region by an iron-headed arrow ; treated in post hospital at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, and returned to duty December 31, 1866.AEEOW-WOUNDS. 157 Private Joseph A. Arkee, Troop I, 3d Cavalry; engagement with ISTavajo Indians near Fort Sumner, New Mexico, July 9, 18G9; arrow-wound of right shoulder, passing through below the deltoid 5 recovered. Pa-yan-za, Indian scout; Eocky Canon, near Donner and Blitzen Creek, Oregon, March 14, 1868; slight arrow flesh-wound of the arm; transferred to Camp Harne3', Oregon; recovered and returned to duty. Big Mack, Indian scout; Eocky Canon, near Donner and Blitzen Creek, Oregon, March 11, 1868; slight arrow flesh-wound of the arm; transferred to Camp Harney, Oregon; duty. Private Frank Burr, Troop D, 3d Cavalry; Sierra Diabola, Texas, in an engagement with Miscallero Apaches, October 18, 1867; arrow-wound of right fore-arm; returned to duty. Private John Butler, Troop I, 6th Cavalry, aged 26 years; Paint Creek, Texas, March 6,1868; arrow-wound of upper third of left fore-arm ; treated in post hospital at Fort Griffin, Texas, and returned to duty on March 11, 1868. Private Eoberf Clinton, Troop I, 3d Cavalry; engagement with Navajo Indians, near Fort Sumner, New Mexico, July 9, 1869; arrow-wound of the back below spine of the scapula; recovered. Private John Cooley, Troop G, 3d Cavalry; Purgatory Creek, Colorado Territory, October 3, 1866; arrow flesh-wound, a few inches in length, on left side of the thorax; treated in post hospital at Fort Garland, Colorado; recovered ; duty. Private John Craig, Troop L, 8th Cavalry; Camp Willow Grove, Arizona Territory, Novem- ber 8,1867; arrow perforating wound of the left hand; transferred to Camp Mojave, Arizona Territory; duty. Private Bartholomew Creeden, Troop I, 3d Cavalry; engagement with Navajo Indians, near Fort Sumner, New Mexico, July 9, 1869; slight arrow-wound of the left arm ; recovered; duty. Private James Daily, Troop D, 3d Cavalry, Sierra Diabola, Texas, October 17, 1867; arrow flesh-wound through the right thigh above the patella ; treated in post hospital at Fort Bliss, Texas, and returned to duty October 26, 1867. William Fee, a citizen, aged 22 years; Crazy Woman's Fork, Dakota, December 1, 1867; slight arrow-wound of muscles of right side of the abdomen; treated in post hospital at Fort Philip Kearney, and discharged December 8, 1867. Private Gottlieb Harr, Co. C, 18th Infantry, aged 22 years; Crazy Woman's Fork, Dakota Territory, December 4, 1867; slight arrow flesh-wound of the anterior surface of the left thigh; treated in post hospital at Fort Phil Kearny: doing well; duty. Sergeant John F. Kilmer, Troop L, 3d Cavalry, aged 24 years ; June 24, 1870; arrow-wound l)enetrating the right arm at the inferior third; treated iii post hospital at Camp Verde, Arizona Territory; returned to duty in July, 1870. Private Charles Hofl'aian, Troop I, 6th Cavalry, aged 28 years; Paint Creek, Texas, March 6, 1868 ; arrow-wound in upper third of the left thigh; treated in post hospital at Fort Griffin, Texas, and returned to duty March 31, 1868. Private George Johnson, Troop L, 8th Cavalry; Camp Willow Grove, Arizona Territory, November 8, 1867; slight arrow-wound in the chest over the shoulder-blade; transferred to Camij Mojave, Arizona Territory; duty. Eudolph Kinten, citizen, aged 28 years; Pinery, near Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory-, December 18, 1867; slight arrow-wounds of the right leg and shoulder; doing well December 20, 1867; recovered. Sergeant J. E. Ludlow, Troop G, 7th Cavalry; arrow entered immediately behind the junction of the ninth rib with its cartilage and emerged about three inches Irom the spinal column, same side; discharged from service at Fort Leavenworth, April 8, 1868.158 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. Private Edward Malone, Troop L, 8th Cavalry; near Camp Willow Grove, Arizona Territory, November 8, 18G7; slight arrow flesh-wound above the hip; transferred to Camp Mojave, Ari- zona Territory; duty. Lieutenant Thomas J. March, 7th Cavalry; Washita River, November 27, 18G8; slight arrow- wound of the left hand; recovered; duty. Trumpeter James Marshall, Troop A, 3d Cavalry, aged 21 years; June 24, 1870; superficial arrow-wound of the right hip; treated in post hospital at Camp Verde, and returned to duty in July, 1870. Private Joseph Miller, Troop A, 2d Cavalry; Fort Reno, Dakota Territory, July 19, 18G8; arrow entered over the external edge of the scapula and protruded through the bicipital portion of the middle third of the arm, from whence it was extracted; returned to duty in August, 18G8. Private Hugh Morgan, Troop I, 7th Cavalry; engagement with Indians, November 27, 18G8; arrow flesh-wound of the right arm; treated in post hospital at Fort Dodge, and returned to duty in January, 18G9. Private Clarence G. Morrell, Troop D, 3d Cavalry; Sierra Diabola, Texas, October 17, 18G7; arrow-wounds of the right groin, side, and back; treated in post hospital at Fort Bliss, Texas, and returned to duty on November 19, 18G7. Private Daniel Morrison, Troop G, 7th Cavalry; engagement with Indians, November 27, 18G8; arrow-wound of the scalp ; treated in post hospital at Fort Dodge, Kansas, and returned to duty in January, 18G9. Bugler John IMurphy, Troop M, 7th Cavalry; engagement with Indians, November 14, 18G8; arrow-wound of the right side; treated in jjost hospital at Fort Dodge, Kansas, and returned to duty in March, 18G9. Private Charles Mux-ray, Troop F, 10th Cavalry; Beaver Creek, Kansas, August 21, 18G7; slight arrow-wound of the left leg; treated in post hospital at Fort Hays, Kansas, and returned to duty. Corporal Thomas O'Brien, Troop F, Gth Cavalry, aged 21 years; Fort Belknap, Texas, August 29, 18G7; slight ari'ow-wound of the chest, two inches above the nipple; treated in post hospital at Camp Wilson, Texas, and returned to duty September 5, 18G7. Owine, Indian scout, Rocky Caiion, near Donner and Blitzen Creek, Oregon, March 14, 1868; slight arrow flesh wound of the left arm; transferred to Camp Harney, Oregon. Sergeant Francis Rigby, Troop H, 1st Cavalry; Rocky Canon, near Donner and Blitzen Creek, Oregon, March 14, 18G8; arrow passed through the fore-arm, with cutting edge at right angles to axis of member; treated in post hospital at Camp Harney, Oregon. By some means the arrow-head had been pushed back and became imbedded in the muscles, whence it was extracted; returned to duty in April, 18G8. Private James Ryan, Troop F, Gth Cavalry, aged 29 years; Paint Creek, Texas, March G, 18G8; arrow-wound of lip, treated in post hospital at Fort Griffin, Texas, and returned to duty March 11, 18G8. Lieutenant Gustavus Schreyer, Troop F, Gth Cavalry, aged 29 years; accidental, September 20, 18G7; slight arrow-wound of the left thigh; treated in post hospital at Camp Wilson, Texas, and returned to duty October 22, 1807. Corporal Thomas Sheppard, Troop F, 10th Cavalry; Beaver Creek, Kansas, August 21, 18G7; arrow-wound of the neck; treated in post hospital at Fort Hays, Kansas, and returned to duty. Private George Silence, Troop A, 3d Cavalry, aged 25 years; June 24, 1870; penetrating arrow-wound of the left shoulder; treated in post hospital at Camp Verde, Arizona Territory, and returned to duty in August, 1870.159 ARROW-WOUNDS. Private Francis Stall, Troop D, 3d Cavalry; Sierra Diabola, Texas, October 18, 18G7; arrow- wound of tlie right breast; returned to duty. Private Henry Stockford, Co. G, 31st Infantry, aged 29 years; Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, August 20, 18G8; penetrating arrow-wouud of internal condyle of the left humerus, requiring the united strength of two men to extract it; returned to duty in October, 18G8. Private William Wagerle, Troop I, 3d Cavalry; engagement with Navajo Indians, July 9, 1869; arrow-wound of the right chest, passing into the pleural cavity; recovered; duty. Private Lewis White, Troop C, 9th Cavalry; Horse Head Hills, Texas, September 12, 1808; arrow-wound of sixth rib, left side, seven inches from the spine; treated in post hospital at Fort Davis, Texas, and returned to duty September 26, 1868. Private Michael Zuch, Co. E, 31st Infantry, aged 20 years; Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, August 20, 1808; arrow flesh-wound of the left hip; returned*to duty August 23, 1808. ■ JSTearly all of the foregoing instances of arrow-wounds have been copied from "lists of casualties," a few from special reports. The orders which enjoin upon medical officers to forward to the Surgeon General a list of casualties within two or three days after every engagement or skirmish in which they may be on duty, have been generally, but not universally, observed.* It is specially desirable that such returns should be rendered with the utmost regularity and promptness, because many of the wounded in the field do not come under treatment in the post hospitals, and are not accounted for on the monthly and quarterly reports. When casualties occur in small scouting parties, unaccompanied by a medical officer, the medical ofiicer at the nearest post should assume the duty of reporting the killed and wounded by name, with such facts as can be ascertained regard- ing the nature and seat of injuries. The records of this office prove that he will have, in such cases, the cordial cooperation of line officers ; for many reports have been received, signed by lieutenants or captains of infantry or cavalry, enumerating the casualties in their detachments, with the postscript, " I send this as we have no doctor along with us." The two following reports conform to the instructions that have been issued on this subject: CCCCLXXXVI.—A Report of Two Fatal Cases of Arrow- Wounds. By Alfred D. Wilson, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. A detachment of seven companies of the Fifth Cavalry started from Fort Lyons, Colorado, on May 1, 1809, for Sheridan City, Kansas. On Beaver Creek, Indians were encountered, and a fight ensued. The Indians were i^ursued towards the Republican River. When they reached Prairie Dog Creek, they dispersed, and it was impossible to follow them further. The command then retraced the route, and then marched in a northwesterly direction to the Platte River, and then westerly to Fort McPherson, Nebraska. There w^re several casualties from gunshot wounds, and two soldiers were mortally wounded by arrow-wounds penetrating the thorax; viz, Sergeant John Ford, Troop B, 5th Cavalry. Private C. A. C. Stone, Troop B, 5th Cavalry. CCCCLXXXVII.—Memoranilum from a Report of Casualties in an Indian Engagement. ~R\ J. F. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. In the engagemen tof Companies G and I, 3d Cavalry, with a baud of Xavajoes, near Fort Sum- ner, New Mexico, July 9, 1869, one soldier died from haemorrhage from an arrow-wound of the * See General Orders, No. 355, A. G. O., November 4, 1863, Circular Letter, S. G. O., March 23, 1864, Circular Orders No. 10, S. G. O., October 22, 18()7, and Form 55, Medical Department.160 REPOET OF SURGICAL CASES JN THE ARMY. brachial artery, and four meu were wouuded so severely tliattbey were dismouuted, and, tlie com- mand being- forced to retreat, tbey were probably at once lulled by tbe Indians, as their bodies were afterward found covered with' wounds. These were— Private John Devine, Co. I, 3d Cavalry, brachial artery severed. Private James Cook, Co. I, 3d Cavalry, many wounds. Private William Kerr, Co. I, 3d Cavalry, many wounds. Private Edward White, Co. I, 3d Cavalry, many wounds. Private John Lee, Co. G, 3d Cavalry, many wounds. In this engagement four other soldiers received arrow-wounds of more or less severity, aud were taken to Fort Sumner, and treated in the post liospital. All of these cases terminated favorably. [These four cases are included in the preceding memoranda of forty cases. I have taken the liberty of subdividing the report and classified return made by Dr. Weeds. There was no surgeon with this command ; but the wounded, being taken to the nearest post. Dr. Weeds, the post sur- geon, offered a good and much needed example, by complying with the spirit as well as the I'etter of the circular from this office of March 23, 1864, and the instructions on Form 55, Medical Depart- ment, in forwarding the reqiiired Classified Return of Wounds and Injuries and Report of Casual- ties in the absence of a medical officer attached to the command.—Ed.] The force with which arrows are projected by the Indians is so great that it has been estimated that the initial velocity of the missile nearly equals that of a musket ball. At a short distance, an ar- row will perforate the larger bones without comminuting them. Fig. 31. Section of shaft of seventh right rib of a buffalo with impacted arrow-head. Spec. 4735, Sect. I, A. M. M. or causing a slight fissure Fig. 32. Section of the eleventh right rib of a buffalo fissured by an arrow. Spec. 4736, Sect. I, A. M. M. only, resembling the ef- fect of a pistol ball fired through a pane of glass a few yards off. This is well illustrated in two preparations presented to the Army Medical Museum by Professor Joseph Henry, in which the dense laminated portions of the shafts of ribs of the buffalo are transfixed by arrows. These are represented in the wood-cuts (Pigs. 31, 32 ) The arrow- points penetrating the bones have not produced the slightest splintering, and in one case not even Assuring. The fissure in the right hand figure is much more conspicuous than in the specimen. I have frequently been informed, by offi- cers who served on the Plains, that it was not infrequent for an Indian to send an arrow fairly through the body of a horse or of a buffalo, provided the missile entered one of the intercostal spaces, and did not impinge on bone on the opposite side. That this statement is well founded is rendered probable by the evidence afibrded by a preparation for- warded to the museum by Hospital Steward R Wall, U. S. A., of a portion of the left scapula of a buffalo, with an arrow-head imbedded in it. The barbed iron head of the arrow has entered the venter of the scapula and the. point protrudes from the dorsum, so that the missile must have passed through the thorax. The speci- men is from a buffalo killed near Fort Sedgwick, in 1860, by a Cheyenne Indian. Fig. 33. Section oi the left scapula of a bufl'alo, transfixed by an arrow. Spec, 4727, Sect. I, A. M. M.ARROW-WOUNDS. 161 From the narrative of their explorations by Lewis and Clarke, from Schoolcraft's History, and from the works of Mr. Squier and other writers on North American ethnology, and the reports of the Commissioners on Indian Affairs, many interesting particulars can be gleaned respecting the use of the bow and arrow, but the most important recent con- tributions to our knowledge of wounds by arrows have been made by Surgeon W. F. Edgar, U. S. A.; Dr. T. C. Henry;* Surgeon B. A. Clements,-}- U. S. A.; Surgeon J. H. Bill,J U. S. A; Assistant Surgeon E. Coues,§ U. S. A.; Professor C. A. Pope, || Dr. A. Muller,** and the authors of the foregoing reports. In the foregoing reports of eighty-three cases of arrow-wounds, twenty-six, including nearly all in which the three great cavities, or the larger bones or joints were involved, proved fatal. A greater fatality would be represented had more complete returns been made.ff In hostilities in the Indian country, military and other exigencies sometimes * Gross. A System of Surgery, 4tli ed. Philadelphia, 1866. Vol. I, p. .361. t Clements, quoted in Hamilton's Military Surgery. t Bill, Amei'ican. Journal of the Medical Sciences, N. S. Vol. XLIV, p. 365. § CouES, The Medical and Surgical Beporter, 1866. Vol. XIV, ^. 321. II Pope, St Louis Medical and Surgical Journal, January, 18G4. ** Dr. Muller rei:)orts some uupuhlished facts of historical as well as surgical interest: " Dakota is the vernacular designation of the Sioux Indians, and the whole nation is divided into seven principal tribes viz. I. Mdewakauton wans; (Village of the Spirit Lake), about 2,000 souls. II. Wahpckutes, (Leaf Shooters), about 500 to 600 persons. III. Walipetonwans, (Village in the Lea,ves), about 1,000 to 1,200 souls. IV. Sisitonwans, (Village in the Marsh), Sisiton, about 2,500 souls. V. Yanktonwanna, (End Village Band), about 4,000 souls. VI. Yanktonwaus, (Village at the End), about 2,400 xjersons. VII. Tetonwans, (Village of the Prairie), about 12,500 souls. Prior to the great Indian outbreak in Minnesota, iu August, 1862, the three first-uamed bands occupied the country east and south of the Red Wood River, on the Upper Minnesota River, and were, therefore, called Lower Sioux; while the four last-named lived further west, on the Upper Minnesota River, at Lac-qui-parle, at and west of Big Stone Lake, or Lake Travers, to the Upper Missouri River, in Dakota Territory, and called " Upper Sioux," where the " Tetous" still reside; while all the rest of the tribe, were driven from the State of Minnesota in 1862, and are now scattered all over the western plains, on both shores of the Missouri River. In their warfare they use all sorts of shot-guns, from an old flint-lock musket to the best kind of Kentnckj' rifles, the younger and jioorer of them being obliged to resort to hows and arroics for the chase and for battles The arrow shafts are prepared from hickory, white ash, and a willow which grows iu abundance along the banks of all the streams. The arrows of the same tribe are not always made of the same size and material, and are shaped by the savages according to their prevailing fancy; the Tetous, on the Upper Missouri,for instance, using both iron arrow heads and also those made out of flint. No iiarticular difference exists between the war arrow and the arrow for the chase, although most of the Indians are in the habit of paintingthe shafts of their arrows prior to their going on the war jjath, with red and other colors. For the chase of smaller birds and other animals, arrows without heads are used, a knob of different size being cut out of the wood the arrow is made of in place of the head. In order also to prevent the easy extraction of the arrow head, the war arrows are often only glued to the shaft, which glue beconung softened from blood, &c., readily detaches the head from the shaft. Burning punk is also often attached to the arrow, for the purpose of setting fire to houses, &c. The iron heads are prepared by the Indians, and also furnished iirincipally by blacksmiths in the Government employ. The Indians make them out of hoop and sheet iron, the shape and sharpness being given by means of a file, according to convenience. No radical difference exists in the arrow heads of dift'erent tribes. In the same quiver of an Indian belonging 1^) any one tribe, a great variety of different shajied arrow heads will be found, which proves that the same tribe follows no special type, but fashions them according to any kind of taste. The shallow groove which exists longitudinally down the entire length of each shaft, has, to my knowledge, no particular object, and the feathers used on the arrows are taken from almost any bird, such ones possessing gay colors being pre- ferred, principally by the Upper Sioux (Sisitous) Indians. The various colored bands at the rear end of the arrows arc purely ornamental, and have no other significance, so far as I could'ascertain. tt I cannot find on file in the War Department reports of the casualties of the engagement in which Brevet Lieutenant Colonel W. J. Fetterman, Eighteenth Infantry, and forty-nine soldiers, were killed, most of them by arrow-wounds, near Fort Philip Kearney, December 21, 1866; or of General W. S. Hancock's engagement with the Cheyeunes, at Pawnee Fork, on April 13, 1867; or of Lieutenant Colonel G. A. Custer's attack on the Black Kettle Band, at Washita, Novem- ber 27,1868 ; or of Major E. A. Carr's affair with the Sioux, at Beaver Creek, October 18,1868 ; or of Major A. W. Evans's fight with the Comanches, December 25,1868; or of the encounter of Major E. A. Baker, with the Piegans, at Mountain Chief, Montana, January 23, 1870. In all of these engagements the newspapers state that arrows, as well as fire-arms, were employed by the Indians.—Ed. 21EEPORT OF StJEGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 162 Fig. 34. Wire loop for extracting arrow-lieads embedded in soft parts, (After a drawing by Dr. Bill.) preclude the possibility of rendering the returns required of medical officers. For exam- ple, in several recent instances, the surgeon's own name would be among those appearing m the list of killed or wounded. But, whenever practicable, it is to be desired that full returns of the casualties in these skirmishes and expeditions should be made, and that medical officers should specify the nature and seat of injuries minutely.* Eeference to the reports here printed, and to the papers that have been cited, will suggest most of the facts we possess in connection with arrow-wounds and their treatment. The methods of extracting arrows are de- scribed in detail by Dr. Bill, and several ingenious expedients are described for re- moving the barbed heads of arrows when buried in the soft parts or large cavities, or when impacted in bone. In an instance in which a Navajoe arrow had penetrated the lung for five inches. Dr. Bill succeeded in removing it by means of a snare, as represented in the preceding wood-cut; (Pig. 34), the arrow-shaft being used as a guide to the wire, and the great danger of detaching the head from the shaft being avoided. ■ Where arrow-heads are lodged in bone and cannot be detached by slight traction, aided by a gentle rocking motion of the shaft, the plan which Dr. Bill advises is to procure a piece of well- annealed iron wire, two and a half feet in length, to pass the ends through the holes in a long suture wire-twister, and secure them to its handle (Fig. 35) leaving a loop at the distal extremity (Fig. 36). The loop passed over the feathered end of the shaft is to be thrust down to the other extremity and made to snare the arrow-head, and, the wire being tightened, the foreign body and instrument are to be withdrawn together. Dr. Bill suggests that two straightened catheters soldered together would answer in place of the wire-twister, and the ecraseur now supplied with the army field-instrument cases would probably prove a yet more convenient and reliable implement. But, whenever possible,' it will be preferable to cut down upon the arrow-head and.to remove it with forceps ;—for the surgeon should not work in the dark. The subject of the treatment of arrow-wounds may be passed over with this brief reference to the writings of the medical officers whose observations of such injuries have been most extensive. Further on is an abstract of a case of an arrow-head forming the nucleus of a vesical calculus. In accordance with the plan of this report, it is placed among the operations for lithotomy.- The Army Medical Museum possesses also two remarkable specimens of the penetration of bone by stone arrow-heads. Both appear to Fig. 35. Wire-twister recommended by Dr. Bill. It should bo twelve incbes long (From Dr. Bill's paper.) Fig. 36. Wire loop twLstedonce on itself for snaring imjiacted ar- row heads. (From Dr. Bill's paper.) * In examining the reports, it is often difficult to decide wliether a contused wound that is cited, should be classi- fied wiijh the gunshot, or with other injuries, or to obtain any clew to the cause of an incised or iranctured wound. By noting these particulars, medical officers will greatly facilitate the work of consolidating their re]iorts and arranging the statistical information contained in them.163 ARROW-WOUNDS. large number of bones Fic. 37. Stone arrow-head imbedded iu the spinous process of a lumbar vertebra. Spec. 5553, Sect. I, A. M. M. [Natural size.] Fig. 38. Koverse view of the forogoixig specimen. Fig. 39. Cranium with a stone arrow-head in the left orbit. Spec. 5531, Sect. I. A. M. M., Ke- dncod i.J be of great antiquity One was discovered, in looking over a exhumed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. T. Comfort, from tumuli near Fort Wads worth, Dakota, in the course of his inter- esting explorations of the Indian mounds, in that vicinity, in 1869, and consists of the spinous pro- cess of one of the lumbar verte- brae, in which a small quartz arrow-head is encysted. The missile is so overlaid by new osseous formation, as to prove that the wounded man * survived the injury for many months at least. Two views of the specimen are exhibited in the wood-cuts adjoining, (Figs. 37 and 38.) The other preparation is a cranium transferred to the Army Medical Museum, by the Smith- sonian Institution. It is a skull of an Indian, of advanced age, obtained in Alameda County, California, by Dr. C. Yates. A long flint arrow-head has penetrated the cranial cavity through the left orbit. The lower maxilla is fractured almost vertically to the left of the symphy- sis. The wood-cut (Ym. 39), shows the form of the cranium and the position in which the flint was found impacted. Stone arrow-heads are still used by many of the North American Indians*. Many specimens collected in Arizona, California, Utah, and Oregon, have been forwarded to the museum. It was believed by the collectors that these, in many instances, were poisoned arrows. Eepeated experiments that I have made of inserting the points beneath the skin of small animals, as frogs, birds, and mice, have had negative results, the punctures healing readily, and the animals surviving. Tho Indians may dip their arrow-heads in rattlesnake venom, or the decayed livers of animals, as is commonly stated ; but it is more than doubtful if the arrows thereby become poisonous.f Dr. Bill suggests the employment of archers, with regular troops, to pick off sentinals noiselessly; but he remains more strictly in his province as a medical officer in advising a cuirass for soldiers employed in Indian hostilities. * Lieut. E. G. Beck-witli, 3d Aitillery (Reports of Explorations for a Route for the Pacific Railroad, Vol. II, p. 43, of 2d Eeport), gives tho following description of the manufacture of these stone arrow-heads by the Pitt Eiver Indians of California: " One of them seated himself near me, and made from a fragment of quartz, with a simj>le piece of round bono, one end of which was semi-spherical, with a small crease in it (as if worn by a thread) the sixteenth of an inch in depth, an arrow-head, which was very sharp and piercing, and such as they use on all their arrows. The skill and rajiidity with which it was made, without a blow, but by simply breaking the sharp edges with the creased bone by the strength of his hands—for the crease merely served to prevent the instrument from slipping, affording no leverage—was remarkable." tPAE^!, ed. Malgaigue, p. 183, and the Lyon edition of 1652, p. 287. Also Balingai.l, Outlines of Military Surgery, 5th ed., Edinburgh, 1855, p. 399; and Professor F. H. Hamilton, M. D., Treatise on Military Surgery, New York, 1865, p. 525. There has always been a wide-spread belief in the poisoning of arrow-heads. Every one will recall the "JVcc venenatis gravida sagittas," in Horace, (Od. I, 22, viii.) Pliny relates (Lib. XVI, cap. 35,) of the famous Scythian bowmen : "ScythoR Sagittas tingunt viperina sanie, et Immauo sanguine, irremediaUle id scelus mortem ilUco affert levi tactu." Under the articles "Toxicum" and "Sagitta," in the lexicon of Facciolati and Forcellini, many references to similar allusions by classical authors may be found.KEPOKT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 164 POISONED WOUNDS. The examples of poisoned wounds re|)orted were Lut few. No instances of glanders, or malignant pustule, or of hydrophobia, or of dissection wounds occurred, and the instances of serious results from the stings or bites of insects, or of venomous serpents were rare. Many specimens of so-called scorpions and tarantul93 and other arachnids were* sent by medical officers to the museum, and large scolopendrse, with information that they were considered very venomous at the posts at which the officers were stationed; but without any sufficient evidence that their bites or stings had been attended with any serious results. Snake Bites.—Five examples of poisoned wounds from bites by reptiles were reported. Only one was fatal, and the fatal result in that case was due to secondary complications. CCCCLXXXVIII.—Memorandum of a Case of SnaJce Bite. By J. V. D. Middleton, Assistant Siirgeou, U. S. A. Private Theodore E. Turner, Troop D, 4tli Cavalry, aged 29 years, was bitten by a rattlesnalce at Fort Conclio, Texas, June 27, 1866. The bite opening the phalangeal joint of the left thnmb, caused violent inflammation. Chronic inflammation ensued, which resulted in the destruction of the joint. On January 23, 1869, tbe patient was admitted to the post hospital at Austin, Texas, at which time the joint was swollen and exquisitely painful on the slightest motion, the anterior and left lateral ligament being destroyed by ulceration. The patient was feverish, unable to sleep from pain, and desirous of having the thumb amputated. On tbe date of admission the medical officer in charge administered ether, and amputated tlie thumb above the phalangeal articulation by the circular method. There was very little hjcmorrliage and that little was suppressed by torsion of the arteries. The dressing was made with adhesive strains, carbolic acid, and oil. The pain eased, tlie appetite improved, and the patient slept well. The wound bealed by January 30, 1869 and the man was soon afterward returned to duty. CCCCLXXXIX.—Memorandim of a Recovery from a BattlesnaJce Bite. By A. B. Campbell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. A private of tbe 13tb Infantry was bitten in the throat by a rattlesnake of large size. {Crotahis durissus, Linn.) near Camp Cooke, Montana Territory, in August, 1868. The wound was immediately sucked by a comrade. The man reported at the post hosjiital at Camp Cooke, three bours after the accident, which happened some miles from cami). The only noticeable appearance was a slightly wild look about the eyes, although the man did not seem to be the least alarmed. His thioat was bound up in olive oil, which was rancid, but the only kind on hand. The region of wound was hard and somewhat painful, probably from being bruised by the teeth of the man sucking the wound, and remained so for about three hours. There were no further bad conse- quences from the injury, and the jiatient was soon returned to duty. No internal remedy was administered.POISONED WOUNDS. 165 COCCXO.—Report of a Case in which a Bite from a Eattlesnalce proved Fatal. By Jules Le Car- PENTiER, M. D,, Acting Assistant Siirgeou. Private William Robinson, Troop B, 3d Cavalry, aged 37 years, and remarkable for the singu- larity of bis conduct, was known in bis comjiany as a suake-cbarmer, baviug many times bandied poisonous snakes witbout being injured. On tbe morning of July 13, 1809, he was detailed as guard witb tbe berd at Fort Oummings, New Mexico, wben, in tbe presence of tbe berders, be succeeded in catcbing a rattlesnake, and proving bis x>ower as a sorcerer. Tbe performance being over, and tbe snake killed, be caugbt sigbt of anotber of tbe same class, and tried to cbarm tbis as be bad tbe otber. But bere bis power failed. He was bitten in tbe middle finger of tbe rigbt band. He was immediately admitted to tbe post bospital, complaining only of a little smarting tbat migbt be comi)ared to tbe pain following tbe sting of a bee or a wasp. A ligature was ai^plied above tbe wound ; tbe two injuries made by tbe fangs were enlarged witb a bistoury; ammonia and tbe actual cautery were applied, and wbiskey ordered in large doses frequently repeated. Tbe constitution of tbe patient being broken down and poor, I bad doubts, from tbe beginning, as to bis recovery. Vomiting- soon came on, but was stopped witbout trouble. Tbe swelling of tbe band and arm increased gradually, sbowing tbe particular livid andyellowisb tint following tbe bites of poisonous snakes. A blister was applied to tbe bitten finger, tincture of iodine used, and two ounces of wbiskey given every two bours until ebriety was induced. Tbe pulse, wbicb was very mucb reduced, at first gained gradually under tbe influence of stimulants. Two grains of opium were given at nigbt; tbe patient slei)t well, and on tbe next day complained only of numbness in tbe arm. Tbe swelling- bad extended as far as tbe sboulder-joint, and tbe blood, wbicb was very fluid, was incessantly running from tbe wounds. Carbolic acid and cerate were applied to tbe arm, witb stimulants internally. On tbe 15tb, bis general condition was good; tbe swelling bad somewbat augmented; tbere was not so mucb lividity, but tbe yellowisb bue bad increased. On tbe IGtb, be complained of pain in tbe neck, on tbe side of tbe affected limb, but bis general condition was good. Examining bis genitals, an iron ring six-eigbtbs of an incb in diameter was discovered, imbedded in tbe soft tissues of tbe penis, constricting it to sucb a degree as to bave produced an enormous enlargement of tbe parts. Upon inquiry it seemed probable tbat tbe ring bad been kept on tbe jiarts very long, as a preservative of cbastity; but tbe swelling baving come on, under tbe influence of tbe snake's venom, and tbe patient baving mucb difficulty in passing water, was obliged to complain. Tbe ring- was filed off witb some difficulty. Gangrene destroyed tbe extremity of tbe bitten finger. From tbis date until tbe 30tb, bis condition improved somewbat. Tbe i)rogress of tbe gangrene was stopped, and I disarticidated tbe injured finger at tbe metacarpal articulation. Ansestbesia was readily obtained, but tbe appearance of tbe second stage was bardly perceptible. I was called early on tbe next morning, tbe patient baving been observed to be sinking. I found bim witb stertorous respir- ation, pulse weak and slow, and only partly conscious. Electricity was applied to tbe spine, and brandy and bromide of potassium wore given; but be died about noon July 16, 1869. A necropsy was made one bour after deatb. Tbere was general softening of tbe tissues, particularly on tbe affected side. Tbe blood was black and very fluid—not coagulable. Tbe ventricles of tbe brain were filled witb a large amount of serum ; tbe brain was somewbat congested. Tbe lungs were bealtby, witb tbe exception of a few crude tubercles of recent formation on tbe left side. Tbe rigbt ventricle of tbe beart was empty, and tbe left filled witb dark blood wbicb bad coagulated. Tbe liver and kidneys were bealtby, and tbe gall-bladder very mucb distended witb bile. Tbe intes- tines presented a few livid patcbes on tbe outside. CCCCXOI.—JSfote relative to Two Poisoned Wounds. By lEViNa 0. EOSSE, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. In May, 1869, Mr. E. C , a butcber, was stung on tbe band by a scorpion, at Point Isabel, Texas. He immediately bound up bis band in a mixture of bruised garlic and common salt, tbe popular and domestic remedy for tbese stings among tbe people of tbat section of country. W^ben seen a few bours after tbe reception of tbe injury, most of tbe severe symptoms bad subsided, and uotbing was prescribed. He made a good recovery.166 EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. At the same place, aud about the same time, a large bull-dog was bitten on the nose by a rattlesnake. A native remedy, probably of no value, was also used in this instance—the dog's nose, at aud in the vicinity of the wound, being severely pricked with sharp points of the Spanish bayonet [yucca). A ludicrous exaggeration of the animal's features ensued from the swelling of the tissues about the face and head; he seemed surly and ill for several days, but eventually recovered. CCCOXCII.—Bemarhs on Two Cases of Recovery from Bites of the Water Moccasin. By E. D. Blackwood, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George Williams, 2d Infantry, was bitten at Patona, Alabama, by a water moccasin, {ToxicojMs piscivorus, B. &, G.) The snake was four feet in length; the wound was on the second phalanx of the left index finger. The finger was constricted above the wound, aud free bleeding from it encouraged. Whiskey was freely administered, three quarts {sic) being consumed in two hours succeeding the reception of the injury. Although the patient is not addicted to the use of alcoholic stimulants, he was not affected by the large quantity employed. Believing that a sufficient quan- tity of one poison had been used to neutralize the other, nothing further was done, and, except depression, no ill eifect followed. Next day the patient was as well as usual. That the reptile is capable of producing poisonous effects is evidenced by the case of a negro child of five or six years old, in whom serious prostration and stupor followed the bite of a similar snake. The localeffect was more marked than in Williams's case—the swelling greater, and the parts bitten tinged of a green hue, with considerable injection of the conjunctiva. The wound was over the malar bone. Fatal results from the bites of serpents are comparatively infrequent in this country. We are indebted to Dr. S. Weir Mitchell for dispelling many erroneous views on this subject.* It would appear that only some of the larger crotalidse are deadly, and even they rarely inflict fatal wounds. The adders and vipers and colubrine snakes are not hurt- ful. It is probable that only the larger male rattlesnakes, during the rutting season, have suflBcient venom to destroy life in the large mammals. Dr. J. T. Fayrer, of Calcutta, has had the kindness to supply me with his work on the Thanatophidia of India, soon to be published in London, in which the mortality from snake-bites in Bengal and adjacent provinces, including an area "rather less than half that of the peninsula of Hindostan " was in the year 1869, not less than. ll,416,f and it is his belief that the annual mortality in British India from this cause is not less than 20,000. I question whether so many deaths have occurred on this continent, from such cause, within the historical period. * See Dr. Mitchell's well-known papers in the Smithsonian Contrihutiona for 1861, North American Mcdico-Chirurgical Review, March, 1861, and in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences. t Fayeer. Indian Medical Gazette, January, 1870. X See also B. S. B.veton, Trans. Am. Phil. Society, Vol. Ill, p. 110; Fontana, Trait6 Sur la Venin de la viperes, ^c, (French trans.,) Florence, 1781; Russell, Account of Indian Serpents, t|-c., <f'c. Piorry, Bevue Medicate, 1826, p. 26; Ire- land, Med.-Chir. Trans., Vol. II, p. 398; Home, Fhil. Trans., 1830, p. 75; Boyer, Trait6 des Mai. Chir.,5<' eel., T. I, X). 799. Celsus, De Medicina, Edinburgh ed., 1809, Lib. V, cap. 3. Eedi, 06s. Int. alle Vipere, Firenze, 1664. Charas, Catesby, Barry.167 BURNS AND SCALDS. BURNS, SCALDS, AND FROST BITES. Burns and Soalds.—Under this head two thousand and three cases were reported, nearly all of trivial character, and special reports were not made of any particular cases. Eeost Bites.—Some cases of this class, involving amputations, will be found among the reports of operations. Others, in which special reports were made, are inserted here. Four of these were fatal. OCCOXCIII.—Account of a Fatal Case of Frost Bite. By J. B, Gibard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Fort Fred'Steele, Wyoming Territory, December 9,1870, Private Eicbard Bowen, Co. A, 13tb Infantry, aged 29, an babitual drunkard, was detailed as a member of a wood ijarty ordered to the mountains to iirocure timber. Previous to starting, be and a comrade secretly procured a quantity of wbiskey, of wbieb tbey partook freely during tbe day to sucb an extent as to become considerably intoxicated. Toward evening, owing probably to tbeir condition, they strayed from tbe wagon- train, and lost tbeir way. Tbey remained during tbe nigbt near a stream on tbe bank of wbicb tbey bad built a fire, and Bowen, wbo during tbe day bad waded tbrougb tbe stream, filling bis boots witb water, found it impossible to pull tbem off", tbe water in tbem baving become frozen. Tbe next morning tbey returned to the post, marching eight or ten miles, and Avere both admitted to tbe post hospital. Bowen's boots baving been cut off, bis feet were found frozen solidly to tbe ankle-joints. Two nurses were immediately set to work rubbing tbe feet with snow, while internal stimulants were administered to prevent collapse. After two hours of AUgorous friction and cold water pediluvia, circulation was restored in the skin and motion in tbe joints of the toes became practicable. The feet were then wrapped in cloths wet witb whiskey and surrounded with several layers of cotton wadding secured by bandages. Tbe patient was put to bed and morphia adminis- tered. He passed a comfortable night, and tbe next day, ui^on removing tbe dressings, the feet were found in a very satisfactory condition. The toes were all moveable at tbe patient's will, and the soles alone looked dark and livid. He felt as well as usual, comi)lained of no pain, and enjoyed a moderate appetite. Tbe aijplication of whiskey to tbe frozen parts was continued, and quinine witb tincture of chloride of iron ordered three times daily. He remained in nearly the same condition till the 15tb, when the alcoholic lotion was replaced by lime water and olive oil liniment, on account of tbe removal of the epidermis from some portions of the feet. On tbe afternoon of tbe 15th his appetite and strength commenced to fail. When seen on the morning of the 16th be was remark- ably weaker and his features wore a typhoid expression. His legs were found oedematous up to tbe knees, and tbe feet were less moveable than usual. Milk punch was immediately ordered three times a day, and beef tea at short and regular intervals. He steadily grew worse, and died on tbe morning of the 17tb. CCCGXCIY.—Bemarlcs on a Fatal Case of Frost Bite. By A. A. Woodhull, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant William Earl, Troop G, 7th Cavalry, of robust physique, and usually a temperate man, visited the neighboring town of Las Anima while intoxicated, after tattoo, on tbe night ofREPOET OF SUEGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 1G8 December 21 st, 1870, There ho grew much more intoxicated, and, it was understood, became involved in a fracas. About or after midnight, he left, or was turned from a saloon, and was found in the morning in a wagon near by, in a badly-frozen condition. Tlie thermometer marked 23° below the zero of Fahrenheit during the period of his exposure, and against this excessive cold he was not specially i)rotected. On admission to the hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, about 10 A. M., he was very much prostrated, and both feet and the left hand were frozen. They had been rubbed with snow, and soaked in ice-water before arriving, wliich treatment was continued for more than two hours in a cold room. When first discovered, both feet were stated to be stiff above the ankle. Moderate reaction having set in, he was provided with food, and his feet and hands were enveloped in lint wet with olive oil and lime-water. There was a slight scalp-wound on the left side, and he complained of severe pain and soreness in the stomach, as if from a blow, and of pain in the left shoulder. An examination of the shoulder could detect no injury. He was much depressed in mind at the extent of his accident and at the circumstaiices under which it was received, and at no time rallied so as to be either cheerful or sanguine. For the first four days the patient did reasonably well, and in consequence of his usual ro'bust health, no more disastrous result than the partial loss of his hand and feet was anticipated. A little carbolic acid was added to the dressing. About the 24th, although some sensation remained, it was evident he would lose his toes, and a line of demarkation began to show itself the next day, near the tarsus of the right foot, and a little lower on the left. Both heels were also badly vesicated, and amputation was deferred until it could be determined how deeply the slough would descend, and especially the extent of the injury to the heel. No special treatment was adopted, except as to the regulation of his bowels and the use of opiates to subdue nocturnal i^ains. All this time his comrades noticed his unusual and decided melancholy. On the 27th, perspiration was * observed, but it was ascribed to the artificial heat of the ward. On the 28th, his countenance changed, and he rapidly became Avorse, with some mental aberration. Stimulants were ordered freely. It was then my intention to amputate the next day, if possible. On the 29th both legs, especially the right, were swollen and cedematous, and had an erysipelatous blush, pit- ting deeply on pressure, and precluding the idea of the knife. Beef essence and strong milk punch were freely and constantly given, and two drachms of the tincture of the sesquichloride of iron were ordered to be taken within twenty-four hours. This was steadily continued night and day through- out the case. The following is from the clinical record, December 29th, 9.30 A. M.: Temp. 101|-; 2 o'clock, P. M., 104; pulse 134; respiration 28; 7 P. M.: Temp. 104; pulse 125; respiration 32. December 30th, 7 A. M.: Temp. 102|; pulse 132; respiration 32; 2 P. M.: Temp. 102f; pulse 130; respiration 34; 7 P. M.: Temp. 104 ; pulse 122 ; respiration 35. During all this time he was in a typhoid delirium, and he died at 1.10 P. M. December 31st. The right foot was examined three hours after death, with the view of determining how far a Syme's amputation would have been justified. The flesh of the heels was found softened; the ankle was firmer than was antici- pated, but a section of the anterior tibial, in the lower part of its course, showed it filled with a purulent-looking fluid. No further examination was considered necessary, the whole course of the symptoms pointing so clearly to blood-poisoning. CCOCXOV.—Mention of Two Cases of Frost Bite occurring at Fort AbercromMe, Dalcota Territory. By W. D. WolyertojST, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John W. Owens, Co. A, 20th Infantry, aged 24 years, was admitted to the hospital January 28, 1870, with frost bite of the right foot, which was treated with carbolic acid and olive oil. He was discharged from service while in hospital by reason of his term having e:^ured. Private Alexander Brandt, Co. I, 20th Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted February 13, 1870, with frost bite of the large toe of the right foot, which was treated with carbolic acid and olive oil. When mortification appeared, poultices were used; after separation of slough, a weak solution of carbolic acid and water. He was discharged from hospital on May 10th, and left with his company for Pembina, the wound being not quite healed.FEOST BITES. 169 OCCCXOVI.—Account of Three Cases of Frost Bite, occurring at Fprt Bipley, Minnesota. By C. K. WiNNE, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. On January 11, 1870, Pi-ivate Thomas Sweeney, Co. G, 20tli Infantry, aged 22 years, was admitted to hospital with frost bite of right ear. Simple dressings were api^lied. He returned to duty the next day. On January 18, 1870, Private Charles McCombs, Co. G, 20th Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted with frost bite of right foot. Simple dressings were applied. He returned to duty the next day. On February 18, 1870, Private George W. Depue, Co. G, 20th Infantry', aged 19 years, was admitted with frost bite of right hand. Simple dressings were applied. He returned to duty next day. He was readmitted March 8th, with frost bite of both feet and legs. Simple dressings were applied. There w^as excessive constitutional depression, complicated with pneumonia, No operation was justifiable. He died March 20, 1870, CCCCXCVTI.—Report of Four Cases of Frost Bite, occurring at Fort Snelling, Minnesota. By A. Hegee, Surgeon, U, S, A, On January 8,1870, Private James Smith, Co. E, 20th Infantry, aged 23 years, was admitted to hospital with frost bite of heels and toes of both feet and left ear, which happened when absent, drunk. Ice-water irrigation. He returned to duty January 18, 1870, On January 20, 1870, Private John Stack, Co. E, 20th Infantry, aged 23 years, was admitted with frost bite of the great toe, left foot. Ice-water irrigation. He returned to duty January 21, ;1870. On January 10, 1870, Private William Hausman, Co. E, 20th Infantry, aged 24 years, was admitted with frost bite of the great toe, right foot. Ice-water irrigation. He returned to duty January 28, 1870. On January 26, 1870, Private William Flynn, Co. E, 20th Infantry, aged 24 years, was admitted with frost bite of left heel and right great toe, Ice-wafcer irrigation. He returned to duty February 18, 1870. QGGCHGYllL—Note of a Case of Death from Frost Bite. By P. C. Davis, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Kane, Co. D, 13th Infantry, died at Fort Ellis, Montana Territory, on January 20, 1870, from the effects of exposure to the cold on the night of January 16th, while returning from Bozeman, a town three and a half miles distant from Fort Ellis. He was found on the following morning lying on the snow, in a comatose state, and immediately brought to the hospital, where, upon examination, it was found that both feet and legs were badly frozen nearly to the knees, and that his hands and part of his arms were in the same condition. All efforts to rouse him, or procure reaction, proved unavailing. It is supposed he was very much intoxicated. The thermometer, at 7 A. M. on the morning he was found, was 33° F. below zero. The condition of the man, from the time of his admission until death, would not admit of amputation. 22170 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. SUKGICAL OPERATIONS. The reports for the past five years include minutes of numerous amputations for disease or injury, of many excisions of tlie larger joints, of a number of ligations, and of other operations, such as trachiotomy, lithotomy, and the extirpation of tumors. The more important abstracts will be recorded in full, and the other reports will be condensed in tabular shape. AMPUTATIONS. Two hundred and fifty-one cases of amputations were made the subjects of special report; viz.. One hundred and sixty-four of the upper extremity, eighty-six of the lower, and one of both upper and both lower extremities. AMPUTATIONS IN THE UPPER EXTREMITIES, Amputations of the Fingers.—Of 114 of these operations, sixty-four were on account of gunshot wounds, ten for frost-bites, eight for incised wounds, two for accidents on rail- ways, and thirty for miscellaneous accidents. All of the patients recovered; sixty-one were returned to duty, thirty-seven were discharged as unfit for military duty, and six- teen recovered, but the ultimate disposition made is not yet ascertained. Name. Kank. Co. Eesiment. Nature of injury. Parts removed. Eemarks. 1. Andrew, Cordey 2. Api)leman, Peter 3. Auclieupock, Marion... 4. Banks, Augu.stus 5. Barclay, James 6. Bender, Eberhardt 7. Berry, Grippen 8. Bisehofif, Frauz 9. Borger, Philip 10. Bcswortli, Nathaniel C. 11. Brady, James 12. Brown, Patrick 13. Buinham, William. 14. Bush, Henry. Private... Private... Private... Priviite Private... Private Private Private Private Private Private Private Private... Private... 9th Cavalry 22d Infantry... 37th Infantry .., Ordnance Corps Ordnance Corps 3d Infantry 24th Infantry ... 37th Infantry ... 9th Infantry ... 8th Cavalry 3d Cavalry Gun.shot wound. Unknown Gunshot wound. Fall Left index finger. C. G. 4th Artillery. 10th Cavalrv. 7th Infantry ... Laceration by cir- cular saw. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Bitten by a com- rade. Incised wound... Gunshot wound -. Eailroad accident. Distal third of first phalanx of the right index finger. Eight forefinger, at junction of first and second phalanges. Eight thumb, at metacarpal joint Third and fourth fingers Left index finger, and head of metacarpal bone. Loft thumb, at metacarpo-pha- langeal articulation. Eight index finger, at second joint. Left thumb, in continuity of first phalanx. Left index finger, at metacarpo- phalangeal joint. Left forefinger, one inch from luetacarpo-phalangeal articu- lation. Eight middle finger, at articula- tion of second and third pha- langes. Second finger of right hand, and two-thirds of the second met- acarpal bone. Three fingers amputated, .and portions of carpal and meta- carpal bones excised. Eeturned to duty Mar. 3,1871. Deserted May 20,1870. Eeturned to duty Sep- tember 24, 1867. Eeturned to duty De- cember 26,1868. Discharged January 2, 1868. Eetirrned to duty in March, 1869. Eeturned to duty De- cember 25,1869. Eeturned to duty in JiUy, 1867. Eeturned to duty in August, 1868. Eeturned to duty July 9,1807. Eeturned to duty in Juue, 1869. Eeturned to duty Sep. tember 15, 1870. Discharged January 3, 1868. Discharged from ser- vice Aug dst 10,1867.AMPUTATIONS OF THE FINGERS. 171 Name. Eank. Co. Eesiment. Nature of injury. Parts removed. Eemarka. 15. Cahil, Patrick.. 16. Carter, Monroe. 17. Clark, Artlinr.. 18. Clune, Morris.. 19. Cook, Frank ... 20. Cullen, Martin. 21. Daily, -Jolin 22. Day, Barney 23. DeForester, George. 24. De Forrest, Frank. 25. Dempsey, William. 26. Desmond, Humphrey . 27. De Temple, 28. Dooley, Michael J 29. Dowdy, James 30. Fisher, Thomas 31. Flotchor, Thomas W. 32. FranlUin, A 33. Gardner, Nelson 34. George, Lewis J 35. Good, Batton 30. Hamilton, Frank 37. Hargerty, J Private. Private. Private.. Private. Private. Private. TJnassigned recruit. Private. - Private.. Private.. Private.. Piivate... Private... Private... Private. -. Private... Private... Private... Citizen Private... Bugler ... Private... Private... 13th Infanliy.. 21stF. S. C. T.. 4th Infantry ... 35th Infantry .. 2d Artillery.... 2d Cavalry 38. Harmering, August. 39. Hatzel, John 40. Hennard, Jas. G 41. Hickoy, James 42. Hogaii, John. Private. Artificer .. Private... Private... Private... 9th Colored Cav- alry. Pawnee Scouts. 18th Infantry .. 4th Artillery.. 22d Infantry .■. 15th Infantry . 17th Infantry . 18th Infantry . 42d Infantry .. 9th Cavalry... 4th Infantry .. 14th Infantry . Frost-bite Gunsliot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Incised wound... Lacerated wound by circular saw. Frost-bite , Second and third phalanges of all fingers of left hand. Eight little finger, through meta- cai'po-phalaugeal articulation. Fore and middle fingers, left hand. Index finger, left hand, at meta- carpo-phalangeal articulation. All the fingers of left hand Gunshot wound- Gunshot wound. Gunshot wound. Crushed by the wheel of a cais- son. Frost-bite 7th Cavalry. 9th Cavalry. 9th Cavalry. 7th Infantry . 8th Infantry . E. 17th Infantry . 20th Infantry . 42d Infantry.. Lacerated wound. Bitteu by -a sol- dier. Gunshot wound -. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Necrosis, follow- ing whitlow. Bitten by a sol- dier. Gunshot wound. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound Gunshot wound.. Crushed by wheel of a truck. Gunshot wound. Gunshot wound. Compound frac- ture. Frost-bite Gunshot wound. All the fingers of left'haud and three first toes of left foot. Left little finger, at metacarpo- phalangeal articulation. Eight index finger. Eight index finger, and head of corresponding metacarpal bone. Eight index finger, at second phalangeal articulation. Fourth finger left hand, at meta- carpo-phalangeal articulation. Middle finger right hand, at met- acarpo-phalangeal articulation. Left little finger Second finger and correspondinn metacarpal bone. Middle left and ring fingers Right index finger at first joint. Last phalanx of right thumb. Left thumb Left index finger, and fractured end of metacarpal bone. Index, at metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. Second and third phalanges left index. Eight index finger, at middle of second phalanx. Eight thumb at first joint, and all the fingers, including the third, fom'th, and fifth meta- carpal bones. Eight thumb at middle of second phalanx. • Three fingers at the second joint, and thumb at carpo-metacarpo articuLation. Eight index finger, at middle of second i)halans. Eight index finger Little finger of right hand, and head of metacarpal bone. Discharged from ser- vice May 15, 1868. Discharged June 27, 1868. Eeturned to duty Sep- tember 10, 1868. Discharged May 12, 1870. Discharged April 9, 1807. Eeturned to duty Au- gust 4,1808. Discharged June 25, 1870. Eeturned to duty in July, 1870. Secondary ha;raor- rhage; anchylosis of second and third fin- gers ; returned to du- ty February, 1870. Deserted September 26, 1869. Eeturned to duty May 31, 1868. Eeturned to duty in August, 1870. Eeturned to duty Oc- tober 20,1869. Eeturned to duty No- vember 20, 1868. Transferred to Vete- ran Eeserve Corps. Eeturned to duty Au- gust 20,1870. ■ Eccovered. Eecovered. Eeturned to duty No- vember 11,1870. Eeturned to duty Sep- tember 14,1868. Discharged June 17, 1868. E,etiu-ned to duty Sep- tember 25,1870. Discharged from ser- vice January 10,1870. Eeturned to duty No- vember 22,1870. Eeturned to duty March 10,1809. Discharged March 29, 1869.172 EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. Name. 43. Hoover, Ephraim. 44. Howartl, Charles. 45. Huntington, Henry 46. Huglies, William. 47. Ichawpaw 48. Keller, Nicholas 49. Kold, John W 50. Leopold, Emil 51. Lewis, George W 52. Lilly, James 53. McAllister, Alvin M.. 54. McCaffrey, Francis 55. McCuUar, James 56. McDonald, Matthew. 57. McPeake, Morris 58. Mathias, John G . 59. Miller, William.. 60. Minor, H 01. Mitchel, George 02. Montgomery, Jesse. 63. Moore, John A 64. Moore, Walter 05. Morris, Patrick OO.Mowry, Charles 67. Murphy, David. 68. Myers, John Eank. Corporal.. Sergeant. Private... Ind'n scout Private... Private... Private... Private... Private... Sergeant . Corporal.. Private Private Private Private Private Private Corporal... Private Private Private Corporal... Private Private Private Co. U. Eegiment. 19th Infantry. 5th Infantry . G. 4th Infantry. 6th Cavalry. Nature of injury. 14th Infantry . 15th Infantry . 26th Infantry . 20th Infantry . 9th Cavalry... 17th Infantry . 7th Infantry .. 4th Cavalry... 23d Infantry .. 15th Infantry . 4th Artillery 15th Infantry . 17th Infantry . 10th Cavalry .. 10th Cavalry.. 8th Cavalry... 41st Infantry.. 2d Artillery... 20th Infantry . 31st Infantry.. 43d Infantry .. Incised wound... Incised wound.. Gunshot wound.. Supposed to have resulted from in- juries received while tied up by the wrist. Incised wound, with fracture. Gunshot wound. Gun.shot wound. Incised wound.. Frost-hite Gunshot wound. Gunshot wound. Gunshot wound. Gunshot wound.. Lacerated wound. Caught hy a cir- cular saw. Gimshot wound.. Incised wound... Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Lacerated wound. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.- Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Frost-bite Parts removed. Eemarks. Left index and second fingers, through the shafts of middle phalanges. Middle, ring, and little fingers of left hand, through middle phalanges. Third and fourth fingers of right hand, at metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. Second finger of the left hand... Fourth finger of right hand, at first joint. Right forefinger, through first phalanx. Middle finger of left hand Second finger of left hand, at first phalangeal joint. Fingers of left hand, at distal third of first phalanges. Left hand at carpo-metacarpal ar- ticulation, saving the thumb. Eight forefinger, at metacarpo- phalangeal articulation. Left little and ring fingers with the metacarpals at the carpo- metacarpo-articulations, and middle finger at first joint; also, right little finger. Left little finger, in first pha- lanx. First phalanx of right index finger. First phalanx of left thumb,'and third phalanges of balance of fingers. Ping finger at ungual phalanx, and little finger at metacarpal articulation; left hand. Eight index finger, at middle phalanx. Eight index finger, through dis- tal extremity of first phalanx, and middle finger near base of second phalanx. Eight index finger and head of metacarpal bone. Eight index finger, between first and second phalanges. Left thumb, through first pha- lanx. Left little finger, above the sec- ond joint. Left little finger Two phalanges of left index finger. Middle finger of left hand Two fingers of left hand Eecovered. Eecovered. Discharged February 13,1809. Discharged September 27,1867. Eeturned to duty De- cember 23,1870. Discharged December 30,1870. Eeturned to duty in November, 1868. Eeturned to duty Au- gust 12,1868. Eeturned to duty in May, 1870. Discharged December 16,1867. Eeturned to duty in May, 1867. Eeturned to duty in September, 1869. Eeturned to duty in August, 1868. Eecovered. Discharged August 5, 1807. Eeturned to duty in February, 1871. Eeturned to duty in September, 1870. Eeturned to duty. Eeturned to duty in February, 1868. Eeturned to duty Au- gust 14,1870. Discharged April 20, 1866. Eecovered. Eeturned to duty Jan- uary 1, 1867. Eeturned to duty No- vember 21, 1868. Discharged May 5,1868. Discharged November 0,1808.AMPUTATIONS OF THE FINGEES. 173 Name. 69. Nice, Charles. 70. Oberfield, Anthony. 71. Paris, Jacob 72. Parks, Wallace 73. Patterson, Arthur 74. Peak, Isaiah 75. Peterman, August. 76. Piatt, Peter 77. Post, Peter 78. Eader, Louis 79. Kandolph, George C. 80. Kichards, William 81. Eoberts, Theodore 82. Eose, Henry 83. Euff, Michael 84. Eyan, William 85. Sohoenhard, Gottlieb.. 86. Shelton, John W. 87. Simmons, David . 88. Smith, Charles. 89. Smith, Charles. 90. Smith, Joseph 91. Stargratt, John.. 92. Stowers, Isaac F. 93. Sumner, E. V Eank. Private. Private. Private. Private. Private. Private. Private. Private. Private. Private. Private.. Private.. Private.. Private.. Private.. Private.. Private.. Private.. Private.. Corporal. Private.. Bugler .. Private.. Captain . Co. Eegiment. 9th Cavalry 3d Artillery 36th U. S. C. T... 9th Cavalry 23d Infantry .... 38th Infantry ... 18th Infantry ... 37th Infantry ... 45th Infantry ... 7th Cavalry 9th Infantry 9th Cavalry 22d Infantry 35th Infantry ... 35th Infantry ... 7th Infantry Detachm'nt of ar- tillery at West Point. 0th Cavalry... 2d Cavalry.... 27th Infantry .. 31st Infantry... 3d Infantry 7th Cavalry .... 11th Infantry . 1st Cavalry Nature of injury. Gun.shot wound.. Lacerated wound, Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound. - EaUroad accident. Frost-bite Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Bitten by a com- rade. Gunshot wound. Necrosis, follow- ing a bite. Gun.shot wound.. Bittjn by a dog; necrosis. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Laceration by cir- cular saw. Incised wound... Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound -. Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound.. Parts removed. Amputation of thumb; second metacarpal bone of thumb ex- cised. Ungual phalanx of right middle finger. Left thumb, first metacarpal bone and os trapezium; also, lower end of second metacar- pal bone. Left index finger, through first third of first phalanx. Left index finger, at metacarpo- phalangeal joint. Fourth and fifth fingers right hand at metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, and middle finger in continuity of second pha- langeal bone. Last phalanges of third and fourth fingers. Eight forefinger, at junction of first and second phalanges. Left ring finger, at metacarpo- phalangeal articulation. Third finger of right hand, at second i)halangeal articula- tion. Little, ring, and middle fingers, with their corresjionding met- acarpal bones; left hand. Fourth finger of left hand First and second fingers of right hand. First and second ijhalanges, in- dex finger. Left little finger, with metacar- pal bone. Second phalanx of right index finger. Little finger left hand, at first phalangeal joint, ring finger through first phalanx, and in- dex finger at metacarpo-pha- langeal ai'ticulation. Eight forefinger, at metacariJO- phalangeal articulation. Second and third fingers right hand, with the heads of the metacarpal bones. Eing finger of right hand, at second joint. Left index finger, in the contin- uity of the second metacarjial bone. Left index finger and half of cor- responding mctaeari)al bone. Eight index finger First finger of light hand, at ar- ticulation of first and second lihalangos. i;inht index finger and first pha- lanx of left ring finger. Eemarks. Eeturned to duty in January, 1868. Eecovered. SenthomeDecember 4, 1866, and discharged. Returned to duty in April, 1869. Eeturned to duty in April, 1869. Discharged June 13, 1869. Eeturned to duty March 3, 1867. Eeturned to duty Sep- tember 17,1867. Eeturned to duty Au- gust 6, 1868. Discharged June 9, 1870. Eeturned to duty Oc- tober 25, 1870. Discharged March 23, 1868. Eeturned to duty May 19,1868. Eeturned to duty in June, 1867. Eecovered. Eeturned to duty March 18,1868. Eecovered. Discharged April 27, 1868. Discharged September 29,1868. Eeturned to duty No- vember 7,1867. Eeturned to duty in December, 1868. Eeturned to duty in April, 1870. Eeturned to duty.174 REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. Name. 94. Taylor, Joseph A 95. Tolliver, Barnet 96. Tui'ncr, Thomas 97. VauDoeshurgh,Heiiry 98. Villhoucr, Charles 99. "Watson, Emanuel 100. Watson, Euos M 101. Wat.son, George 102. "Weber, August 103. "Welch, Michael 104. "Wheeler, T. I 105. White, Alfred IOC. Whitraau, Daniel 107. Wiley, John 108. Williams, John 109. Williams, Kichard ... 110. Willis, JohnH 111. Wilson, Charles H.... 112. Wilson, George 113. Wisewell, Adclbert L 114. Wolf, Albert Kank. Co. Kegiment. Nature of injury. Parts removed. Ecmarks. Private Bugler ... Private Private Private... Private... Private... Private... Private... Private Private... Private Private... Private... Private... Private... Private... Private... Private. -. Private... Private... 13th Infantry ... 7th Ca^^lry 9th Cavalry Ordnance Corps 13th Infantry .., 25th Infantry ... 2d Cavalry Gunshot wound.. Incised wound... Gunshot wound.. Second and third phalanges, third finger, left hand. Eight thumb, at metacarpo-iiha- langeal articulation. Unknown. 10th Cavalry ... 20th Infantry .. 4th Cavalry .. 4th Infantry ... 9th Cavalry 17th Infantry .. 7th Cavalry 2d Cavalry 9th Cavalry 45th Infantry .. 7th Cavalry 4th Infantry ... 23d Infantry ... 2d Cavalry Unknown. Second finger of right hand, at carpo-metacarijal articulation. Eiglit and left index fingers Gunshot wound. Gunshot woiind, followed by ca- ries. Gunshot wound. Frost-bite. Whitlow. Left thumb, at metacarpo-pha- langeal articulation. Index finger and part of second metacarpal bone. Middle finger, right hand, with lower fragment of metacarpal bone. Pirst ijhalanges of ring and mid- dle fingers of right hand, and great toe of right foot. Left forefinger Prost-bite Gunshot wound Gunshot wound.. Gunshot wound Gunshot wound.. Bitten by a com rade; necrosis Ulceration follow- ing punctured wound. Gunshot wound.. Lacerated wound by circular saw. Lacerated wound by circular saw. Prost-bite First phalanx of forefinger. Eight index finger, at phalango- metacarpal joint. Last phalanx of the right thumb. Middle finger of the right hand. Index and second fingers, left hand. First phalanx of the left little finger. Left little finger, with its meta- cai-pal bone. Little finger, left hand, through second phalanx. First, second, and third fingers of left hand, through middle of first phalanges. Eing finger, right hand, at meta- carpal joint, and little finger at first joint. First and second fingers, left hand. Discharged June 4, 18G9. Eeturned to duty March 11, 1867. Eeturned to duty in September, 1867. Eccovered. Discharged November 11,1867. Eeturned to duty in January, 1871. Discharged January 26,1869. Discharged May 16, 1869. Discharged July 22, 1870. Eeturned to duty April 3,1869. Discharged Juno 3, 1868. Eeturned to duty Oc- tober 4,1807. Eeturned to duty May 10,1868. Eeturned to duty De- cember 31,1868. Discharged March 1, 1869. Eeturned to duty Feb- ruary 27, 1867. Discharged September 10,1868. Discharged March 31, 1869. Discharged Juno 8, 1867. Amputation at the Wrist.—Special reports of two cases were forwarded, both neces- sitated by gunshot wounds of the hand. CCCCXCIX.—Account of a Primary Amputation at the Wrist-Joint for Gunshot Injury. By James F. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Gaw Jarvis, Co. G, 45tli Infantry, aged 28 years, was wounded November 24, 18G8, by a conoidal ball, whicli passed'through aud shattered the left hand completely. He was at once admitted to the post hospital at Na.shville, Tennessee. ^Tliere was not much swelling. On tliesame day, Acting Assistant Surgeon R. McCJowan administered chloroform, and performed a circular175 AMPUTATIONS OP THE FOEE-AEM. amputation at tbe wrist-joitit. After two days hospital gangrene ensued. Nitric acid was applied to tbe gangrenous i)art, and opiates and stimulants were administered. On December 31,1868, the case was still under treatment, and progressing very favorably. He was discharged. D.—Mention of a Case of Secondary Amputation at the Wrist-Joint. By H. E. Mills, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Eeinhold Shulz, Co. B, 43d Infantry, aged 23 years, received May 12, 1867, a gunshot wound of the left band, caused by tbe bursting of a fowling-piece. He was at ouce admitted into the post hospital at Fort Wayne, Michigan. Tbe palmar surface of the hand was much lacerated ; the index and middle fingers completely denuded of their soft tissues, and their metacarpal bones frac- tured near the carpal end ; the ball of tbe thumb was badly lacerated, and its carpo-metacarpal joint opened. Assistant Surgeon B. E. Fryer, United States Army, administered chloroform, and removed the index and middle fingers with their metacarpal bones. One ligature was applied. The patient reacted well, and the wound was dressed with a solution of chloride of zinc, and left open. About three hours after the operation, lijemorrhage occurred, which was arrested by astrin- gent lotions. On June 30, 1867, tbe parts were nearly Avell. On September 1, 1867, he was admit- ted to tbe hospital at Fort Mackinac, Michigan, with three distinct fistnlous openings in the hand, which were discharging sickly-looking i)us, more or less^ freely. Owing to the great desire of the patient to save his hand, it was decided to give the experiment sufficient time, for the satisfaction of all concerned. Alternate healing and reopening of the wound, accomi^anied by intense iiain at times, especially on any sudden change of the weather, and a gradual decline of the general health of the patient comprised the chief symptoms in tbe case until March 2,1868, when I decided to remove the band at tbe radio-carpal articulation, which was accordingly performed. A small interosseous artery rendered three ligatures necessary. The edges of the flaps were nicely adjusted and united by first intention throughout almost their entire extent. Tbe ligature of the ulnar artery came away the fourth or fifth day. On the 31st of March, the remaining ligatures still remained firmly attached, although traction had been made daily since the first week, with the design of removing them. With this exception, tbe stump was perfectly sound, and the health of the patient much improved. On examination of the bones of the hand and wrist, the articulatiug surfaces were found firmly adherent, and the whole a mass of necrosis and caries. This man was discharged the service July 6, 1868. Amputations of the Fore arm.—Special reports were made of twenty cases of this nature, of wliicli nineteen were due to gunshot wounds, and one to railroad accident, HI.—Wote'of a Case of Primary Amputation of the Fore-arm for Gunshot Injury. By H. A. DuBois, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private (Jasimiro Alvidrez, Co. H, 1st New Mexico Infantry, was wounded July 4, 1866, at Fort Union, New Mexico, while firing a salute, by the premature explosion of a gun, which greatly shattered the hand and lower third of the fore-arm. Tbe shock was profound. Within a half hour after the receipt of the injury, chloroform was administered and the fore-arm amputated by skin- flai) method. The patient rallied in twenty-four hours. Chloroform brought the pulse up, but the reaction, after the operation, was slower than it would have been bad the operation been post- l)oned until reaction took place. During the treatment there was hoemorrliage froiu the medullary cavity. The patient was discharged, with a good stump, September 8, 1866. DII.—Report of an Amputation of the Fore-arm and Finger for Gunshot Injury. By E. H. White, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Berger, Co. G, 15th Infantry, aged 22 years, was wounded at Mobile, Ala- bama, on July 4, 1868, while acting as number one in firing a brass field-piece. He had forcedEEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 176 a blank cartridge about oue tliirtl bome, wben tbe vent was uncovered, causing premature discbarge. Tlie receding sponge-staft" crusbed tbe rigbt band, opened tbe rigbt wrist-joint, severed tbe muscles of tbe lower tbird of tbe rigbt foi'e-arm on tbe anterior aspect, tore away tbe belly of tbe deltoid muscle, and lacerated tbree of its fibres tbat arise from tbe acromion process, and fractured tbe first pbalanx of tbe left index finger. Tbere was also a simiile fracture of tbe left radius, supposed to bave been caused by tbe fall of tbe patient. Tbe rigbt arm and fore-arm, tbe rigbt side of face and eye, and tbe cbest, were sligbtly burned. He was admitted to tbe post bospital; and baving partially recovered from tbe sbock, was cbloroformed, and tbe rigbt fore-arm was amputated at tbe junction of tbe lower tbirds, and tbe left index finger at tbe metacarpo-pbalangeal articulation, botb by circular operations. Tbe fracture of tbe left radius being readily reduced, Nelaton's splint was adjusted to tbe palmar surfiice of tbe band and fore-arm. Tbe stump of tbe rigbt fore arm was dressed witb dry bandages and oakum, and bealed by first intention, except at tbe inner border, Avbere tbe ligatures applied to tbe ulnar and radial arteries required tbe bealing to be by suppura- tion and granulation. On August 8, 18GS, tbe stump bad bealed. Dili.—Report of a Primary Amputation of the Fore-arm for Gunsliot Injury. By B. A. Clements, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Blair, Batteiy K, 1st Artillery, aged 18 years, received, July 8, 18G7, by tbe Xiremature discbarge of a six-pound rifled cannon wbile firing a salute, a compound comminuted fracture of tbe rigbt fore-arm and band witb extensive laceration of tbe soft parts. He was, on tbe same day, admitted to tbe post bospital, Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, Louisiana, wbere tbe fore-arm was amputated at tbe upper tbird, one bour and a balf after reception of tbe injury, making oval skin flaps. Parts united in almost tbeir entire extent by first intention. Tbe progress of tbe case was retarded by an attack of yellow fever. September 11,1SG7, perfect union and sufficient stump left to give effective support to an artificial limb. He was discbarged November 27,1868, witb a pension of §15 per montb. DIV.—Report of a Primary Amputation of the Fore-arm for Railway Injury. By John T. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George C. Crawford, Co. C, 4:0th Infantry, aged 32 years, was injured at Goldsborougb, Nortb Carolina, Marcb 29, 18G9. by tbe passage of a railroad car over bis right band, completely crushing it. Assistant Surgeon William F. Smith, United States Army, immediately administered chloroform, and amputated the lower third of the fore-arm by tbe circular method. Three ligatures were used. On tbe same day be was admitted to the post hospital, from bis company, where, on the 31st of Marcb, tbe case was reported as progressing favorably. The patient was discharged May 15, 1869, witb a pension of $15 per montb. DV.—Report of a Double Amputation of the Fore-arm. By T. H. Turner, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. Private William Greiter, Co. C, 5tb United States Infantry, aged 28 years, wbile firing a salute at Fort Wallace, Kansas, July 19, 18G8, was wounded by tbe premature explosion of a cannon, which badly shattered and burned both bands and fore arms. Immediately after I amputated both fore-arms at the middle third. Both stumps were well on tbe twenty-fourth day after the oi)eration. He was discharged May G, 18G9, and pensioned at $25 per month. DVI.—Account of an Amputation of both Fore-arms for Gunshot Injury. By Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George Grey, Troop M, 9th Cavalry, while firing a national salute on June 29, 18G8, at Fort Clark, Texas, was wounded by the sponge-staff" of a field piece, which carried away portionsAMPUTATIONS OF THE FORE-AEM. 177 of botli hands, tore several tendons from their origin, and superficially injured the arms above the elbow-joints. He was at once admitted to hospital, and on the next day equal parts of ether and chloroform were administered, and both fore-arms amputated by the circular method, the left four inches, and the right one and a half inches above the wrist-joint. The patient, at the time, was powerfully narcotized, opiates having been administered on the previous night to quiet excessive nervous excitement. The pulse was 120 to 150, weak and irregular. The aufesthetic improved the pulse—was better after the operation than at the commencement. He continued under the influ- ence of the opiate, and his condition was rather critical. On July 9th, the right stump had healed and the left was nearly well. On the 11th of July, tetanus occurred, and death on July 15, 1868. DYII.—Report of an Amputation of the Fore-arm for Gunshot Injury. By Henry Spohn, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George E. Hubbell, Troop 0, 4th Cavalry, aged 21 years, received on February 7, 1870, a gunshot wound of the left hand and wrist, by the accidental discbarge of his carbine. On the same day, he was admitted to the hospital at Fort Mcintosh, Texas. The left hand and wrist were very much shattered and torn. Chloroform and ether were administered, and the left fore-arm amputated by the circular operation, four inches above the wrist. Simple dressings were applied. There was very little suppuration. The patient was discharged the service on May 12, 1870. DVIII.—On an Amjmtation of the Fore-arm for Gunshot Injury. By W. D. Wolyerton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. 1 Private Adam Hutton, Battery K, 1st Artillery, aged 24 years, while firing a salute at New Orleans, June 11,1868, had the greater portion of his right hand blown off. The parts were greatly lacerated, with slight haemorrhage. He was admitted to the post hospital at Sedgwick Barracks, on the same day, where ether and chloroform were administered and the fore-arm amj)utated, through the lower third, by the circular method. He gradually recovered, and was discharged the service August 3, 1868, with a stump completely healed. He is a pensioner at $15 per month. DIX.—Account of a Primary Amputation of the Fore-arm for Gunshot Injury. By E. H. Bowman, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Doctor Johnson, Co. A, 24th Infantry, was wounded at Fort Bliss, Texas, while firing a national salute on July 4, 1870, by the premature discharge of a cannon, which carried away the left hand up to the carpal articulation. On the same day the fore arm was amputated as close to the wrist-joint as the condition of the parts would admit. The stump was dressed with a solution of carbolic acid, and healed kindly. He was discharged April 30, 1871. DX.—Accoxmt of a Primary Amputation of the Fore-arm for Gunshot Injury. By John T. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles D. Jones, Co. H, 8th Infantry, aged 19 years, was accidentally wounded December 9, 1866, by a conoidal ball, which entered the palmar surface of the left hand, and passed directly through, carrying away the fourth, and comminuting the third and fifth metacarpal bones. The tompion, as well as the ball, passed through the hand. The soft parts were much lacerated. On the same day he was admitted to the post hospital at Charlotte, North Carolina, and on the 16th chloroform was administered, and the left fore-arm was amputated at the lower third, by the circular method. Simple dressings were used. On January 1, 1867, the patient was doing well, and the stump was nearly healed. [He was discharged on March 4, 1867.] 23EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMT. 178 DXI.—Acconnt of a Primary Ampittation of the Fore-arm. By S. M. Hokton, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private Jesse L. Judd, Co. H, ISth Infantry, aged 3C years, was wounded at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, July 24, 18G6, by the accidental discharge of a revolver, which frac- tured the lower end of the left ulna, the unciform bone, and the third, fourth, and fifth meta- carpal bones. He was immediately admitted to the hospital of the fort. He was in a state of drunkenness bordering on delirium ti'emens, and there was great hiemorrhage from the hand. On the same day equal parts of ether and chloroform were administered, and the fore-arm amputated three inches above the wrist-joint, by the flap operation. Cold-water dressings were applied, and by the 20th of October, 186G, the stump was entirely healed. [The patient was discharged June 6,1867.] DXII.—Remarlcs on a Primary Amputation of the Fore-arm for Gunshot Injury. By James Shaw, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles E. Leonard, Co. B, 7th Infantry, aged 22 years, and of good constitution, while firing a national salute July 4, 18G8, at Fernandiua, Florida, was ramming home a cartridge in a field-piece, when it exploded, and he was thrown some seven or eight yards from its mouth. His right fore-arm Avas torn off six inches below the elbow-joint, and the soft parts of the arm were burned and lacerated up to the axilla. The thumb of the left hand was also blown off, exiiosing the end of the carpal bone. Being present at the time, I had him immediately carried into quarters, Avhereat once, after giving him some brandy and water and administering chloroform, I controlled the circulation, thereby losing very little blood, and amputated the fore-arm three or four inches below the elbow-joint, by the circular method. The soft parts were drawn across the end of the carpal bone left thumb, covering it very neatly. Stimulating and nourishing diet was given, and cataplasms were applied to the superior extremities and stomach, and soothing lotions to the wounds. The nervous shock was so severe, and the vital powers were so entirely prostrated, that all eftbrts in establishing reaction failed. During the forty-eight hours that he survived, he was only able to speak a few words. He died at 10 A. M., July 6, 1868. DXIII.—BemarJcs on a Primary Amimtation of the Fore arm for Gunshot Injury. By Burton Ean- DALL, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas O'Conner, Battery A, 1st Artillery, aged 22 years, while guard-mounting, November 10, 1866, with his left hand over the muzzle of his gun, was wounded by its accidentally slipping and discharging, the ball producing a comjiouud fracture of the metacarpal bones of the first, second and third fingers and thumb, and i^assing through the bones of the cariius, with great destruction of the bones and soft parts. The parts were much burned and excessively inflamed. He was immediately admitted to the post hospital at Fort Trumbull, Connecticut, where, on the same day, chloroform was administered, and the fore-arm amputated just above the wrist, by the circular method. Simple dressings were applied. The stumj) healed, and the patient was discharged on March 13, 1867, with a pension of $15 per month. DXIV.—Bemarlcs on an Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By C. B. Wright, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal "William Pare, Co. D, 57tli Infantry, aged 25 years, was wounded at Fort Smithy Arkansas, on February 22,1866, by the accidental discharge of a cannon, while firinga salute in honor of Washington's birthday. Being, at the time, in the act of loading the piece, the charge took effect in the right hand, comj)letel3^ destroying it and the integuments of the lower third of the • fore-arm. On the same day the fore-arm was amputated, by circular operation, at the junction of the upper thirds. Water dressings were applied. Anodynes at night, and a light and nourishing diet, were given. On March 31st the patient was convalescent. He was returned to duty in October, 1866.AMPUTATIONS OF THE FORE-AEM. 179 DXV.—Report of an Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By C. E. Goddaud, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Charles Ehey, Co. H, 31st Infantry, aged 25 years, while firing a salute July 4, 1868, at Fort Stevenson, Dakota Territory, was wounded in the right fore-arm by the premature discharge of a cannon. The skin was burned by powder, and there was more or less contusion. He was at at once admitted to the hospital, and on the same day chloroform Avas administered, and Surgeon 0. O. Gray, U. S. A., amputated about the middle of the fore-arm, by the circular method. Simple dressings were applied. The patient recovered slowly but well, and was discharged September 29, 1868, with a pension of $15 per month. DXVI.—Remarlcs on an Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By H. A. Du BoiS, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Juan Seis, Co. D, 1st New Mexico Infantry, was wounded while herding, by the discharge of a lyusket, which took effect in the fore-arm. Forty-eight hours after the reception of the injury, he was admitted to the post hospital, Fort Union, New Mexico. The fore-arm was hanging by tendons. On October 28, 1866, about sixty hours after the receipt of the injury, chloroform was administered,'and the fore arm amputated by the skin-flap method. The patient rallied well; the wound healed, and he was discharged with a good stump November 9, 1866. DXVII.—Account of a Primary Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By J. J. Mars- ton, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Patrick Whalen, Co. D, 3d Infantry, was wounded at Fort Larned, Kansas, April 10, 1867, by the accidental discharge of a Spencer rifle, while in the act of loading the piece. The left 'hand was badly shattered, the bones being fractured, the arteries, muscles, and tissues lacerated, and the thumb entirely carried away. Three hours after the accident the left fore-arm was amputated at the lower third by the circular method. The tissues of the right hand, between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and fore-finger, were also lacerated, but the bones were uninjured. April 30, 1807: The stump and the wound of the right hand had nearly healed. The patient's condition was good. Discharged May 21, 1867, with a pension of $15 per mouth. DXYIII.—Account of an Intermediate Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By H. R. TiLTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Abraham Wilks, Troop B, 10th Cavalry, aged 23 years, was accidentally wounded November 3, 1808, by a carbine ball, which passed through the left hand, from the j)almar to the dorsal aspect, fracturing the second and third metacarpal bones. The third finger was removed on the same day. On November 10, 1868, he was admitted to the post hospital. Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory. There was diffuse sup])uration extending above the wrist, and secondary hfemorrhage fi'om the deep palmar arch. The patient was in great alarm, complaining bitterly of his wound, and desiring amputation. On the 11th, chloroform was administered, and the fore-arm amputated through the middle by the circular method. Five ligatures were applied, and simple dressings were used. On November 17th, the first ligature was removed, and on November 29th, the last one came away. The posterior flap sloughed to the extent of half an inch, but by using adhesive straps and weights, the flaps were ample. On December 27th, the stump reopened and discharged freely, but by the 5th of February, 1869, it had entirely healed. He was discharged the service June 18,1869. DXIX.—Account of a Primary Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By J. C. Lamont, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Horace Williams, Troop L, 9th Cavalry, aged 20 years, was wounded December 20, 1869, while firing a salute. In the act of ramming a blank cartridge into a piece of artillery, it accidentally ignited and exploded. The soft tissues of the right hand, wrist, and lower third oifKEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 180 the fore-arm were extensively lacerated, the boues fractured and dissevered, the blood-vessels torn, and his face, neck, and chest very severely burned. His vision was very much injured, if not destroyed. On the same day he was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Duncan, Texas. Ether was administered, and the fore-arm amputated at the junction of the lower and middle thirds, by the circular method. On December 31st, the patient was doing well, and there was a probability of a partial restoration of vision. He was discharged the service April 30, 1870. DXX.—Account of cm Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By A. A. Teomans, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Zearambo, Co. I, 24th Infantry, aged 21 years, while firing a salute July 4, 1807, received a compound comminuted fracture of the riglit fore arm. He was at once admitted to the post hospital at Vicksburg, Mississippi. The radius and ulna were crushed in the middle and lower thirds, with extensive laceration of the soft parts. The humerus was fractured in the middle third, and there was a severe contusion over the right hypochondrium. The i>atient was somewhat debilitated from an attack of malarial fever; his pulse was 105, and rather weak. Chloroform was administered, and the fore-arm amputated at the upper third. Ha'inorrhage was slight; four ligatures were applied, and the patient reacted promj)tly. A few days after the operation, the stump became gangrenous. Nitric acid and bromine were applied, and nourishing diet given. In a few days the line of demarcation was formed, and the slough thrown off. Nitro-muriatic acid was applied to the ends of the radius and ulna, which projected from the soft parts after mortification had attacked the stump, but, as their removal hj that process seemed tedious, they were subsequently taken off by the saw. Union took lilace between the fragments of the humerus, and although the patient suffered from a severe attack of tetanus, he was, on September 30, 1867, doing well. Discharged July 22, 1868, and pensioned at $15 j)er month. Amputations of the Arm.—Special reports of twenty-four cases of this class were received; twenty were due to gun-shot wounds, one to railroad accident, two to other injuries, and one to disease. Five cases had a fatal termination. DXXI.—Account of an Intermediary Amputation of the Arm. By W. M. NoTSON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private B. Bowers, Co. E, 11th Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded on October 13, 1870, by a conoidal musket ball, in the right hand. On the same day, he was admitted to the hospital at Fort Concho, Texas; and on the 14th, the third finger was amputated at the carpo-phalangeal articulation. Immediately succeediug the operation, the patient had an attack of typhoid pneu- monia, during which there was much sloughing of the hand and fore-arm, with hsemorrhage. While convalescing from the pulmonary trouble, and a profuse hfemorrhage occurring on November 7th, in consequence of the extent of the diseased tissue, the arm was amputated in the lower third. On March 31,1871, this man was still under treatment. He was discharged the service May 24,1871, for loss of arm from gunshot wound received in the line of duty. DXXII.—Account of an Amputation of the Arm and Fingers for Gunshot Injtiry. By H. A. DuBois, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Lieutenant George W. Cami^bell, 3d Cavalry, aged 35 years, was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Union, New Mexico, Jane 8, 1867, having been wounded by the premature discharge of a cannon which he was loading, in camp on the Cimarron Eiver, fifty miles from Fort Union. The left hand was entirely blown off, the left fore-arm and lower half of arm and the fingers, thumb and palm of the right hand were bruised and shattered; he was also burned in both eyes, head, and face. Carrou oil was applied to the burnt parts, and the arm was amputated four inches above the elbow by the circular method, which was followed by a large slough on lower surface of stump. First l^halanges of the middle and ring fingers were removed, and a thumb was made by covering the bone with flesh taken from the palm. Eeturned to duty July 1, 1867 ; wounds nearly healed; thumbAMPUTATIONS OF THE AEM. 181 very useful; loss of vision of left eye. Patient is able to write, and lias ridden over one hundred miles in the discharge of his duties as x^ost quartermaster. This officer was retired July 29, 18G8. DXXIII;—Report of an Amputation of the Arm and Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By J. T, Ghiselin, Surgeon, U. S, A. Private Michael Casey, Battery A, 2d Artillery, aged 23 years, was wounded by the prema- ture discharge of a field piece, October 29, 1866, during review at Presidio of San Francisco, California. Both arms were very much lacerated. There was, also, a lacerated wound of the left breast, and fracture of the sixth rib, caused by a fragment of the sponge-staflf. He was admitted to the post hospital Presidio of San Francisco, California, on the same day, not much depressed by his injury, and Assistant Surgeon J. H. Kinsman, U. S, A., immediately administered ether and amputated _the right fore-„arni at the lower third, and the left arm at the upper third, by the circular method. Cold-water dressings were applied. The patient did well, and on December 31st the stumps had nearly healed. The wound of chest remained open, but was doing well. This man was discharged the service June 29, 18G7, for loss of both arms. DXXIV.—Bemarlis on a Primary Amputation of the Arm. By W. H. Smith, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Patrick Daley, Troop B, 8th Cavalry, aged 24 years, was wounded by Indians while guarding a train, May 6, 1869. The ball entered the left arm from the outside, shattered the humerus from the elbow-joint two-thirds its length upward, and imbedded itself among the fragments. On the same day he was admitted to the post hospital. Camp Verde, Arizona Territory. He rallied from the shock, his pulse was full and soft, and his spirits good. Toward the next morning he became feverish. He preferred amputation to any attemjit to save the arm. At 10 o'clock A. M., on the 7th, his arm being considerably swollen and inflamed, chloroform was administered, and it was amputated at the lower border of the upper third of humerus. The brachial artery and the muscu- lar branch were ligated. The flaps were shaped so as best to suit the wounds, and were bathed with cold water for an hour before bringing them together, and securing them with four sutures and adhesive plaster. IsTourishing diet, stimulants, tonics, &c., were prescribed, and the case pro- gressed excellently, throughout. Cold-water dressings and poultices were applied as required by the condition of the wound. The ligatures came away on the 18th of May, from the muscular branch, and on the 27th from the brachial artery. The pains felt as if in the lost arm, the nerves having been severed above the level of the end of the bone. He seemed to gain flesh during treat- ment, and on June 9th, he was seen playing ball out.side with the remaining hand. Stump excel- lent. This man was discharged the service October 5, 1869, for loss of fore-arm. DXXV.—Report of an Amputation of the Arm and Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By S. M. HoETON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Denney, Battery G, 5th Artillery, aged 23 years, while firing a salute on May 2,1870, was wounded by the premature explosion of a blank cartridge from a twelve-pounder cannon, which shot away and totally destroyed the right hand, leaving a lacerated stump, comminuted the right humerus, involving nearly the entire lower third, and produced a deep flesh wound of right arm in upper part of middle third, involving a portion of the biceps muscle; the left hand and wrist were shattered to pieces, and were hanging to the fore-arm by a few shreds of skin, tendon, and cellular tissue; the lower portion of his face and front portion of the neck were badly scorched by powder. The same day ether and chloroform were administered, and the right arm was amputated in the upper third, near the shoulder. Lateral flaps were made which were retained in apposition by five interrupted sutures and adhesive strips. Dry dressings, except lint, three-fourths inch wide, wrung out of warm water, were applied along the union or junction of flaps. I also amputated the left fore-arm in lower third, making anterio posterior flaps, which were retained in apposition by three interrupted sutures and adhesive strips. Dry dressings, except lint three-fourths inch wide, wrungEEPOKT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 182 out of warm water, were applied along junction of flaps. Dniing the operation, hremorrhage was controlled by compression with the thumb and fingers of an assistant; on the right side upon the axillary, and on the left side upon the brachial arteries. The patient was very healthy and robust, of cheerful disposition, and bore the loss of his hands and arm with fortitude and iiatience. After entire reaction from the shock, the constitutional excitement, feverishness, thirst, &c., lasted for three dtiys. He suffered from obstinate constipation and retention of urine, for which cathartics, diuretics, enemata, and hot poultices to abdomen were prescribed. After the first four days' use of the catheter, all retention of urine ceased. He made rapid progress in recovery, the flaps uniting by first intention, or without granulating, except along the tracks of the ligatures, and one i^oint on the upper side of the right stump. The treatment consisted principally of compresses, adhe. sive straps, supports to the flaps, a saturated solution of carbolic acid and glycerine api^lied every two or three hours to the edges of the flaps, and creasote used freely on the dressings. No coM-icater dressings were used at any time. At the end of the first week he was sitting in a chair. On the eighth day after the accident the flaps of the left fore-arm had sufiGciently united to allow removal of compress and adhesive straps, and substitution of lint and sweet oil, which was loosely applied to extremity of stump. By the twentieth day, the flaps of right stump were firmly united, except track of ligature on brachial artery, on which day that ligature came away. On the twenty-fourth day the patient walked around out of doors. Ou Jane 1st a small boil was oi)encd in right axilla. June 3d, boil entirely healed up, and subsequently did not trouble him. Stimulating and nourish- ing diet was used. The face and neck have eutirely healed without blemish. The stumps are firm with good cushions for artificial limbs, for which application will be made. This man was discharged the service December 14, 1870, on account of loss of both arms. DXXYI.—Account of an Amputation of tlie Arm for Necrosis. By A. C. GiRAED, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Patrick Ford, Co. G, 19th Infantry, aged 31 years, suffered for eight months from necrosis of radius and ulna of the right arm. There was no attempt at new formation of bone; sequestrae not movable. He was admitted to the post hospital at Baton Eouge, Louisiana, on November 13, ISGp. Counter irritants were applied, and alteratives and tonics administered. Scrofula was the source of the disease. Ou February 8th, with the advice and assistance of E. A. Koerper, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., and Dr. W. Eeynaud, of Baton Eouge, I attempted exsection of sequestrce by trepanation. I found, however, extensive destruction of both bones, with no attempt at formation of callus. The metaphysis of radius was almost entirely' destroyed. The patient commencing to" be reduced by pain and suppuration, and amputation above the elbow having been decided on, he was chloroformed, and the limb was amputated by the circular method. Three vessels were ligated, and the wound was closed with the interrupted suture. The patient made a rapid recovery in two weeks, and his general health improved wonderfully. He was discharged the service March 19, 1870. DXXVIl.—Note on an Amputation of the Arm for GunsJiot Injury. By "VV. E. Eamsey, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Henry Happe, Troop G, 2d Cavalry, was shot in the left arm while on escort duty with Wells, Fargo & Co.'s stage, August 10,1867. He was conveyed to Fort Sanders, Dakota Territory, where, September 11, 18G7, the arm was amputated at the upper third by the flap method. He was discharged on November 1, 1867. On the 20th of November, 1868, he was examined for artificial limb, at which time the stump was in a sound condition. The man is a pensioner at $15 per month. DXXVIII.—Report of an Ampxitation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By T. St. V. Hutchinson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Pi'ivate Timothy Houlihan, Co. I, 2d Infantry, aged 29 years, was fired upon l)y a patrol near the camji of the 2d Infantry, May 27, 1869. The ball entered directly above the head of the183 AMPUTATIONS OF THE AEM. radius, destroyed the outer condyle of tlie liuinenis, chipped tlie coronoid process of the tilna, and splintered the radius down to the upper border of the pronator quadratus muscle. The whole internal structure of the arm, on the radial side, was torn and hanging from a large gaping wound on the anterior surface of the fore-arm. Nerves and vessels were cut and torn. On the same day he was admitted to the post hospital at Huntsville, Alabama, feeble from loss of blood and great pain; pulse about 80. Ether was at once administered, and the arm was amputated at the lower third by the double-flap method. The htemorrhage was about three ounces. Three ligatures were used. The wound was allowed to glaze before closing the flaps with interrupted sutures. Cerate dressing and a solution of carbolic acid were applied. Eeaction was moderate and not delayed. The sutures were removed on the third day. The edges of the wound had united, and had to be opened to give free egress to pus. The patient had no appetite for several days, but it was restored by irou and quinine, and the case ijrogressed favorably. The ligatures came away on the eleventh and thirteenth days. There was strong disposition of the edges of the wound to close, and it w^as with difficulty that they were kept so as to allow a free discharge. On the 15th of June, the patient was up and about, and on June 30th the wound had closed, with the exception of a small point, at one corner, which had ceased discharging, and was about to heal. The patient was in excellent health. He was returned to duty July 18, 1869. DXXIX.—Report of a Primary Amputation of tlie Arm for Gunshot Injury. By S. T. Weirick, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private William Jackson, Co. E, 16th Infantry, aged 24 years, at Macon, Georgia, June 19, 1868, while firing a salute was wounded, by the premature discharge of a cannon, which blew off his right arm. The right hand and fore-arui were coniiiletely gone, and the parts badly contused and burned. On the same day he Avas admitted to the hospital of the post, and VV. P. Bowes, Acting Assistant Surgeon, amputated the arm at the u^jper third of the humerus, by the circular method. On June 30th the case was progressing favorably. The i)atient was transferred to hospital at Atlanta, Georgia, August 0th, and* was discharged the service October 22, 1809, for loss of right arm. DXXX.—Account of an Amputation of the Arm and Fore-Arm. By W. J. Piper, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private William Jones, Co. A, 20th Infantry, aged 21 years, while firing a salute February 22, 1868, at Baton Eouge, Louisiana, was wounded by the premature exj^losion of the charge. The left hand was blown away, the radius and ulna, and the humerus at the middle fractured, and the soft parts contused. The right fore-arm was comminuted above the carpus, and was attached only by a few tendons. The lower maxilla was fractured on both sides anterior to the angle, and the anterior portion of the chest and abdomen burned. He was at once admitted to the post hospital, and one hour after the injury William Thomson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A,, administered ether and chloroform, with embarrassment on account of oppressed and difficult respiration from displacement of the lower maxilla and bleeding in the mouth, and amputated the left arm at the middle, and the right fore-arm at the lower third, by the double flap method. The i^atient rallied after the operation, and took liquid food, stimulants, &c. Eespiration w^as sibilant and labored from obstructions at the glottis. He died February 25, 1868, at 7 P. M., from exhaustion, having been very restless and slightly delirious for twenty-four hours. At the post-mortem nothing worth mentioning was found. The seats of fracture of the lower maxilla were examined, and the soft parts found infiltrated with blood, with lacerations extending into the buccal cavity. DXXXI.—Account of an Amputation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By B. J. D. Irwin, Surgeon, U. S. A. First Lieutenant Eansom Kennicott, Co. F, 19th Infantry, aged 2S years, was accidentally wounded, while handling his gun, by a charge of small bird shot, which passed through the left184 EEPOKT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. arm, comiiletely aliattering tlie Lumerus and teariug tlie soft structures. Dr. F. nalliilay, on November 3, 1SG6, near Lawrence, Kansas, amputated the arm; internal and external tiaps, and four ligatures were applied. On November lltb he was admitted to tbe post hospital at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. The wound was witliout dressing, the flaps everted and insufficient, and the bone jirotruding. I immediately administered chloroform, and excised one inch of bone, revivified the flaps, and ai)plied iron wire sutures. The patient reacted well, and on November 28, 18G0, Avhen he left on a leave of absence, his wound was entirely healed up, with the exception of a small space where the principal ligature x)rotruded. This officer was retired November 5, 1868. DXXXII.—Report of an Amputation of the Arm for Railway Injury. By W. H. Eenick, M, D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private David Linton, Co. B, 7th Cavalry, was run over by railroad cars at or near Willow Springs, Colorado Territory, on the night of August 1, 1870. The wheels passed obliquely across the right arm, completely destroying the elbow-joint. Both bones of the fore-arm were crushed, and a longitudinal fractiire extended up the shaft of the humerus, almost to the junction of the upper thirds. One hour after the injury, the patient being chloroformed, the arm was ampu- tated at the junction of the upper thirds, by the circular operation. Cold-water di-essings were api)lied, and occasionally a solution of permanganate of potash. On August 12th the sutures were removed, the patient was allowed the limits of the camp, and on August 17th, he w'as taken to Fort Lyon. On October 30th, he was sent to the hospital at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, at whicli date one ligature yet remained in the stumj); his general health was good. He was discharged the ser- vice on December 7, 1870. DXXXIII.—Remarls on a Frimnry Amputation of tlie Arm for GnnsJiot Injury. By W. B. Lyon, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. William McDermith, a gold miner, aged 32 years, on the evening of December 6th, 1870, carelessly grasped the muzzle of a shot-gun, which discharged a large load of number-three shot into his left fore-arm. The charge entered the anterior aspect, four inches above the wrist-joint, severed the belly of the flexor carpi-ulnaris, ranged upward along the course of the ulnar artery, and produced a comminuted fracture of the condyles of the humerus, opening the elbow-joint, and an oblique fracture of the shaft. The soft tissues of the upper fore-arm and lower fourth of the arm, especially on the ulnar side, were so completely disorganized as to be almost unrecognizable. The ulnar artery and nerve were entirely destroyed, and the radial artery was severed near its source. A few shot escaped through a small exit-wound posteriorly, one inch and a half above the upper extremity of the ulna, and three separate exit-wounds from single shot were found three inches above. Copious Inemorrhage occurred immediately after receiving the wound, spontaneously subsiding on the patient's assuming a recumbent position. He was admitted to the hospital at Fort McRae, New Mexico, where, seventeen hours after the reception of the wound, he was chloroformed, and the arm was amputated through the middle third by the circular operation. The stump was dressed with a weak solution of carbolic acid. The wound united mainly by first intention, and progressed favorably throughout. The pathological specimen, with the history, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum, and is numbered 5758 of the Surgical Section. DXXXIY.—RemarTcs on an Amputation of the Arm. By J. C. Baily, Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private Peter Mclntyre, Co. K, 23d Infantry, aged 35 years, was wounded while on provost guard duty in San Francisco, California, on October 1, 1870, by a conoidal musket ball, which was fired by a burglar at the distance of a few feet, and which entered the arm anteriorly, two inches above the elbow-joint, fracturing the humerus, and implicating the joint, but left the vessels unin- jured. He remained in the city with but little attention until the afternoon of the 3d, when he was sent to the post hospital at the Presidio. On the next day, the patient being feverish and the armAMPUTATIONS OF THE AEM. 185 swollen, inflamed, and very painful, it was decided to operate. The patient having been rendei'ed insensible with chloroform, Assistant Surgeon Edwin Bentley, U. S. A., amputated the arm in the upper third by the antero-posterior-flap o])eration. There was considerable hfe-morrhage ; eight ligatures were applied. The patient recovered well from the influence of the anfesthetic. Tlie stump was dressed with a single layer of lint saturated with glycerine and carbolic acid. The wound progressed favorably. On December 31, 1870, the patient remained in hospital, the stump not being yet in a condition to adapt an artificial limb. At this date, there was an occa- sional discharge of pus, with limited necrosis, which, however, had never been serious, and was improving. DXXXV.—Report of an Amputation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By 0. Caughill, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. James Parker, Co. G, 28th Infantry, aged 32 years, w^as wounded October 10, 1868, at Camden, Arkansas, while in the act of escaping from the guard, by a conoidal ball, which entered the right fore-arm one and a half inches below the elbow-joint, on the anterior surface, comminuted the radius and ulna, ruptured the ulnar, radial, and interosseous arteries, and emerged in a slightly oblique direction upon the opposite side. At 8 o'clock P. M., on the same day, fifteen minutes after the receipt of the wound, he was admitted into the post hospital, having lost a large quantity of blood previous to admission. The w^ound was very large and jagged, and the muscles very mucli lacerated. The large number of loose fragments of bone which were removed, necessarily left the fractured ends very widely separated. Stiuuilants were given freely until reaction was established, and an opiate was given to quiet pain and produce sleep. The next morning, at six o'clock, the Ijarts being immensely swollen, chloroform was administered, and the arm amputated just above the elbow by the circular method. Stimulants, in combination witli strong beef tea, were given every hour. The patient died fifteen hours after the operation—.evidently from the effect of the loss of blood sustained previous to his admission to the hospital. The ulna and radius were examined after death. Two inches or more from each bone was found missing, and the shafts of both were split. DXXXYl.—Bemarlcs on an Amputation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By F. Meacham, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Hospital Steward Lucius O'Brien, United States Army, aged 23 years, was admitted to hospital at Camp Douglas, Utah Territory, on July 5, 18G8, having been accidentally shot through the left arm just above the bend of the elbow. The artery was severed an inch and a half above the bifur- cation, the lower end of the humerus was extensively comminuted, and the soft parts, about two inches iii diameter, on the back of the arm, were completely carried away. The patient had lost considerable blood. Amputation having been decided on, the patient was chloroformed, and the circular operation was done at the lower third about two hours after the accident. The patient was then placed in bed, being allowed tea and a farinaceous diet. Simple cold-water dressings were applied. On the 6th he was doing well, the same treatment being continued. On the 8tli there was considerable fever, with scanty urine ; the wound looked well, and suppuration was established. The sutures were removed; beef tea was administered as an additional article of diet, and fifteen- grain doses of acetate of potash were administered every four hours, with an anodyne at night. The symptoms of febrile disturbance having disappeared on the following day, the i)otasii was discontinued, and two-grain doses of quinine atul iron were substitnted. Two of the ligatures were removed on August 1st; the tonic was discontinued, and full diet allowed. On August 24:th the last ligature was removed. One day later he was returned to duty, the stump having entirely healed.* DXXXYII.—Remarlis on an Amputation of the Arm for an Injury. By W. H. Longwill, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Dionicio Raniires, Troop F, 1st New Mexico Cavalry, was admitted to hospital at Fort Wiugate, New Mexico, on May 18, 1866, with asthma, and at the same time suffering from an * lu January, 1869, O'Brien was shot through the heart. See Eeport CVIII, p. 36. 24186 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. injury of the left wrist-joint, caused by a log falling upon it. Tincture of iodine was applied to tlie wrist, and a lotion of lead water and laudanum kept upon the parts. This failing to reduce the inflammation, a poultice of linseed was applied, and openings were made for the exit of pus. Tonics and a generous diet were prescribed ; but the ])atient being of a scrofulous habit, the inflammation extended to the elbow, and pus having formed iu the joint, together with bad tendency of the injury to the wrist, it was deemed best to amputate at the lower third of the humerus, whiicli was done on August 13th. Dry dressings were apjilied, and the stump healed kindly, but the asthma still contiuued, and the patient subsequently suffered from abscess of the thyroid gland, which, after being opened, continued to discharge until September 1,18CG, when it closed up. On Decem- ber 23d, another abscess formed in the thyroid gland, leaving an opening in the circoid cartilage, througli which expiration and inspiration took place, and the patient expectorated a great deal of pus. He gradually sank until December 27th, at 3 P. M., when he expired. A.post-mortem exam- ination, sixteen hours afterward, revealed an abscess in the thyroid gland containing about two ounces of pus ; the apices of both lungs were filled with tubercle ; the right pleura was adherent around the entire lung, and the heart was hypertrophied. DXXXVIII.—Report of an Amptitation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By J. F. BouaHTER, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Edward Randall, a trapper, aged Gl years, was accidentally shot in the right arm at Flandreau, . on the Big Sioux River, on October 20, 18GS. He started alone with a two-horse team, and without assistance reached Fort Dakota, Dakota Territory, on the evening of the 23d, much exhausted, but pulse good. Stimulants were administered and the patient was put to bed, when upon examination of the wound it was found that a round musket ball, weighing an ounce, had entered the middle third of the fore-arm anteriorly, and, having passed obliquely upward and outward, had lodged against the lower extrejnity of the humerus, producing an extensive comminuted fracture which extended into the elbow-joint and some distance up the shaft. The arm from the hand to the shoul- der was much swollen. There were incipient symptoms of traumatic gangrene; blebs, containing dark-colored fluid, covered the hand and fore-arm, a few being scattered on the arm and scapular region; a dark, yellowish blush extended to the shoulder-joint; and the muscles were much infil- trated. It was determined to operate immediately, and, at 1 o'clock the same night, the arm was amputated in the upper third, by the lateral flap operation. The flaps were much infiltrated, and had an unhealthy appearance. Three ligatures were applied, the stump was dressed with cold- water dressings, and an anody ne was administered, and repeated iu an hour. The patient rested well, and the next morning breakfasted on light and stimulating diet. A few drops of chlorinated soda Avere added to the cold-water dressings. He slept well during the next night without an anodyne. The following morning, his bowels not baving moved since the injury', cathartics were given. The stump, by this time, was much swollen, and was discharging a bloody serum; the shoulder was also swollen, blush extending over region of scaijula. His appetite contiuued good. On the 27th, one suture was removed. The edges of incision ai)peared to be healing too rapidly, preventing discharge of pus; a poultice was applied. On the 28th, the remaining sutures were removed, and the stump was dressed with stra[)S and bandages. On the 29th the patient complained of spasmodic twitching of muscles of stump with pain while dozing. On ifovember 1st, the ligatures came away, and the swelling of stump and shoulder was nearly gone. From this time he imj^roved rapidly. On the 17tb healthy granulations having sprung up in two places of incision, nitrate of silver was applied ; and on December 7th, the stump being entirely healed, excepting a slight sinus at anterior edge of incision, the application was repeated, a small tent was inserted, and the edges brought together with, small adhesive straps. On December 14th the arm was entirely healed; it was bandaged, and a pad placed in axilla. On the 15th he left for his home in Canada, which he reached safely on January G, 1869. At this date, and.during the treatment, he comiflaiued of some numbness in the arm. His pulse had varied according to the comfort of the stump, it having fallen after dressing on the fourth day, from eighty to sixty-four. The operator says in his report of the case, that " the patient's age, his being over three days without any assistance (being obliged to take care187 AMPUTATIONS OF THE AEM. of bis own horse and cook his own food during that period), and the yevy unfavorable condition of his arm, was very much against his recovery. The difficulty of detecting the extent of the fracture on account of the swollen condition of the arm, and the unhealthy appearance of his shoulder at one time, almost induced me to amputate at the shoulder-joint; and after amputating when I did, I was fearful of the invasion of gangrene. He made a slow but good recovery. Perhaps more of his arm might have been saved, as subsequent dissection showed that the fracture did not extend as high as was suspected. If it had been taken off lower down, I think extensive sloughing would have occurred." DXXXIX.—Report of an Amputation of the Ann. By T. P. Azpell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Ellis B. Eobinson, general-service recruit, aged 26 years, was wounded by the prema- ture discharge of a brass cannon at David's Island, New York Harbor, on June 6, 1868, while acting as number one in firing a salute. He was admitted to the post hospital, when, it being found that the right humerus, radius and ulna, and wrist-joint were fractured, and that there was much contusion, with evident laceration of the vessels, he was at once rendered insensible with two parts ether and one chloroform, and the arm was amputated about four inches above the elbow-joint by " the three-quarter lateral flap operation, it being thought advisable not to make the flaj)S entirely lateral, in order to avoid contused tissue, and give a greater length of stump." Simple dressings were applied. The excessive pain continuing after the operation, an anodyne was given. A nutritious but non-stimulating diet was ordered. The pain did not cease until the next morning, j)reventing sleep. On June 8th, the bowels not having moved since the injury, an injec- tion was given. On the 9th, the bandages and lint were removed for the first time, and cold-water dressings were applied. About two inches of the posterior portion of the incision had united by . first intention; considerable sloughing had commenced on the anterior portion of the flaps, and the severe injury to the skin was evident from the sphacelated a^jpearance of the stump and the discoloration extending to the axilla and chest. Milk punch was now added to his diet. On the 10th, the stump was washed with a diluted solution of chlorinated soda; and on the 11th, the silk sutures apparently increasing the tendency to slough, silver wire was substituted. On the 12th, most of the slougli came away on the dressing, showing a healthy granulating surface. On July 1st, the ligature was removed, and nitrate of silver was daily applied, to exuberant granulations, until July 30th, when the stump had entirely healed, with amjile covering to the bone. " The sloughing, in this case, appeared to be very materially diminished, and almost suspended, by the use of the chlorinated mixture and wire suture—so much so, that the improv^ement in the condition of the stump seemed evident in the course of twenty-four hours." In August, 1868, the patient was transferred to another command. DXL.—Report on an Amputation of the Arm and Fore-Arm. By W. Matthews, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Private Jacob Schubach, Co. F, 22d Infantry, while firing a salute, July 4, 1870, at Fort Stevenson, Dakota Territory, was wounded by the premature explosion of the cartridge he was ramming down at the time. The right fore-arm was torn off, and the remainder of the limb was scorched and lacerated in the severest manner up to the axilla. A portion of the left hand was also torn away, and the remainder burned to the wrist. The right side of the face, the right eye, and the entire chest were also badly scorched. On being taken to the hospital and chloroformed, the arm was amputated in the upper third, very close to the shoulder. There was great difficulty in finding sufficient sound flesh to make a stump, and a portion of the scorched tissue in the axilla had to be included in one of the flaps. The left fore-arm was amputated above the wrist. In the right arm suppuration did not commence until after the fifth day, when carbolic-acid lotion was applied, a small portion of the axillary flap having become mortified before that time. The opera- tion was followed by great prostration, and the patient's condition, for seven or eight days, was very doubtful. July 31: He was able to walk around, and in excellent sjurits, and the stumps were healing finely. On August 13, 1870, he was transferred to Fort Sully, Dakota Territory, perfectly able to stand the journey.EEPOliT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 188 DXLI.—Note relative to an Amjmtation of the Arm. By C.Bacon, Jr., Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Jean Shields, Troop D, GtU Cavalry, aged 22 years, was admitted into the post hospi- tal at Jacksboro, Texas, December 13, 18G0, amputation of the left arm liaving been performed at the middle third, on account of injury, at Sherman, Texas, October 15, 18GG. He was returned to duty January 17, 1867. DXLII.—Remarls on a. Primary Am^mtation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. An Indian girl, aged 15 years, received, September 11, 18G8, near Dickenson's Eanche, Ari- zona Territory, a gunshot wound of the right arm. The lower i)art of the humerus was shattered, and the elbow-joint opened. On the same day, in the field, Private George W. Miller, Company A, 8tli Cavalry, acting hospital steward, M-ithout administering an ana'sthetic, amputated the humerus at the lower third, by the antei'ior-posterior Ua]) method. Four ligatures were applied. On the next day, she was brought as a prisoner of war to the post hospital, Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory. Cold-water dressings were applied, and the patient did well. On September 29th, she was convalescent. On the 30th, at midnight, two Indians approached the hospital, and recaptured the prisoner. DXLIII.—Note relative to a Primary Amputation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By T. H. Turner, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George Washington, Troop I, 10th Cavaby, received, January 20, 18G9, a gunshot comminuted fracture of the left elbow-joint. He was immediately admitted to the post hospital, Fort Wallace, Kansas, and, on the same day, Assistant Surgeon J. A. Fitzgerald, United States Army, amputated the left arm at the lower third of the humerus. The patient was depressed at the time of the operation. Progress was good until the third week, when he commenced sinking, death supervening on the 8th of February, 18G9. DXLIY.—Note relative to an Amputation of the Arm. By T. Cunynghame, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Private David White, Co. G, 41st Infantry, aged 23 years, was wounded September G, 18G7, by the accidental discharge of a rifle. The missile, a conoidal ball, caused a compound complicated and comminuted fracture of radius, ulna, and humerus of one arm. He was at once adnutted to the post hospital at Einggold Barracks, Texas, the whole of the elbow-joint being extensively pulpified and lacerated. Patient was suffering with intermittent fever at time of injury. Amputation at middle third of arm w^as performed September G, 1867. Death resulted September 9, 1867, from nervous shock. Amputations at the 8hov2der-joint.—Of tlie four special cases reported one proved fatal. Three were due to gunsliot wounds ; one to railway accident. DXLV.—Report of a Successful Case of Primary Amputation at the Shoulder-Joint for Gunshot Injury.—By D. L. HuNTiNGTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Manuel Chavez, a Mexican, aged 24 years, was wounded near Fort Cummings, New Mexico, on July 3, 1868, by the accidental discharge of an old Springfield musket, while drawing it out of a wagon. The ball entered near the internal edge of the brachialis anticus muscle, about four inches below the head of humerus, fractured the bone badly, and, passing out near the posterior edge of the deltoid, injured the brachial artery and severed the nerve. On July 4th, after riding forty-five miles without water, he was admitted to the hospital at Fort Bayard, Xew Mexico, the wound being in a high state of inflammation. Morphine was given, and after three hours' rest the l^atient >vas rendered insensible with one part chloroform and four parts ether, and the arm was amputated at the shoulder-joint, with a deltoid and inner flap. Little or no blood was lost, andAMPUTATIONS AT THE SHOULDEE-JOINT. 189 tlie patient rallied well from tbe effects of the ausestlietic. Sedatives were given at bedtime. On July Gth, he had been very restless during the previous night, his skin was dry and hot, the pulse one hundred and ten and feeble, and respiration twenty-eight; there was an offensive sanious discharge from the wound, and great pain. Stimulants and tonics were given, and the wound was washed with a lotion of carbolic acid and water. This treatment (with an injection on the 8th, which caused a good fiecal dischai"ge) was continued with great impi-ovement in the condition of the patient; and, on the 12th, three small ligatures came away, leaving only the brachial, and the wound was rapidly closing. On the ISth, the ligature of the brachial came awaj% and from that time he steadily improved. By August 1st, the cicatrix was complete and firm, and a good stumj) had formed. He remained in hospital until near the middle of August, when he was sent home. On examination of the humerus after disarticulation, it was found shattered into fragments, with fissures running down the shaft and upward into the cancellated structure of the head of bone. DXLVI.—Eeport of a Successful Secondary Amputation at the Shoulder-Joint for Gunshot Injury. By Charles Smart, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James B. Farrington, Co. K, 32d Infantry, aged 36 years, was accidently wounded April 27, 1867, by the discharge of a fowling piece,.six revolver bullets entering the left arm and shoulder, posteriorly fracturing the left humerus and scapula, and severely injuring the soft parts. He was admitted to the post hospital, at Camp Lowell, Arizona Territory, on the same day. The patient.became exhausted from excessive suppuration of wound, and the limb entirely useless on account of injury to nerves. On August 27, 1867, an excessive hfemorrhage, supposed to be from the axillary artery, occurred. Several unsuccessful attempts having been made to secure this artery, and taking into consideration the uselessuess of the arm, it was decided to amputate at the shoulder-joint, which was accordingly done, after rendering the ijatient insensible with chloroform. Water dressings, nourishing diet, and stimulants were used. He was returned to duty March 10, 1868. DXLVII.—Primary Amimtation at the Shoiilder-Joint for Gunshot Injury, having a Fatal Termination. By Owens, M. D. John Collins, Co. 1,17th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Camp Schofleld, Lynchburg, Virginia, about two o'clock on the morning of September 11, 1869, with a gunshot comminuted. fracture of the upper third of the right humerus. It is believed that the gun was loaded with ball and buckshot or slugs, as fally one-third of the upper portion of the bone was shattered to its head and the integuments for more than that distance were severely torn, although, strange to say, the main artery was untouched. He had lost a great amount of blood; and this, together with the shock to his nervous system, precluded operative interference until reaction. The patient reacted very slowly ; and, at five o'clock in the evening, deeming it inadvisable to wait any longer, I, upon invitation, amputated at the shoulder-joint, by flap operation, with neatness and dispatch. The patient lost but little blood ; but, some hours after, his pulse began to fail rapidly, death superven- ing at half past six o'clock the next morning, thirty hours after being shot. The case is reported by the operator. DXLVIII.—Report of a Successful Primary Amp^itation at the Shoulder-Joint for Eaihcay Injiiry. By W. F. Buchanan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Alexander Terry, Co. E, 38th Infantry, met with a. severe railway injury on the L'nion Pacific Eoad, a short distance from Fort Hays, Kansas, for which he was admitted to the hospital, on October 16, 1868. There was a compound comminuted fracture of the left arm, the bone being extensively comminuted with both extremities fractured longitudinally. The soft parts were much lacerated, the little finger was torn off the left hand, and the patient suffered much from the shock of injury. Being comfortably arranged in bed, and precautions liaving been taken to prevent hieniorrhage during the night, an anodyne was administered, and the patient slept well. On the 17thREPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 190 he was anassthetized, when a furtlier examination of the injury led to the couchision that a prompt removal at the articnlatiou was the best and only chance of saving life. As the subclavian could not be properly compresed, owing to a full development of the chest and shoulders, and the absence of proper assistance, a touruiqiiet was applied over the axillary artery and retained in situ by an assistant, the screw being placed over the superior border of the scapula and retained in position by a tape passed around the chest. An incision, begun immediately below the acromion process, was carried down through the belly of the deltoid muscle, about three inches; then, making a curve around the external extremity of the humerus to the axilla, a similar flap was made on the inner side, and the bone was disarticulated. The axillary artery was ligated, and after the cessation of a little venous oozing, the flaps were brought together by interrupted sutui-es aud adhesive strips, not more than an ounce of blood having been lost during the operation. The patient reacted promptly, when a stimulant, followed by an anodyne, was administered, and cold-water dressings were applied. He slept well, and on the ISth his condition was fair. The remaining treatment in this case wa&. chiefly expectant. By December 31st the patient had entirely recovered with a good round shoulder. He was discharged April 9,18G7. The specimen, with the history, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum, by the operator, and is No. 5595, Surgical Section. AMPUTATION IN THE LOWER EXTREMITIES Amputations of the Toes.—Special reports of twenty-two cases of tliis nature were received. Eighteen were due to frost-bites ; four to injuries. Xajuo. Kank. Co. Kcglmcnt. Nature of injury. Parts removed. Ecniark. Barrage, Jolm Barry, David Beli, John Bovel, Joliu Brown, Samuel CouneU, Patrick .. Fiskcr, John Gardiner, James A Gay, Tliomas Gibben, James Honig, Charles... Hughes, Edward. Civilian . Private Private Corporal .. Private Private Private.. Private Private. Private. Private... Private... ?th Cavalry. 10th Cavalry.. 13th Inl'antry . 10th Cavalry.. 20th lulautry. 5th Artillery. 2d ArtiUery.. 8th Cavalry., Cth Infantry 13th Infantry . I8th Infantry . Frost-bite -.., Frost-bite Frost-bite Frost-bite Frost-bite Frost-bite....... Unknown Frost-bite Gimshot wound Frost-bite Frost-bite. Frost-bite. Second phalanx of right great toe, and oiiter third of second phalanx of left great toe. Great too and first phalanx of second toe of lelt foot, and first phalanx of great toe of right foot. Left great too at metatarso- phalangeal articulation. All the toes of the right foot in the continuity of tho meta- tarso-phalangeal articulation. Eight great toe and head of metatarsal bone. Great toe and head of first meta- tarsal bone of left foot, and balance of toes at metatarso- phalangeal articulation. Second toe of each foot Toes at metatarso-phalangeal articulation. Second toe of left foot at meta- tarso-phalangeal articulation. Second phalanx of right great toe; also, both thumbs at sec- ond phalangeal joints, second and third phalanges of index and middle fingers, and third phalanx of ring finger of right hand, and second and third phalanges of first, second, and ring fingers, and fourth finger at metacarpo-phalangeal joint. All the toes of left foot Great toe of right foot in middle of first phalanx, and great toe of left foot at metatarso-pha- langeal articulation. Discharged from hospital April 4, 18G8. Discharged June 22,1868. Returned to duty Feb- ruary 25, 1868. Discharged Juno 19,1868. Eeturned to duty March 16, 1869. Transferred to tho Sol- diers' Home, W^ashing- toB, D. C, October 8, 18T0. Discharged January 4,1869. Discharged April 4,1868. Eeturned to duty April 3, 1868. Inmate of the Soldiers' Home, at Dayton, Ohio. Discharged August 17,1867. Discharged October 7,1867.AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. 191 Name. Jackson, Nicliolaa B. Keegan, Jolin McDonald, John McKee, Alexander.. Murphy, Michael Nohrton, J olm O'Connor, John Phenix, James Shanley, Barney "Washington, George Kank. Discharg'd soldier. Private. Private. Private. Private. Scout Corporal . Private... Sergeant , Private... No. Eegiment. Nature of injury. 1st Cavalry ... 23d Infantry.. 33d Infantry.. 14th Infantry. 22d Infantry 2d Cavalry... 1st Artillery. Frost-bite. Frost-bite Frost-bite Incised wound . Frost-bite Frost-bite Frost-bite Frost-bite Lacerated wound 10th Cavalry Frost-bite Parts removed. All the toes of right foot and three toes of left foot through metatarso-phalangeal articu- tion. Second and third phalanges of little toe of left foot. Last phalanx of great toe Little toe All the toes of both feet and the ends of the metatarsal bones of the right foot. Little toe of the right foot Eight great toe and first joint... All toes of both feet First ijhalanx of right great toe. Terminal phalanx of left great toe. Eemarks. Discharged from hospital March 6, 1871. Keturned to duty in May, 1868. Eeturned to duty in April, 1868. Keturned to duty March 24,1868. Eeturned to duty June 12,1871. Keturned to duty April 30,1870r Keturned to duty in April, 1868. • Discharged from service August 11,1868. Keturned to duty in Au- gust, 1866. Eeturned to duty March 28,18G8. Amputations of the Foot.—Six special cases were reported, bites, two to gunshot injuries, and one to dislocation. Three were due to frost- iDXLIX.—Account of a Case in tvhich a Double Operation was Performed on the Feet. ScHELL, Assistant Surgeon, IJ, S. A. By H. S. Private William Finn, Troop D, 2d Cavalry, aged 29 years, while on the march from Fort Laramie to Bridger's Ferry, North Platte Eiver, March 26, 1867, was frost-bitten in both feet. He was admitted into the ijost hospital at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, on the same day, the whole of the right foot in front of the ankle-joint and all of the toes of the left foot except the last being gangrenous. On April 12th the patient was slightly feverish, the pulse was 90, and the lower part of right leg and foot had become swollen and congested; there was a distinct line of demarca- tion extending vertically around the foot, from a \)omi about one-half inch in front of tibio-tarsal articulation, and the cuticle was detached from the plantar region. The left foot was puffy, and there was a line of demarcation a little posterior to commissures of toes. Chloroform was admin- istered, and the right foot amputated by Pirogoff's operation in the manner described by Mr. Spencer Wells, and all the toes of the left foot just behind the heads of the metatarsal bones, dorsal and palmar flaps being made from without inwards. Three ligatures were applied to right foot and two to left. Haemorrhage three or four ounces. The induction of the anajsthesia was difflcult, requiring three-quarters of an hour, but was well borne when induced. Owing to the restlessness of the patient for the first twelve hours after the operation, there was considerable oozing of blood from the right foot, followed by inflammation. The stump and half the leg were wrapped in lint and kept constantly wet with lead-water and laudanum. By April 15th hsemorrhage had ceased. May 13th, both stumps had entirely healed ; June 30, 1807, riglit leg had shortened about three-fourths of an inch. The patient was discharged September 1, 1867. His application for a pension was rejected. DL.—Note relative to a Partial Amputation of the Foot. By P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private George M. Lockwood, Troop C, 3d Cavalry, aged 21 years, was wounded at Fort Whipple, Arizona Territory, May 5, 1870, by the accidental discharge of a Spencer carbine. The192 REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. ball at that range shattered tlio secoud metatarsal bone of the left foot. The patient was adniitted to the hospital of the fort on the same day, and, on May IGth, chloroform was administered and the toe and second metatarsal bone amputated. There was but little hiemorrhage, and no ligatures were applied. At the time of ttie operation the soft parts near the wound were in a healthy condi- tion. The patient reacted promptly from the anjiesthetic, and no bad symptoms followed. On June 30th the patient was still under treatment, convalescent. He was discharged January 21, 1871. DLL—Account of a Partial Amputation of the Foot. By F. Damour, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Richard Melitz, Troop B, 1st Cavalry, aged 22 years, while en route to Canjp McGarry, Nevada, was frost-bitten in both feet on the 20th of January, 18CS. He arrived at his destination, and was admitted to the post hospital on the 25th. On the 31st, ether and chloroform were administered, and a flap amputation of the right foot perfomned through the second, third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and through the tarso-metatarsal articulation of the first. The parts amputated were gangrenous. The j)atient, at the time, was feverisii, pnlse 110, skin dry, secretion scant, bowels constipated, and appetite not very good. The glands of the right groin were swollen and inflamed; lithic acid was found in the urine. Oh the 17th of February, i^art of the left great toe having mortified, an anajsthetic was administered as above, and it was amputated through the first phalanx, with a favorable result. The sutures of the flap of the right foot gave way on account of the great destruction of integument above the amiiutation, and therefore the healing process was carried on by granulation. A large i)ortiou of the soft parts of the heel were also mortified, and sloughed oft', exposing a large part of the os calcis. By the 31st of March, 18G8, the stump had healed with good cushions. The ulcer in the heel had been filling up by granulation, but was not yet ^vell. Discharged September 20, 18G8. Pension, $15. DLIL—Ifote on a Partial Amputation of the Foot. By H. R. TiLTON, Assistant Surgeon. U. S. A. Private Frank Reip, Troop B, 7th Cavalry, aged 23 years, while marching from Pueblo to Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, January 23 to 27, 1867, had his left foot frozen. He was taken to the post hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory. Tlie injured parts were gangrenous. On. February 19th, I administered an anfesthetic composed of chloroform and ether, and amputated the foot through the metatarsal bones. Simple dressings were applied. He recovered, and was discharged. DLIII.—Account of an Amputation of the Foot for a Compound Dislocation of the Anlde-Joint. By W. A. Tompkins, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Leopold Winkleman, Troop K, 7th Cavalry, while sufi'ering from an attack of delirium tremens, leaped from a third story window of the building used as a hospital at Yorkville, South Carolina, fiiUing a distance of about forty feet, and causing a compound, comminuted, complicated fracture of the internal malleolus, os calcis, and astragalus at the posterior part. The weather being extremely warm, and the patient debilitated from excessive debauchery, I decided to amputate as the only means of saving his life, which decision was concurred in hy two medical gentlemen who assisted me in the operation. The patient at present is doing well, and will have a serviceable limb. The specimen forwarded to the Army Medical Museum, with the history, is numbered 5928 of the Surgical Section. DLIV.—Note Belative to an Amputation of the Foot for Ounshot Injury. By J. W. Williams, Assistant Snrgeon, U. S. A. Jose Antonio Gonzales, a citizen, was Wounded at Fort Dodge, Kansas, in July, 18G5, by Indians. The ball entered anteriorly, passed backward and downward, carried away the cuboid part of the193 AMPUTATIONS AT TEE ANKLE-JOINT, OS calcis, shattered the astragalus, and involved the joint to snch an extent as to render amputa- tion of the foot necessary, which Avas performed by J. G. Eiddler, Assistant Surgeon, 5th U. S. V. The patient became very much reduced in consequence of diarrhoea, which was overcome by the use of turpentine and laudanum in emulsion, all other means failing, Ou July 31, 18G5, the patient was doing well. Amputations at the Ankle-Joint.—Of the four cases of this class, made subjects of special reports, one proved fatal, DLV.—Bemarls on a Case of Frost-Bite in ivMcli hoth Feet were removed by Pirogoffs Method. By Jaiies F. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. Daniel Ferns, formerly a private of Co. Iv, 7th Infantry, aged 45 years, started from Santa E(§, New Mexico, about the loth of January, 1866, at midnight, for Fort Craig, in a state of intoxication, and carrying a canteen of whiskey with him. The night was very cold, the thermom- eter being below zero. After walking eighteen miles, he lost the road, and lay down, when both Ms feet were frozen. Being unable to bear transportation, he was treated in a lorivate family at Algadones, New Mexico, twenty-five miles north of Albuquerque. The feet were found sphacelated,* the line of demarcation on the right foot being a little above the scapho-cuneiform articulation, and the left at the astragalan-scaphoid on the dorsum of the foot, and two lines in front of the cal- caneum cuboid on the plantar surface. The parts about the right ankle were much swollen, inflamed, and infiltrated, and the vitality was very low. There was an ulcer over the external malleolii. The parts about the left ankle were but little swollen or inflamed. The patient's constitution was broken by many years of intemperance. The pulse was small and weak, and 120 per minute; surface covered with cold perspiration; bowels were loose, the evacuations being frequent and watery; and the appetite was poor, the patient having an intense desire for whiskey, and con- stantly calling for it. On January 27th, I amputated at the right ankle-joint by Pirogoffs operation; and, on the 31st, the same operation was performed on the left. The antesthetic was chloroform one part and ether two parts. After the operations, the constitutional symp- tons improved ; the pulse fell to eighty-five, and had more volume and force; the cold perspiration ceased, and the appetite improved. The wounds on both feet partly closed by first intention. Inflammation and swelling about the left ankle greatly diminished. He continued to improve until February 10th, when mortification showed itself in both limbs without any previous increase of constitutional symptoms, and spread rapidly toward the body without forming any line of demarcation. From this time he sank rapidly. The treatment prescribed was cold-water dress- ings, the frequent and free administration of stimulants, nutritious animal diet, and anodynes to relieve pain and secure rest. These directions were not followed; the stimulants were irregularly administered, and the diet was poor and insuflicient. To these causes the patient's death, which occurred on February 12, 1866, is attributed. No post-mortem. DLVI.—Memorandum relative to an Amputation of the Foot by Pirogoffss Method. By J. E, Semple, Assistant Surgeon, U, S, A. H, G. Nims, additional paymaster, aged 25 years, was admitted to the post hospital, Fort Vancouver, Washington Territory, December 25, 1866, with a gunshot fracture and comminution of the external and middle cuneiform bones of the right foot, the ball having entered the lower third of tibia externally, passed down, and lodged in the foot. The parts were blackened and bleed- ing. His general condition was good, with the exception of being exceedingly nervous. On Decem- ber 28th, ether was administered and the foot amputated at the ankle-joint, after the method of Pirogoff. Water dressings, and a solution of morphia at night, were applied. He recovered, and by the 1st of April, 1867, he had been returned to duty, but was mustered out July 1, 1867, DLVII.—Account of an Amputation of the Foot by 8yme''s Method. By A. D, Wilson, Assistant Surgeon, U, S, A. Private Peter Vandel, Co. A, 3d Infantry, aged 31 years, was accidentally wounded, while in quarters, November 5, 1867, by a conoidal musket ball, wliich entered just below the inner malle-194 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. olus of the left foot, and, escaping beneath the outer malleohis, shattered the os calcis and injured the under surface of the astragakis. He was admitted to post hospital, Fort Dodge, Kansas, on the same day. The parts about the wound were much powder-burned. The patient was of slight frame, anaemic, and suffered considerably from shock of injury. I amputated by Syme's method ; both wounds came in the line of the incision for the operation. The flap when put up showed a linear wound one and a quarter inches in extent, caused by wound ot exit. A dressing of a weak solution of permanganate of potash was employed. The burnt parts along the wound of entrance sloughed. On November 9th, in attempting to remove a suture, a slight htemorrhage occurred, which was checked by application of cold, but recurred on the 15th, when the patient lost between two and three pounds of blood. The ligatures would not bear interference until long after the usual period, the last one not being removed until the thirty-first day. Patient was much reduced by the last hiBmorrhage. December 31, 18G7: Stump bears considerable pressure; there is still a slight discharge from it. [This man was discharged the service September 28,1868, for amputation of foot.] J)LVIII.—Report of a Case of Frost-Bite in which both Feet were Removed. By J. H. Patzki, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. First Lieutenant Henry B. Mellen, Gth Cavalry, aged 43 years, while travelling from Camp Wichita to Fort Richardson, Texas, on horseback, was overtaken by a severe '-norther" on December 20,1870, during which the mercury fell below zero. Having become wet by his horse falling with him into the west fork of Trinity River, he dismounted, was overcome with the cold, and remained in the timber of the bottom, in a half delirious condition, until found by a hunting party of soldiers on the morning of the 22d, about twelve miles from Fort Richardson. A medical officer was at once sent to his relief with an ambulance, and he was conveyed to the post hospital at Fort Richardson, arriving there at one o'clock on the morning of the 23d. His hands had escaped severe injury, as he had kept them under his clothes in contact with his skin, but both his feet and legs, to about five inches above the ankles, were apparently deprived of vitality, having a white and mottled appearance. He was delirious, and had persistent vomiting and diarrhoea, and was extremely prostrated, the pulse being almost imperceptible at the wrist. His extremities had been rubbed with snow by the soldiers immediately on finding him. In the hospital, friction with the hand was continued until i)ulsation could be felt over the dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis, when stimulating lotions and artificial warmth were substituted, but reaction did not extend to the toes of the left nor below the instep of the right foot. The patient remained in a state of i)rofound coma during the greater part of December 25th. The median-basilic vein and anterior temporal artery were opened Avithout obtaining blood ; brandy was thrown up the rectum. He finally awoke in a violent delirium, which continued until the 28th. About this time the toes became gangrenous, but the line of demarcation was not fully established until January 4, 1871. It ran on the right foot in a line corresponding to the medio-tarsal articulation, the sole and heel being also destroyed. On the left foot it ran across the dorsum, about one-half inch behind the heads of the metatarsal bones, and across the plantar immediately behind the commissure of the four smaller toes, but when reaching the great toe it curved backward so as to be on a level with its course over the dorsum. Irregular sloughs of varying depths ran along the outer margin of the dorsum, and covered the sole deepest over the bases of the metatarsal bones, the medio-tarsal articulation, and especially over the heel. Stimulants and nourishing diet were administered. On January 13th, in a consultation with Acting Assistant Surgeons R. Gale and B. B. Miles, it was decided that the condition of the patient permitted operative interference. It was resolved to remove the right foot at the ankle-joint, according to Roux's method, the condition of the heel not permitting Syme's or PirogofPs operation. It was rather embarrassing to determine upon an operation for the left foot, the sloughs having separated except over the heel; the sole was covered with granulations, forming but a thin layer over the bases of the metatarsals and over the heads of the astragalus and calca- neum. This precluded Lisfranc's as well as Ohopart's operation. A sufficient flap could be raised from the sole to cover the metatarsal bones with the exception of the first. In consideration of the great usefulness of a portion of one foot, especially after the loss of the other, it was decided toAMPUTATIONS AT THE ANKLE JOINT. 195 amputate tlivougli the metatarsus, with a view of performing a secondary operation after the soft parts of the foot had sufficiently recovered by cicatrization. Ether having been administered, the right foot was disarticukited by carrying an incision from the insertion of the tendo-Achillis into tlie OS calcis, over the external aspect of the foot immediately below the external malleolus, curving over the instep forward and one inch in front of the tibio-tarsal articulation, then down to and along the internal margin of the foot to the point of departure. This flap included all the healthy tissues on the inside of the foot. The joint was opened from the outside and the os calcis separated from the soft parts, the edge of the scalpel being kept close to the bone. The malleoli and a connecting slice of the tibia were removed with the saw; four arteries were tied and several others twisted ; the tendons were trimmed, and sufficient of the posterior tibial nerve to clear the cicatrix. The flap was adjusted with four metallic sutures and adhesive straps, and formed a good cover for the extremities of the bones. The left foot was amputated in the usual manner, through the metatarsus at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds. The flap which was raised from the sole was adjusted by straps and covered the extremities of the metatarsals well, with the exception of the first. Three ligatures were required. The loss of blood was insignificant. The stumps were dressed with carbolated ointment. The iiatient reacted feebly, but without vomiting or nausea; pulse 125 at C o'clock P. M. The stumps being very painful, and to facilitate dressing and cleansing, his limbs were slung in Smith's anterior splint, and suspended from the ceiling, which, in addition to a rope with a handle so suspended as to be in his reach, enabled the patient to shift his i^osition conveniently. The suppuration from the left stump soon became copious; the flaj) of the right had firmly cicatrized on January 21st, with the exception of three-fourths of an inch at its lower angle. The ligatures came away between the seventh and eleventh days. The patient was doing comparatively well until January 23d, when the granulations of the left foot grew i)ale, then grayish, as if covered with a delicate film; the pus became scanty and of a grayish color, the flap shrinking and the right stump secreting a small quantity of similar pus. The patient ; was drowsy, lost his appetite, had rigors in the earlier part of the afternoon and profuse sweats at night. In addition to the chalybeates and quinine which the patient had been taking, he was ordered a solution of chlorinated soda, largely diluted, during the day and morphine followed hy hydrate of chloral in the evening, these latter drugs effectively producing sleep and controlling pain, but less so when given separately than when combined. Irrigation was applied to the left foot, with solution of permanganate of potassa, and the body sponged twice a day with aromatic water. Nourishing diet and stimulants were ordered. On February 6th, two small abscesses on the right stumi) were opened. On the 11th the patient complained of severe pain in the right side of the chest; respiration shallow and frequent; a distinct sound of friction and some subcrepitus perceived over the right lower lobe. The chlorides were almost absent from his urine; iiatient greatly emaciated and complexion sallow. On February 14th, at 2 o'clock A. M., he had a severe chill lasting one hour; on the 19th the right knee became tender, and on the 22d swollen and exquisitly painful on the slightest touch ; this gradually im^jroved under the application of tincture of iodine. The patient was very weak and prostrated, his whole frame being harassed by severe neuralgic pains. He complained of much pain in the right stump, where some healthy pus discharged from the incisions made February Gfh, but no necrosed bone could be felt on i)robing. The slough over the left heel did not separate until February 26th, leaving the heel bone denuded to the extent of a circle three-fourths of an inch in diameter. On March 1st, the stump of the right leg had healed, but was somewhat tender and enlarged; the left foot was covered with healthy granulations, the first metatarsal bone being uncovered to the extent of one-fourth of an inch, and necrosed; the flap over the other metatarsals had cicatrized and formed a good cover. On March 4th pustules and small abscesses formed over the trunk and lower extremities; on March 5th the cicatricial tissue over shaft of fifth metatarsal bone sloughed and separated, on the 13th leaving the external surface of this bone denuded to the extent of one inch. The condition of the patient gradually improved, and on March 28th it was decided to remove the necrosed parts of the heel and first metatarsal bone. The patient having been etherized, a disk of bone corresponding to the point of the heel, of the size and thickness of a silver dollar, was removed with the chisel; a small abscess being discovered iu the bone the carious parts were scraped and gouged away. An incision was next made over the exteinal aspect of the first metatarsal bone, and its shaft found toKEPOET OF SUKGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 196 be carious to tlie length of about oue incb, wliich was removed with the bone forceps. Patient lost about OJie and a half ounces of blood ; he reacted well, though quite weak. On March 31st the left stuiup was sui)i)uratiiig- profusely, and it was doubtful whether the atteiiii)t to save a portion of the foot would bo successful. The right stump looked healtliy, with a good and tirm cushion over the bones, without tenderness, although the abscess opened March ISth still dischargetl a few drops of healthy pus. His general condition was somewhat better than before the oi)eration, but still ci itical. In July, 1871, the stump of the right foot had healed, and the condition of the left was favorable. Arriputations of the Le(j.—Special reports of twenty-three cases of tliis class were received, of which nine were due to gun-shot wounds, seven to frost-bites, three to railway accidents, and four to other injuries. Five cases proved fatal. DLIX.—Account of an Amputation of the Leg. By E. A. Koerper, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Thomas W. Avens, a musician of the 25th Infantry Band, and a strong, hearty man, was accidentally shot at Fort Clark, Texas, on August 20, 1870, by a musket loaded with duck shot, which carried away the ungual phalanges of the middle and ring fingers of the right liaiul, shattered the right tibia about three inches below the proximal extremity, wounded the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and lacerated the soft parts. The patient suffered considerably from pain and arterial htemorrhage. On being taken to the hospital, chloroform Avas administered within twenty minutes after the receipt of the injury, when Acting Assistant Surgeon Donald Jackson amputated three inches below the knee by the circular method, ligating the two principal arteries, and applying torsion to the smaller branches. The flaps were closed by five stitches, leaving an opening near the lower angle. Venous haemorrhage continued a short time afterward. The injured fingers were also properly removed, when the man promptly recovered from the auicsthesia, complaining of pain in the precordial region, which lasted but a short time. After the administration of a stimulant with an anodyne, a good night was passed. On the evening of the 27th, traumatic fever ran high, and the stump became swollen and painful. The treatment in this case, which presented nothing remarkably different from other cases of amputation, consisted in irrigation to the stump, carbolic acid and warm-water dressings, laxatives, and anodynes, Avhen indicated, and a light but nutritious diet. By September 18th, the fingers had entirely healed, and on October 25th, the leg had also healed, leaving an excellent stump. On December 13th, the patient was sent to quarters; and on February 4,1871, he was discharged the service. DLX.—Report of an Amputation of the Leg for Potfs Fracture. By G. S. EosE, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Baker, Co. C, 29th Infantry, aged 22 years, convalescent from intermittent fever, was wounded in a railroad accident which occurred at Keswick Station, Yirgiuia, on September 28, 1808. He was riding on the top of a box-car, when, seeing that it must go over the embankment, he jumped, and alighted on his feet, causing fracture of the left fibula, with displacement of the tibia from the corresponding surface of the astragalus, the fractured extremity of the fibula pro- jecting nearly two inches from the wound. A few moments after the accident. Assistant Surgeou J. H. Patzki, U. S. A., in charge of the detachment, enlarged the wound and replaced the fractured extremities of the bone. On the 29th, he was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Schofield, Lynchburg, Virginia, where, on the same day, the wound was carefully closed and dressed with one part carbolic acid and four ijarts linseed oil, and a small 'si)lint and bandage were adjusted to the outer side of the leg. He was placed on special diet; opiates were given at bedtime, and several days after, quinine and whiskey during the day, on account of his condition prior to the accident. On the 30th, the leg being hot and swelled, the splints and bandages were removed, and the limb was placed in a fracture-box. From October 1st to the 4th, there was a copious discharge of unhealthy pus, and on the latter date, a good deal of irritative fever. On the 5th, a large abscess,197 AMPUTATIONS OF THE LEG. I)oiutiug' directly over the iuuer malleolus, Nvas opened; tlie wound was sloagliing, and tbe joint was entirely open. Amputation being decided on, the patient partook freely of beef tea and milk l)uuch until the night previous to the operation. On the Cth, the directions having been carried out, he was readily brought under the influence of chloroform, and the leg was amputated at the junction of the lower thirds by the half-flap method. There was considerable venous haemorrhage but by evening he was rallying well. Morphine was given immediately after the operation, and Avas repeated at night. The stumi) was dressed with liniment composed of carbolic acid and linseed oil. There was no nausea following the operation, owing, in a great measure, it was believed, to previous abstinence from solid food. Milk punch and beef tea were'continued, the appetite improved, and the case was progressing favorably. On the 14th, the whole of the inner half of the wound had closed by first intention; there was, however, considerable suppuration on the outer side of the stumj), and pus could be pressed fi-om within two inches of the knee-joint, for which there appeared to be free exit. He did not rest well during the night, and, on the next morning, there was htemorrhage from the outer side of the stumi^, probably from the anterior tibial artery, which was controlled by the tourniquet. Persulphate of iron was also applied, the stump was dressed with an iced solution of acetate of lead, a compress and bandage secured over the poi)liteal artery, and the leg elevated; an opiate was immediately given. An abscess beneath the fascia lata of the thigh was opened, and bandaged. On the morning of the 17th, htemorrhage recurring, was promptly arrested, and compress over the popliteal reapplied, but, again occurring on the following morning, the patient was chloroformed, and the popliteal artery was ligated at its lower third. Two articular branches were severed during the operation, requiring ligation. The incision was drawn together by four interrupted sutures, and the edges adapted by adhesive plaster. The stump was again dressed with carbolic acid liniment. Stimulants, morphine, and tonic mixtures. On the 21st, the stump began to have a more healthy appearance, and on the 27th, the ligature came away, and the incision was almost healed. The abscess of the thigh continued to discharge several ounces of pus, but it had a more healthy appearance. On November 10th, the stump had nearly healed, the abscess had closed, and the patient was able to sit up. He had a severe chill during the night, followed by diarrhoea; pulse 100; skin hot and dry, and tongue coated. Quinine was given. On the 12th, the thigh was much swollen, and a discharge of watery fluid Avas pressed from the old opening. On the next day, the swelling had abated, and the patient's appetite was improving. During the month, one or two small pieces of necrosed bone were removed from, the stumj), which had entirely healed by December 1st, the patient being able to walk around on crutches. Discharged July 21,1809, and j)ensioued at $15 per month. DLXI.—Account of a Ue-amputation of Both Legs.—Compiled from various Eeports. Private Jacob Bisbing, Troop 0, 2d Cavalry, had both feet frozen while on duty as a mail escort from Fort Laramie to Fort Philip Kearney, January 5, 1867. He was admitted to post hospital at Fort Eeno, January 6, 1867, where both feet were amputated January 16, 1867, by E. H. Eeed, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Owing to bad hygienic surroundings the wounds healed very slowly, and the patient suffered with conical and painful stumps. On July 21, 1867, both feet were re-amputated by Charles Mackin, jr., Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Bisbing was discharged September 28,1867, and pensioned at $20 per month. DLXIL—Account of Several Amjpiitations, one of which teas a Be-amputation of the Leg. Private Charles O. F. Clark, Co. G, 1st Oregon Volunteers, had, on December 17, 1865, while on a march between the mouth of the Eiver Owyhee and the Malheur Eiver, Oregon, the lower and upper extremities frozen. He was conveyed to Camp Auburn, where the second and third fingers of the right hand, the left leg, and the right foot were amputated, the latter by Chopart's operation. The end of the second finger of the left hand sloughed off. He was mustered out of service on April 14, 1866. On November 9, 1868, at Bellevue Hospital, New York, Professor Hamilton re-amputated the left leg, five inches below the knee. On April 5, 1870, the patient wasEEPOiiT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 198 furnislied witli artificial limbs by D. W. Kolbe, Pliiladelpliia, at wliich time the stumps were of normal size aud perfectly healed. The uiau is a pensioner at $20 per month. DLXIII.—Aecotmt of a Double Amputation of the Legs. By B. E. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George Foster, Troop C, lOtli Cavalry, having lost his way after a debauch, was exposed to a severe snow-storm on the open prairie, and had both his feet badly frost-bitten. He was admitted to hospital at Fort Zara, Kansas, on December 9, 18G8. Before admission, and immediately after discovery, he had been injudiciously taken to a fire. W. H. King, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., attempted gradual reduction of temperature, but, mortification ensuing, he administered chloroform, and amputated the right foot just above the ankle, by circular operation, on December 31, 1868. At that time the left foot began to mortify, and was ami)utated on January 19,1SG9, in the same manner as the first. The patient, who had been weak and emaciated, rapidly imin'oved. Carbolic acid, variously diluted, formed almost the only application to the stumps. To reduce the chance of secondary haemorrhage, as well as to overcome the stretching of the muscles, extension by means of adhesive strips and weight, as in fracture, Avas employed. On January 31, 18C9, the stumps looked well. lie was transferred to the hospital at Fort Barker, Kansas, in the latter part of the year, where he stated that be made a good recovery. By December 31, 1809, the stumps had healed, and the patient's health was excellent. [Not on pension rolls.] DLXIV.—Report of an Amputation of the Leg. By J. C. Field, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Samuel Gilbert, Troop A, 3d Cavalry, aged 20 years, was accidentally wounded while on iiost at Fort Smith, Arkansas, on February 19, 1800. The ball entered the leg at the internal border of the gastrocnemius muscle, severed the posterior tibial artery, fractured the fibula at the middle third, and emerged on the external aspect lower down. On the 22d he was admitted to the hospital of the post. On February 2Gth, the wound being in a gangrenous state throughout its extent, and the patient in a very low, anremic condition, I administered ether, and amputated the leg at the npper third, by circular operation. Egg-nog, quinine, iron, and morphine were prescribed, and the best nourishment the hospital afforded w^as ordered; but death, from exhaustion, occurred the following day. A post-mortem examination disclosed extensive sloughing of structure along the entire course of the ball. DLXV.—Bemarlcs on an Amputation of the Leg. By B. J. D. Irwin, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Frederick Hilbrecht, Co. C, 4:3d Infantry, aged 51 years, was run over December 30, 1807, by a loaded cart, which produced a compound comminuted fracture of the right tibia and fibula in the lower thirds. On the next day he was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Wayne, Michigan. By January 9, 1808, the limb was much swollen to within three inches of the knee, and was gangrenons, with large phlycttense. A fragment of bone, denuded of periosteum, protruded through the slough. His health was good, with the exception of a slight cold, which had troubled him some three weeks previously, and which was attended Avith profuse muco- Ijurulent exijectoration, but without evidence of acute inflammatory action. On the latter date I administered chloroform, and amputated the leg at the uj^per third, by the antero-i)osterior flap method. On the fourth day after the operation a ligature came away, and another on the fifth. On the ninth day he had a severe attack of intermittent fever. On the eleventh day his bowels were loose, and he had another attack of intermittent fever. On the twelfth day he had involun- tary evacuations of urine and fseces, with a slight attack of intermittent fever, and on the thirteenth a severe attack of rhenmatism, affecting the whole left side of his body. On the fourteenth day he was very feeble and greatly prostrated. There was profuse expectoration of muco purulent matter, and evidence of softening of the lungs. The wound was healthy and almost healed, with the exception of slight oedema about the knee-joint. He died of inflammation of the lungs, January 20,1808.AMPUTATIONS OF THE LEG. 199 DLXVI.—Report of an Amputation of the Leg for Railway Injury. By B. E. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Otlio Joliuson, a destitute civilian, aged 37 years, of good liealtli and habits, liad his left foot crushed, with fracture of the metatarsal bones, by a raihoad car. On November 18, 1870, he was admitted to the hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas. An effort to save the foot was made, which seemed to promise success; but, on November 30th, being gangrenous as far as the ankle-joint, the patient was etherized, and the leg was amputated in the lower third, lateral skin flajis being made with the intention of bringing the line of cicatrization between the tibia and fibula. Four ligatures were applied. The patient reacted promptly from influence of anjcsthetic. Carbolic acid dressings were ai)plied. Union was immediate, save where ligatures were brought out at flap angles. As soon as the ligatures were removed the stump healed. On December 31, 1870, the stump was full and round, and the line of cicatrix was so situated between the tibia and fibula that it could not be pressed upon by them. DLXVII.—Remarks on an Amputation of the Leg for Frost-Bite. By C. E. MuNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Charles Kridenoff, Co. D, 20th Infantry, while with a party marking a railroad, February 11, 1870, was exposed in a storm on tlie i)rairie for thirty-six hours, and both of his feet were frost-bitten. He was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Ransom, Dakota Territory, on the next day. The right foot was gangrenous to the ankle-joint. On March 1st I administered ether, and amputated the right leg at the lower third by the antero posterior flap method. Three ligatures were applied. There was but little htemorrhage, and the flaps approximated. On March 12th, gangrene having attacked the left foot, I divided the metatarsal bones in the line of demarc- ation, and partially excised the os calcis. In the operation of separating the sloughing parts the entire plantar surface was removed, no anaesthetic being used. On March 31, 1870, the patient still remained under treatment. The stump of the right leg was nearly cicatrized, two ligatures still being adherent; that of the left was granulating kindly. He was transferred to the post hospital at Fort Abercrombie, Dakota Territory, September 13, 1870, and transferred to the Soldiers' Home, at Washington, October 8,1870. The man has applied for a pension, and the case is pending. DLXVITI.—Report of an Amputation of the Leg on aceount of an Injury. By H. Fletcher, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Patrick O'Brien, Co. G, 25th Infantry, aged 21 years, while trimming a tree at or near Humboldt, Tennessee, March 23, 1808, fell twenty feet, his whole weight coming upon his right leg on sloping ground. The fibula was fractured two inches from the lower extremity, several fragments of bone were broken off of each malleolus, and the tibia projected two inches through the flesh, rupturing ligaments and veins and opening the ankle-joint. He was admitted to the post hospital of the above place. There being no instruments at the post. Dr. Thompson, upon my invitation, thi-ee hours after the injury, amputated the leg three inches above the ankle-joint, by the circular method. A mixture of chloroform and ether was the antesthetie used. On the ninth day, the case was progressing finely. He was discharged the service oh July 12, 18G8, and pen- sioned, his disability being rated total. In January, 18G9, he was furnished with an artificial limb, which proved highly useful. At that date, the stump was less than normal size, but was perfectly healed. He is an inmate of the Soldiers' Home, Dayton, Ohio, DLXIX.—Account of an Amputation of the Leg. From the reports of S. A. Storrow, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., and W. E. Day, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James Palmer, Battery F, 3d Artillery, aged 22 years, while on guard December 24, 1869, was accidentally wounded by a musket ball, which caused a compound comminuted fracture200 EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. of the left tibia and fibula, involving tlie articulations of tlie foot, the dorsal region being severely lacerated. He also received a slight bayonet wound in the left leg just below the point wliere the ball entered. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Jefferson, Florida, on the same day. The soft parts were considerably contused and lacerated. Acting Assistant Surgeon W. E. Day, on December 25th, administered ether and amiiutated the limb at the junction of the middle and lower thirds by a circular operation. At time of operation i)atient was suffering from i)rimary haemorrhage and nervous shock. Seventeen hours after operation traumatic tetanus supervened, which was controlled by subcutaneous injections of atropine and morphine. Nourishing diet was allowed. Death resulted January 11,1870. DLXX.—Mention of a Double Amputation of the Legs. By P. C. Dayis, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private David Perigo, Co. D, 13th Infantry, aged 18 years, had both of his feet frost-bitten on the night of December 21, 18C9. He was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Ellis, Montana Territory, on the next day. Snow, ice-water, and simple cer.ate dressings were applied. Gangrene supervened, and on January 1, 1870, Assistant Surgeon Clarence Ewen, U. S. A., administered ether and amputated the left leg at the lower third, and, on the next day, the right leg at the lower third. Stimulants and nourishing diet were given. By March 31, 1870, the patient was convales- cent. He was transferred to the Soldiers' Home, Washington, June 1,1871, DLXXI.—Bemarls on a Secondary Amputation of tlie Leg. By W. E. Tomkins, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Lieutenant W. L. P , 5th Cavalry, received on February 22, 18G8, at Gallatin, Tennessee, a comiiound comminuted fracture of both bones of the left leg, caused by the bursting of an anvil while firing a national salute. There being no guns, a hole in an anvil had been charged with powder, another anvil placed upon the hole, and the charge ignited by a hot iron. One of the anvils bursted into a number of pieces, one of which, weighing four and three-quarter pounds, struck the lieutenant on the leg, extensively lacerating the soft parts. On the morning of February 23d I excised from six to eight inches of the tibia, and placed the limb in a fracture-box with wheat bran, using extension and counter extension. For sometime the case progressed favorably; after- ward profuse suppuration set in, Avith unhealthy granulation and a tendency to grangrene, and the patient became debilitated from profuse discharge of pus. On April 23, 1868, he was again ether- ized, and Dr. Paul F. Eve amputated the leg by the circular method. He survived the operation nine or ten hours, dying from shock of operation, April 23, 18G8. DLXXII.—Account of an Amputation of the Leg for Gunshot Injury. By S. M. Hoeton, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. James Scregg, a citizen, aged 29 years, was accidentally wounded July 24,1866, by the discharge of his rifle, which fractured the bones of the right ankle-joint. On the same day he was fetched a distance of twenty-five miles to the post hospital, at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory. On admission, his pulse was rapid and weak, his ankle-joint intensely i^ainful and swelled, and gangrene had begun in the foot. I immediately administered equal parts of chloroform and ether, and amputated the leg in the middle third by a flap operation. Cold-water dressings were applied, and stimulants given. The stumj) healed slowly, the skin refusing to cicatrize entirely on account of scabies. On November 10,1866, he left for his home, his stump not entirely healed, but very firm. DLXXIIT.—BemarJcs on an Amputation of the Leg for Gunshot Injury. By C. K. Winne, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Edwin Shears, Co. G, 20th Infantry, aged 23 years, was wounded December 29,1869, by the accidental discharge of his musket. The ball entered above and behind the internalAMPUTATIONS OF THE LEG. 201 malleolus of the left leg; passed inward, downward, and forward tbrough the limb, and extensively comnjiuuted the tibia, and divided the anterior tibial artery. He was admitted the same day to the post hospital. Fort Ripley, Minnesota. There was constant and profuse haemorrhage, which was controlled only by the tourniquet. On the next day I admin- istered ether, and amputated the leg, by the double flap method. The patient recovered, and was dis- charged July 12, 1870. The pathological specimen, with the history, was contributed to the Arnjy Medical Museum, by the operator, and is represented Fig. 40.- -G-unslioti fracture of tlie lowet tbird of the left tibia. Spec. 5674, Sect. I, A. M. M. in the adjoining wood-cut. The man is a pensioner at $15 per month. DLXXIV.—Memorandum Relative to an Ampntation of Both Legs for Frost-BUe. By D. E. Holmes, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Frederick Silverhorn, Troop F, 8th Cavalry, aged 21 years, while on duty with his team ten miles from Camp Logan, Oregon, December 28, 1807, was frost-bitten in both fee£ and hands, and was admitted to the hospital of the post the same day. On January 1, 1808, both legs being considerably oedematous, and the feet black and mortified as far as the ankles, I administered ether and chloroform, and amputated both legs four inches above the ankles, the right by the circular method and the left by the flap. The flaps at first appeared to close up rapidly, but afterward opened, slightly sloughed at the margin, and liealed from the bottom by granulation. Both stumiis had healed by the end of the month. The hands were restored after a few days' treatment. He was discharged the service March 23, 1808, and was pensioned at $20 i)er month. DLXXV.—Note relative to an Amputation of the Leg for a Sprain. By H. MoL. Cronkhite, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Albert Smith, Co. E, 20th Infantry, aged 23 years, sprained his right foot, while on drill, on Ai)ril 28, 1808, and on the next day was admitted to the post hospital, Ringgold Barracks, Texas. Caries, involving all the tarsal bones, resulted. By the 14th of Xovember, 1808, the ankle had been for a long time much swelled and very painful, and there was a fistula which discharged freely. The patient was debilitated from long sufl'ering and profuse suppuration. On the latter date, I administered chloroform and performed an autero-posterior flap amputation of the leg, four inches above the ankle-joint. The wound was closed by ligatures and adhesive straps. On the 31st of December the wound had healed, and his general health was good. He was discharged the service May 27, 1809, and draws a pension of $15 per month. DLXXVI.—l^ote on an Amputation of Leg for Frost-Bite. From a Report from the Penson Ofiice. John Spyri, Troop C, 2d Cavalry, was frost-bitten, while on escort duty between Forts Reno and Kearney, Dakota Territory , in the latter part of January, 1807. Half of the left foot was removed at the time, but the case ijroving unsuccessful, amputation of the lower third of the leg, by the circular method, was performed May 5, 1807. He was discharged August 20, 1808. A year and seven months after he was examined for an artificial limb, at Avhich time the stumi) was perfectly healed. He is a pensioner at $15 per month. DLXXVII.—Note on an Amputation of the Leg for Gunshot Injury. By J. B. Giraed, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal James K. Thomas, Troop A, 2d Cavalry, aged 21 years, was accidentally wounded, while scouting after Indians, the ball entering near the middle of the calf of the right leg, and escaping under the malleolus. He was admitted, on April 10, 1870, to the post hospital at Fort 20REPOllT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 202 Fred. Steele, "Wyoming Territory. The fibula was found to be fractured. Conservative treatment was adopted, bat no attempt at reunion followed; the tibia, fibula, and astragalus became necrosed and the ankle joint ancbylosed, until the dorsum of the foot was on a line with the front of the leg. The patient became exhausted by long-continued suppuration, and in January, 1871, amputation became necessary. Tlie operation was performed on January- 5, 1871, by removing the leg at the middle third, and taking a single flap from the muscles of the calf. Lotions of carbolic acid were applied. The flap healed by first intention, and on April 14th the patient was strong and healthy and had a good stumii. He was discharged June 9, 1871. DLXXVIII.—Note on an Amputation of the Leg for Gunshot Injury. By Ira Perry, Assistant Surgeon, 9th U. S. C. T. Private William White, Co. C, 114th Colored Infantry, aged 23 years, was accidentally wounded in camp by a conoidal ball, which entered and fractured the tibia just below the inner tuberosity, and, breaking the fibula, made its exit on the outside of the leg, tearing the muscles and Integuments two by four inches. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Brown, Texas, on the 20th of February, 1860. The patient was weak from the loss of blood. I amputated just below the attachment of the ligamentum patellte, by the flap method. The case progressed admirably, the stump healing in good shape. Discharged April 2, 1807. The man is a pensioner at $15 jier month. DLXXIX.—Note on an Amputation of the Leg for Gunshot Injury. By P. C. Davis, Surgeon U. S. A. Private Thomas Wilkinson, Battery C, 3d Artillery, aged 22 years, was admitted to the post hospital. Fort McPherson, Nebraska, July 15, 1807, with a gunshot wound of the left ankle, involving the joint. A musket ball had entered the joint near the external malleolus, and, passing upward, escaped above the internal malleolus. The wound was much swelled, and very painful. The patient suffered from loss of blood and traumatic irritation. On July 19, 1807, I administered ether, and amputated the left leg at the lower third by the flap method. The hasmorrhage was slight, and the patient reacted i^romptly. The case progressed favorably, no treatment being required but an opiate at night. He was discharged from service September 28, 1807. The stump was completely healed. The man has made application for i^ensiou, but the case is still pending. DLXXX—Memorandum relative to an Amputation of the Leg on Account of Compound Dislocation of the Lower End of the Tibia. By Iea Perry, Assistant Surgeon, 9th U. S. C. T. William Wilson, a citizen, aged 30 years, received. May 4, 1800, by the upsetting of a stage- coach, a compound complicated dislocation of the lower end of the left tibia, inward. The internal lateral ligament was ruptured, and the ankle-joint opened; the external malleolus was fractured, and the internal malleolus broken square oft", with the end oft' the tibia. He was sent to the post hospital at Fort Brown, Texas, where the leg and foot were placed in a fracture-box. The patient at first objected to amputation. On the sixth day after the injury, tetanus apj)eared. On the seventh day, by the advice of the surgeon in charge of the hospital, and of the commanding medical officer of the district of the Rio Grande, I amputated the leg at the upper third. The operation did not appear to benefit. Slight spasms^ of limbs and some opisthotonus followed ; his jaws remained rigid, and deglutition was difficult. Warm poultice to the stump, and hot fomentations to the neck and ears, were applied. Chloroform was the only remedy that had the least effect in relieving spasm. He died the next day, May 12, 1806. DLXXXI.—Note on an Amputation of the Leg for Railway Injury. By J. LuNNEY, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Arthur, a freedman, aged 21 years, September 5, 1800, in attempting to get on a freight train while it was in motion, fell and received a compound comminuted fracture of the right leg, a203 AMPUTATIONS AT THE KNEE-JOINT. fracture of the right internal malleolus, with an external wound communicating with the joint, a compound fracture of one of the phalanges of each toe of the right foot, except the great toe, a lacerated wound of the left side of the face, extending from the external angle of the eye to the ear, a lacerated wound of the scalp and of the right ear, and several contusions and abrasions on different parts of the body. On the 6th, he was admitted into a temporary hospital erected for him at the post of Darlington, South Carolina, and on the 8th, chloroform was administered and the limb amputated at the middle third by the antero posterior flap method. There was but little haemorrhage, only two ligatures being necessary. At the time of the operation, the limb was swollen and painful; the patient was feverish; pulse 120; and there was concussion of the brain. Simple dressings were applied. The patient reacted promptly. On the 30th of September, the stump was healing finely, and a complete recovery was soon exijected. Amputations at the Knee-joint.—Three successful operations were reported. DLXXXII.—Report of Two Cases of Amputation at the Knee-Joint for Gunshot Injury. By John D. Hall, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case I.—Private Thomas Nipple, Troop F, 3d Cavalry, was shot on March 31, 1870, with a Colt's Army pistol, carrying a conical ball of a calibre four inches. The ball entered the right leg below and very close to the cavity of the knee-joint, i^assed within the outer hamstring tendon, downward and inward, through the head of the tibia, and matle exit iipon the inner surface of the tibia. On careful examination, no fracture of the bone could be discovered—a few small pieces and spiculfB of bone near the exit wound, and nothing more. I concluded, also, that the cavity of the knee-joint was not opened. At 9 P. M., nine hours after the accident, the pulse was 60, and the patient comfortable. Date. Hour. Pulse. Temperature. Date. Hour. Pulse. Temperature. April Ist 9 A. M. 76 April 6th 9 A. M. 72 98i 9 P. M. 92 lOli 9 P. M. 80 99| April 2(1 9 A. M. 84 lOOf April 7th 9 A. M. 72 99 9 P. M. 88 lOOi 9 P. M. 76 99f April Sd 9 A. M. 96 lOOi April 8th 9 A. M. 76 99i 9 P. M. 92 100 9 P. M. 80 im April 4th 9 A. M. 88 100 April 9th 9 A. M. 76 99 9 P. M. 88 1001 9 P. M. 76 99 April 5th 9 A. M. 84 100^ April 10th 9 A. M. 76 99i 9 P. M. 84 100-^ 9 P. M. 84 100 And thus, until April 21st, the case proceeded evenly, with pulse and temperature approaching the normal character. During this time, the wound seemed to be doing well, and there were no symi)toms of inflammation in the neighboring joint—neither pain nor swelling. April 21, 9 A.M.: Pulse 76; temperature 98J. 9 P.M.: Pulse 120; temperature 103. Here was a marked change. The patient now complained of pain in the right knee. On the morning of April 22d, his pulse was 108; temi)erature 101-}, and in the evening his pulse rose to 134 ; temperature 105. The knee was still painful and somewhat swollen. It was evident that the knee-joint had become involved. For several days, local applications were persistently applied, but increased swelling and signs of suppuration within the joint began to appear. Soon after, hectic symptoms began, and the consti- tution seemed failing. May 3d: I amputated the limb. This was done through the knee-joint, making a long anterior and a short posterior flap, and sawing off about an inch of the condyles, after the manner of Mr. Carden, of Worcester. This operation is also recommended by Martoe, of New York. The anaesthetic used in this case was chloroform. The knee-joint was full of foetid, unhealthy pus, and this extended also above the joint, along the cellular planes of theREPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 204 tliigli. On the after treatment, the flaps were kept partly separated, so as to favor a free exit of pus. There was eonsiderable retraction, and the period of cicatrization was much prolonged. Abscesses forming- above the wound, and extending upward between the muscles of the thigh, gave a good deal of trouble. These were met by free incivsions and the injection of antiseptic lotions. The i)atient's system being reduced, and the season hot, careful nursing and suppoi-ting treatment were required to carry him through the long period of cicatrization. May 3Lst (end of hist month), 9 A.M.: Pulse 116; temperature 98}; 9 P.M.: Pulse 116; temperature 9Si^; stump suppurating freely; flaps somewhat sloughy in the last two weeks. Antiseptic lotions and carbon poultices applied; the flaps now look healthier. June 3()th (end of second month), 9 A. M.: Pulse 112; tempei'atni'e 98. 9 P.M.: Pulse 116; temperature 99. The patient has gained strength in the past month; stump healing up; suppuration not more than one ounce per day. July 31,1870 (end of third month): Pulse find tongue and temperature normal; stump healed over; patient walking about with a long, well-rounded and ajiparently useful stump. He was transferred on May 15, 1871, to join his command at Tucson, Arizona Territorj'. Case II.—Private Louis Shire, Troop F, 3d Cavalry, was shot by Apache Indians on October 6, 1870. The ball entered the left leg inside of and a little above the patella, passed into the centre of the internal coiulyle, imbedding itself there and splitting the bone down into the joint. The patient was obliged to ride thirty-flve miles on horseback, and did not arrive at the hos])ital till the next afternoon of October 7th. The knee was then found to be much swollen and very painful. Pulse 112 and quick; skin hot. Exploring the wound carefully, I could not And the ball, but concluded it had entered the joint and lodged within or near it. The patient's condition was much depressed and irritable. He was greatly fatigued by travel and loss of sleep, and the knee was already much inflamed. Hence, I thought best to defer amputation until a more favorable time. On October 8th the pulse was 110, the general condition about the same, only the pain and swelling were increased. October 9th: i^ulse 112; the patient had slept pretty well; but his condition was still irritable. On October 10th, pulse 100, knee and thigh less swollen, and there was less general irritability. October 11th: jiulse 102 and lirmer;.general condition improved; less complaint of pain; inflammation in knee less acute. Amputation at 11 A. M. The method adopted was by making a long flap anteriorly, and a short one posteriorly. The condyles were sawn ott" about an inch ; the ball was turned out of its bed, and a piece of bone, the size of a hen's egg, which had been split off from the internal condyle, was removed by forceps. The anjesthetic used was sulphuric ether. There was very little hiBmorrhage, but considerable shock. At 9 P. M., the pulse beat 136; the reaction was pretty good. October 12th, 9 A. M., pulse 118; 9 P. M., pulse 120; skin hot. In the after treatment no attempt was made to get i^rimary union of the flaps ; free outlet was given for suppuration; and antiseptic lotions and dressings were fi^eely used. There was an early tendency to sloughing in the anterior flaj); carbon poultices were then applied, and the edges of the daily flai) were touched with lunar caustic. After the separation of a large slough, the edges being cauterized, the stump assumed a healthier apjiearance. An abscess formed among the muscles above the knee, and became the seat of a good deal of suppuration. This was opened and daily injected with antiseptic lotions of chloride of zinc and Labaraque's solution of chlorinated soda, and it gradually diminished. On December 1, 1870, about seven weeks after the operation, the stump was almost entirely closed up, and the i>atieut was able to walk about on crutches. He, too, has a stump that will probably serve well for locomotion. On May 15, 1871, the patient was transferred to join his command at Tucson, Arizona. DLXXXIII.—Memorandum relative to an Amputation at tlie Knee-Joint. From Data furnished by J. R. Reily, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon.- Robert Realey, a lad of 10 years, was struck on the right instep by a stone seven weeks previous to the operation below mentioned, when inflammation was at once lighted up, and periostitis rapidly extended up the limb, which was much swollen and very painful ten days after the accident. Fluc- tuation being detected at the internal malleolus, an incision was made, which gave exit to more205 AMPUTATIONS OF THE THIGH. than twelve ounces of pus. Acute necrosis invaded the shaft of the tibia, and a fortnight after the evacuation of the abscess, Doctor Eeily hehl a consultation with Professor Johnson Eliot, who advised an exploratory incision, with a view of ascertaining the extent of the disease of the tibia. On December 24, 1870, the lad was etherized, and the bone being exposed by two incisions on the anterior aspect of the limb, it was found that the bone was diseased to such an extent that no resection, nor even an amputation in the continuity, was practicable. It was therefore determined to amputate at the knee-joint. This operation was performed by Dr. James E. Eeily, assisted by Professor J. Eliot and Dr. J. D. Barnes. The integuments were divided circularly, two inches below the knee-joint, and reflected, the patella was removed, and the leg disarticulated. The femoral was completely controlled by a tourniquet, and there was little or no hsEmorrhage. The condyles of the femur were then sawn off", a slice half an inch in thickness being removed. Tlie integument was then brought together antei-o-posteriorly, and united by wire sutures. It was only necessary to ligate the popliteal artery. The patient reacted promptly and progressed favorably. The pathological specimen, with the history, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and is No. 5736, Surgical Section. On January 16,1871, the wound had entirely healed, and the boy was going about the house. A few weeks subsequently, he called at this office. The stump then presented a very fair appearance, and the boy's health Avas good. Amputations of the Thigh.—There were reports of twenty-six cases. Seventeen fol- lowed gisnshot-wounds ; six, accidents ; three, diseases. The results were very successful. DLXXXIV.—iVbfe on an Amputation of the TJiigli for OunsliotInjury. By Chaeles Smaet, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. George W. Albright, a citizen, aged 40 years, received, in a quarrel, August 15,1866, a gunshot fracture of the right femur, lower third. The femur was splintered, longitudinally, for six inches. On the same day he was admitted to post hospital, Camp McDowell, Arizona Territory, and, on the next day, I administered chloroform, and amputated the thigh by the flap [method. The tissues were in a healthy condition. On the 15th of October, the flaps were firmly united, and on November 23, 1866, he was sent away from hospital. DLXXXV.—Memorandum relative to a Secondary Amputation of the Thigh. Private C. M. Bowen, Co. A, 27th Indiana Yolunteers, had his left femur fractured by a mus- ket ball, at the battle of Antietam, on September 17, 1862. He was admitted to Hospital No. 1, Frederick, Maryland, where Buck's apparatus was aj^plied. Five months subsequently, he was removed to Baltimore. There were numerous abscesses, and the liatient underwent two opera- tions for the removal of necrosed bone. On September 7, 1863, he was discharged the service, with the limb greatly deformed. He received a pension, and was enqfloyed in the Interior Department. Owing to recurrence of abscesses he was admitted to Provi- dence HosiJital in the autumn of 1867, and on November 11th, the limb was amputated in the middle third by Dr. D. W. Bliss. The wound healed well, and a photo- graph was taken at the Army Medical Museum on Jan- uary 9, 1868, at which time the stump was firm and healthy. The siiecimen, with the historj^, was contributed by the operator to the Army Medical Museum, and is represented in the adjacent wood-cut. The fragments are considerably overlapi>ed, Jiaving undergone unusual disturbance, and the amount of callus exceeds what is necessary for complete union. On March 10, 1871, the patient was a clerk in the Pension Office ; the stump was healthy, but his general health poor. Fig. 41.—Gunshot fracture of the lower third of left fe- mur. S2MC. 4914, Sect. I., A. M. M.206 EEPOET OF SUEGIGAL CASES IN THE ARMY. DLXXXVI.—Report of a Seconctary Amputation of the Thigh. By Harvey E. Brown, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant John Cameron, Co. K, 31st Maine Volunteers, aged 26 years, while on picket before Petersburg, June 18, 1804, was struck by a conoidal musket ball, which produced a flesh-wound about two inches above the right knee. He was sent to City Point, and thence to the De Camp Hospital, New "York Harbor, where he arrived on June 2Gth. Expectant treatment was used. On August 6th, he was sent to the Cony Hospital at Augusta, Maine, and was returned to duty on September 28, 1864. No further record of the case can be found- until June 2, 1865, when he was discharged the service at the post hospital at Augusta ; but he remained for treatment until July 31, 1866, when the hospital was discontinued. Prior to the latter date, the knee-joint had become very much enlarged from deposit of plastic matter following chronic arthritis. The patient was emaciated, his appetite poor, and general condition bad. On July 5,1866, being rendered insensible by an antesthetic composed of one part chloroform and three parts ether, the tliigh was amputated at the lower third by the double-flap operation. Water dressings were applied. The incisions healed by first intention ; the ligatures came away on the eleventh day. On July 27th the stump had entirely healed, and the patient was walking about on crutches, having gained several pounds since the operation. DLXXXYII.—Account of Primary Ampiitation of the Eight Thigh in the Loicer Third. By Irving 0. EossE, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Frank Cheeseman, a large muscular mulatto man, aged about 30 years, and employed as a laborer in unloading fixed ammunition in one of the small buildings used for pyrotechnic purposes, at Fort Monroe, Virginia, was seriously wounded on the afternoon of August 3, 1870, by several fragments of shell, an explosion having occurred through the carelessness of a fellow-laborer. The patient being taken to hospital on a litter, I found almost the whole of the right leg torn to pieces, and the knee-joint implicated; the fourth and fifth metatarsals of the left foot were broken, a fragment of shell remaining in the muscles of the plantar region, and another fragment was imbedded in the muscles of the right fore-arm. There were besides several superficial wounds on the chest; the patient's hands, neck, and face were badly burned, and he was unable to see. The amount of shock and haemorrhage was not great considering the gravity of the injuries, and the patient comijlained more of the smarting from the burns than of his other wounds. The burns were dressed with carbolized glycerine ; anodynes with stimulants were administered ,and i^roiJer means were taken to bring about reaction. Amputation having been decided upon, about noon on the following day the usual preliminaries were arranged, arid Surgeon George E, Cooper, U. S. A., chloroformed the patient. The induction of anaesthesia was somewhat slow, the pulse meanwhile being intermittent. I amputated the thigh in the lower third, using the circular operation; the arteries were withdrawn from their sheaths and ligated; the cut surfaces of the stump were allowed to glaze, and the wound was closed with silver-wire sutures. Haemorrhage was very slight. The patient, surviving the operation but a short time, died from the shock. DXXXVIII.—Report of an Intermediary Amputation of the Thigh. By T. H. Turner, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Louis Farley, of Major George A. Forsyth's Independant Company of Scouts, received a gunshot fracture of the thigh, at the battle of Dry Forks, on the Eepublican Eiver, Kansas, September 17, 1868. Amputation was performed on the tenth day. Death resulted four hours afterward. DXXXIX.—Mention of a Primary Amputation of the Thigh. By J. M. Dickson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles A. Fonda, Co. D, 23d Infantry, received a severe gunshot wound of the knee-' joint in a skirmish near Lake Warner, Oregon, April 29, 1868. Amputation at the lower third of the thigh was performed on the next day. He died under the operation.AMPUTATIONS OF THE THIGH. 207 DXC. Report of a Case in ivhich the Thigh and Leg were Amputated on account of Scorbutus. ■ Private Hugh Gleason, Co. A, 140tli New York Volunteers, was taken prisoner at Weldon Eailroad in August, 1864, and was confined at Salisbury, North Carolina, where, he affirms, on account of exposure and starvation, he contracted scurvy. When released, he received a furlough and went to his home at East Wilson, Niagara County, New York, where he was attacked ■with typhoid fever. On April 15, 1865, Doctor A. M. Leonard, of Lockport, New York, took charge of the patient. He found him suffering from scurvy, which, resulting in gangrene, necessitated the amputation of the right thigh at the middle third on April 25th, and the left leg at the lower third on June 7, 1865, both by the flap operation. He believes that the disease was caused as above stated. The patient was discharged on August 29, 1865, and was pensioned for total disability. On May 20, 1869, George B. Jewett, who furnished the patient with artificial limbs, reported the stumps sound. DXCI.—Report of a Case of an amputation of the Thigh for Gunshot Wound of the Knee-Joint. By J. M. Laing, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant David G , Troop M, 7th Cavalry, aged 25 years, while in command of pay- master's escort proceeding to Fort Lamed, Kansas, was accidentally wounded on November 17, 1870, when twelve miles from destination, by a conoidal carbine ball, which entered the right leg between the upper extremities of tibia and fibula, passed through the head of tibia, shattered the patella to pieces, and emerged through the inner condyle of femur. The outer condyle was also completely separted from the shaft, but this is attributed to the explosive force of the powder, the muzzle of the piece having been close to the joint when fired. The carbine was lying in the ambulance, and, being displaced by a jolt, the sergeant stooped over to adjust it when the accident occurred. Eight miles from destination, at 11.30 P. M., he was visited, and the wound dressed with lint, soaked in persulphate of iron, and bandages. On the ijatient's arrival at the fort the next morning he was chloroformed, and the wounds were examined, when, no fracture of the patella being discovered, and the man being of sound constitution, it was determined to try to save the limb. The wounds were thoroughly syringed out with a solution of carbolic acid, and dressed with successive layers of lint soaked in carbolic oil, and the limb was laid in pillows until the swelling should go down. On November 21st irritative fever had set in; there was a sanious discharge from the wound of entrance; the parts contiguous were in a sloughing condition, and the whole thigh, up to the buttock, was of a brownish color. Amputation in this condition not being deemed advisable, the dressings were removed, and the whole limb was enveloped in a yeast poultice. In a few days the irritative fever was subdued. The gangrenous parts about the wound of entrance having separated, and pus beginning to form in large quantities in the thigh, he was put on liberal diet, and syringing with carbolic acid solution, and carbolic oil dressings were again resorted to. Under this treatment the patient's health improved, and there being no instruments at the post fit for use, a note was dispatched on December 11th to W. S. Tremaine, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., at Fort Dodge, requesting him to come over and bring his instruments. On the afternoon of the 13th htemorrhage set in, but was controlled by a tourniquet. The next morning. Doctor Tremaine having arrived, it was determined, on consultation, that amputation was inadmissible on account of loss of blood, but that an opening should be made toward the back of the thigh for the readier evacuation of the matter. While examining the thigh for this purpose hismorrhage, evidently from the femoral artery, recurred; and, as a last resource, he was rendered insensible with chloroform, and the thigh was amputated at the junction of the upper thirds by lateral flap operation. The femoral was ligated; bleeding from the other vessels was controlled by torsion. The flaps, after being thoroughly washed with strong solution of carbolic acid, were left open, and a tourniquet was loosely adjusted. The patient nearly died upon the table, and it was only after the employment of artificial respiration and ammonia that he rallied. His jjulse never rallied from the shock of the operation, death occurring on December 16th, fifty hours after. The extent of the injury was not discovered until after death. There having been no displace-208 EEPORT OF SURGICAL GASES IN THE ARMY. ment of the femur, nor of the fragments of the patella, Avhich were held in position by the ligament, the fracture of the outer condyle and of the patella had not been diagnosed. The pathological specimen was contributed, with the history, to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and is No. 5782 of the surgical section. DXCII.—Account of an Amputation of ike Thigh for Compound Fracture. By V. B. Hubbard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Maurice G. Hickey, Go. G, 19th Infantry, aged 22 years, received a compound comminuted fracture of the right tibia and fibula, by the falling of a flag-staflf upon the leg, while assisting to raise the same, July 3, 18G0, at Fort Gibson, Ghoctaw Nation. On the same day he was admitted to the post hospital. Ills constitution responded in a very emphatic manner to so powerful a source of irritation. The fever was remittent in type, the febrile exacerbation being vesperal. The evening pulse was 150 to IGO, the morning pulse 110 to 120. The exacerbation commenced about 3 P. M., and ended about midnight. By the 23d of July, the parts were intensely inflamed, the inflammation extendingto, and in places reaching above, the knee. The limb enlarged to the full capacity of the skin, which was tense and shining, and hot to the touch. The limb was commencing to give out an odor which awakened suspicions of incipient hospital gangrene. On the latter date, chloroform was administered, and the thigh amputated, by the double flap method at the junction of the middle with the lower third. Simple water dressings were applied. The patient rallied well from the eft'ects of the operation. The constitutional irritative fever left him almost simultaneouslj' with the source of irritation. Neuralgic pains, causing severe twitching of the stump, referred to the amputated limb, continued seventy-two hours. The weather, three sveeks before and three weeks after the operation, being excessively warm and dry, the thermometer, at noon, indicating 100° F. in the shade, the stitches sloughed out, and the edges of the flaps sloughed away sufficiently to expose the sawn extremity of the femur, on the fourteenth day after the operation. The wound healed, excepting the parts immediately around the bone, the extremity of which necrosed. September 30, 18CG, the soldier was awaiting his discharge from the service on surgeon's certificate of disability. A second operation would have been performed for the removal of the dead bone, had the physical condition of the patient been such as to render it justifiable ; this, however, together with the extreme heat, contra-indicated further surgical interference. DXCIII.—Account of an Amputation of the Thirjh for Compound Fracture^ by VermaWs Operation. By J. F. BouGHTER, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. John Johnson, a Norwegian, aged 39 years, on January 19, 18G9, fell from a rock on the Big Sioux River to the ice, a large rock and the tree he had been cutting rolling after him. He was found a few hours afterward, and was taken to his home, a dirty, unventilated hut, partially under ground. On February 9, 18G9, he was admitted for treatment to the hospital at Fort Dakota, Dakota Territorj-, in a very weak and emaciated condition. His diet had been very meagre. Examination disclosed a compound comminuted fracture of the right tibia and fibula extending to the knee-joint. Portions of the tibia protruded in several places, and, upon pressure with the hand, the bones could be felt crushed to small fragments, some of which had been discharged from the wounds, which were suppurating freely, but Avere not much swelled. There was, also, a transverse fracture of the left patella, and bed-sores on the hip. Stimulants were administered, and the patient being bathed was put to bed. On the next day, beef essence and milk i)unch were freely given, the left leg was placed on an inclined plane, and the fractured patella was brought together with adhesive straps. On February 11th, the right thigh was amputated by Vermale's operation (flap) three inches above the knee-joint. The femoral and two other arteries were tied; the flaps were exposed, and cold water was poured over the surface until glazed; then sutures were introduced and the flaps were brought together. Morphine was given, cold-water dressings were applied to the stump, and renewed every five minutes. The left leg was elevated and extended in a swing. On February 12th a tonic and anodyne were given. On the next day,AMPUTATIONS OF THE THIGH. 209 his bowels not having moved for fifteen days, sulphate of magnesia was given, and being continued until the 18th without effect, castor oil and turpentine were prescribed, which gradually relieved the constipation. On the 16th, the stump being a little swelled and puft'y, a chlorinated linseed meal poultice was applied, and on the 2()th, warm-water dressings were resorted to. From the latter date to March 2d the patient improved rapidly. A very large quantity of hardened faeces, retaining the impress of the sulci of large intestine, was discharged. On the latter date the ligatures from the femoral and from one of the small arteries came away, and the remaining one in a day or two afterward. On March 31st the bandages and compresses were removed, and the iiatient attempted to walk but was compelled to desist on account of pain in the left knee ; soap liniment was applied to the joint. The edges of the patella, which were one-half inch apart, united by ligamentous union. Xo attention having been given to this wound previous to his admission to hospital, bony union could not be expected. There was no swelling in the joint, and it was thought that anchylosis would not occur. On April 18th he was about to start for home. Dissection of the amputated leg disclosed a stellated fracture of the head of the tibia, extending into the knee-joint, with both bones crushed into about twenty fragments. DXOIY.—Memorandtmi Eelative to a Secondary Amputation of tJie Thigh. Private Jesse M. Jones, Co. K, 21st Indiana Volunteers, aged 29 years, was wounded at Baton Rouge, Louisiana, August 5.1862, by a musket ball, which fractured the right femur, at the junction of the middle and upper third. He was taken to the regimental hospital the night after, remained a day, and was then sent, bv a transport steamer, to New Fig. 4a-Gjmsi.ot fracture of right fe^ Odcaus, the limb m^cauwhile being supported by and middle thirds. Spec. 5.5d8, sect. I, A. M. M. " a l l j bandages and pillows. On arrival, August 7th, he was admitted to the St. James Hospital, where a long splint was applied, seventeen days after the reception of the wound. The patient was discharged the service April 15, 1863, and was pen- sioned, his disability being rated total and temporary. From that date till January, 1869, he suffered much pain from frequent exfoliations and abscesses, when he entered Providence Hospital at Washington ; and on the 23d, Doctor D. W. Bliss, late Surgeon, U. S. V., amputated the thigh in the upper third, and afterward contributed the pathological specimen to the Army Medical Museum. It is represented in the adjoining wood-cut, showing great deformity with exfoliations on posterior aspect, and a fragment of lead imbedded in the callus. On March 9, 1869, the patient visited the Museum, recovered, and his photograph was taken to accompany the specimen. (A M. M. Card Photographs, Yol. 1, page 27.) DXCV.—AcGotint of an Amputation of the Thigh for Gunshot Injury. By A. F. Steig-ers, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Robert Kiunear, Co. C, 21st Infantry, aged 27 years, received an accidental gunshot fracture of the knee-joint, with extensive laceration of the parts, and was admitted to the hospital at Camp Verde, Arizona Territory, on October 4, 1870, in an exhausted and almost pulseless condition from previous loss of blood. Operation was postponed until the next day for reaction, when, the knee being much swollen, Acting Assistant Surgeon J. T. Pindell, after chloroforming the patient, amputated the thigh just above the knee, by the lateral-flap operation. There was little haemorrhage ; the femoral artery and its branches were ligated ; reaction was moderate. Beef-tea and stimulants by enema were ordered. Ninety-nine hours after the reception of the w^ouud, he died of i^ycemia. DXCVI.—Memorandum relative to an Amputation of the Thigh for Synovitis. Private William H. Long, Co. B, 81th Indiana Volunteers, sprained his left knee joint in the autumn of 1864. He was mustered out of service on June 14, 1865, and pensioned. On May 25, 27* 210 EEPOET or SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 1866, Pension Examiner elolin 0. Helm reported that there was inflammation of the synovial capsule, which had resulted in suppuration and abscess. There were then five or six jioints discharging- pus; the knee was swollen and enlarged, and there was general oedeniatous infiltration of the whole limb. The patient was at his home (Eaton, Delaware County, Indiana), unable to leave his bed, and his disability was rated total and permanent. On September 26, 1867, Dr. Helm reported <^liat the leg was about as before described, except that it was worse, and was Avearing down the patient's health, and that no relief could be afforded except by amputation. In the latter part of May, 1869, he was fitted with an artificial limb by Hiram A. Kimball, wlio stated that the thigh had been amputated ou February 19, 1868 (amount of limb lost twenty-four inches), by the flap operation. The stump was less than normal size, but was perfectly healed. DXCVII.—BemarJcs on an Amj)i( tation of the Th if/hfor Ounshot Injury. By S. M. Horton, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Joseph McKeever, Co. E, 27th Infantry, aged 28 years, was wounded in an engagement with the Indians near Goose Creek, Dakota Territory, i^ovember 4, 1867, by a round ball, which fractured and extensively comminuted the left femur in its lower third. He was admitted to the post hospital. Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, on the same day. The femur was greatly comminuted for seven inches. Extensive Inemorrhage followed the removal of a large clot while cleansing the wound. The patient seemed to be in good health, and did not appear to staffer much from the wound. On November 6th, I administered equal parts of ether and chloroform, and amputated the thigh at the junction of middle and lower thirds by a large anterior and small posterior-flap method. The patient did well, and partook of stimulants freely xmtil the evening of the 7th, when his pulse became very weak. Death resulted on the morning of November 8, 1867, from nervous prostration. The autopsy revealed a good attempt at the formation of a fibrinous plug above the ligature of the femoral artery. DXCVIII.—Memorandum relative to an Amputation of the Thigh for Gunshot Inpiry. By W. H. FoRWOOD, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private John Martin, Troop H, 7th Cavalry, was wounded in quarters on March 15,1867, by a missile which entered the left thigh anteriorly at the junction of the upper and middle thirds, passed through the quadratus femoris, semi membranosus and semi-tendinosus muscles, and, injuring the coats of the femoral vessels, fractured the femur longitudinallj" six inches. He was admitted to the post hospital, Fort Eiley, Kansas, on the same day, the injured parts being much swollen and lacerated, the coats of the femoral vessels torn, and pieces of bone detached and driven into the soft parts. The patient being somewhat intoxicated, was much excited, and suffered great pain. His general health was good; pulse 95. Chloroform was administered, and the left thigh amputated at the junction of the upper and middle thirds by the lateral-flap method. There was but little hfemori'hage; the femoral artery only was tied. Silk sutures, adhesive straps, and cold- water dressings were applied. By March 31, 1867, all symptoms were very favorable, and a good result was anticipated. DXCIX.—Report of a Primary Amputation of the Thigh for Compound Comminuted Fracture. By B. J. D. Irwin, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James McN , Company H, 43d Infantry, aged 33 years, received, Avliile intoxicated. Aj)ril 30, 1868, a compound comminuted fracture of the lower third of the left thigh by being run over by a street car in the city of Detroit, Michigan, some three miles from Fort Wayne. He was temporarily attended by physicians in Detroit, and brought to the post hospital at Fort Wayne, May 1, 1868, about 8 o'clock A. M. The interior side of the thigh, from within three inches of the groin, down to the knee, was much lacerated; the bone was protruding; no arterial hajmorrhage had taken place. There was nausea and vomiting, owing to the presence of liquor, ofAMPUTATIONS OF THE LEG. 211 whicli he had partakeu freely. Ou May 1, 1868, at 3 o'clock, P. M., being assisted by Dr. D. O. Farrand, 1 amputated the thigh through the upper portion of the middle third, while the patieut was under the influence of chloroform. The patieut was weak, but cheerful. Beef-tea and brandy were given every half hour. Twenty drops of chloroform were given internally one hour before the operation. After the amputation, the patient was quite weak. The muscles and all the small vessels were much bruised and mashed, the femoral artery and deep saphenous vein being the only vessels requiring ligation. The shock of the operation was severe, from which he rallied slowly. The reaction was complete at 7 o'clock P. M.; the i^ulse was small and feeble—about 120. At 10 o'clock P. M. the patient felt better, took beef-tea and small quantities of brandy and water every half hour; pulse continued weak and feeble, at 120. He complained of much pain in the lost limb. One-fourth of a grain of sulphate of mori^hia was given. He slept comfortably about two hours, but sank gradually, and died from exhaustion at 4 o'clock A. M., May 2,1868. The specimen is No. 5447, section I, A. M. M. DC.—EemarJcs on an Amputaiion of the Thigh for Gunshot Injury. By Jules Le Carpentier, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Serrapia Montiel, a Mexican, aged 45 years, and of broken constitution, was fired upon by two drunken soldiers on December 31, 1868, and was wounded by a pistol ball which struck the anterior inner aspect of the right thigh about the middle, passed downward and outward, producing a transverse fracture, with some comminution, at the point of lesion, and a longitudinal fracture extending three and one-half inches up the shaft, and, dividing into about six pieces, scattered and lodged. On the next day he was conveyed to the ijost hospital at Fort Bayard, New Mexico. The patient had lost much blood, and stimulants were given to produce reaction. At 2 P. M. on January 2d, I chloroformed the patient, who did not exhibit any signs of reaction, but became at ' once insensible, and amputated the thigh at the junction of the upper thirds by the antero- posterior flap operation. The htemorrhage was abundant, notwithstanding the measures taken to check it. But three ligatures were required. While the stump was being dressed with alcohol and water the patient suddenly ceased breathing, and the pulse could not be felt. Cold water was dashed into his face, and ammonia was applied to his nose, when the respiration became natural. Stimulants, an anodyne, and beef-tea were given, but, as expected, he died three hours after the operation, of exhaustion. DCI.—Report of an Amputation of the Thigh for Gunshot Injury. By A. J. Gray, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Willis B. Morgan, an indigent civilian, aged 26 years, asthenic from constitutional syphilis and long-continued dissipation, was accidentally wounded on December 27,1870, by a round musket ball which entered the leg three inches below the knee-joint, passed down between the tibia and fibula, and lodged under the external malleolus, slightly fracturing that process, and opening the ankle-joint. On the next day he was admitted to the hospital at Fort Bayard, New Mexico; and on the 29th, the wound being gangrenous, the patient was rendered insensible with equal parts of ether and chloroform, and the thigh was amputated at the lower fourth by circular operation. The stump was dressed with cold-water dressings, followed by warm fomentation, and wine, beef- tea, and tonics were given. Ou December 31st the case was progressing favorably. DCII.—Memorandum relative to an Amputation of the Thigh for Synovitis. Henry Pearce, Assistant Surgeon, 150th New York Volunteers, according to the records of the Pension Office, had been suffering from synovitis of the left knee-joint for some years, when, on October 25, 1863, the disease was aggravated by his horse falling with him. He was treated at the hospital at Tiillahoma, Tennessee. His knee grew rapidly worse, and he walked with great difficulty. On April 7, 1864, he was discharged the service, on surgeon's certificate of disability.* * Resigned April 7, 1864.—O^cio/ Army Begisier of Volunfeet-.s. Parb 2, p. 6b'-i.212 RErOKT OF SUKGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. Ou November 23, 18G8, at Pawling, Dutchess County, New York, the patient's home, Doctor William C. Bennett amputated the left thigh in the lower third by the tlap operation. Eight months after, he was furnished with an artificial limb by Monroe and Gardiner. At that date the stump was perfectly healed, but was one-third less than normal size. DCIII.—Note on an Amptitation of the Thigh. Private Eeese Furboy, late of Co. C, 98th Ohio Volunteers, underwent amputation of the left thigh in the upper third, by flap operation, for "sickness," at his home in Cadiz, Ohio, on October 9, 1SG7, by Surgeons Uptcgraph and Connelly. On April 28, 1870, ho was furnished an artilicial limb, by R. Clement, Philadelphia, which gave satisfaction. At £hat"date the stump was sound, but less than normal size. DCIV.—Account of a Secondary Amputation of the Thigh for Gunshot Injury. By S. M. HoETON, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Alfred Ramey, a citizen, aged 20 years, was fired upon by Indians while sitting, in company with other citizens, by a tire, in a small camp near the stockade at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, November 1, 180G, and had his right patella broken into five fragments. He was admitted into the post hospital ou the next day, where simple dressings were applied, and two- thirds of the patella were removed, as the fragments loosened by suppuration. By April, 18G7, the patient liad become greatly emaciated and debilitated from i)ain, exhaustive suppuration, hectic; fever and diarrluea; there was an ulcerated bed-sore over the sacrum three and a half inches in diameter; sinuses led from the surface into the knee-joint; and there were abscesses in the middle and lower htird of the thigh and the leg. The entire limb became erysipelatous, there was muscular anchylosis of the hip-joint, and on the least motion of the knee-joint caused excessive pain. The patient would not consent to an operation until April 25, 1867, when, despairing of his life, he allowed equal parts of ether and chloroform to be administered and tlie thigh to be amputated in its upper third, by short anterior and long posterior flap method. Light and perfectly dry dressings were afterward applied. The stump healed by first intention at every point, except in the angles of the flaps, in one of which were the ligatures. On the nineteenth day after operation the liga- tures came away, the stump was entirely healed, and the patient was able to leave his bed. An examination of the amputated limb showed extensive disorganization of the knee-joint and abscesses in the leg and thigh, which had dissected up the muscles from the bones and from each other throughout the limb. The lower portion of femur and upper half of tibia and fibula showed the entire surface denuded of periosteum, and eroded. There was bony anchylosis of the knee-joint. DCV.—Account of an Amputation of the Thigh for Disease of the Knee-Joint. By W. F. Smith, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Ryan, Troop A, 5th Cavalry, aged 24 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Raleigh, North Carolina, on May 26, 1866, with fibro-cellular disease of the lower extremity of the right femur, involving the knee-joint, attributed to a kick by a horse. On August 18,186G, the knee-joint was enormously enlarged, and the skin was tense and shining. In some spots, fluctuation was perceptible. An immense sac, of what proved to be disintegrated blood, extended as far as the middle of the thigh. The liatient was slightly worn from constant pain, but his general health was excellent. On this date, I chloroformed the patient, and amputated, by circular operation, at the junction of the u^iper thirds of the thigh. The case jirogressed uninterruptedly well for three weeks, when the patient was attacked by very severe bilious remittent fever, which terminated in death on September 17, 1866. No autopsy. DCVI.—Account of an Amputation of tlw Thigh for Chronic Inflammation of tlie Knee-Joint. By A. S. Ehle, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Jackson Washington, a freedman, aged 22 years, was admitted to the hospital at Little Rock, Arkansas, on January 5, 1867, with chronic inflammation of the right knee-joint. There was a213 AMPUTATIONS OF THE THIGH. constant discharge from two fistulous opeuiugs on the outer side of the knee, communicating with the joint, and the patient.was much emaciated. Never having received a blow or kick about the knee, the patient could assign no cause for the disease, except that he had been obliged to work in the water a number of days just previous to its commencement, about six weeks before admission to hospital. Iron and quinine were immediately ordered, under which his appetite and general health imi^roved. On February 20th, Surgeon J. R. Smith, U. S. A., amputated the thigh at the junction of the lower thirds by the flaj) operation. During the first day, the patient was apparently recovering from the shock of the operation, and it was thought he would surely recover until the morning of the 25th, when slight twitchings of the extremities were observed, which increased in violence and frequency, death occurring at 2 o'clock on the afternoon of the same day. The pathological specimen, with history, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. S. Ehle, and is No. 4722, Section I. DOVII.—Note relative to an Amputation of the Thigh for Gunshot Injury. By J. B. Crandall, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. First Lieutenant Epbraim W , 5th Infantry, aged 30 years, received, in an engagement with Indians, sixty miles west from Fort Dodge, Kansas, September 23, 1867, a gunshot wound of left thigh, extensively fracturing the femui\ He was on the next day admitted to post hospital. Fort Dodge, Kansas, much prostrated from shock of wound and transportation. The injured parts were in good condition. On September 25th, Assistant Surgeon H. A. DuBois, U. S. A., administered chloroform, and amjtntated with anterior and posterior skin flaps at junction of middle and upper thirds. The patient bore the operation very well, and improved rapidly, [This officer was retired April 3, 1809.] DOVIII.—Remarks on an Amputation of the Thigh on Account of Injury. By W. Shackleford , M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Daniel M. Young, Co. F, 23d Infantry, was run over by the wagon of which he was teamster, February 29, 1808, XDroducing a compound fracture of the middle third of the left tibia and fibula. He was admitted to post hospital. Camp Watson, Oregon. The leg was first put in a fracture-box, and constant apijlication of snow maintained until suppuration and displacement of fractured parts by swelling rendered this useless. By the 12th of March, the soft parts were very much inflamed and painful, and suppuration extended to the knee-joint. The i^atient was much debil- itated from loss of sleep, anorexia, and continued great pain. He was very nervous, and his digestion was much impaired by opium, given to allay pain. On the latter date, chloroform was administered, and the thigh amputated just above the knee-joint, by the circular method. The exi^ended condition of the patient and the considerable evolvement of the knee-joint rendered a more economical course dangerous. The patient immediately began to improve without one untoward symptom ; his recovery, however, was delayed by a hcemorrhage from a small artery on the day following the operation, and by a fall, June 31st, the whole weight of his body striking upon the stump. On the 17th of May, 1869, he was examined for ah artificial limb, and at that time the stump was perfectly healed. DCIX.—Memorandum Eclating to a Secondary Amputation of the Thigh, in the Middle Third, for Gunshot Injury. Dr. J. A. Freeman, formerly of the U. S. Colored Troops, reports that he was consulted on March 15, 1868, by John H. Echstrand, late a lieutenant of the same organization, relative to a tumor near the left popliteal space. Ascertaining the previous history of the patient, it was found that he had been wounded at Lookout Mountain, November 24, 1803, by a fragment of shell, which entered the left tibia externally, just below the head, causing him to remain ofl' duty only a few days. Again on August 30, 1804, he was wounded by guerrillas, a pistol ball having fractured hisKEPORT OP SUliGlCAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 214 left femur. One-half tlie ball had been extracted, and the femur had united so that he was able to walk with a cane in six months; but he always had pain in the region of the first wound, and in September, 18G7, the difficultj^ of locomotion increased. Cutting down upon the tumor it was found to be scirrhous, extending across beneath the anterior ligament, and continuous with the synovial membranes of the joint, which were increased to an inch in thickness. The tumor ami the tibia were found to be softening. The patient was unsuccessfully treated until July 17, when amputation of the thigh just above the seat of the fracture was performed. The wound was dressed with carbolic acid and glycerine, and healed by first intention, except at the points of exit of the ligatures. On September 18,1868, the operator reported his patient to be " well and hearty," and transmitted to the- Army Medical Museum the ijathological specimens, which are numbered 5479 and 5480, respectively, of the Surgical Section. The first is the lower hall' of the left femur, showing a well united oblique fracture; the second, the proximal extremity of the tibia, perforated antero-posteriorly, from which the entire cancellous tissue is absent. Amputations at the Hip-Joint. DCX.—Bejwrt of a Case of Secondary Amputation at the Sq) for Gunshot Injury* By Henry A. DuBois, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. ♦ " Antonio Mutieres, a Mexican, aged 33 years, employed by the Quartermaster's Department as a teamster, was received into the post hospital at Fort Union, New Mexico, on May 11, 1867. Early that morning he had had a difficulty with another Mexican, employed in the same train, which resulted in his drawing a pistol on his opponent, who instantly drew his revolver and fired at Mentieres, the ball taking eifect in his left hip. I saw the case soon after the patient's admission, » at about eleven in the forenoon, and found the wound of entrance about two inches beneath and a little in fi^ont of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. The man was suffering but little, and there was scarcely any haemorrhage. I enlarged tlie wound and introduced my finger, and traced the ball to the neck of the femur, where it was firmly lodged in the anatomical neck of the bone. With a Tiemann's bullet forceps, I, with some trouble, removed the ball and a small ])iece of wadding. It was an ordinary conical revolver ball, and was fired from a distance not exceeding two or three yards. The man was kept perfectly quiet, a cold-water dressing applied, and he was fed with easily digested and nourishing food. At this time, and for the period of some two weeks, there was no inflammation involving the joint, a smart blow on the heel causing no pain. The patient gradually lost flesh, but suffered little. The discharge from the wound consisted of ill formed pus having little smell, and occasionally streaked with blood. A few small fragments of bone were subsequently exfoliated. The patient slept but little, and pre- spired much at night ; his appetite also diminished, and he was evidently losing strength daily. To these symptoms the following were afterward superadded: Intense pain running up the side and down the thigh to the ankle, much aggravated by the slightest movement or by the least pressure on the part. These symptoms increasing, I proposed the operation afterward performed, but could not gain the patient's consent thereto, he informing my interpreter that he would be up and on his crutches in two weeks. I had, previous to this, made up my mind as to the propriety of amputating at the hip, and felt confident of ultimately obtaining the patient's consent as a relief from the terrible pain suffered in these cases. I had rejected the operation of excision, as in the only case in which I had performed itt it had caused a shock as great to the system as I believed would result from amputation, and though I found any number of authors who recom- mended excision, in ijreference to amputation, in this class of cases, I found also that they had, with few exceptions, never tried, or seen it tried, in cases resulting from gunshot injuries. Of the thirty- two cases in which excision was performed during the late war, four only were successful, and how far they succeeded in giving a useful limb is not fully recorded.| Surgeon J. 0. McKee, who was * Seo a Eeport on Amputations at the Hip-Joint in Military Surgery, Circular No. 7, S. G. O., 1867, p. 46 ; and American Medical Record, Vol. II, p. 266. t See a Report on Excisions of the Head of tlie Femur for Gunshot Injury, Circular No. 2, S. G. O., 186D, CascLVI, p. 49. t See Circular No. 6, S. G. O., 1865, pp. 61-74.AMPUTATIONS AT THE HIP-JOINT 215 visiting tlie post at tliis time, examined the case and advised amputation in preference to excision. Some ten days after I first proposed the operation, I obtained the patient's consent, and as I deemed it advisable, owing to tlie rapid loss of strength, that the operation should be performed as early as possible, I at once made my arrangments, and on June 22d, having obtained the assistance of Dr, Shout, of Las Yegas, Dr. Simpson, of Moro, and of Hospital Steward Enfield, TJ. S. A., I proceeded at half past twelve in the afternoon to amputate. I had had previously constructed a rough clamp for compressing the aorta. The patient was quickly put under the influence of a mixture of ether and chloroform, removed to the operating table, and all my assistants having previously been informed of their duties, the operation was quickly and readily performed, the thigh being removed in, I am told, fifteen seconds. The clamj) controlled the arterial htemorrhage well; in fact, so well that it was extremely difiicult to find and secure the arteries; but the venous hfemorrhage was more troublesome. Some fifteen ligatures were used in all. Little blood was lost. The acetabulum was found much necrosed, and the tissues a good deal diseased. The diseased structures, as far as i^racticable, were removed, and a cerate cloth laid between the flaps, and the patient then imt to bed. His condition during the operation was on the whole good. The pulse several times became extremely feeble, but it quickly rose again under slight stimulation. The breathing was free. The clamp, which made i^ressure one inch above and to the left side of the umbilicus, apparently caused no inconvenience, and certainly interfered very little, if any, with his regular breathing. The anterior flap was made long while the posterior one was extremely short. The patient, before taking the anaesthetic, received hypodermically one- half a grain of mori^hite sulph., and on recovering from their joint influence talked and seemed at perfect ease. He was given small quantities of beef-tea and brandy, and also a little ammonia, as the pulse was feeble and rapid. He complained of great thirst, and craved ice, which was given to him in small quantities. I hoped by these means to bring about reaction and overcome the profound shock under which his system was laboring. His pulse gradually became more feeble, ran up to 160 and 180, and became imperceptible, and yet he was living, talked much, and in every way perfectly sensible. He complained of hunger, said he was as hungry as a dog, and rejected almost immediately everything he took into his stomach. In this condition I resorted to hypodermic injections of tincture of opii, with theeflectof bringing up the pulse and quieting to some extent the irritability of the stomach. In this state he lingered about thirty hours, sometimes almost entirely pulseless ; but with a warm skin and prespiring profusely ; at other times with a quick feeble pulse, sleeping a few moments at a time, until half past five in the evening of the day after the operation, when, taking a piece of icein hismouth, he said, "lam going, "and died almost immediately. Apost- mortem examination showed the flaps glazed to some extent but not united. Wire sutures, it should have been stated, were used to close the wound, which was done some ten hours after the operation. The acetabulum and head of the femur were both extremely necrosed, and the tissues much diseased. If the operation did not save the life, it at least promoted the happy dying, the Euthanasia which Hippocrates says the physician should have as his second object, considering the saving of life his first." DOXI.—Of a Case of Re-amputation at tlie Rip-Joint. By Geokge A. Otis, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private J. Fabry, Co. K, 4th Artillery, aged 38 years, was wounded by shrapnel, August 16, 1864, at Deep Bottom, Virginia, his left leg being shattered, and a portion of the projectile lodged about the knee. His leg was amputated at daybreak the morning following, by Surgeon G. W. Jackson, 53d Pennsylvania Volunteers, and he was sent to the hospital at City Point, and thence to Philadelphia. On August 23d, the stump suppurating and sloughing, an amputation through the knee-joint was done by Acting Assistant Surgeons Atlee and Egan. On August 28th a fuse screw was extracted from the muscles of the thigh by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. B. Eoe. The Satterlee Hospital Keport for September, 1864, represents the patient as weak, and with a bed-sore over the sacrum; necrosis of the femur, with more pain than large doses of morphia would alleviate. On February 4, 1865, an incision was made to evacuate an abscess that liad formed in216 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IK THE ARMY. tlie outer part of tlie thigli. A piece of cloth was removod from the cavity of the abscess. On May 25, 18G5, this sohlicr was sent to regimental heathjnarters at Fort Washington. Abscesses, which Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H. Bayne endeavored to drain by setons, continued to form within the tissues of the stump. In October, 18G5, the patient received an artificial limb, but could not use it without discomfort. During the winter, the stump was irritable and tender. On January 12, 18GG, the regiment changing station, Fabry was discharged on surgeon's certificate of disability, and was received at Soldiers' Home, January 31, 186G. The remnant of the femur was affected by osteomyelitis, and Surgeon Laub, U. S. A., had frequent occasion to have the stump poulticed and abscesses opened. October 27, 18GG, Assistant Surgeon J. S. Billings, U. S. A., made an exploratory and palliative operation, cutting down on the outer aspect of the thick involucrum, a little below the trochanter major, trephining over one of the cloacii?, and discovering a sequestrum, consisting of the shaft of the femur. Fabry was pensioned, and remained at Soldiers' Home for the next three years, suffering acutely, at times, from suppuration in the stump, and again enjoying intervals of comparative comfort. The general health did not give way materially under the protracted suppuration. The patient was exempt from albuminuria, and the viscera generally were in a normal condition. The nervous system seemed shattered, a result ascribed to the inordinate doses of narcotics which the patient consumed. When suffering from the abscesses in his stump, Fabry would beg that an amputation should be practiced; but, as soon as the pain was mitigated, his resolution would fail. Finally, he made up his mind to undergo the operation, and, on May 15, 1870, I exarticulated at the hip, and removed the stump.* The single anterior-flap procedure was used, only the flap was cut from without inward, because the great masses of foliaceous callus enveloping the njiper third of the femur precluded trans- fixion. The accompanying wood-cut will indicate the extent of these osseous forma- FlG. 43.—An unusually largo inrolucruin, from a case of clironic osteoiny- tiOUS. Fabry had a rather rapid COUValCS- elitis. Spec. 5684, Sect. I, A. M. M. ^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ CrutchcS iu tweuty- one days. The cicatrix remains at this date, fourteen months and more after the operation, perfectly sound and firm, and Fabry, who remains as a pensioner at Soldiers' Home, enjoys good general health. The lithograph opposite is accurately copied from a photograph of him, made at the Army Medical Museum one year after the operation. Amputation of all Four Limbs.—One instance of this remarkable surgical undertak- ing was reported. DCXII.—Report of a Case of Recovery after all Four Limhs were Amputated on Account of Frost- Bite. By Alfred Mullek, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Benjamin Franklin, a private of Troop H, 2d Minnesota Cavalry, aged 26 years, left Fort Wadsworth, Dakota Territory, on December 9, 18G5, on furlough to visit his home in Faribault County, Minnesota. After being three days out in the stage from Fort Wadsworth to Fort Ridgely, Minnesota, the party of which he was a member being overtaken by a severe snow-storm, which continued three days, was obliged to leave the stage, on December 13th, in a snow-drift on the prairie, distant about one hundred and ten miles from the place of destination. He wandered over the prairie that day and night, and the following four days, through the storm, freezing his limbs, nose, ears, and cheeks, taking no food or water, until found in a dying condition by Indian scouts, and taken to a station-house on the road, on December 17, 1865. He was sent to hospital at Fort Ridgely, for treatment, where he arrived on the night of the 24:th, almost completely exhausted. After slowly thawing the ice from his clothes, stockings, and boots, which had not been removed since December 13th, it was found that both hands and fore-arms were completely mortified by freezing up to middle third, both feet and legs as far as theupper third, both knees over and around the patellte, and both alas and the tip of the nose, all presenting a dark, bluish ai)pearance with * Tlie details of the operation and after-treatment have appeared in the American Journal of the Medical Sciencen, Vol. LXI, page 141.('.jrcTilar N'-' .3, y.G.0.18 /i, OTis'S SUCCESSFUL RE-AMPUTATION AT THE HI P.JOINT217 AMPUTATION OF ALL FOUE LIMBS. some swelliug-, and were fairly circiiiriscribed. No evacuation of the bowels having taken place since December 9th, and the patient suffering from singultus and constant pain in epigastric region, a light cathartic was administered, which, in twenty-four hours, gave relief. A mild but nourishing and stimulating diet was given, which, in a week's time, improved his condition. The four frozen limbs were enveloped in cloths moistened with a solution of chloride of zinc. The frozen ears and cheeks healed in due time, and presented nothing remarkable. The gangrenous parts of the nose separated on January G, 186G, aiul soon healed, with the loss of the tip of the nose and parts of the alae, leaving the septum somewhat exposed. On January 10th, the lines of demarcation on all four limbs and the patelljB were distinct and deep. A most offensive smell was emitted, in spite of the liberal use of disinfectants ; notwithstanding this the patient obstinately opposed operative inter- ference, being strongly seconded by his wife. On January 13th, the patient, after a little hesitancy, consented to the amputation of the arms. By this tiuie the lines of demarcation had exposed the bones, and as the patient refused the administration of,an aufesthetic, and his debilitated condition not admitting the loss of blood, it Was determined to carefully dissect as much healthy flesh from the radius and ulna as the line of demarcation would admit without cutting any blood-vessels, and then saw through the bones. This was successfully done on both fore-arms, in middle third, the patient losing very little blood, and complaining of hardly any pain. The great relief afforded by this operation so changed his former aversion to being operated on, that on the next day, he begged to have both legs amputated in the same manner, which was done, three days afterward, and with the same favorable results. In this case, the four stumps could not be covered with sufficient skin, and much had to be left to self-reparation, which took place to an extraordinary extent, keeping even step with the gradual improvement of the unfortunate's condition. The four stumps healed over with healthy granulations, requiring the removal of only two pieces of bone, one from the right tibia, and one from the left ulna, which separated on April 17th and 22d respectively. After applications of diluted nitric acid, the conical stumps soon became covered with a solid cicatrix. Meanwhile, the open sores over the patelhie on both knees, which became as large as the palm of a hand, after the separation of the gangrenous parts, had undergone cicatrization. They, however, reopened in a fistulous manner about the middle of April, and it was found that in both of the patellse large sequestrte had formed. A longitudinal incision was made over the right patella, and a large portion of the front part of this bone was easily removed. Another portion was also removed from the left iiatella, but with more difficulty. Both knees readily healed, leaving the patelhie anchylosed. The patient was mixstered out of service with his company on April 28, 18C6; but remained ixnder treatment until June 19, 1806, when he left for his home, perfectly recovered. The same year. Congress passed a special act pensioning him for total disability. The pathological specimens, with history, were contributed to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and are numbered 1711, Surgical Section and consists of four exfoliations. Dr. MuUer expresses the belief that the patient can never make use of artificial limbs. Of the two liundred and fifty-one cases of amputations cited in tlie foregoing reports, twenty-five resulted fatally ; one hundred and fort3^-three were due to gunshot wounds ; eight to railway accidents ; nine to incised wounds ; forty-five to other injuries ; forty-one to frost-bites ; and five to diseases. Setting aside the one hundred and thirty-six successful operations on the fingers and toes, there remain one hundred and fifteen major amputations, with a mortality rate of 21.7—a very favorable exhibit. Sixty-three of these major amputations were primary, twenty-seven were intermediary, and twenty-five were secondary. The death rate in these classes was, for once, almost uniform, being- primary 22.2, intermediary 22.2, secondary 20. This circumstance is explained partly by the small number of cases analysed, and partly by the proportion of severe cases included in the primary class. Among the major amputations not less than seventeen were multiple amputations : of fore-arms, 2 ; of arm and fore-arm, 4 ; of feet, 3 ; of legs, 4 ; of leg and foot, 2 ; of thigh and leg, 1 ; of four extremities, 1 ; with three fatal results only. 28218 EEPOKT OF SURGICAL CASES m THE ARMY. TABULAR STATEMENT OF CCL AMPUTATIONS. Results of One hundred and Sixty-four Amptitations in the Upper Extremities. Region. Amputations of Fingers Amputations at Wrist Amputations of Fore-arm Amputations of Arm Amputations at Sboukler-joint Total 114 2 20 24 4 164 75 2 19 18 3 117 a 17 21 10 cs a o a ^ -73 iS o 16 16 114 2 18 19 3 156 c5 a . 10.0 20.8 25.0 4.9- Results of Eighty-six Amputations in the Lower Extremities. Region. o a 'S cs a o P ■s a C3 P4 a n a <u a a S o a . o Amputations of Toes Amputations of Foot Amputations at Ankle-joint Amputations of Leg , Amputations at Knee-joint. Amputations of Thigh Amputations at Hip-joint.. Total 22 6 4 23 3 26 2 5 3 3 11 10 4 2 11 2 22 6 3 18 3 16 1 10 1 86 25 28 29 69 17 25.0 21.7 38.5 50.0 19.8 To these two hundred and fifty cases must be added the instance of amputation of the four extremities (p. 216). As has been already remarked, the mortality rate was unusually small. In looking over the reports, it is impossible to avoid the conviction that the medical officers greatly profited by the experience of the War, and performed their operations with little regard for the narrow rules laid down in the text-books, preferring to adapt their incisions to the exigencies of particular cases. The method of making flaps of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, reflecting them, and dividing the muscles circularly, which had many advocates during the War, remains in favor.219 EXCISIONS. Twenty-nine special reports of cases of excision were made ; five were excisions of the bones of the head ; sixteen of the upper extremities, and eight of the lower extremities. Among excisions I include operations for trephining, and for removal of parts of the bones of the face. This classification must, I think, be hereafter adopted, although systematic authors have heretofore generally restricted the term " excisions " to the removal of the articular extremities, or of portions of the shafts of the long bones. EXCISIONS OF THE BONES OF THE HEAD. Trephining.—Two successful cases of this nature were reported. DOXIII.—Report of a Compound Fracture of the SJcull, treated successfullij hy Trephining. By A. 0. GiRARD, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Jolin Higgins, Co. I, 20th Infantry, aged 23 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Baton Rouge, Louisiana, March 9,1869, with a compound fracture of the skull from a brick-bat. At the junction of the left parietal and frontal bones, near the sagittal suture, was a slight depres- sion of bone, of the size of a five-dollar gold piece; the wound of the scalp was two inches long, and the periosteum was destroyed. The wound was cleaned, and light diet ordered. On March 10th, fever set in with violent headache, and the pupils became dilated. Chloroform was admin- istered, a transverse incision elongating the wound was made. The bone was found depressed in a triangular shape, the deepest depression being toward the forehead ; the skull was then perfo- rated with the largest of drills, expecting by breaking through the communication between the crack and the hole with a chisel to have sufiicient room for elevation. The elevator was then introduced, but failed to raise the depression. The smaller trepan was then applied, using the drill hole for the point of the trepan, and three-fourths of the depression were removed, exposing the dura mater. The ragged edges of the hole were pared down, a few splinters removed, the wound well cleaned, and the edges of the scalp united by suture and ichthyocolla plaster. The patient bore up well under the operation, the latter j^art of which was performed after his return to conscious- ness, as he had shown some alarming signs while being put a second time under the influence of chloroform. Ice was applied to the head, and calomel in small doses was given. On March 11th the patient felt tolerably well, but still suffered some headache ; on the following day there was erysipelatous swelling of the left eye ; no headache. March 14th the patient complained of want of rest, and shooting i)ain through left eye. There was a little discharge from the wound, and the incision began to fill with granulations. Thence steady improvement took jilace, and on March 30th the wound had nearly closed. This man was returned to dnty in May, 1869. DCXIV.—Report of a Case of Fracture of the Skull treated by Trephining.—By Ira Perry, Assistant Surgeon, 9th Colored Troops. ' Jesus Soldaco, a Mexican, while at a drunken revel in Brownsville, Texas, June 1, 1866, was struck with the stock of a gun, which caused extensive contusion and fracture of the skull from the external angle of the orbit of left eye toward the occiput. The fracture could be traced through the scalp a distance of six inches. About one inch from the orbital angle was a portion of bone one and a half by three-quarters of an inch, which was depressed one-fourth of an inch, and was loose. The patient was admitted to the post hospital totally unconscious, with pulse slow and very feeble. The case being considered hopeless, water dressings only were applied; on the third day, the patient being still alive, the trephine was applied, and fragments of bone elevated; three days220 EEPOET OF SUEGTCAL CASES IN THE AEMY. later the patient was slightly conscious ; lieruia cerebri appeared. Until the tenth day the patient had taken notliing hnt cold water, but now Avas given some flour grnel; bowels were o])ened for the tirst time with la vement of soap and water. On June 15th the protruding brain began to slough and gradually became less prominent. On June 21st copious hajmorrhage, apparently from middle meningeal artery, occurred, and continuing for two hours, was controlled by ])ressure. The patient became unconscious, with stertorous breathing, and signs of compression, but on June 25th consciousness returned, and a gradual improvement took place. July 17th the wound was almost healed, and the jiatient was removed from the hospital by his friends. Excisions of the Bones of the Face.—Three special reports were received ; anotlier case will be found among tlie operations for tumors. DCXV.—Abstract of a Case in ichich Portions of the Superior and Inferior Maxilla icere Removed. From a report by Jules Le Cakpentier, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Francis, Troop E, 3d Cavalry, after escaping from the guard-house at Fort Bayard, New Mexico (where he had been confined by the civil authorities and was awaiting trial for murder), went to Hot Springs, where, on April 12, 18G8, u])on the approach of an escort, he shot himself under the mouth with a rifle. The patient denied all attempts at suicide, and alleged the shooting to be accidental. Soon after the occurrence he was conveyed to Eio Membres for better attendance, being very much exhausted and in a doubtful condition. The chin and most of the inferior maxillary were carried away, the superior maxillaries were fractured, and the soft parts, including the tongue, were badly lacerated and burned. The loss of voice was complete; and the whole buccal cavity, being exposed, presented a hideous appearance. The wound was carefully washed, and numerous small fragments of bone, impacted in the soft tissues, were removed. Sim^ile dressings Avere applied, anodynes and stimulants Avere prescribed, and a nourishing liquid diet was administered by means of a syringe, owing to the patient's inability to swallow. On the 14th the patient was sent to the post hospital at Fort Cummings, New Mexico. An operation was delayed " for fear of extensive suppuration, sloughing of some unseen fragments of bone, &c., which would interfere very much Avith cicatrization." On the night of the 16th the jiatient sufi'ered severe pain. The stimulants, anodynes, and nourishing diet were continued, and the wound was frequentlj' cleansed with a weak solution of carbolic acid. On the 19th several fragments of bone Avere remoA^ed, after which the pain abated. On the 20th three of the upper incisors fell out. On the 25th an operation was resolA'ed upon, when the patient was, with difficulty, rendered insensible by chloroform, his tongue having first been secured by a thread passed through the tip. The stages in the operation Avere as folloAV: 1st. Eemoval by dissection of two large pieces of the superior maxillaries. 2d. EemoA^al by dissection of a large piece of the inferior maxillary, fractured on the right side, to a level Avith the coronoid process. 3d. On the left side, incision extending from the posterior i^art of the coronoid process to the labial commissure, and excision of the.bone By saw and pliers to a level with that process. (This procedure was preferably adopted to entire disarticulation of the bone, in order to leaA^e some support to the soft Ijarts.) 4th, Paring the edges of the wound and keeping them approximated by interrupted suture, after which the deformity of the face was not very considerable. The patient was kept two and a half hours under the influence of chloroform, and seemed to stand it A'cry well. His efforts to speak were somewhat intelligible. His general condition was good, but he suffered a good deal from pain in the morning, attended with feA'er which exacerbated toward the afternoon. The details of the treatment up to May 15th, at which time he Avas able to walk round the ward, are unimportant, except that the sutures gaA^e way entirely, and that sticking plaster and appropriate bandages were substituted. Attempting to escape on the night of the 23d, he was confined in the guard-house; but on the 25th was taken back to hospital, where, on the 27th, a small fragment of bone was removed during the dressing. His condition was good; but great difficulty was experienced in feeding him. After this ineffectual attempt to escape he declined rapidly, owing, no doubt, to a complete absence of any hope whatever for escaping trial, and he died on June 2, 1868, of exhaustion.221 EXCISIONS m THE UPPEE EXTEEMITIES. DOXVI.—Report of a Case in loMch a Portion of the Maxilla teas Bemoved. By P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Joseph Smith, Troop I, 8tli Cavalrj-, was shot by a comrade at Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory, November 17, 18G7. The missile, a conoidal ball, entered over the bridge of the nose, and taking an oblique direction, fractured the maxillary bone of the right side. He was admitted to post hospital in a state of syncope. The excessive haemorrhage was controlled by pluggiug the wound with lint saturated with liquor of the persulphate of iron. The patient grew weak from loss of blood, the face became puffy and swollen, and part of the fractured bone projected into the mouth, preventing the mastication of food. On November 28th a part of the maxillary bone of the right side, contaiiiing molar and bicuspid teeth, was removed. The missile could not be found. Haemorrhage was controlled hj plugging. The patient did well until December 3d, when he complained of pain in the joints and back, also of slight numbness of feet and hands. These symptoms increased until December 10th, Avheu the aniesthesia in both feet and legs np to the knee was complete.' There was also partial loss of sensation in both hands; the wound was nearly healed, appetite good, and secretions normal. Under a magneto-electric treatment, with iron, quinine, strychnia, and iodide of potassium he gradually improved, being- able to walk on December 20,1867. Sensations were almost normal again. DCXYII.—Note of a Case in ivMch Fragments of the Upper Jaw ivere Excised. By W. H. King-, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Samuel Walker, Co. D, 3d Infantry, aged 28 years, was wounded on November 13, 18G8, by a conoidal ball in the right side of the face. On the same day he was admitted to the hospital at Fort Zara, Kansas, where fragments of the upper jaw were excised. He was returned to duty in December, 1868. EXCISIONS OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. Excisions of the Sones of the Sand.'—Six cases were reported. DCXVIII.—Accormt of an Excision of Metacarpal Bones, having a Fatal Result. By P. H. Bkown, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Jerry Hewes, Co. A, 9th Colored Troops, aged 24 years, was wounded on September 1, 1867, in the right hand. He was admitted to the regimental hospital at Eort Stockton, Texas, where an excision of metacarijal bones, was performed. Pyaemia supervened, and death occurred Sei)tember 15, 1867. DOXIX.—Memorandum of a Case in tchich a Portion of the Metacarpal Bone and Phalanx icere Excised. By E. H. Bowman, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas H. Whipi^er, Co. A, 21th Infantrj^, was accidentally wounded in the left hand at Fort Bliss, Texas, March 19, 1870. The missile passed through the anterior portion of the hand, destroying the articulation of the middle finger, and shattering the metacarpal bone for one and a half inches above the joint. He was admitted to post hospital. The injury was i^owder- burned, but free from swelling. Chloroform was administered, and one inch and a half of metacarpal bone and a portion of the first phalanx, making two inches in all, were excised. Simple dressings, with application of carbolic acid, were used. The patient recovered rapidly, and was returned to duty on May 16, 1870. DCXX.—Account of an Operation for Paronychia. By Benjamin James, Hospital Steward, U. S. A. Sergeant Charles Krouse, Co. G, 32d Infantry, aged 31 years, was admitted to the hospital at Camp Goodman, Arizona Territory, on January 1, 1869, with a whitlow on the left thumb. The222 KEPORT OF SUliGlCAL OASES IN THE ARMY. last phalaux, being fouud diseased, was removed througli an incision one inch in length. The patient recovered, and was returned to duty on February 10, 18G9. DOXXI.—Note Relative to an Excision of a Metacarpal Bone. By H. F. Livingston, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Barrett, Oo. I, 22d Infantry, was admitted to hospital at camp near Orow Creek Agency, Dakota Territory, on September 22, 1870. Lacerated wound of fore-finger of right hand. Excision of metacarpal bone. Simple dressings were apiilied. He recovered and was returned to duty November 12, 1870. DOXXII.—Minute of a Case in wliicli a Portion of the Metacarpal Bone teas excised. By S. M. HoRTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George W. Smith, Oo. A, 27th Infantry, aged 18 years, on March 1,18G8, at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, had the ring finger of the left hand, between the first and second joints, sawed off by a cii'cular saw. The distal end of the metacarpal bone of the same finger was also injured, and there was considerable laceration. Assistant Surgeon S. M. Ilortou excised the distal half of the metacarpal bone of the ring finger of the left hand. No antesthetic was used; cold- water and laudanum dressings were applied, and the parts united by granulation in ten days. The man was discharged from service May 3, 18G8, on account of expiration of term of service, but he remained in hospital. March 31st: The hand is nearly healed. DCXXIII.—Bemarls on an •Excision of a Fiwjcr-Joint. By Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Frank Oastle, Co. C, 41st Infantry, aged 21 years, while in a brawl with other enlisted men in quarters at Fort Clark, Texas, on the night of September 8, 18G8, was wounded by a small pistol ball, which entered the volar aspect of the left index finger, and, passing tlirough the inner side, slightly injured the first phalanx near its i^halangeal articulation. Upon being admitted to the hospital, simple dressings were applied until it became evident that the articular extremities were diseased, when, on October 5th, equal parts of ether and chloroform were administered, and the joint was excised after making an incision on the inner side of the finger. The wound being well cleansed, Avas brought together by a narrow bandage. On the 8th the bandage was removed, and simi^le dressings were applied. By the 28th the wound had entirely healed, leaving the finger shortened one-half inch, and with a false joint, in which there was ample motion. On November 3, 1868, the patient was returned to duty. Excision of the Bones of the Fore-arm.—Only one case of this nature was reported. DCXXIV.—Abstract of a Case of Excision of the Radius. From the Report of F. Reynolds, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Charles Arnold, artificer of Battery 0, 2d Artillerj^, aged 30 years, and of excellent constitution and usually temperate habits, was wounded at Fort Stevens, Oregon, on November G, 1870, by the accidental discharge of his musket, the tompion and a conoidal ball having jiassed through the upper third of the left fore-arm, producing a comminuted fracture of the radius, severing probably the radial and interosseous arteries, and causing extensive laceration and loss of tissue. A large vessel was also supposed to have been displaced. On admission to the hospital, there was no i^ulse at the wrist, but the temperature was normal. At first, it was determined to remove the limb; but the temperature of the hand having undergone no perceptible change, and hoping that the collateral vessels would prove sufficient for its support, the idea was abandoned. Accordingly, on the same223 EXCISIONS IN THE HUMERUS. day (the patient being very fully alcoholized), the wound was enlarged two inches, the head of the radius excised, and splinters and the rough extremity of the remainder of the bone removed. No anaesthetic was considered necessary, and it is believed by the operator that its non-administration was greatly in the patient's favor. After applying carbolized oil dressings, the arm was placed in a splint. Chloral was given at night, and was continued as long as necessary. On December 31st, the wound had almost healed, leaving a large and very deep cicatrix. The elbow was semi-flexed, and the motions of the fingers, wrist, and elbow were impaired, but rapidly improving. The dressings and anodyne fulfilled all that could be desired. The patient was discharged April 6,1871. Dr. Eeynolds, in his report, makes note of "the very slight constitutional sympathy accompanying so severe a wound." He regards this as a case for ami^utation in an ordinary subject, and thinks that the favorable result is, in a great measure, owing to the man's good habits and exceptionally good constitution. [He forwards the interesting specimen in the case, consisting of the shattered upper third of the radius, the battered musket-ball, and the tompion. These are mounted together in the Museum as Specimen 5877, Sect. I.] Excisions in the iShaft of the Humerus.—Seven successful cases of excisions of the sJiaft of tlie humerus for gunshot-wounds were reported. DOXXV.—Memorandum relative to an Excision of a Portion of the Humerus. Private John Haire, Troop B, 2d Cavalry, was wounded in the left arm at Fort McPherson, Nebraska Territory, on March 5, 1867, by a rifle ball, which fractured and comminuted the humerus at the middle third, necessitating excision of the bone to the extent of about four inches. The operation was done by a linear incision forty-eight hours after the receipt of the injury, in the hospital of the post, by Surgeon P. C. Davis, U. S. A. The patient was discharged August 5,1867. On September 29, 1869, Dr. E. D. Hudson, who furnished the patient with an apparatus, reports the arm shortened two and a half inches, and somewhat atrophied, but well healed and healthy. The functions of the fore-arm and hand were normal, but the flexion of the limb was somewhat impeded by concretions in the elbow-joint, which could be easily broken. The arm was unreliable, owing to want of leverage. The incipient usefulness of the apparatus, which was applied two years and seven months after the injury, is reported to be highly gratifying and efficacious. DOXXyi.—Minute relative to an Excision of a Portion of the Humerus. By H. E. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Edward McCarthy, Co. E, 5th Infantry, aged 18 years, was accidentally shot by a guard at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, The missile, a Spencer rifle ball, entered the left shoulder posteriorly at the outer edge of the deltoid, three inches from the head of the humerus, passed downward, fracturing and comminuting the shaft of the humerus into about twenty-five pieces, and escaped three inches above the condyles at the outer edge of the biceps. He was sent to the post hospital; chloroform was administered; an incision made from the lower wound upward five inches in length, and four inches of the shaft of the humerus was excised. Four stitches were introduced and a felt bandage applied. April 24:th the wound had healed; there was only one inch and a half shortening. The periosteum remaining after operation had entirely renewed the bone, and on June 30,1868, union between the upper and lower end of humerus was complete. The musculo- spiral nerve being destroyed, there is paralysis of extensor muscles. He can pick uj) any object with his fingers, and will soon be able to carry his hand to his head. He was discharged on August 7, 1868. DCXXVII.—Accotmt of a Partial Excision of the Humerus. Abstract from Eeport of Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles Mitchell, Troop C, 4th Cavalry, aged 31 years, of good constitution and regular habits, was accidentally wounded in the line of duty at Fort Clark, Texas, on June 2, 1867, by the explosion of his carbine, the bullet causing four different wounds; the first entered the left thighEErOET OF SUEGIOAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 224 posteriorly, in tlie lower third, and, passing tlirongli the soft parts, produced a slight wound of the left little finger; next entered the left fore-arm on the ulnar side, one inch above the wrist-joint, and, passing upward and outward, emerged three inches above; finally entering the left arm three inches below the axilla and just in front of the brachial artery, it passed through the bone upward, outward, and backward, causing extensive comminution, and lodged in the body of theinfra-spiuatus muscle. After having sufficiently recovered from the shock of injury, the patient was rendered insensible by equal parts of ether and chloroform, when a Y-shaped flap was made having the apex at the insertion of the deltoid. The anterior incision was carried to the acromion; the posterior, three inches upward and backward from the vertex. Another incision, one inch and a half downward, was also made. The soft parts were greatly lacerated and there was considerable oozing of blood. No important artery was cut. One-half of the bone being removed, the wound was filled with cotton and tightly bandaged to arrest bleeding. A few hours subsequently an anodyne was administered, and the patient rested well. Irrigation was applied to the wounds, the discharge from which was profuse, and his strength was sustained by generous diet. By the middle of July, all the wonnds had healed favorably, except a small sinus through the anterior incision communicating with inferior border and the spine of the scapula, portions of which subsequently exfoliated, and which finally healed irp completely by October 12th. The last phalanx of the little finger was extruded tlu'ough the wound, after which it healed, leaving a small cicatrix. The flexor tendons became involved in the cicatrix of the wound of the fore-arm, causing impaired usefulness of the hand. The patient was discharged the service on July 1, 18G7, by reason of expiration of enlistment, no certificate of disability being furnished him. He was fiually discharged from hospital on November 10, 18G7, and on January 12, 18G8, was a watchmaii of Government property at San Aiitonio, Texas. [In June, 18G8, Mitchell was furnished with an artificial apparatus by Doctor E. D. Hudson. At that date there was no command of arm or fore-arm, and the hand was partiallj^ i)aralyzed. He made an ai)plicatiou for pension, but the case is still i)ending, Ed,J DOXXVIII,—Account of an Excision of a Portion of the Humerus. By H, K. Durrani, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Barauga Nepomoceno, a ]\Iexican, was wounded in an attack made by Apache Indians on a Government freight train, which he was driving, on December 18, 1870, by a ball which shattered the left humerus in the upi)er third. He was admitted to hospital at Camp Lowell, Arizona Territory, where, on the 2Gth, the parts being painful and very much swollen, he was chloro- formed, and four inches of the shaft of the humerus, immediately below the head, was excised. His general condition at the time of the operation was very good. Cold water and a solution of liermangauate of potash were applied to the wound, which healed rapidly. The patient experienced very little constitutional disturbance. On January 21, 1871, the patient was about to leave the hospital with a very useful arm. The excised bone, with the history of the case, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and is No. 575G, Surgical Section. DCXXIX.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Excision of the Shaft of the Bight Humerus. By S. M. Horton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. James Navity, a citizen, aged 30 years, was wounded in an attack by Indians at Crazy Woman's Fork, Dakota Territory, December 2, 18G7, by a conoidal ball, which entered in front and lodged in back part of right arm. He was, on December 7th, admitted to post hospital at Fort Philip Kearney. Copious suppuration from wounds of entrance and exit ensued, and the arm became swollen from shoulder to elbow. On February 6, 18G8, I administered equal parts of ether and chloroform; made an incision six inches long over the seat of fracture, and excised six fragments of the humerus, the largest one inch and a half long by one-fourth of an inch thick. The ball, very much flattened, was found imbedded in the shaft of the humerus, three inches above the fracture, and was also removed. The fragments, as also the contiguous ends of the broken humerus, were found denuded of periosteum.EXCISIONS IN THE HUMERUS. 225 The ^Yonn(I progressed favorably, healthy callus formed, and the bone united in four weeks. On March 31, 18G8, the external wounds still suppurated slightly, but the parts around the fracture had become indurated. DCXXX.—Account of an Excision of a Portion of the Humerus and the Olecranon Process of Ulna. By H. A. BuBois, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Charles Brunett, Co. D, 3d Cavalry, aged 26 years, was admitted to hospital at Fort Union, New Mexico, June 7, 1807, with a gunshot wound of the arm. The ball passed from behind, forward, and upward, through the olecranon process, shattering the condyles of the humerus and the shaft for a distance of three and a lialf inches. On June lOtli, the shattered portion of the humerus and olecranon process Avere excised, and the wound was closed with wire sutures. The patient recovered, and was discharged from service September 21, 18G7. DCXXXI.— Account of an Excision of a Portion of the Humerus. By W. F. Buchanan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Frank Crith, Co. G, 38th Infantry, aged 22 years, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Hays, Kansas, August 24, 1808, for caries of the humerus. Having been accidentally shot nearly one year previously, by a conoidal musket ball, which formed a compound fracture of the right humerus in the middle third.* Subse- quent to the reception of the injury he was attended by the post surgeon at Fort Harker, Kansas, who, patient states, removed several pieces of bone, adjusted the fracture and applied splints. Pieces of bone were at times removed while under treatment at Fort Harker. The patient's general health was good, notwithstanding the occasional exfoliation of bone and a discharge of sanious foetid character, with \,,t^^ slight pain. On August 27, the patient was antesthetized, and the parts were Fig. 44.—Por- thoroughly examined. Two or three small sinuses were found leading to the bone, tion of simft of -^iiich appeared to be firmly united at the seat of fracture, but roughened on excised for KmV- its surfacc. An iucisiou down to the bone showed it to be entirely denuded of shot -wound, periosteum in its entire circumference. Excision being determined upon the bone was i^A m^m'^'"'* sawn through by means of a chain saw, and a portion of the shaft, three and one- eighth inches in length, was removed. Very little venous hiemorrhage attended the operation; no arteries were cut. The parts were well washed, and the incision united by the interrupted suture. The patient was removed to his bed and the arm carefully placed iu position on small pillows, with fore-arm flexed on the chest, and cold-water dressing instituted. A narrow strip of lint had been left in between the sutures to prevent discharge during suppuration. August 29th, the arm was swollen, red, and painful, with appearances threatening erysijielas. There was a bloody, dark-colored discharge, with considerable nervous irrita- bility, and the appetite was poor. Patient was given a nourishing diet, with milk and brandy launch occasionally throughout the day; the pus was well pressed from the arm by the fingers on each side from below upward, a solution of chlorinated soda was applied three times daily, and the water dressing continued. On September 7th, the condition of the arm was much imi)roved. Healthy granulations and suppuration, with extensive formation of callus, appeared. The arm was adjusted iu angular splints made of binder's boards, the fore-arm being flexed, the whole bandaged firmly, apertures being made through the dressing for the exit of the products ot suppuration, the splint applied to anterior and internal surface of arm reaching close up in the axilla ; thus arranged there was a moderate degree of extension kept up by the angle of the splints on the fore arm and the internal splint in the axilla. September 28th, callus had been formed to the entire extent of the excision, bony union had taken place, and the temporary callus was being absorbed. On October 7th the discharge had ceased. The splints were removed, and on October 2Sth the patient had entirely recovered. The arm was of natural size, and the functions of hand and arm were well performed. He could lift eight or ten pounds, and the arm was still becoming stronger. No atrophy. He was discharged June 11, 1809. The specimen is represented in the adjoining wood-cut. 29 ' See Case CCVII, p. 62,EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. Excisions of the Head of the Humerus.—Two successful operations of tliis nature were made the subject of special reports, ])CXXXII.—Account of an Excision of the ffead of the Humerus. By Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Snrgeou. Private Joseph Qiiitnby, Troop L, 9tli Cavalry, aged 27 years, was, in April, 1SG9, while fighting the Indians, (Pension Report,) accidentally wounded by a carbine ball, which entered the rigiit shoulder below the acromion, passed obliquely downward and inward, sliattered the upper third of the humerus, and lodged beneath the teres major. He was admitted to post hospital at Fort Clark, Texas, on June 2G, 1809, being very much exhausted from the effects of inflammation, which had existed in the Avliole limb. On admission the active stage of inflammation had subsided ; the wound suppurated freely, and a large abscess, caused by lodgement of bullet, had formed below the axillti. On June 27th, chloroform was administered, and a vertical incision made, commencing at the wound below the acromion, through the deltoid to its insertion. The upper portion of the humerus, four and a half inches in length, was then removed. The patient reacted promptly, but the shock of operation was great, and for four hours after operation life was with difficulty sustained by constant use of stimulants. He recovered, and on November 13, 18G9, was sent to his company at Fort Duncan, Texas, to be discharged. Eight months after injury Fig. 4.>.-Fppor apparatus, which was very useful to command the arm, was furnished by poitioiiofiigbt iiu- Doctor E. D. Hudson. At that time the arm was not shortened, but little reduced gunshot wound. ^^^'^j '^'ciT healthy, and the wound well cicatrized; the functions of the arm and *i)cc. 5C38, Sect.I, fore-arm were normal, except lack of leverage. The man has made application A. M. M. pension, but the case is pendiug. DCXXXIII.—Account of an Excision of a Portion of the Humerus. By S. S. Jessop, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Ordnance Sergeant James T. Skillin, aged 50 years, while engaged in the line of his duty at Castle Pinckney, Charleston Harbor, South Carolina, July 31, 1SG9, was shot by a drunken soldier, at a distance of about five feet. The missile, a conoidal umsket ball, fractured the first and second phalanges of the left fore finger, then entered about an inch below the right clavicle, passed backward and outward through the humerus, close to the capsule, emerging at the posterior and outer aspect of the arm. He Avas admitted into the post hospital of that place on the next day. The orifices of entrance and exit were very large—the first about three inches in diameter, the latter somewhat smaller, and irregular in shape. In the track of the ball anterior to the humerus, were fragments of clothing; posterior to it, comminuted fragments of bone. The patient, a man of unusually fine physique and very temperate habits, had rallied well from a copious venous hjemorrhage. Pulse 75, and tolerably full. Eighteen hours after the reception of the injury, I administered chloroform, and excised the head and about three and a half inches of the shaft of the humerus, and amputated the left fore-finger at the metacarpo phalan- geal articulation. Recovery was rapid. On September 30, 18G9, there was a very slight discharge from the opening of the entrance, and from the middle of the cut made by the operation. On the latter date, he had good Fig. 46.—Head and portion of shaft of humerus excised usc of the forc-arm and hand, but nonc of the arm. for ffurshot wrad. Spec. 5588, Sect. I, A. M. M. Passivc motiou was daily employed. The wounds, during most of the treatment, had been washed and dressed with a solution of crude carbolic acid, twenty drops to the pint. He was returned to duty November 10, 1GG9. The specimens, with the history, were contributed to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and are numbered 5588 and 5589, Surgical Section.EXCISIONS OF THE BONES OF THE FOOT AND LEG. 227 EXCISIONS OF THE BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. Excisions of the Bones of the Foot.—Two examples were reported. DOXXXIV.—Account of an Excision of a Portion of the Os Calcis. By W. B. DODS, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles Lorenzel, Co. A, 1st Cavalry, aged 20 years, was accidentally wounded at Camp Bidwell, California, November 3, 1806, by a Spencer carbine ball, which penetrated the heel, and glanced off from the calcaneum. He was admitted to the post hospital. Caries of the heel- portion of the calcaneum supervened, and on February 20, 1SG7, the sui)erior i)ortion of the calcaneum was excised through an incision three inches in length. Simple dressings were applied, and on March 30, 1867, the wound was perfectly healed. DCXXXV.—Memorandum relative to an Excision of Portions of the Bones of the Foot. By G. M. Sternberg, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Julius Edwards, Troop F, 10th Cavalry, aged 21 years, was accidentally wounded by a Spencer carbine ball, at Fort Riley, Kansas, January 21, 1868. The missile passed through the metatarso-phalangeal articulation of the left great toe, extensively comminuting the bones. He was admitted to the post hospital, and on March 1, 18G8, was rendered insensible by one part of chloroform and two of ether, when the phalanx and head of the metatarsal bone of the great toe were excised by a straight incision along the dorsum, and the toe-nail was removed. The periosteum was preserved as far as possible, for the reproduction of bone. About half of the wound united by first intention ; the remaining portion healed slowly, with profuse suppuration. An abscess which formed at the seat of the original wound, was opened March 25th, and March 31, 1868, the wound was nearly healed. The patient was returned to duty in April, 1868. Excisions in the Bones of the Leg.—Reports of two cases were furnislied. DCXXXVI.—Account of an Excision of a Portion of the Fibula. By Jui.ES Le Carpentier, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Waddie Hostler, Co. D, 38th Infantry, aged 19 years, being apprehended as a deserter at Fort Bayard, New Mexico, on July 10, 1868, was shot in the left leg, a conoidal ball taking effect in the middle third, fracturing the fibula, splitting thereon, and making its exit by two tracks. Being admitted to the hospital in a state of collapse, four hours after the injury, about an hour was allowed for reaction to take place, when insensibility was produced by ether and chloroform, and the wound thoroughly examined. It was found necessary to excise about three and a half inches of the fibula, which was badly comminuted. The i^eroneal artery, which was found injured in several places by splinters, was tied above and below the wound. Little blood was lost during the operation, and the patient recovered well from the ansESthesia. An anodyne was administered, and he passed a good night. During the day of the 11th, he was restless and somewhat strange in conduct, refusing to take food toward the evening, when the anodyne was repeated, and a quiet night was passed. On the 12th, pus apiieared upon the li^is of the woiind; he again refused food, and had a vacant look. About noon, a peculiar choking noise drew the attention of the nurse, who found him dead. At the autopsy, twenty-two hours after death, rigor mortis was well marked; decomposition was going on ra|iidly, and the abdomen was distended with flatus. An examination of the chest showed the pericardium distended and thickened, adherent in places to ventricles and auricles, and containing about ten fluid-ounces of bloody serum; heart rather large (weighing eleven ounces), heavily coated with fat, walls hypertrophied, and very soft and flaccid, i^articularly those of the right ventricle; fatty degeneration well marked of chordre tendinai, and the upper part of the right ventricle, and adherent to the serous membrane of the right ventricle, among the chordse tendinte, was a large fibrinous clot, weighing nearly six drachms, attached to which was an irregular rope-like yellow cord, three-eighths of an inch wide and one-eighth of an inch thick, extending into the pulmonary artery about six inches; the228 liEPOKT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. uuriculio, A^eiitriculjc and semi-lunar valves of tbe right side were somewhat thickened ; the walls of the left ventricle showed fatty degeneration, and were very soft, but the valves were in good order, and tlie auricles healthy, but pale ; lungs healthy, but marks of old pleuritic adbesions existed on the interior lobes of each side. DCXXXVII.—Minute of a Case of Excision of a Portion of the Tibia. By W. M. Austin, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Joseph Shaw, Troop D, Hd Ca\ alry, was admitted to hospital at Fort Bliss and Camp Concordia, Texas, on October 25, 18G7, with a gunshot wound of the right tibia, which was received in a fight with Indians, October 17, 1SG7. The bone became necrosed, and on February 2, 18GS, the Jiecrosed portion was excised. Ue recovered, and \\as returned to duty on March 9, 1808. Excisions at the Hip-joint.—It is very gratifying to record two successes in tlie three excisions for gun-sliot injury of the upper extremity of the femur, that have been performed in the army since the War. The two men referred too not only recovered, but retained very useful limbs. Through the kindness of the chief of the medical staff of the navv, I am enabled also to record a memorandum* of a successful case occurrinc in the practice of Surgeon W- E. Taylor, of the navy. Photograph 271, Surgical Series, A. M. M., contributed by Dr. Grimm, the Director General of the medical staff of the Prussian army, represents a very successful result of this operation, in a soldier wounded in the Austro-Prussian seven-weeks war. TJiese instances must place excision at the hip for gun-shot injury among the established operations of surgery. DOXXXVIII.—Account of a jSuccessful Case of Excision of the Rip-Joint for Gunshot Injury. From detailed rei)orts. Private Charles F. Eead, Co. I, 37th Infantry, while in a stooping- posture, and distant about one hundred feet, was shot by a sentinel at Missouri Bottom, Xew Mexico, on June C, 18GS. The ball struck about the middle of the posterior aspect of the left thigh, causing an injury to the bone, the nature of which is shown in the accompanying wood-cut, illustrating the sijccimeu contributed to the Armj-^ Medical Museum hy the operator, J. E. Gibson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., (Fig. 47.) The case being fully detailed in Circular ISo. 2, S. G. O., 1869, page 117, reference will only be made to the more salient points, and to information received since the publication of that report. After weeks of temporizatiou, during which the patient, a young man in the prime of life, had become much exhausted from numerous and futile searches after the missile, from bed-sores, profuse suppuration, an irritable diarrhoea, and pain so ^heatioft.f"flmur\^^ inteusc as to rcquirc the administration of an anaesthetic previous to dressing an impacted musket the wouud, the choicc lay bctwecu a lingering death or excision of the head of i^A M M femur, or the more fearful and precarious alternative of ami)utatiou at the joint. On August lith the patient expressed willingness to submit to any operation that would afford relief, when he was an{esthetized for the purpose of again freely examining the parts, and performing such operation as should be considered necessary. Upon explorations of the wound with the probe and finger, the ball was discovered in the head of the femur, a T-shaped incision was made over the joint, the head of the bone was turned out of the acetabulum, and was sawn through the neck, just within the great trochanter. The incisions were closed with metallic sutures, and the limb was temi^orarily i^laced between splints, with a * Surgeon Taylor, 1)081(168 contributing to the Museum liis specimen of excised head, neck, and trochanters of the left femur, with a couoidal musket-ball, lodged in the head, {Spec. 5884, Sect. I, A. M. M.), forwarded a most interesting and detailed history of the case, wliicli I would gladly reproduce in full, did not Surgeon General Wood, U. S. N., prefer that it should be inserted iu a volume of communications from medical oUicers of the Navy, which he purposes publishiug from his Bureau.GIBSONS SUCCESSFUL EXCISION AT THE HIP229 EXCISIONS AT THE HIP-JOINT. pillow under tbe knee. A Smith's anterior splint not being on liand, nor the material procurable for making one, a long external splint, made in two parts, and connected by iron braces, was devised and put in course of construction. The after treatment consisted in carbolized dressings to the wound, the administration of antiperiodics to control a fever of a remittent tyjie (at one time supposed to be the i)recursor of erysipelas or pyeemia), and a plain nutritious diet. Notwith- standing freqnent displacement of the limb from occasional attacks of diarrho?a, and the absence of a proper apparatus to secure immobility, the performance of this formidable operation seemed to have imi)arted a new tenure of life. By November 20th the patient was able to walk about the hospital, and the further progress of the case was as i^apid as it was favorable. On May IG, 1869, this soldier was discharged the service, and pensioned for total and i)ermanent disability, the injured member being shortened one inch and three-quarters. He came across the Plains by the next train, and in September, 1809, rei)orted at the Surgeon General's Office, Avhere a photograph was taken. At that time, the patient's general health was excellent; the cicatrix was perfectly firm and sound, and the strength of the ligamentous attachments and the amount of control over the movements of the limb were very remarkable. He could bear much weight on the limb. He was supplied with a protective apparatus and advised not to use it straightway, but to continue exercising the limb continuously for some months, thereby increasing the strength of the muscles and ligamentous attachments, and the freedom of the newly-formed joint. The next week Eead Avent to New York, where the proposed apparatus was ingeniously applied by Dr. E. B. Hudson. In the summer of 1870, it was reported that this man could walk very comfortably with a cane either with or without apparatus. The appearance of the i^atient is shown in the accompanying- plate. In June, 1871, three years after the operation, the man was in very good health, and couUl Avalk almost as well as ever. . DOXXSIX.—An Intermediary Uxcision at the Hij), lierformed in 1807. Surgeon, U. S. A. By Glover Pekin, Private Francis Ahearn, general service, aged 30 years, was wounded at Newport Barracks, Louisville, Kentucky, on July 31, 1807. He was a prisoner in the guardhouse, and was shot by a sentinel while attempting to escape. The ball entered behind and below the prominence of the right tro- chanter major, and passed inward and upward, emerging on the anterior part of the thigh, two inches below Poupart's ligament, a little to the outside of the course of the femoral artery, having shattered the upper part of the femur, the fissures extending within the joint. The wounded man was immediately taken to the post hospital, and was ex- amined by Doctor Pei'in, the surgeon in charge. The liatieut had been an habitual drunkard for years, and had mania a potn when shot. The shock of the injury Avas so great than an operation Avas not considered advisable. It AA^as determined to adopt a supporting treatment, and to endeavor to build up the general health, Avith the view of operating at the first favorable moment Avhen a good result could be reasonably anticipated. On August 20, 1867, the patient Avas in better condition than at any time subsequent to the reception of the injury. The pulse Avas at 90 there had been troublesome diarrhoea, but it Avas somewhat abated; the injured limb was much wasted, except at the upper part of the thigh where it Avas greatly swollen; the discharge from the wound Fig. 48.—Shattered upper extremity . -, \^ j • i • i j. i. of the right fenmr, excised for ^^'^^ vcry copious, and there was extreme pam on the slightest mov-e- caries following gimshot fracture, mcut. There wcrc absccsscs about the joint communicating with its Spec. 5489, Sect. I, A. M. M. operation, assisted by T. insensible by a mixture of chloroform and ether, the entrance wound was enlarged by a straight incision downAvard, three inches in length. The head of the bone was disarticulated, and cavity. Excision having been decided upon, I proceeded with the E. Wilcox, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. The patient being enderedEErOIiT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 230 tbe shaft was sawn several iuches below the lesser trochanter. The wound was then cleansed and approxunated. Scarcely any lu^niorrhage took place, no ligatures being required. On recovei ing from the anii;sthetic, the patient complained of great pain and nausea. Brandy was administered and half a grain of sulphate of morphia; but there was such irritability of stomach that everything Avas rejected. A quarter of a grain of sulphate of morphia was then administered hypodermically, and this relieved the pain. But there was no decided reaction, and, sinking gradually, the patient died from the shock of the operation, twenty hours after its completion. No autopsy was njade. The shattered excised bones were sent to the Army Medical Museum, and are represented in the preceding wood-cut, (Fig. 48.) Many of the fragments were carious.* DCXL.—Accoimt of a Case of Excision of the Hip-Joint for Gunshot Injury. Condensed from Detailed Eeports. Private Hubert Erne, Co. D, 4th Infantry, aged 48 years, while acting as oue of a corporal's guard escorting the mail wagon from Fort Laramie to Fort Fetterman, Avas wounded in an attack on the i)arty by a baud of Indians December 2, 18G9. He was struck in the left hij) by a musket ball, and fell to the ground. His comrades placed him in the mail wagon and returned as rapidly as circumstances would permit to Fort Laramie, from which they were distant about thirty-two miles. The wound was received at two in the afternoon, and the i^atient was i)laced in bed in the hospital by half past seven. He had been driven over a very rough road, and was much exhausted. He had lost considerable blood, and his feet and hands were cold, and circulation feeble, the pulse being almost imperceptible, while his face was pale and covered with a clammy persi^iration. There .was shortening of the left lower extremity, with eversion of the foot, and the thigh was arched with an anterior convexity. The aperture of entrance of the ball was oue and a half iuches behind and slightly above the trochanter major. The aperture of exit was near the centre and just below Poupart's ligament, directly over the femoral artery. The diagnosis was fracture of the shaft, neck, and trochanters of the left femur. As he had not rallied from the shock, it was thought best to defer surgical interference until morning, and the limb was placed in a comfortable i)osition, and the patient was ordered to take a half ounce of brandy every half hour, and external applications of heat were made by hot blankets, heated sad-irons, and bottles of hot water. The circulation was gradually restored. At midnight the patient had reacted, but comi^lained of great pain in the middle of the thigh, and a fourth of a grain of morphia was ordered, to be repeated everj- two hours, if needed ; the stimulant was continued. At half past seven in the morning of December 3, it was found that the patient had fully recovered from the shock, and was comfortable, with a good i)ulse at 90. He had no appetite, and had slept but little during the uight. There was pain of the thigh below the wound, but it was not excessive. The temperature in the axilla was 99.2. Cold-water dressings were applied to the wound, and milk punch was given freely, with an eighth of a grain of sulphate of morphia every two hours. At 1 o'clock, December 3d, Post Surgeon F. Meacham, Assistant Sm-geon, U. S. A., assisted by Assistant Surgeon J. B. Girard, U. S. A., who was visiting him, made a thorough exploration of the injury, placing the patient under chloroform, and enlarging the entrance wound to admit the finger. It was ascertained that the neck and trochanters were shattered, and the shaft of the femur was splintered for a short distance below. No important vessels or nerves were injured. The patient was an old soldier; he had been a hard drinker, and during the late war had been several times wouuded, having on one occasion suffered a gunshot fracture of the lower jaw After a careful consideration of all the circumstances, local and constitutional, it was decided that excision of the upper extremity of the femur would afford the patient the best chance of life, and Assistant Surgeon Meacham immediately proceeded with the operation. He made a curvilinear incision seven inches in length, commencing an inch and a half above the trochanter, through the wound of entrance, and then vertically i)arallel to the shaft. Exposing the bone by a rapid dissection, the fragments of the shaft and trochanters were first removed, and the sharp extremity of the shaft was taken off * See Circular No. 2 S. G. O., 1869, p. 60.Circailar m .3, S.G.0.1871, PI. iv; Diagram .shewing the Tiirmti^ns of Temperature aft^ anJExcisixtn at Uie Hip ■ Meacham. del JBieaUBi231 EXCISIONS AT THE HIP-JOINT. by a cliain saw. Then, with some difficulty tlie Lead of tlic femur was exarticulated, aud the operation was completed. The exploratory incisions and operation altogether occupied about an hour. Yery little blood was lost, and the patient rallied very promptly after the operation. He seemed to suffer very little from shock. The upper portion of the wound was closed by sutures and adhesive strips. The patient was placed in bed with the limb in an extended position, cold-water dressings being applied to the wound, and a weight of four pounds being attached by Buck's method to the foot to keep up extension. The patient was ordered an ounce of brandy every hour wliile awake, and a quarter of a grain of sulphate of morphia every two hours. On December 4th the patient, after a comfortable night, having slept well, complained only of thirst. His tongue was dry, hi_s pulse at 90 and full. During the day he had nutritious diet, a half ounce of brandy every hour when awake, and two grains of quinine and one-eighth of a graiu of sulphate of morphia every four hours. The fragments of bone excised were cleaned and put together, and transmited to the Army Medical Museum. They are represented in the adjoining wood-cut. On December 5th, in the early morning, there was little change in the consti- tutional symptoms. The patient had slept four hours during the night. He was troubled with hiccough. He had jiartaken freely of freshly i^repared essence of beef. At the surgeon's morning visit, at half past seven, twenty- grain doses of bromide of potassium were substituted for the morphia, and the other treatment and diet were continued with the addition of canned oyster soup. At the evening visit, at nine, the hiccough had nearly ceased, the wound had begun to suppurate, the pulse was 100, the tongue was moist, and the thirst diminished. The dose of bromide of jiotassium was reduced one half; the other treatment was continued. On the morning of December Cth, he was found to have passed a restless night, annoyed by hiccough when awake. He complained of the extension, and the weight attached to his foot was diminished one half. Whiskey was substituted for the brandy, which he disliked, and a tincture of sesquichloride of iron was given in twenty- drop doses, with two grains of sulphate of quinia every four hours. One- fourth of a grain of sulphate of morphia was ordered to be given when the pain demanded it. The patient was removed to a water bed. On December 7th, the patient was more comfortable, and had slept well. He was annoyed by flatulence, the bowels not having moved since the reception of the injury. He was ordered a tablespoonful of castor oil, and twenty drops of turpentine, and an enema of soap and water. The suppuration from the wound was quite copious. On the following day it was practicable to omit the anodyne, and the loatient had a free evacuation of the bowels, Avith great relief. The patient was allowed a small piece of beefsteak for his breakfast, and chicken for dinner. The discharge from the wound was profuse, and the integument over the hips and nates was somewhat abraded from heat and moisture. The weight attached to the foot was removed altogether. The patient was transferred from the water bed to a mattress, in the middle of which was a movable i)ortion corresponding with the pelvic region. This arrangement greatly facilitated the application of dressings and the use of a bed-pan. The patient was ordered three ounces of beef essence thrice daily, and as much milk as he should relfsh. On the 9th, he was found to have slept well without taking an anodyne. The suppuration was profuse. The iiulse was at 100. The appetite was abundant. Hiccough was again quite troublesome. The bowels had not been moved since the 7tli, and an enemata of castile soap and warm water were ordered to be given daily, unless there should be an alvine evacuation before nine in the morning. During the next fortnight there were no symptoms of especial interest. The wound continued to suppurate, but less copiously, and was rapidly tilling up with granulations. On December 22d, the patient passed a very restless night. The surface was hot, and pulse at 100; the appetite was gone ; the abdomen was tympanitic. On December 23d, he had several dejections, and had slept soundly during the previous night, and was in every respect much better. On January 1, 1870; his bowels were again obstinately constipated. Cicatrization of the wound was rapidly gonig on. Citrate of iron and quinine was substituted for the sesquichloride of iron. Laxative enemata were required daily, and whiskey was still given. The obstinate hiccough ceased about the middle of January, at which date the pulse had feUeu to an average of 90, and the Fio. 49—Excised head of left femur shattered by a mus- ket ball. Spec. 5658, Sect, I, A. M. M.232 EKPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. wound had far advanced toward licaling. For the next six weeks there was very little chanfje in the daily record. The patient's convalescence progressed favorably, and by February L'S the wound Avas open at two ])oints only. Consti^tation was still a troublesome complication ; the patient being annoyed by injections, he was ordered to take a three-grain compound cathartic pill nightly. By the end of March the patient was able to sit up. There were still two fistulous sinuses leading toward the cotyloid cavity. About an ounce of pus was discharged daily. The limb was about five inches shorter than the other. On the 10th of April, the patient got on crutches, but could not * walk far without fatigue. For the next twenty days he seemed disinclined to exert himself, but was taken out every fair day in a wheeled litter. One of the sinuses had closed. By July 8th, the patient had gained in flesh and strength, and the purulent discharge had diminished to a few drops daily. The limb was swollen considerably, and there was an erysipelatous blush extending below the knee. At this date Dr. Meachain was ordered to Oinaha, and the patient passed into the hands of Acting Assistant Surgeon L. S. Tesson, who, on July 29, wrote to Dr. Meacham that quite a large abscess formed in the nuiscles of the thigh. On August 0th, Dr. Tesson again wrote that it had been necessary twice to make incisions to evacuate abscesses in the thigh. Again, on March 9, 1871, Acting Assistant Surgeon A. J. Ilogg writes that the man is entirely well, the cicatrix being perfectly sound; but the man persisted in lying in bed. On April 1, 1871, Dr. Meacham reports that he had succeeded in getting his patient again under his personal observation, pi^evious to which he had borne transportation in an ambulance for ninety niiles, and appeai'ed in better spirits at the end of the journey than when he set out. The wound had entirely healed, leaving a firm and sound cicatrix three inches in length. The patient was able to walk comfortably on crutches and had slight control over the limb, which admitted of a to-and-fro motion, with rotation inward. The upper end of the femur rested on the dorsum of the ilium about one inch abo\e the acetabulum, and was movable in that position. There was six and a half inches shortening. The patient was somewhat hypochondriacal, being greatly troiibled with indigestion and irregular bowels. By an order dated A. G. O., June 9, 1871, it was provided that Private Erne shoidd be sent to the Soldiers' Home. A communication from Dr. Meacham, dated June 14, 1871, states that this man is much better, and will soon be able to comply with the provisions of the above order. [Private Erne was discharged the service on surgeon's certificate of disability, May 18,1871. The lithograph opposite (Plate III) is copied from a photograph" taken at Omaha, March 30,1871, No. 303, Surg. Series, A. M. M.—Ed.] DCXLI.—Account of a Successful Case of Excision of the Eip-Joint for Gunshot Injury. Condensed from a Eeport of W. E. Taylor, Surgeon, U. S, Navy. Charles B. Scott, a seaman of the United States Navy, aged 31 years, of fair general health, was wounded in the line of dutj^ while an attack was being made on a piratical vessel in Tecapan Kiver, west coast of Mexico, June 17, 1870. A couoidal musket ball, entering the left nates midway between the great trochanter and point of coccyx, fractured and comminuted the head and neck of the femur, and lodged nearly in the centre of its head. The weapon inflicting the wound was fired from shore, a distance of about eighty yards, the patient being at the time in a stooping posture in one of the cutters. After a long sea voyage of eleven days, he was admitted, on July 12, 1870, from the United States ship Mohican to the naval hospital. Mare Island, California. Cold-water dressings had been applied to the wound, and anodynes administered when required. His general condition was decidedly below par. The least movement in the injured joint caused severe i)ain ; he did not sleep well, and his appetite was poor. Full diet with milk, and an anodyne at night, were ordered. On July 14, an examination of the wound was made. No anresthetic was used, and the result was unsatisfactory. However, appearances led to the belief that the head and neck of the femur were extensively fractured. Nothing was felt that was supposed to be the ball. The joint was not swollen, but was very sensitive, and there was a scanty, sanious, and fo'tid discharge from the wound. The patient's condition was much better than could be exi^ected after such a serious injury. His appetite im^jroved ; there was no hectic; he slept tolerably well, and his bowels were regular. Circumstances indicating beyond a doubt the necessity of operative interference, it was desirable to get the patient in as good condition as possible, whereupon a tonic mixture, withCarcular 3. S.G.0.18 71 1- V Bien.litli MEACHAMS SUCCESSFUL EX(^LSION AT THE HIP,233 EXCISIONS AT THE HIP-JOINT. nutritious diet, and an anodyne, when required, were ordered, and tlie wound was dressed with oakum. On July 25, the patient seemed to be slowly sinking, and there being evidently no prospect of recovery if treated on the expectant plan, the operation of the excision of the injured parts was decided upon, as giving him the best chance of life, esjiecially as there was no injury to the large vessels and nerves, and very little damage to the soft parts. The patient, cheerfully consenting to the operation, was chloroformed by Assistant Surgeon A. M. Owen, U. S. N. The limb being straightened, a well-marked crepitus was elicited. A straight and deep incision was then made, commencing about two inches above the great trochanter, and carried downward over its centre and along the outer side of the thigh for about eight inches. On exposing the joint, the thigh was well adducted and pushed upward, that the trochanter might be prominent; the muscular attachments were then carefully divided close to the bone, which, being well cleared, was pushed through the wound and sawn off just below the trochanter minor, with an ordinary amputating saw; .after which the fragments of the neck and head, some twelve in number, with the ball, were easily removed. Very little blood was lost, two small arteries only requiring to be secured. After syringing the wound with a weak solution of permanganate of potash, it was partially api)roximated by four sutures, and the limb was placed in an ordinary fracture-box, and .dressed with oakum. The operation was well borne, and reaction prompt. Stimulants, with nutritious diet, were ordered, and rigid cleanliness was enforced. On the 27th, the patient began to suffer from decubitus. On the evening of the 29th, he became delirious; pulse 130 and irritable. Hydrate of chloral being substituted for morphia, he went to sleep in a few minutes, and next morning awoke refreshed and natural, and feeling better than at any time since the accident. The pulse fell to 100. On the 31st, the sutures Avere removed. The good effect of the chloral was very marked, but by August 6th it seemed to have lost some of its eifect, whereupon morphia was combined with the usual dose, and he slept well. The discharge from the wound was small in quantity, and laudable. On August 8th, some extension of the limb was made, but was badly borne. By the 11th, the patient was doing well in every respect. On the 21st, all dressings being removed from the limb, it was thoroughly bathed and rubbed, after which it was replaced in the fracture-box, when extension and counter-extension were made by means of the ordinary iierineal baud and a screw. This was discontinued on the 2Gth, owing to enlargement of the inguinal glands and the general malaise and discomfort experienced by the patient. On the 30th, the use of anodynes was discontinued, as he could sleep without them. September 1st found the patient improving, the discharge from the wound being moderate, with an entire absence of inguinal trouble, bed-sores, and excoriations. Slight passive motion was commenced in the limb, and it was allowed to rest lightly on a pillow for several hours. On the 7th, he was able, for the first time, with assistance, to leave his bed. After this, he continued to sit up several hours daily^, and, gaining in flesh,-&c., was able, by the 18th, to walk on crutches. He continued to take daily a moderate amount of out-door exercise, the limb meanwhile being supported and steadied by means of a wire splint, and his general condition became excellent. He continued steadily to improve, and on December 27th went by steamer to San Francisco, a distance of fifty miles. He returned in the evening, having borne the journey well. By January 1, 1871, the patient was doing well in all respects. On the 20th, a protective apparatus was adjusted to the limb, which, at the beginning, proved highly useful. Photographs of the patient, both with and without the apparatus, were taken on the 30th. On February 1st, the patient was transferred to the new Naval Hospital. At this time, his general health was excellent. The left buttock was somewhat flattened, and there was a small opening about the centre of the line of incision, which discharged a small quantity of pus ; the limb was about three and a half inches shorter than its fellow, the knee being quite stiff", and foot everted. The patient had gained about thirty pounds since the operation of excision, and there was a probabibty of his being able, in time, to walk quite well without the aid of crutches. The above " general reference" to a very fully detailed case is concluded by a quotation of Surgeon Taylor's remarks : "This report terminates my official connection with the case, and, inasmuch as the result cannot yet be positively known, it would perhaps be premature to make any comments, or draw any conclusions. There is one point, however, worthy of mention, viz, that prior to the operation, the patient complained of severe and constant pain, which ceased immediately upon the removal of 30EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 234 the iDjured parts. This relief was so marked that even had the case terminated fatally, I think operative interference was warranted with a view to euthanasia. It will also be noticed that treatment by extension and counter-extension was abandoned after a trial of a few days, and I feel quite certain that this particular case did better without it. The case was admirably suited for the operation of excision; a better one could not well have been selected. There was no injury to the vessels or nerves, and none to the soft parts, save the small wound of entrance; the pelvic walls were not injured; there were no abscesses, and but little swelling about the joint. The neck and head of the femur alone bore the brunt of the injury." The four cases above enumerated, the sixty-three operations done during the American War, the twelve operations prior to that war, and eight more cases recently published, make an aggregate of eighty-seven excisions at the hip for injury, with eight recoveries, a mortality rate of 91.9. But we have the great satisfaction of knowing that of the survivors of this operation, four can walk comparatively well, without assistance. It has occurred to me to examine many patients recovered from excisions at the hip for coxaljia, but none of them had regained the use of their limbs to such an extrent as Hugh Wright,* for whom Dr. Mursick excised the head and trochanters of the femur, shattered by a ball. The recovery of Dr. Gibson's patient was yet more perfect, and fully verified the prediction of Mr. Blenkins,f that inutility of the limb would not prove to be inevitably the result of such operations. • Mursick, New Medical Jotinial, Vol. I, p. 424. t Blenku^s, 1. c. Additions to Cooper, 8th ed., Vol. I, p. 838. London, 1870.235 LIGATION OF AETEEIES. LIGATIONS. Ligations.—Abstracts of twenty-seven instances of ligations of the larger vessels were furnished. The operations were required in four cases of punctured, seven incised, and four lacerated wounds, in twelve cases of gunshot wounds, and in two cases of aneurism. Seven cases resulted fatally. Ligations of Arteries of the Head and Neck.—Special reports were made of six examples of ligations of these vessels; viz., three of the temporal, one of the facial, one— a fatal case—of ligation of the thyroid, and a successful ligation of the common carotid. DCXLII.—Note on a Ligation of the Temporal Artery. By H. S. Schell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A Private Patrick Toole, Troop H, 2d Cavalry, aged 35, was kicked by a liorse at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, on November 16,1867, the effect of wbich was a lacerated wound of tlie scalp with punctured fracture of the frontal bone. He was taken to the post hospital, where both ends of the temporal artery were ligated. He recovered, and was returned to duty in December, 1867. DOXLIII.—Minute of a Case of Ligation of the Temporal Artery. By J. F. Weeds, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Jacob Wall, a teamster of the Quartermaster's Department, aged 32, was admitted to the post hospital at Albuquerque, New Mexico, January 3, 1866, with a lacerated wound in the anterior temporal region, caused by a blow from the butt-end of a Colt's revolver. The temi)oral artery was severed and the pericranium exposed. On the same day I ligated both ends of the artery and closed the wound with sutures. The patient recovered rapidly, and was returned to duty January 16, 1866. DCXLIV.—Note relative to a Ligation of the Transverse Facial Artery. By Harvey. E. Beown, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal Frank Sachse, Co. F., 17th Infantry, aged 27 years, received a lacerated wound of the right cheek, at Galveston, Texas, on November 20,1868, for which he was admitted to the post hospital. The wound extended from angle of mouth transversely across the cheek two inches, the transverse facial artery being severed. The artery was ligated. On November 26th the ligature came away; the wound was closed by silver sutures, and healed by first intention. The final result of this operation was favorable, and the patient was returned to duty on November 29, 1868. DCXLV.—Minute of a Case in irhich Smmorrhage from the Temporal Artery teas controlled by Ligation. By J. F. M. FORWOOD, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Hospital Steward Charles Elvers, Co. B, 20th Infantry, aged 22, received, on March 1, 1868, at Alexandria, Louisiana, accidentally, a lacerated wound of the head, and was admitted to theEEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 236 post bospital. On Maicli Ctli, profuse boemorrbage from tbe temporal artery occiirretl. Styptics and pressure failed to control it; acupressure needles were then inserted, but only checked the hajniorrhage for twenty-four hours; at the end of that time an incision was made, and tbe bleodhig vessel tied. Tbe wound then healed rapidly, and the patient returned to duty in April, 18G8. DCLXVI.—Minute of a Case in ichich the Thyroid Artery urns ligated. By Harvey E. Brown, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. ■v. Private Joseph Haniley, Co. K, 1st Infantry, aged 27 years, cut his throat with a razor, at Jachson Barracks, Louisiana, NoA'ember 3,18G6. Tbe larynx was opened, and tbe superior thyroid artery severed, tbe incision extending from one angle of the jaw to tbe other. Wben admitted to post bospital be was nearly pulseless. I at once ligated the divided ends of the thyroid. Tbe patient did very well, and seemed to improve until tbe evening of November 5tb, wben be bad a choking fit, and died a few minutes later of asphyxia. DCXLVII.—Report of a Successftd Case of Ligation of the Common Carotid Artery. By G. McC. Miller, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Patrick Jordan, Co. A, IGth Infantry, aged 28, was wounded at Savannab, Georgia, November 27,18GG, by a conoidal ball, which entered tbe moutb, and, knocking out four teeth in tbe left superior maxilla (two incisors, one cuspidate, and one bicuspid), passed obliquely over tbe tongue, grooving it sligbtly, fractured the right ramus of tbe inferior maxilla at the angle, then passed into the neck and lodged under tbe upper portion of the right sterno-mastoid muscle, rather deeply, taking a position just behind the external carotid artery. Tbere was little primary haemorrbage. He was admitted to post bospital at Savannah; tbe neck was moderately swollen, and pus discharged from tbe moutb, but the jaw apparently was not much comminuted. On December Gth, profuse h;xMnorrbage occurred through the mouth, probably from tbe right external carotid artery near its origin. Tbe ball was excised through an incision in tbe direction of fibres of tbe sterno-mastoid muscles, and liquor of the persulpbate of iron was introduced into the opening. The patient became very weak, but the case progressed favorably, until tbe evening of December loth, wben biTemorrhage to tbe amount of eight ounces recurred from the moutb, and also from tbe wound of incision. On December lltb, I administered equal parts of ether and chloroform, and ligated tbe right common carotid arterj'. Owing to tbe depth of the artery, from tumefaction and infiltration of tissues, it was deemed expedient to divide tbe omo-byoid muscle, and tbe ligature was applied to tbe part of tbe artery which lies behind tbe muscle. December 2Gtb, fifteen days after the operation, tbe ligature came away; on December 31st the wound made in tbe operation of ligating the artery was nearly healed, but the incision for removal of the ball was still discharging. A large amount of callus bad formed about tbe seat of fracture, and tbe prospect for recovery was excellent. The case progressed favorably, and the patient was returned to duty in January, 18G7. Ligation of Arteries of the Upper Extremity.—Nine special reports were made ; one relating to a ligation of tlie brachial, five to ligations of the radial, and three to ligations of the interosseous or of the arteries of the hand. Two other cases have been already recorded in the chapter on wounds; a ligation of the interosseous (p. 97j, and a ligation of the radial, (p. 155.) DCXLVIII.—Minute of a Case in which the BracMal Artery icas ligated. By R. A. Christian, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James McMabon, Co. F, Stli Infantry, aged 25 years, was accidentally wounded while on guard, July 23,1867, at New Berne, North Carolina. The missile entered at tbe commencement of the upper third of the fore-arm, passed obliquely through tbe muscles, and out over tbe radius. Upon237 LIGATIONS m THE UPPER EXTEEMITY. being admitted to hospital the arm was much swollen, and there was considerable haemorrhage. Secondary hfemorrhage occurred from perhaps both radial and ulnar arterjr, on July 31st, when the brachial artery was ligated in the lower third, while the patient was under the influence of chloroform. Recurring hjemorrhage was controlled by compresses, which were removed on the third day after the operation. The ligature came away on August 12th, and on August 19, 18G7, the patient was doing well. He was returned to duty in September, 1867. jyCXhlX.—AIinute of a Case in tcMch a Branch of the Radial Artery ivas ligated. By E. P. Vollum, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Frank Henrietta, Battery F, 1st Artillery, aged 18 years, was accidentally wounded at Madison Barracks, Sackett's Harbor, New York, October 27, 18G9, by the discharge of a shot- gun. The left hand was over the muzzle; the load passed into the palm and carried away a portion of the metacarpal bones of the little and ring fingers. He was at once admitted to the post hospital, where fragments of the metacarpal bone of the little finger were removed from the wound, and a branch of the radial artery was ligated by Hospital Steward John S. Perkins. The edges of the wound were brought together by sutures, and dry lint was applied. On December 30, 1869, the wound had nearly closed. The patient was returned to duty in March, 1870. BCh.—Minute of a Case of Ligation of the Radial Artery. By. E. T. Bakee, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon- Private William McBride, Co. F, 12th Infantry, aged 24 years, received, on September 22, 1868, an incised wound on the dorsal surface of the right hand, severing the radial artery. He was admitted to hospital at Oglethorpe Barracks, Savannah, Georgia, where both extremities of the artery were ligated. On September 30,1868, the patient was doing well. He was returned to duty in October, 1868. DCLI.—Minute of a Case of Ligation of the Radial Artery. By J. F. Head, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Quinan, of the cavalry detachment at West Point, struck his fist through a window pane, and severed the radial artery, May 31,1868. Assistant Surgeon E. J. Marsh enlarged the wound of incision and tied both ends of the artery with silk ligatures. Considerable swelling followed, but the wound healed with slight suppuration. On June 9th, the ligatures were removed, and on June 18th, the patient was returned to duty. DCLII.—Minute of a Case in which the Radial Artery teas ligated. By E. T. Bakee, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgfeon. Private 0. P. Eay, Co. I, 16th Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded on January 6, 1868, near Atlanta, Georgia. The ball passed between the thumb and index finger of the right hand and severed the radial artery. He was admitted to the post hospital. A tourniquet applied to the artery to control the haemorrhage, caused considerable tumefaction, and the patient became debil- itated. Secondary hsemorrhage occurred, and on January 27th, the radial artery was ligated in its lower third, while the patient was under the influence of chloroform. The wound healed in about a week; the hand remained weak and partially paralyzed for some time, but eventually recovered entirely. The patient returned to duty in March, 1868. DCLIII.—Wote on a Ligation of the Radial Artery. By John M. Dickson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Alonzo Toungman, Co. D, 23d Infantry, received a severe gun-shot wound of the wrist- joint, in a skirmish with Indians, at Lake Warner, Oregon, April 29,1868. The radial artery beingEEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 238 lacerated was ligated above and below tlie seat of injury, aud water dressings were applied to the wound. Tlie patient returned to duty in July, 18GS. DCLIV.—Account of a Wound of the Arm necessitating Ligation of the Interosseous Artery. By G. M. Sternberg, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. ■ Private Wesley Jess, Troop M, 7tli Cavalry, received, on November 21, 1868, while on picket at Camp Supply, Indian Territory, a gun-sbot wound of middle of rigbt fore-arm. Tlie ball passed between the radius and ulna without fracturing either. He was admitted to post hospital on No- vember 23d, No hsBuiorrhage occurred until the fifth day after the reception of injury; afterward, hsemorrhage occurred about every twenty-four hours, generally at night, from a few ounces to a pint at a time. When the dressings were removed the hfBmorrhage would cease; an operation was con- sequently delayed from day to day, in the hope that it would become unnecessaiy. The arm began to swell, became painful, tense and glossy, and above the elbow to the shoulder swollen and oedematous. On December 5th a sharp pointed bistoury was introduced into the wound, and a deep incision about four inches long was made in the long axis of the limb. A large quantity of clotted blood was thrown out from between the muscles, which had been dissected up by it in every direc- tion ; the interosseous artery was severed at the point from which the blood escaped, and tied at both ends. The pain was immediately relieved, the swelling of the limb rapidly disappeared, and healthy granulation set in. On December 31st, the wound had nearly closed, and there had been no hsemorrhage since the operation. The patient was returned to duty in January, 1869. DCLY.—Wote on a Ligation of the Superjicialis Voice Artery. By H. S. Schell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal Cyrus Eeed, Co. E, 4th Infantry, aged 20 years, at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, September 20, 18G7, accidentally cut his left wrist, severing the superflcialis voIje artery. He was admitted to the post hospital, where both ends of the artery were tied, and three iron wire sutures were applied. On September 30th, the patient was doing well. He returned to duty in December, 1867. DCLYI.—Memorandum of a Casein which the Superficial Palmar Archxcas ligated. By Christian Eaushenberg, Acting Assistant Surgeon. John Stanridge, a private of Co. B, 16th Infantry, accidentally wounded himself with a shot-gun at Albany, Georgia, on February 14, 1868. The wound extended from the middle of the palm of left hand, seven inches above the wrist. The soft parts between the ulna and radius were lacerated aud destroyed, the wrist-joint was opened, the superficial palmar arch and branches of the ulnar and interosseous arteries were wounded, and several carpal bones were fractured. Considerable haemorrhage was arrested by ligation of the former and torsion of several branches of the latter arteries ; five pieces of carpal bones of different sizes were removed, and the edges of the wound about the wrist were brought as close together as liossible by a twisted suture. In consideration of the age and condition of the patient, the importance of the limb and its great capacity for recovery, and the fact that two large arteries of the fore-arm were not wounded, it was determined, after consultation with another physician, not to resort to primary amputation, but to make an effort to save the limb. Cold applications, opiates, and saline purgatives constituted the principal treatment from the 14th to the 19th of the month. By the latter date inflammation had reached a fearful degree. A large and deep incision was made, aud warm cataplasms were resorted to, when the hand, on the evening of that day, became cold and lifeless. The change in the condition during the night was very great. The next morning his pulse was soft and small, skin cool and jaundiced, aud the woixnded arm had become gangrenous. The state of the pulse precluding the idea of amputation, local and internal stimulants were promptly but unsuccessfully used, death occurring on the evening of the 20th.239 LIGATIONS OP VESSELS OF THE TRUNK. Ligations of the Great Vessels of the Trwri^.—Reports of four cases come under this bead : DQlNll.—Ligation of the Ahdominal Aorta for Aneurism. Compiled from reports by D. E. Brown, M. D., Actiug Assistant Surgeon, J. H. Janeway, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., and Profes- sor H. McGuiRE, M. D. Wilson F , a negro of thirty years, a wood-chopper, was admitted to the Howard Grove Hospital, at Eichmond, Virginia, March 20, 18G8. He stated that a week before, while pursuing his ordinary avocation, he felt something give way in the lower part of his abdomen, a sensation followed by nausea and great pain. On admission the tumor was small, but it rapidly increased and soon its aneurismal nature became unmistakable. Drs. Janeway and McGuire were invited to examine the case. No pulsation could be discovered in the left femoral; but no change in the temperature or size of the left leg was observed. His general health was good. The patient said that the tumor gradually increased in size and was daily growing worse. Eest in bed, Avith digitalis, iron, acetate of lead, and opiates, seemed to alleviate the pain and to dimin- ish the size of the tumor; but the relief was but temporary. On March 26th, compression of the aorta was resorted to, but had to be discontinued because of the tenderness of the tumor. On March 30th, at 1 P. M., Dr. McGuire, after consultation with Drs. Brown and Janeway, Professors Joynes, Wellford, and others, determined to cut down and to ligate the oommon iliac above the aneurism. When the aneurism was exposed it was found to involve the whole of the common iliac, and the aorta near its bifurcation. The sac was very thin. Dr. McGuire now determined to tie the aorta, when the sac suddenly ruptured, although it had been handled with the utmost delicacy, and a profuse discharge of blood took place. The aorta was instantly compressed by the linger an inch above the tumor, and surrounded by an assistant with a ligature and tied. About a pmt ot blood was removed from the cavity of the abdomen. The lips of the wound were brought together. Sutures and bandages were applied. A stimulating enema Avas given. The patient was put to bed, and the lower extremities were surrounded by warm applications.' In a few moments the effects of chloroform passed off, and slight reaction took place. He complained much of numbness of the lower extremities. The temperature of the axilla never rose above 96. He died half an hour after midnight, eleven and a half hours after the operation. At the autopsy, the ligature was found to embrace the aorta at the origin of the inferior mesentery and included the left ureter. The rent in the sac was just over the bifurcation of the aorta. The specimen, figured by the wood-cut (Fig. 50) was contributed to the Museum at Washington.* It is still better represented by Photograph 222^ of the Surgical Series of Photographs, Vol. V., p. 22.t Rg. 50.—Aorta ligated for iliao aiiem'isra. Spec. 5256, Sect. I., A. M. M. DOLVIII.—Minute of Case of TAgation of the External Iliac. By B. E. Fryer, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. Sergeant Patrick Fitzpatrick, Co. B, 4th Infantrj^, was admitted to post hospital at Fort Wayne, Michigan, on May 21,1867, with a large aneurism of external iliac and femoral arteries. The tumor extended from about two inches above Poupart's ligament to eight inches below. The thigh was nearly thirty-six inches in circumference. The man had been intemperate, and had been confined to his bed for nearly three months before his admission to hospital. On May 24th, ether having been administered, an incision was made seven inches in length, beginning an inch above the external * A detailed account of this case may I5e found in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Vol. LVI, p. 415, Oct., 1868. t Sir Astley Cooijer's famous case of ligation of the aorta is recorded in the Surgical Essays of Cooper and Travers' London, 1818, p. 113.EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IX THE ARMY. 240 abdominal ring-, outward, upward, and inward, toward and nearly on a line with tlie umbilicus. The ligature was passed from within out, about three inches above Poupart's ligament, and one inch above the tumor. Thirty-six hours after operation the stomach became excessively irritable, and remaiued so for three days. The patient vomited whatever he ate. The tumor decreased until June 19th, when lifemorrhage to the amount of twenty-four ounces occurred. Ou the 22d haemorrhage recurred, about three ounces of blood being lost, and death ensned June 25,1867, from exhaustion. At the autopsy, the external iliac was found divided by the ligature about three- fourths of an inch below its origin, the cardiac extremity closed by a firm plug as far up as internal iliac 5 distal end remaining open. The sac of the tumor was filled with a dark fluid and coagula. DCLXIX.—Curtailed Account of a Traumatic Aneurism^ Succsesfully Treated by Ligation of the External Iliac Artery. By J. B. White, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Wm. A.Johnson, Co. B, 8th Infiintry, aged 22 years, was wounded at Goldsborough, North Carolina, October 23, 1809, by a conoidal ball, which entered right thigh on outer aspect of junction of upper and middle third, and lodged beneath the skin two inches higher up ou inner side. He was admitted to the post hospital at Goldsborough, where the missile was extracted through a counter opening. On November 1st, he was transferred to the post hospital at Raleigh. The wound had entirely healed, but an aneurismal swelling could be perceived to pulsate veiy strongly, and on auscultation a blowing or sawing sound could be heard. The thigh became swollen and cedematous, the circumference of the affected limb being six inches in excess of its fellow, and the patient was emaciated from extreme pain and disquietude. Ou December IGth, ether having been administered, an incision was made, commencing on a line one inch on the inner side of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, running downwaixl one and a half inches above and parallel with Poupart's ligament, terminating a little without the inner margin of the abdominal ring. The parts were found slightly infiltrated with a light yellowish serum. The sheath of the artery was reached without injury to the peritoneum, and without the division of any vessel of importance. The armed aneurismal needle was passed on the inner side of the artery between it and the vein, and the artery tied at least one inch above the epigastric and circumflex artery. The muscular and integumental lips were tacked together, and adhesive strips applied. The i)atieut rallied promptly, but the pulsation in the limb was entirely gone. Warmth was applied to foot and limb, and stimulants given. On December 18th there was slight oozing from wound of operation, but the patient slejit well, and the size of the leg was rapidly diminishing. On Decem- ber 28th ; the ligature came away, pus was laudable. December 30th: the wound was granulating finely, and the iiatient in excellent spirits. Early in February, 1870, the patient was placed upon crutches, and gradually regained the use of the affected limb, which was slightly auchylosed from long disuse. He was returned to his company in ApriJ, 1870. In May, 1870, Doctor White reports his patient to have entirely recovered. . DCLX.—Eevort relative to a Case in which the External Iliac Artery ivas ligated. By Francis Barnes, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Alfred Sullivan, aged 26 years, was admitted to the Freedmen's Hospital, at New Orleans, Louisiana, on January 16, 1868, suffering from two gunshot wounds, one about two inches below Poupart's ligament, the other about one inch below the first wound. Both were external to the rectus femoris. The ball which caused the lower wound passed to the inside of the femur, and emerged at a point opposite its entrance; the other ball lodged. When I took charge of the ward, the patient was much emaciated, i)ulse 100, appetite feeble, tongue coated, and skin dry. He had no pain, save when his position was disturbed. All the wounds healed except the upper one. A non-fluctuating tumefaction extended from the middle third of the thigh to Poupart's ligament, and to the gluteal muscles. But one position of the limb could be borne, that of flexing the leg upon the thigh at right angles, and flexing the thigh upon the pelvis, with the limb rotated outward. The upper wound would open every few days, and discharge a quantity of grumous black blood.241 LIGATIONS m THE LOWER EXTEEMITY. or thin serum. These lijeuiorrliages were undoubtedly venous, and it also appeared as if the blood were eifused some hours into the tissues of the thigh, before its debris escaped from the wound. The hfemorrhages were not alarming until a day or two before March 23d, when they became more copious, and the patient sinking from their effects, it was determined to lay open the parts and search for the wounded vessel, which was believed to be the femoral vein. On March 22d, a number of medical gentlemen being x)resent, the patient was ordered upon the operating table. In bringing him from his bed to the table, on a stretcher, a most profuse arterial haimorrhage occurred, evidencing that the femoral artery had given way. I compressed the artery, below Poupart's ligament, with my thumb, while Dr. Schuppert ligated the external iliac artery just above Poupart's ligament. This measure arrested the hnemorrhage instantly, and it did not recur. After the ligation, a free incision was made from the wound upward, in tlie direction of the crest of the ilium, and the finger being used to explore the cavity, passed upward to the crest of the ilium, under the tensor vaginae muscle. The finger could also be passed in front of the femur and around it, through openings in the adductor muscle, so as to ascertain the presence of a large cavity filled with coagnla and serum, all of which were washed out with a syringe. Death resulted in a short time. The post-mortem examination revealed a cavity of the capacity of a pint, occasioned by the tearing up of the connected tissues of the muscles of the thigh from the middle third to gluteal and Poupart's ligament. The same cavity was continuous with one made by separating the peritoneum from the back part of the pelvis in right side, as far as the bifurcation of the iliac. The external iliac had a perfectly formed thrombus, extending to the bifurcation. The most interesting result of the examination was the demonstration that the ball must have entered while the thigh was flexed upon the pelvis, passed in such direction as to open the hip-joint and knock off a fragment of the cotyloid rim, on its inner and lower side; it then passed through the thyroid opening and lodged just behind the acetabulum. The cartilages of the head of the femur and of the cotyloid cavity^ had entirely disappeared, leaving the bones denuded and rough. The ligamentum teres had disappeared. From the direction of the balls either could have wounded the femoral vessels, or rather injured them so that a subsequent slough caused them to give away 5 the femoral vein first by a small oijening and the artery afterward. Ligations of the Arteries of the Lower Ejctremity.—Eight special reports relate : four to the femoral, one to the external, and one to the posterior circumflex, one to the tibial and peroneal, and one to the arteria dorsalis pedis. DOLXI.—Account of a Ligation of the Femoral Artery. By W. B. Butcher, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Henry Oheesely, Oo. 1,114th Colored Troops, aged 29, was accidentally wounded at Fort Mcintosh, Texas, December 18,1860, by a conoidal pistol ball, which entered two inches below Pou- part's ligament, and passing inward, downward and backward, emerged upon the inner part of the thigh, three inches below point of entrance, iniuring the femoral artery one-half inch below the pro- funda. Upon being admitted to hospital he was very faint from excessive loss of blood. Four hours after the reception of injury the wound of entrance was enlarged by incision, while the patient was under the influence of ether; the tourniquet was applied and the femoral artery ligated, above and below the seat of injury. The wound of exit was then enlarged to favor drainage. December 31, 1866: the patient was doing well, and was returned to duty February 28, 1867. DCLXII.—Note relative to a Ligation of the Femoral Artery. By Surgeon Leonaed F. Russell, 4th U. S. Veteran Volunteers. Private David Jones, Oo. E, 4th Infantry, was wounded at Fort Sully, Dakota Territory, on March 7, 1866, by a soldier who made a thrust with a large bread knife, which entered the thigh transversely about three inches above the inner condyle of the femur, and passing almost through, severed the popliteal artery and vein, and nerve. Hnemorrhage was controlled by compression, 31EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 242 and it was then deemed best not to open the yvonnd and attempt to ligate. On the fourth day, some arterial hremorrhage occurring, it was thought unsafe to delay, and I ligated the femoral at the middle third. There had been no warmth or circuhition below the wound since the injury, and, at the time of operation, there were strong indications of gangrene. The patient died on March IG, 1866. BCLXlll.—Account of a Lif/afion of the Femoral Artery. By E. McClellan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Geoi-ge Hastings, Co. K, 37th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Garland, Colorado Territory, July 30, 1868, having been accidentally stabbed the same daj-, in the upper portion of the thigh, with a long, narrow hunting-knife, which had been made exceedingly sharp, and which, passing the femoral artery, partially divided the profunda femoris below the origin of the external circumflex. The haemorrhage was excessive. Some few moments only elapsed after the accident, before complete syncope ensued with all the characteristic symptoms. Pressure on the femoral arrested the haemorrhage, but the extreme prostration prohibited surgical inter- ference at the time, and stimulants and nourishments were administered. At 10 o'clock P. M. hfemorrhage again occurring, now from the lower extremity of the artery, the wound was enlarged and the artery secured. The patient was kept for several days under the influence of morphine. Slight pressure continued on the femoral, although not sufficient at any time greatly to impede the circulation in the limb. At no time after the operation was the circulation arrested. On the nineteenth day the upper ligature was removed, but the lower one did not come away until the thirty- fourth, although steady and continual traction upon it was made. The patient was returned to duty in October, 18GS. DCLXIV.—Memorandum relatite to a Ligation of the Femoral Artery. By A. Judson Gkat, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Neun, Troop B, 3d Cavalry, aged 26 years, was wounded in a drunken alterca- tion at Fort Bayard, New Mexico, November 12, 1869, by a pistol ball, which entered the outer aspect of right leg, three inches below the knee, passed obliquely downward and inward, between tibia and fibula, and emerged from inner aspect of leg, six inches above the ankle-joint. He was adnaitted to the post hospital on November 13, 1867. The leg became inflamed, and the foot and ankle oedeniatous. The discharge was thin and bloody, Hfemorrhage occurred on December ber oth, and again on December 8th, but was easily controlled by iiressure. The patient became anaemic from loss of blood, and was anxious and desponding. On December 10th, ether was administered, and an incision four inches long was made, commencing five inches below Poupart's ligament, and extendingparallel to,audalittle to the outside of, theiunerborderof the sartorius muscle. The femoral artery was then ligated. The patient reacted promptly. Three days after the opera- tion a slough three by five inches, formed under the leg just above the ankle, but suppurated healthily. The inflammation in the leg subsided, the ligature came away on the 27th, and on December 30th the upper wound had entirely healed, while the others were closing satisfactorily. He was returned ^ to duty on February 24, 1870. DCLXV.—Minute of a Case in which the External Circumflex Artery was ligated. By Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Davis, Co. C, 41st Infantry, aged 22 years, received on March 13, 1869, at Fort Clark, Texas, a punctured wound of thigh. He was admitted to the post hospital, Avhere the wound was enlarged and the internal circumflex artery ligated, while the patient was under the influence of ether. Five days later the ligature was removed, and the wound was filling with healthy granulations. He was returned to duty May 12, 1869,243 LIGATIONS IN THE LOWER EXTREMITY. DCLXVI.—Note relative to a Ligation of the Posterior Circumflex Artery. By B. B. Miles, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Quigley, Co. G, 17tli Infantry, aged. 21 years, received at Sulphur Springs, Texas, December 24, 1868, an incised, wound of left shoulder, eight inches in length from shoulder downwards. He was admitted to the post hospital. The patient had fainted from loss of blood, and the pulse was almost imperceptible. I ligated the posterior circumflex artery, and. brought the edges of the wound together with silk and adhesive plaster. The wound healed rapidly, and was doing well December 31, 1868. The patient was returned to duty in February, 1869. DOLXVII.—Note relative to a Ligation of the Peroneal and Tibial Arteries. By H. A. DuBoiS, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Corporal Peter Stone, Troop C, 3d Cavalry, aged 24 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Union, New Mexico, June 29,1867, with a gunshot wound in the leg. The missile, a conoidal ball, entered, three inches below the head of tibia, i^assed through the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, descended the tibialis posticus to two inches below the outer malleolus, and injured, in its course the peroneal, and j)robably the posterior tibial artery. An incision through the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles was made, and the peroneal and tibial arteries and all bleeding branches were ligated. The x>atient never rallied from the shock, and died July 1, 1867, fifty-two hours after the operation. At the post-mortem examination the kidneys were found inflamed, and the unlooked-for termination of the case was explained by the fact that the patient had. been on a debauch at the time of his admission, and for some weeks previously. DCLXVIII.—Minute of a Case in lohich the Borsalis Pedis Artery was ligated. By E. Y. Chase, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James Lasby, Co. G, 23d Infantry, aged 33 years, while, on December 15,1868, choi)i)ing wood at Fort Colville, Washington Territory, cut his right foot Avith a sharp axe. The flexor tendons of the foot, dorsalis pedis artery, and the metatarsal bone of big toe were divided, causing a gaping wound four inches in length. He was admitted to the iiost hospital, where the dorsalis pedis artery was ligated, and the wound closed by interrupted suture. The Avound failed to nnite by first intention, and on December 20,1868, the ligature was removed. The patient was returned to duty in March, 1869.244 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. VARIOUS OPERATIONS. Reports were made of a few operations on the eye and ear and air passages, and of examples of lithotomy and of the removal of tumors. Operations on the Eye or its Appendages,—A case of extraction for cataract, one of staphyloma, one of ectropion, and one of extraction of a foreign body, were specially reported. DCLXIX.—Account of an Operation for Ectropion. By A. C. Gieard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Brown, Co. E, 20th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Baton Eo;ige, Louisiana, February 22,18G9, with ectropion of the right eye. The conjuuctiva of the lower eyelid was largely everted and considerably swelled in consequence of a burn, iuvolviug the whole right cheek aud part of the temporal region. There was chronic conjunctivitis oculi and palpebrarum. A V-shaped piece was excised from the external angle of the eye, aud the edges united with twisted suture; the thickened conjunctiva was excised with curved scissors, and parallel to lower eyelid an incision, one and a half inches in length, was made, to relieve tension. Simple dressings were applied, and occasionally cauterization, to insure even granulation. The patient was discharged March 13, 1809, at which date the wound had not entirely healed, • DCLXX,—Account of an Extirpation of the Eye ball for Staphyloma. By G, M. Steknberg, Assistant. Surgeon U. S, A. Private Lewis Johnson, Co. D, 38th Infantry, aged 29, was admitted on June 24, 1867, to the post hospital at Fort Eiley, Kansas. For six months prior to admission the patient had noticed that his right eye was becoming iirominent, and that he could not see with it. On admission there was staphyloma of the sclerotic, near the cornea. The whole eye continued to enlarge slowly in all its diameters, and ulceration at the apex of the staphyloma ensued. The patient suffered from pain in the head and eye, and had frequent attacks of teuq)orary paralysis of the extremities, lasting from one to three houi's. On December 18th, an anaesthetic of one part chloroform aud two parts ether, was administered, aud the globe of the right eye was removed. A circular cut Avas made through the conjunctiva with scissors, hooking up aud cutting the muscles close to their insertion in the globe; the globe was dislocated, and the optic nerve severed with long scissors. A plug of picked lint soaked in alum water was then inserted in place of the globe. On the third day supiiuration was established, and the plug of lint removed. The pain in the head and the attacks of paralysis'ceased, and the patient made an excellent recovery. He was discharged April 8, 1868. DCLXXI—Report of a Case of Traumatic Cataract. By Harvey E. Brown, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Ehlraan, Battery A, First Artillery, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Ontario, on June 30, 1870, on account of a severe contusion of the right eye, which had produced so much ecchymosis and eftusiou in the lids that it w'as impracticable to ascertain the condition of the globe until July 3d. It was then found that there was a luxation of the crystalline lens, with extravasation of blood into the anterior chamber, and total loss of sight from traumatic cataract.OPEEATIONS ON THE EYE AND EAE. 245 As the tension was very great, on consiTltation with Dr. E. M. Curtis, of Oswego, it was decided to operate as soon as possible. Accordingly, on the 16th of July, the linear operation was performed by Dr. Curtis, with my assistance, the patient being under the influence of chloric ether. It was found, on operating, that the iris was extensively injured; so much so as to give but little hope of an entirely favorable result. The lens extracted was completely disorganized. After the operation the sight decidedly imiiroved, though the patient had to undergo quite a severe attack of irido- choroiditis after the operation. This soldier was discharged on October 10, 1870, on surgeon's cer- tificate of disability, for loss of sight. The accident occurred from a blow received in a drunken brawl. DCLXXII.—A Case of Extraction of a Foreign Body from the Anterior Chamber of the Bight Eye. By F. Meachaji, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Patrick Sheridan, Co. D, 36th Infantry, appeared at sick-call at Camp Douglas, Utah Territory', January 14, 1869, complaining of an injury of the right eye. A foreign substance was found deeply imbedded in the cornea. An attempt to remove it failed, as it had passed entirely through, and was suspended in the anterior chamber of the eye. Chloroform was administered, the wound of entrance was enlarged, and a piece of steel one-sixteenth of an inch in length, one- forty-eighth of an inch in width, and one-ninety-sixty of an inch in thickness was removed from the anterior surface of the iris. Prolapse of the iris occurred when irisdectomy was performed. January 31st the wound of the cornea had entirely healed, with a slight leucoma, which somewhat interfered with the vision. The patient was mustered out January 22, 1869, on account of expiration of term of service. Opeeations on the Eae.^—A single special report on this subject was received. DCLXXIII.—Account of an Operation for the Removal of an Aural Folypus. By J. M. Dickson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Jeffcott, Co. B, 9th Infantry, of strumous diathesis, was admitted to hospital at Fort Sedgwick, Colorado Territory, on July 10, 1870, with deafness of both ears, accompanied by discharge, a small polypus existing in the meatus of the right ear. By July 24th the walls of the meatus, »&c., were so thickened that a small speculum could with diflQculty be introduced but a short distance. The Eustachian tubes were pervious. On that date the polypus was removed, by torsion, with forceps, the remaining portions by the application of nitrate of silver. The ensuing treatment consisted of astringent injections, the occasional application of a blister over the mastoid portion of the occipital bone. Tonics and alteratives were administered. On September 2, 1870, he was transferred to hospital at Fort Eussell, Wyoming Territory, accomjianying his company. At that date his hearing was much imiiroved. Operations on the Moijth and its Dependencies.—Interesting instances have been reported of operations for ranula, polypus, and salivary calculus. DCLXXIV.—Bemarlis on a Case of Banula. By Irving C. Eosse, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Magenthaler, Battery G, 1st Artillery, presented himself at sick-call at Fort Monroe, Virginia, on December 16, 1869, having for some time had a troublesome tumor, involving the right side of the floor of the mouth. It forced the tongue upward and backward, and interfered with swallowing and pronunciation. There was no perceptible derangement of the general health. Making a small puncture in the cyst, a glairy, ropy fluid escaped; but it Avas not ascertained whether this was an accumulation in the salivary ducts or a collection in an enlarged follicle. The cyst was thought to constitute that form of atheroma known as cholesteatoma, or, more commonly, ranula. A seton was passed through its walls, and a saturated solution of chlorate of potash was246 EEPOET OF SUKGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. directed to be used as a mouth-wasli. The seton was several times renewed in the course of treat- ment. The patient was returned to duty December 29, 18G9.* DOLXXV.—N'ote relative to the Removal of a Polypxis from the Tonsil. By G. M. Sternberg, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private David Young, Troop K, 10th Cavalry, aged 22 years, was admitted on December 22, 18G7, to the post hospital at Fort Eiley, Kansas, comphiiiiing of difliculty in swallowing. An examination of the pharynx disclosed a fibrous polypus, about one and a half inches long, attached to the right tonsil. The polypus was removed by first seizing it with toothed-forceps, and then severiug it from its attachments with a bltint-pointed bistoury. Very little luemorrhage o(5curred, and, up to December 31st, no return of polypus was noticed. He was returned to duty in January, 1868. DCLXXVI.—Note relative to a Salivary Calculus. By Clinton Wagner, M. D., late Surgeon, TJ. S. A. I transmit to the address of the Surgeon General a salivary calciilus, which I hope will be, on account of its extraordinary size, an acceptable offering to the collections of the Army Medical Museum. I removed the stone in December, 1870, from the sublingual gland of a laboring man. It blocked up the orifice of the duct of Bartholine at its junction with the Whartonian duct. From the man's statement I inferred that the concretion had been about three years in form- ing. The man lived in Boise Citj", Idaho. The calculus weighs about eight grains, or little less. The groove was made by scraping with my knife. The powder scraped oft" did not Fir 1 s r ^ff^^'^'csce with hydrochloric acid. With solution of molybdate of ammonia it gave the v:n v ( Ml. iiius. charactcristic reaction of phosphoric acid, and a white precipitate with oxalate of ammo- i^Ai'M^ 'M."*^" nia. Tlie concretion Avould seem to be composed mainly ofi)hosphate of lime and of organic matter. It is figured of the natural size in the wood-cut. (Fig. 51.) DCLXXVII.—Account of a Plastic Operation. By L. E. Holmes, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Andrew Mussell, Troop F, 8th Cavalry, aged 22 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Logan, Oregon, on March 7, 1868. He had lost a portion of his nose, which had been injured two or three years i)reviously. A part of the left wing of the vomer was destroyed, leaving a fistulous opening through the middle third of the organ. On March 7th I i^erformed the rhiuoplastic operation, Indian method. Considerable swelling of the flap and the lids of both eyes followed the operation. This was treated with cold water-dressings. On the fourth day the stitches were removed, and the root of the flap was cut on the thirtieth day. The flap was well located, and appeared satisfactory. The patient was returned to duty on April 1, 1868. Operations on the Air Passages.—Keports were furnished of five cases of bron- cliotomj, and one of paracentesis of the thorax. DCLXXVIII—.Report of Two Operations of Tracheotomy, with Remarlcs on some Details of the Opera- tion and After-treatment. By Basil Norris, Surgeon, U. S. A. A child, 3^ years old, son of Mr. Paulson, in general service at the War Department, was seen in consultation November 9, 1869. It had been suffering five days from membraneous croup ; was extremely restless, with sharp, ringing, croupy cough, livid lips, and laborious respiration. In the afternoon, at two o'clock, it was put under the influence of chloroform, which was sprinkled on a handkerchief caught loosely in the hand and held before the face; it was then placed upon a table, the shoulders being raised on a pillow, and the head allowed to fall back. An incision was * This man was drowned at Fort Monroe, November 14, 1870.247 OPEEATIONS ON THE AIE PASSAGES. made one and a half inclies long, " exactly in the median line," through the skin and superficial ti-ssues; the cervical fascia was next i)inched up with a pair of forceps and divided on a grooved director ; this being done the knife was laid aside and the point of a strong steel director used to sfeparate the sterno hyoid muscles, and clear a way to the windpipe ; the lips of the wound were held apart by blunt hooks ; the trachea, thus exposed, was kept steady by a tenaculum in the hands of an assistant, and opened with, a small scalpel, inserted with the point toward the cricoid cartilage and the edge upward. By the aid of Trousseau's dilator, a double canula was quickly introduced, and the operation completed. The patient soon awoke, breathing easily; it looked about more calmly, and bore on its face a sense of relief and comfort; it lay at rest on a bed, taking nourish- ment and water, until two o'clock in the morning, when it again began to breathe with difficulty, and died at 5 o'clock A. M. A child, — years old, son of Mr. Page, of Frederick, Maryland, was seized with symptoms of membraneous croup, January 2,1870, while on a visit to an officer of the Army stationed in Wash- ington. It was six days under treatment by the usual remedies, and, in addition, was treated with lime water atomized by the "hand apparatusthe patient, possessed of more intelligence than is common to children of that age, willingly inhaled through the mouth-piece whenever it was pre- sented. Tracheotomy, earlier advised, was not performed until literally the last moment; the face and lips were congested, the hands and feet cold, and the breathing slow and gasping. While in this condition, chloroform was administered, and the operation was begun ; but before the trachea could be reached, it was remarked that the heart's action had ceased ; the operation was, neverthe- less, continued, and the child revived under artificial respiration, maintained by pressure on the abdomen with the hand, firmly and repeatedly api^lied. It lived two days and eight hours; was able to take beef-tea, water, and milk-punch, and preferred to help itself to ice from a saucer placed at the bedside. It finally succumbed to the constitutional effect of the disease. In both these cases, some hfemorrhage occurred from a vein, which is unavoidable in dividing the cervical fascia, crossing, as it does, the line of incision, midway between the cricroid cartilage and the sternum ; though very small, it was seen and examined in the second case, as it lay im- mediately upon the fascia when raised on a grooved director. Haemorrhage from this source soon ceased, and was of so little consequence, that I would not think it worth while to allude to it, had I not found it practicable, with this exception, to go through all the steps of the operation without the loss of more blood than is caused by the first incision through the skin. Keeping the canula clean, and removing exudation from the trachea below the artificial opening, we ascertained to be a very important part of the nurse's duty. In the first case, which lived fifteen hours, a feather, cut off at the end, was used to cleanse the canula. In the second case, which lived fiftj-eight hours, a tube cleaner, belonging to "Mawson's nursing bottle," was discovered to be the " ue plus ultra" for this purpose, and for clearing the trachea below the tube. It was dipped in water, shaken, and introduced as far as it would go, even beyond the bifurcation of the trachea; it was withdrawn loaded with thick mucus, and often with partial casts of false membrane. The use of this instru- ment was freqiiently necessary to relieve the breathing, and it was introduced as many times as in the judgment of the attendant the emergencj' required. DCLXXIX—.—Report of a Successful Case of Tracheotomy. By William M. Xotson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Patrick McMahon, a private of Co. H, 11th Infantry, aged 23, was admitted to hospital at Fort Concho, Texas, on September 12, 1870, with a longitudinal fracture at the angle of the lower jaw, supposed to have been caused by a kick received in a general fight in the guard-house. On the 18th, the patient being moribund, with the throat, neck, and head much swollen, it was decided to perform tracheotomy, which was done, at midnight, by Assistant Surgeon William M. Notson, IT. S. A., assisted by Acting Assistant Surgeons J. A. McCoy and C. W. Knight. The incision was made below the isthmus of the thyroid gland. The constitutional state of the patient was favorable from age, but unfavorable from the fact that he had been on a debauch. The tube remained in the opening ten days. Light, liquid diet was allowed, and soup enemata were adminis-^EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 248 tered. Cold-water dressings were used. The result was entirely successful, tlie patient Laving left the hospital cured, on the expiration of his term of enlistment, November 29., 1870. DCLXXX.—Report of a Fatal Case of Laryngotomy. By A. C. Girard, Assistant Surgeou, U. S. A. Philip Haxel, a private of Co. H, 19th Infantry, reported sick at Baton Rouge, Louisiana, on March 7,1870, and stated that he was beaten on the left temple with a club some days previously whilst in an altercation with another soldier. A cold-water dressing was applied to reduce the swelling, but erysipelatous iuflamumtion appearing on the 9th, he was admitted toliospital. The left cheek and temple were considerably swelled. The general health and appearance of the patient were good. An examination with a probe revealed a comminuted fracture of the zygoma, with probable lesion of the skull. The pupils were natural, pulse 72, bowels confined, and tongue some, what coated. Absolute rest in bed was enjoined, with a nourislung diet, and cold applications of carbolic acid in solution. The administration of aperients, followed by a Solution of quinine and iron, with the application of a poultice to the wound, constituted the remainder of the treatment He did Avell until the evening of tlie 11th, wlien symptoms of tetanus set in. After consultation, one-third of a grain of the extract of Calabar bean, in solution of eighteen minims of Avater, was injected in the region of the left deltoid muscle, and an enema of four ounces of brandy was admin- istered. This treatment was steadily adhered to until the evening of the 15th, when the patient was in immediate danger of suttbcation. The sjiasms had become more violent, there was terrible orthopnoea with cyanosis, and small but frequent pulse. Having decided upon laryngotomy as the only means of saving life in this instance, the patient was laid on a bed and held hy six men, chloro- form being inadmissible, when Assistant Surgeou A. C. Girard opened the thyroid membrane, after having stopped bleeding from some small veins. Immediately on opening a large stream of whiiiped blood issued with great force from the opening, apparently coming from the lungs, and continued to gush forth at each attempt at respiration for full fifteen minutes. Upon the introduction of the tube the air commenced to pass too and fro with great force, but the expectoration of blood con- tinued for one hour. When it abated breathing became fairly established, and the patient felt greatly relieved. The Calabar bean and the stimulating enemata were repeated, together with hypodermic injections of atropine, and of morphia with Calabar bean, but the patient got lewer and lower, and died at noon on the 17th. At the autopsy the body was somewhat emaciated, there was considerable suggillation of the temporal muscle, and the zy gomatic bone was fractured in two places, the fragments being loose but undetached. The meninges on the left temple were somewhat congested. The brain was normal, and the temporal bone intact. The larynx was normal. The lungs were in a liigh state of congestion and oedematous. No ruptured blood-vessel of any size was discovered. The heart and intestines were normal. DGIjKXSI.—Report of a Fatal Case of Laryngotomy. By E. P. Yollum, Surgeon U. S. A. Patrick O'Callaghan, a private of Co. B, 13th Infantry, aged 25, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Douglas, Utah Territory, on December 10, 1870, suffering from oedema of the glottis and tonsillitis. On the next day the patient becoming cyanosed, and symptoms of suffo- cation setting in about mid-day, the larynx was opened and a tube inserted by Surgeon E. P. VoUum, U. S. A. No anaesthetic was used. After the admission of air through the tube, the patient revived a little, and lived about three-quarters of an hour. At the autopsy, the cutan- eous surface was of a bluish color; the tonsils were so tumefied as to completely overlap the rima glottidis, and the sub-mucous tissue of the epiglottis and that surrounding the brim of the rima glottidis, as well as that covering the base of the tonsils and the membranous fold about the base of the tongue, were boggy, with oedematous effusion. No abscess or pus was found in the vicinity of the tonsils or fauces. The sub-maxillary glands were greatly enlarged, and the areolar tissue of the neck was distended by serous effusion.249 OPERATIONS ON THE CHEST. DCLXXXIl.—Report of a Case of TItomceiiiesls. Jiy J). Bacite, Snrgoon, IT. S. A. At San Antonio, Texas, May 0, 1809, liicliard Elliott, private, Co. 11, Otli Cavalry, aged 24, received an incised and punctured wound of the left brest by a knife. He was admitted to hos- pital from cauip on May 7tli. Paracentesis thoracis on the left side, was perfcmned for empyema on June 12th. He was discharged from service March 24,1870, because of empyema, partial collapse of the lung, and great impairment of respiratory power. Operations on the Chest.—Instances of removal of fragments of ribs and of "her- metically sealing" wounds, after gunshot injuries of the thorax, have been detailed on pp. 27, 28, ante, and a case of excision of a necrosed portion of rib is described on p. 131. Reports were received of two other cases which may be placed in this category. DCLXXXIir.—N'ote of a Case in wliich Fragments of the Ribs irere removed, with Remarl's on the After Treatment. By G. C. Douglas, M. D. Acting Assistant Surgeon. George Christopher, a private of Troop L, 9th Cavalry, was malicionsly shot by another soldier at Fort Duncan, Texas, on September 19, 1870. The missile causing the injury was a conoidal ball, which fractured and comminuted the fourth, fifth, and sixth rios of the right side, and, in its course, destroyed a portion of the pleura costalis. On being admitted to the hospital, nnmerous small fragments of the ribs, amounting in all to quite a handful, were removed; the wound was dressed with a weak solution of carbolic acid and alcohol, and adhesive strips were applied in order to control the movements of the tliorax, but were constantly loosened by the effusion from the wound. The injury did well until October IGth, and had nearly closed, permitting the patient to move about the ward without inconvenience; his general health was excellent. But at that date a rain and wind storm prevailed, and ho evidently took cold, which resulted in an attack of pleurisy of the wounded side, extending to substance of lung, accompanied with profuse hemoi)ty- sis and effusion into the i)leural cavity, causing the wound to reopen when dependent, or when the patient was in the horizontal position. On the 18th he commenced to respire through the wound, the air passing freely both in and out. The discharge and expectoration were exceedingly offensive. The patient sank rapidly, being almost moribund by October 20th. Stimulants, beef-tea, and other articles of extra diet suitable to his condition were administered. In addition to this, he com- menced taking, on the 20th, in as large quantities as his appetite craved, the raw, clear muscle of fresh beef, pounded to a soft pulp and seasoned to suit his taste. Eelishing the beef, he ate freely of it during the twenty-four hours of the day. The liquid portion pressed out after ijouuding was also given as a change. The iniured side of thorax was protected with a large plaster of simple cerate having an opening over the wound. This was covered with oakum, which was kept constantly saturated with a strong solution of carbolic acid, with a view to impregnate the air entering the cavity containing the effused liquid, and to effuse the surface with the antiseptic. The offensive odor speedily disappeared, the effusion rapidly diminished, and, by the 24th there was no disagreeable odor to the discharge. On the 27th, the discharge through the wound had ceased, the wound was rapidly closing, the remaining effusion into the jileural cavity was gradually absorbing and the patient was well enough to walk around the ward. The effect of the raw beef and its essence was as immediate and marked as a full dose of alcoholic stimulant, and had the advantage of being more permanent. To this aud the introduction of the antiseptic into the pleural cavity, the patient's recovery is attributed. DCLXXXIV.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Chest, Treated hy the Method of ^^Hermetically Sealing.''^ By P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Lee, Troop B, 8th Cavalry, aged 24, was shot in the left breast at Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory, Xovember 19, 1867. The ball entered below the left clavicle, two inches from the sternum, and, passing through the chest and scapula, emerged over the infraspinatus muscle, just below the spine of the scapula. He was sent to the post hospital in a state of syncope. Six hours after admission, venous hfemorrhage occurred until the patient fainted. The wound was 32250 EEPOUT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. tbeu liermeti<;ally sealed. The patient reacted, and continued to do well until December 2d, wben pyaemia supervened, and deatb occurred December 8,18G7. Ofeeations on the Abdomex.—A number of cases of paracentesis are mentioned in the reports and several operations for hernia, but without names or details. The reader has not overlooked the cases of gunshot wounds of the abdomen in which balls were removed (pp. 44, 49 ante), nor the remarkable instances of recovery after the protrusions of the intestines from incised wounds (pp. 93, 95). The remaining reports coming under this head relate to a successful removal of a mass of omentum, operations for fistula, for imperforate anus, and for haemorrhoids. DOLXXXV.—.Account of a Case in uiMch a Portion of Omentum icas successfully removed. By G. ]\r. Sternberg, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Albert Barnitz, captain 7tb Cavalry, aged 33, was wounded on November 27, 18G8, at the battle of Wichita, Indian Territory, by a ball from a Lancaster lifle, which entered the left side of the abdomen, just below the free margin of the false ribs, four and one-half inches to the left of the umbilicus, and emerged behind, three and one-half inches to the left of the central line of the vertebral column. The colonel was mounted when wounded, and killed the Indian who shot him at the same instant that he received his wound. The Indian was only about fifteen feet from him when they exchanged shots. After receiving the wouiid the colonel rode about two liundred yards, disuu)unted and laid down, holding his horse until some of his company came to him. About half an hour afterward he Avas examined by Assistant Surgeon Lippincott, TJ. S.. A., who found a mass of omentum protruding from the anterior wound, about the size of a man's fist. The doctor supposed, from the position of the wound, that the intestine must be wounded, and that the injury must necessarily prove fatal. The colonel was brought to Camp Supply in an ambulance, the distance being about one liundred miles, and the country exceedingly rough. He arrived at this place on December 1st, at which time I took charge of his case. He was not able to take any food or stimulus on the way in, on account of the irritability of his stomach, which rejected everything except a little water. I found him very much fatigued by the journey, but having a good pulse and presenting no bad symptoms. The mass of omentum protruded from the anterior Avouiid as at first, completely closing it, and preventing any air from entering or fluid from escaping. I think that adhesion had already taken place to a certain extent between the constricted portion of the omentum and the si<les of the wound.^ From the posterior wound there was a very free discharge of bloody serum, which from day to day decreased in quantity, and gradually changed to a discharge of healthy pus. In a day or two after his arrival the protruding mass of omentum became covered with florid granulations bathed with thick pus. Small quantities of beef-tea and wine were retaiued the day of his arrival and larger amounts were given from day to day without any return of the vomiting. No medi- cine has been administered to this date, except one grain of quinine three times a day, as a tonic, and two quarter-grain doses of morphine, the first two nights after his arrival, to jirocure sleep. There was no movement of the bowels from date of injury until December 7th, when two copious and natural passages occurred. On the 8th I removed the protruding mass of omentum. I commenced the operation with a wire ecraseur, but before it was completed the loop of wire broke and I severed a small portion, which was not yet cut through, with scissors. A small artery in the portion cut by the scissors bled for a few moments, but the hiemorrhage was stopped by the simple application of cold water. December I'Jth : the colonel is ■Fig. 5-2. Portion of excised r(|jig (-^ ov two at a time, has a good appetite, sleeps well, omeutum. Spec. 5534, Sect. I, , , mi i 2 ^ -1 i ana may be considered out ot all danger. There has not been a bad symptom in the case since the first shock was recovered from, except the irritability of the stomach while on the way in. [The specimen was contributed to the Army Medical251 OPERATIONS ON THE ABDOMEN. Museum by tlie operator. It is fij?ured of half the natural size in the foregoing wood-cut, (Fig. 52).]' DCLXXXVI.—iliirtH^e of an Oj)emtion for Imj)erfomte Rectum. By Irvinq C. Eosse, M. D., Acting Assistant Siirgeon. At Fort Monroe, Virginia, in August, 1870, an operation for the removal of a membranous obstruction in the roctnm of a newly-born male child was performed by George E. Cooper, Surgeon, U. S. A. An opening was maintained by the daily introduction of a bougie. The natural passages were restored, and rapid recovery ensued. DCLXXXVII.—A&s/rrtc/s of Eeports of Operations for Fistula in Ano. By J. F. Weeds, Surgeon U. S. A.; F. A. Davis and E. Bowman, Acting Assistant Surgeons; and A. C. Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case 1.—Private Andrew Clifford, Co. B, 17th Infantry, aged 26 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Cheyenne Agency, Dakota Territory, December 2, 1870, with an anal fistula of two years' standing. The external orifice was three and a half inches from the margin of the anus the internal orifice being jnst above the sphincter. The fistulous track was very tortuous and sacculated, it being necessary to enlarge the external opening in order to pass a i^robe through its whole extent. On December 5th, the whole of the superimposed structure was divided on a grooved director, previously passed along the fistulous track. No ana?sthetic was used, and there was but moderate haemorrhage. Poultices of linseed meal and a solution of carbolic acid were ai^plied, and on January 16, 1871, the patient was returned to duty. Case 2.—Private George Eogers, Co. D, 16th Infantry, aged" 24 years, was admitted to post hospital at Nashville, December 20, 1870, with fistula in ano. The general condition Avas favorable. Infiammation had subsided. The sphincter was divided on the 21st and kept open by tents satu- rated with glycerine and carbolic acid. The wound healed rapidly, and the man was soon returned to duty. Case 3.—Private John A. Graves, Co. A, 21th Infantry, was admitted to the hosiiital at Fort Bliss, Texas, November 2, 1870, with a fistula in ano of long standing. A thickened indurated canal opened into the rectum above the sphincter, and externally near the tuberosity of the left ischium. On November 4, 1870, the sphincter ani was divided, and tents of lint saturated with liquor of the persulijhate of iron were introduced. The patientrecovered rapidly, and was discharged on account of expiration of term of service. Case 4.—Private Timothy Soleven, Co. H, 19th Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Baton Eouge, Louisiana, June 9, 1809, with fistula in ano. There was extensive suppuration from the i)erineal tissues. On June 24th, an inductor was introduced through the fistula into the rectum and the bridge divided with a curved bistouri. A teut, soaked in glycerine, was introduced, and the bowels were kept inactive by opium. Subsequently the bowels were cleaned every morning by injection. On June 30th, the wound had almost entirely healed. DCLXXXYIII.—Operation for Eemoral of Ecemorrhoids. By John H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James S. Kehan, Co. H, 11th Infantry, aged 30 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Grant, near Eichmond, on August 15, 1807, with an aggravated form of internal piles, which he had suffered from for two mouths prior to admission. The mass protruding was of a size equal to twice the bulk of a black walnut, and bled profusely at every stool, of which he had two or252 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AKMY. three daily, not from a diarrhoea, but apparently from the desire to defecate being excited by the condition of the parts. He had been treated in (piarters with astringent injections and suppositories, but without l)enefit. The protrusion, which almost amounted to a prolapsus of the rectum, was returned with difliculty. Shortly afterward I placed three silk ligatures well up around three of the most prominent projections, the gut being first caused to protrude as much as possible by the patient sitting for some time over a vessel of hot water in a squatting posture and using straining and expulsive efforts. The ligatures came away on the tenth day. He made a good recovery, having been kept quiet on his back, and opiates administered; in two weeks he was employed as a helper in the dispensary, and was returned to duty with his company on October 2, 18G7. DOLXXXIX.—Minute of an Operation for the Eemoval of Hcvmorrhoids. By J. F. Boughter, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James McNally, Co. D, 22d Infantry, aged 36 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Dakota, with ijiternal hiiemorrhoids, on July 3, 18GS. On July 7th, ligatures were ajjplied to two large and vascular tumors, which were congested and sensitive to the touch. Kecovery being rapid, the i)atient was returned to duty July 18th, and was mustered out of service August 4, 18C8, the hsTemorrhoids not having returned. Operations on the Genito-Urinary Organs.—Several successful and highly inter- esting operations for lithotomy were reported, and a number of operations for stricture, and one of supra-pubic puncture of the bladder for retention of urine. The prevalence of venereal affections, unhappily not less common in our own than in other armies, caused circumcision or other operations for phimosis to be not infrequent. DCXC—Memoranda of Fourteen Cases of Phimosis in lohich Operations icere performed. By B, A. Clements, Surgeon, U. S. A.; C. Smaet, C. R. Gkeenleaf, 0. B. White, and Harvey E. Brown, Assistant Surgeons, U. S. A.; and E. Woodruff, M.D., B.F. Slaughter, M. D., A. Ansell, M. D., and R. McCraicen, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeons. Case 1.—Private John Anderson, Co. E, 32d Infantry, aged 22 years, was admitted to the hospital at Oami) Lowell, Tucson, Arizona Territory, September 27,1808, suffering from congenital phimosis. On September 28th Assistant Surgeon Charles Smart, U. S. A., removed the prei)uce. The patient had recovered October 10, 18G8. Case 2.—Private Henry Hoffman, Co. C, 2d Infantry, aged 23 years, was admitted to the hospital at Taylor Barracks, Louisville, Kentucky, November G, 18G8, with phimosis, and a large mass of venereal warts on the inner side of prepuce. On November 7th, Assistant Surgeon Charles R. Greenleaf removed the prepuce. December 2, 18G8, the patient had entirely recovered. Case 3.—Private Isaac Taylor, Co. I, 2d Infantry, aged 22 years, was admitted to the hospital at Taylor Barracks, Louisville, Kentucky, November G, 18G8, with gonorrhea and phimosis. Acting- Assistant Surgeon Ezra Woodruff' removed the prepuce, December 2, 18G8. On December 31st the patient had entirely recovered. Case 4.—Private Edward Burke, Co. G, IGth Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Hum- boldt, Tennessee, with balanitis and phimosis. On August 20, 1870, Acting Assistant Surgeon B. F. Slaughter divided the prepuce from the corona glandis outward. Cold-water dressings were applied, and on September 3, 1870, the patient was returned to duty. Case 5.—Private John T. Talbot, Co. G, 25tli Infantry, was admitted to Jackson Barracks Hospital, New Orleans, June 25, 18G9, with congenital phimosis, aggravated hj gonorrhoea. On July 2.5th, Surgeon B. A. Clements operated by circumcision. Owing to the contact of irritating discharge, the parts healed slowly by granulation. The patient made an excellent recovery, the253 OPEEATIONS Oif THE GENITO URINARY ORGANS. liue of union being less marked than would have been anticipated from tbe slow healing. He was returned to duty August 30, 1809. Case G.—Private John Harling, Co. G, 25th Infixntry, was admitted to the Jackson Barracks Hospital, New Orleans, May 20, 1809, with congenital phimosis, aggravated by recent gonorrhoea. On June 20th, Surgeon B. A. Clements performed circumcision, Avith slitting up of mucous membrane. Silver wire sutures and cold-water dressings were applied, and the wound healed by' first intention except at one small point. The patient was doing well June 30, 1809. Case 7.—Private Edward P. Hacketts, Co. F, 1st Infantry, agetl 21 years, was admitted to the Jackson Barracks Hospital, New Orleans, January 11, 1809, with congenital phimosis, aggravated by gonorrhoea. On January 15th, Surgeon B. A. Clements i^erformed circumcision. The patient recovered entirely by March 4, 1809. Case 8.—Private Michael Leadthan, Co. K, 1st Infantry, aged 24 years, was admitted to the hospital at Jackson Barracks, Louisiana, February 20, 1807, with phimosis following venereal disease. On March 14th, Assistant Surgeon Harvey E. Brown, U. S. A., performed circumcision, and divided the stricture along the dorsum of the jjenis. The wound healed promptly by granula- tion, and tlie patient soon returned to duty. Case 9.—Private James Clements, Co. E, 1st Infantry, was admitted to hospital at Jackson Barracks, Louisiana, February 27,1807, with phimosis, the result of venereal disease. Circumcision was i)erformed on March 14th, by Assistant Surgeon C. B. White, U. S. A. The patient recovered. Case 10.—Private Wesley Thomas, Troop G, 9th Cavalry, aged 19 years, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Inge, Texas, June 3,1807, with i)himosis following syphilis. On June 24th, Acting Assistant Surgeon Aaron Ansell removed the prepuce. The patient was returned to duty August 11, 1807. Case 11.—Private William Maunsell, Co. F, 1st Infantry, was admitted to the Jackson Barracks Hosjutal, New Orleans, Louisiana, with i)himosis aggra\'ated by gonorrhoea. On August 19, 1807, Surgeon B. A. Clements, U. S. A., removed the prepuce. The patient recovered rapidly. Case 12.—Private Wilson Dennis, Co. C, 39th Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Pike, Louisiana, February 19, 1869, with phimosis. On the same day Acting Assistant Surgeon Robert IMcCracken slit up the i)repuce along the dorsum of the penis. The patient had recovered April 1, 1809. Case 13.—Private William Jackson, Co. K, 39th Infantry, aged 27 years, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Pike, Louisiana, February 22, 1809, with primiary syphilis. Phimosis followed^ and on March 20th, Acting Assistant Surgeon Robert McCracken, slit up the prepuce along the dorsum of the penis. The man was returned to duty March 25, 1809, almost well. Case 14.—Private John Rice, Co. A, 39th Infimtry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Pike, Louisiana, March 9, 1809, with primary syphilis. Phimosis sui)ervened, and on March 25th, Acting Assistant Surgeon Robert McCracken cut the prepuce along the dorsum of the penis. On April 1st, the man had nearly recovered. DCXCI.—Memoranda relative to Two Cases in which the Penis ivas amputated. By W. A. Tompkins, Acting Assistant Surgeon, and S. M. Horton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case 1.—Private Julius Citius, Co. H, 8th Infantry, was admitted from the guard-house to hos-' pital at Columbia, on October 12, 1870, for primary syphilis complicated with phimosis, sloughing, and gangrene of the penis. The condition of the injured parts having grown worse, and several copious hiemorrhages occurring, chloroform was administered on the 18th, and the glans and two254 REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. inches of the body of penis were removed. The mucous membrane was then stitched at four diiferent points to the edges of the cutaneous portion of the wound. No contraction of the urinary canal followed, and very little blood was lost. The dorsal artery was ligated. The patient's constitutional condition at the time of the operation was fair, a generous diet and tonics having rapidly removed the cachexy present at the date of his admission. The after treatment consisted in the use of a catheter, which was retained four days by ta])e straps, carbolized dressings, tonics, stimulants, and a nourishing diet. The wound healed rapidly, and the patient gained twenty-four pounds while in the hospital. He passed his .urine without difficulty, and, being convalescent, joined his regiment on December 26, 1870. The pathological specimen, with the above particulars, was coiitributed to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and is No. 5737 of the Surgical Section. Case 2.—Private R. Vogler, Co. B, 27th Infantry, aged 22 years, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Philip Kearny, Dakota Territory, July 15,1807, with a very large warty growth, which discharged an ichorous, fetid pus, and involved the glans penis, the prepuce, and the anterior thiid of the entire body of that organ. On Jnl^' IGth the penis was amputated at the junction of the middle and posterior third, while the patient was under the iutluence of equal parts of ether and chloroform. The mucous membrane of the urethra was tacked by thread to the skin at four points. The stump healed without a bad symptom, and the patient was returned to duty on August 22, 1807. Since then he has complained of partial closure of the external orifice, which was relieved by gradual dilatation, repeated ever}' three hours for one day. DCXCII.—Memorandum relative to an Operation for the lielief of Stricture.—By John H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Hugh Donohue, Troop F, 5th Cavalry, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Grant, Richmond, with an impermeable stricture of the urethra, of fourteen months standing, following gouorrhcea. It was situated half an iu(,'h behind the root of the scrotum. The urine came away in a very small stream, and often in drops. The smallest instrument was absolutely impassable. A No. 7 catheter was passed down to the stricture and cut down upon; the incision was then continued into the bladder, and the catheter i)assed directly afterward into the bladder, Avhere it was secured. The patient recovered, and was returned to duty in May, 1808. DCXCIII.—Bejmrf of an Operation for the EcJief of Stricture.—By F. L. Town, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Timothy Quill, Co. 1,13th Infantry, aged 30 years, was admitted to the hosi)ital at Fort Shaw, Montana Territory, May 25,1808, with a stricture of the spongy part of urethra, of long standing. It was situated just anterior to the scrotum, and was apparently not of great thickness ; a No. 2 catheter could with difficulty be passed. On May 25th chloroform was administered, and the stricture was divided by the urethrotome. A full-sized catheter was then inserted, and allowed to remain. The incision healed rapidly, and with apparently very little contraction at the seat of stricture. The patient was returned to duty, but the stricture contracted again, and on March 11, 1869, he was readmitted to the hospital, and the stricture again divided by the urethrotome. The same treatment was observed as above, and on March 31st the patient was able to urinate freely. DCXCIV.—Mcmoranfhm relative to an Operation for the Relief of Stricture.—By Samuel, S. Jessop, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private J, E. Smith, Ordinance Corps, aged 31 years, was admitted to the hospital at Charleston, April 17, 1809, with stricture of the urethra, the result of gonorrhoea, contracted about seven years j)reviously. Stricture occurred in two places, one about two and a half inches behind the external meatus, the other near the bulb. Several flstulte existed ; there had been urinary infiltration, and the scrotum, Avith the skin of the abdomen, had sloughed. The patient was feeble, and sufi'ered much pain from the slightest movement. On Mny 15th the sloughs had separated, and the woundsOPERATIONS ON THE BLADDER. 255 were gramilatiug finely. Cliloroform being administered, tlie anterior stricture was divided by urethrotomy, and the posterior by Syme's perineal section. A catheter was introduced, and nourishing diet ordered. All the fistulfe were closed and the patient recovered rapidly. DCXCV.—Account of an Operation for the Relief of Stricture. By E. P. Vollum, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John White, Co. H, 42d Infantry, aged 32 years, was admitted to the hospital at Madison Barracks, Sackett's Harbor, New York, March 25, 1868, with strictures of the urethra. The first stricture extended from the bulb to near the prostate gland, and the second was at a point about three inches from the head of the penis; both were impassable to the smallest bougie. The patient had been twice injured, each injury being followed by bloody urine. On April 10th, ether was administered and the upper stricture divided by the urethrotome. On the following day equal parts of chloroform and ether were administered, and the lower stricture was divided by l)erineal section. The patient, who had been prior to the operation cachetic and debilitated, sank gradually, and died on April 14, 1868, from the effects of the operation. At the autopsy, pus and black ecchymosis w^ere found at the site of the divided strictures. The prostate gland was much enlarged, hardened, and contained two small abscesses. The bladder was thickened to about half an inch, and its mucous lining eroded, excepting some small patches at the base, and for about an inch, around the neck ; the ureters were irregularly dilated in some places to three times the natural size; pelvis was dilated and contaiued a little pus; fat in the pyramids. The kidneys were white, measured five and three-eighths by three and a half inches, and weighed ten ounces. DCXCVI.—Report of a Case in which a Foreign Sultstance was removed from the Urethra hy Urethrot- omy. Bj J. H. Bartholp, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Kline, Co. C, 11th Infantry, aged 33 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Grant, near Richmond, on October 24,1868. He had for several days previously had consid- erable difficulty in urinating, the stream being small and attended with straining eftbrts to pass it. At 9 A. M., on the 24th, as he could not pass water at all, he undertook to remedy the trouble by passing a broom straw seven or eight inches into the irrethra, and on withdrawing it a i)ortion was broken off and remained. One hour and a half after the occurrence I removed it by cutting down upon it, opening the urethra an eighth of an inch in front of the anterior border of the scrotum, where the external or anterior end of the wisp was situated and could be felt. Making an opening into the urethra of the necessary size, the end of the stem was made to protrude and was withdrawn. Its length was three and a half inches, and its inner end must therefore have been well on toward the bladder. No anaisthetic was used. On the next day, being unable to evacuate his bladder, a No. 1 flexible catheter, without the wire, was inserted, and the urine drawn off'. The condition of the patient varied until December 21st, when he was detailed as hospital attendant. Up to Decem- ber 26th the bladder had been evacuated by the aid of catheters, but the patient being rather ill at that date their use was discontinued. On December 31st, he is reported as being well as regards his genito-urinary organs. The piece of broom removed was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum, and is numbered 5527 of the Surgical Section. DCXCVII.—Report of a Case of Siipra-Puhic Puncture of the Bladder for Retention of Urine produced hy Chronic Enlargement of the Prostate. By A. W. Wiggin, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. . Patrick Quohn, aged 50 years, a policeman in the cadets' barracks at the Military Academy, West Point, New York, had been suffering for several years from chronic enlargement of the prostate gland, with irritable stricture at the neck of the bladder, which required him to void his urine as freqxrently as once in two hours, and occasionally, as a result of a debauch, necessitating the introduction of a catheter. On August 5, 18G9, having been drinking whiskey the evening previous, he a})plied to an irregular practitioner, who endeavored for two or three hours to introduce a very small-sized catheter. I saw him at 3 A. M., August 5th, There had evidently been consider- able hjBmorrhage from the urethra, and, on the gentle passage of a No. 7 catheter, a good deal of soreness and tumefaction were discovered, and blood flowed very readily. After trying with muchr 256 KEPOIiT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. care and gentleness to introduce the instrument, I i)laced the patient in a hot bath, afterward iriakiug another ineffectual attempt with the catheter. Hot baths, with enemata of hot water, were continued during the forenoon, with occasional attempts on the part of Surgeon T. A. McParlin, U. S. A., and nijself to introduce catheters of different sizes and curves, both metallic and flexible, but without success. At 3 P. M., the pain and anxiety of the patient had become extreme ; pulse 120, iiTegidar and intermittent. He had passed no water for twenty-four hours, a condition of great extremity for hiin. In view of these facts, and the additional circumstance of the chronic diseased condition at the neck of the bladder and consequent danger of rupture, it was decided that the only recourse was to puncture. The only oi)eration practicable was the snpra-pnbic, which was performed by Surgeon IMcParlin, the puncture being made in the median line about an inch above the os pubis. Twenty-six ounces of urine was withdrawn, and a canula left in the wound, retained in situ hy a T bandage and tapes. Morphine Avas freely given to allay jiain and insure perfect quietude. On the next day the canula had partially- slipped out, and could not be restored to its original position. The urine was oozing ; the patient was feeble ; i)ulse frequent, irregular, and intermittent. At five A. M. of the 7th, I found the canula entirely out of the wound, an accident doubtless attributable to the patient himself. There was some evidence of absorption of urea; pulse quick, feeble, and irregular; respiration frequent; iiartial coma. The bladder was nearly as full as before, and no urine escaping by the puncture. Another iiuncture was made by Surgeon McParlin as near the same spot as possible, the canula being retained by adhesive plaster and tape. Anodynes and nourishing diet were adininistered. On August 8th, the urine escaped freely by the canula. There was no sign of extravasation, and the symptoms of urremia had passed away ; jiulse 130, feeble and ii'regular. Warm soap suds and sweet oil were injected into the urethra,'which discharged pus slightly. The patient slowly imjiroved in appetite and general health, the scrotuui became slightly excoriated, but this gave way under the application of a carbolic lotion. - The same general treatment was pursued until August 13th, when a gum-elastic catheter was introduced for the first time since the operation. This was withdrawn on the next day, as was also the canula, and a No. 7 silver catheter inserted and fastened in the urethra by a metallic ring around the penis with tapes attached. This was found to be unendurable, and uidess pushed so t;ir into the bladder as to defeat its object, the point was liable to slip out of the bladder into the urethra, particulai'ly during a fit of coughing. The urine continued to flow through the wound without extravasation, a perfect fistula having become established by adhesion of the Avails of the bladder to the abdominal parietes. From August 17th to 23d, no attempt was made to retain a catheter in the urethra, the urine being withdrawn by the frequent introduction of a gum-elastic catheter, while the passage of the urine by the fistula was not restricted. In a few days the i)atient acquired the habit of passing his urine naturally; the fistula gradually closed, and on August 24:th the wound had nearly healed, the urine only passing through it in small quantities at the commencement of an efibrt to lu'iuate. He continued to improve, and, on September 25th, Avas walking about apparently as well as before the oxieration. DCXCVIII.—Account of a Successful Lithotomy Operation hy the Lateral Method^ with a Description of the Specimen. By H. A. DuBois, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. * * On August 3, 1800, I remoA'ed from the person of Henry McJ., a citizen of Mora, New Mexico, by the ordinary lateral operation, a large vesical calculus. The wound healed in a short time, and the patient recovered without any incident of interest during the after-treatment. I met him a year subsequently and obtained from him the concretion. Its weight, after removal and drying, had been three hundred gi^aius, ^"%v^ but after being carried about in the patieufs l)Ocket for a year it weighed only one hundred I and seventy grains. I made no complete analj-- / sis of the specimen owing to want of time, but found the external lamina soluble in hydro- fio. 54.—section of the cai- FiG. 53.-fct. i nai \ i. w ui a vesical chlorlc acid, and effervescing in the cold and calculus. Spec. 4803, Sect I, A. M. M. precipitated with carbonate of soda. The specimen will be forwarded to the Army Medical Museum. [Its size and exterior surface is represented in the adjoining wood-257 LITHOTOMY. cut, (Fig. 53,) and the ai)pearauce of tbe section tlirongli the short axis is shown in the opi)Osite wood-cut, (Fig. 54). [It is of a yellowish white color, and measures oue inch and a half in length, one in breadth, and five eighths in depth. It is compressed laterally ; is irregularly ovoid in shape, and is soft and friable. Its structure, as seen by the microscope, is amorphous. After exposure to heat it emitted the smell of burnt feathers. The nucleus, of a brownish-red color, consists of urate of lime, and is of iirmer consistence than the body or crust, both of which are made up of ammonio-magnesian phosphate and organic matter.—Ed.] DOXCIX.— Memorandum relative to a Vesical Calculus successfully removed hy Lithotomy. Joseph E. Smith, Surgeon, U. S. A. By The specimen numbered 5575 of the Surgical Section was presented to the Army Medical Museum, by Surgeon Joseph li. Smith, U. S. A., who removed it, by the lateral operation, from a boy of seven years, at Little Eock, Arkansas. On March 20, 1871, Surgeon Smith writes : " There was no haemorrhage; the incision in the prostate was enlarged by the finger, and the stone extracted only with considerable traction. No catheter was used after the operation, and in a short time the urine passed by the natural channel. The patient passed from under my observation in a few mouths, cured. [This stone, weighing five hundred and sixty-one grains, and of a dull white color, is generally ovoid in shape, being compressed laterally, and is smooth. It is one inch aud three-quarters in length, one and three-eighths in breadth, and one in depth. A section shows a number of concentric layers around a nucleus. It is compact, firm, aud brittle. The microscope shows its minute structure to be amorphous, and it emitted the smell of burnt feathers when subjected to heat. It consists probably of am- monio-magnesian phosphates, with large quantity of organic matter. The dimensions of the concretion aiul its general appearance externally and in section are shown in the wood-cuts. Figs .55,5G.—Ed.] Fir,. 55.—Section of a urinary calculus. Spec. 5575, Sect. I, A. M. M. [Nat. size.] Fig. 5fi.—Exterior ^ i:-w of the calculus. DOC.—Report of a Successful Case of Lithotomy. ant Surgeon. By E. J. Jennings, M. D., Acting- Assist- Leroy Johnson, a mulatto boy, aged about 19 years, and weighing only eighty pounds, was admitted to the Freedmen's Hospital at Little Eock, on August 20, 1867, with vesical calculus, having been previously treated for the ordinary remittent fever of the country by Dr. E. V. Denell, who discovered a concretion in the bladder, and sent him to the hospital. Upon admission, he stated that he had of late suffered extreme pain in passing his urine, aud that fits freqnently occurred during the effort. A day or so subsequently an opportunity offered for the post surgeon to observe one of these paroxysms, which was intensely severe, and when it subsided left the patient much prostrated, and bathed in a profuse perspiration like that of the sweating stage of intermittent fever. An examination with a sound was made in the presence of several medical men, which established, beyond a doubt, the existence of calculus. One of the physicians present remembered having prescribed for this patient, ten years previously, for incontinence of urine. On September 3d, eight days after admission, the patient was chloroformed, and the bi-lateral operation of lithotomy was performed, removing a stone weighing three and one-eighth ounces. Some difficulty was experienced in the extraction, which was overcome by enlarging the primary incision. The after-treatment in this case cousisted-of rest—the patient lying supine, with a fold of blanket drawu under his hips—and cold-water dressings to the wound. On the ninth day after the oper- 33258 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. ation urine was twice passed through the urethra; then followed an interval of five days, during which it was passed through the wound. After this it passed almost continuously by the urethra, and the patient was able to be up and about on the twenty-fifth day. Several times after this, how- ever, there occurred, at distinct intervals of from two to three weeks, a slight watery or sanguineous discharge from the wound, generally accompanied by more or less gastric disturbance and slight feV'Cr, the correction of which, with abso- lute rest, usually caused this discharge to disappear. After about six months, everything of this character ceased. Two years subsequently the patient repoi'ted himself as enjoying excellent health, never having since experienced the slightest inconvenience. His phys- ical appearance had greatly improved. ■piG. 57.—Vesical calculus. Section tlirougli the long tliameter. Spec. 5572, Sect. I, A. M. M.' He had increased in strength and en- —I'liLsplialic iii inai vi ak'ulus. 3. Sect. 1, A. M. il. ergy, and weighed one hundred and nineteen pounds. The specimen was contributed to the Army JMedical Museum, and is figured in the adjacent woodcuts, (Figs. 57, 58). It weighs two ounces and twenty-seven grains, troy; weigiied three and one-eighth ounces. but before it was sawn, it DCCI.—Minute of a Successful Case of Lithotomy. By W. F. Smith, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Henry Morris, a mulatto, aged twenty-three years, had a large vesical calculus removed by litliotomy at Raleigh, Nortli Carolina, about the middle of December, 18(17. The operation was delayed for some time, owing to the iini)<»ssil)iHty of passing a stiiff into the urethra, which contracted violently at eveiy attempt to introduce one. Atter this excitability had been overcome l>y a couise of training, which rendered the j);i.s.sjige of any instrument easy, the patient was chloroformed, and the stone was removed by the lateral oi)eration, both lobes of the prostate gland being divided in consequence of its great size. It was partly attached to the bladder, and this caused some trouble. The hfemorrhage, did not exceed six ounces. The wound granulated finely, and by January 23, 1SG8, the patient was entirely well and attending to his ordinary avocation. The stone, weighing two hundred and fifty-three grains, is represented in the adjoining wood-cuts, (Figs. 59, GO,) and was contributed by the operator. Fig. U;-.— \ I Mi alcaloiihis. ex- erior Tiew. Spec. 47C2, Sect I, A. M. M. Fig. CO.—Scctioual view of the calculus. DCCII.— O^ins hot Wo^md of Bladder and Sectum, and snhseqnent Oiicration for Stone in the Bladder By Dr. Hunter McGuirb.* Mr. H., aged 23 years, was wounded at the battle of McDowell, May 8, 1862. The ball struck him on the horizontal ramus of the left pubic bone, about an inch from the symphysis, passed through the bladder and rectum, and came out just below the right sacro-sciatic notch, near the edge of the sacrum. Tlie day after the battle he was sent to the general hospital at Staunton, where he remained under treatment for four mouths. For the first month urine passed freely through the wounds, made by the entrance and exit of the ball, and was generally mixed with blood and pus. Ftecal matter was frequently discharged through the ijosterior wound. Some time during the third week he passed several small pieces of bone from the rectum. At the end of the fifth week the wound of exit bealed, and for the first time since his injury urine was discharged through * See Richmond Medical Jotmial, Aiiril, 1868, vol. V, p. 279.259 LITHOTOMY. the uretlira. The water continued to be discharged through the urethra and wound of entrance for live months, Avhen the latter gradually closed. It opened again, however, in a few weeks, and continued alternately to close and open at varying intervals until September, 1865, when he came to me. For two months after being wounded he was confined to the bed ; after this he was able to go about with the aid of cratches. At the end of four months he could walk slowly without assistance, and was for a long time engaged as clerk for the post quartermaster at Staunton. In September, ISG-j, he applied to me with symptoms of stone in the bladder. On sounding him, the stone vras readily discovered, being against the posterior wall of the bladder, and apparently fixed in that situation. His general health was very bad, in consequence of the pain and continued irritation he suttered, and the fistulous opening in front still remained discharging urine and pus. After some days of careful preparatory treatment, I performed the lateral operation, aud found the stone attached to the mucous membrane, over and around the old wound in the posterior wall of the bladder. He recovered without any untoward symptoms; the fistulous opening closing at the same time that the wound in the perinaium was healed, and he was out of bed on the fifteenth day. I heard from him a few days ago, and learned that the fistulous track had never reopened, and that his health and strength were excellent. The calculus, which was presented to the Army Medical Museum byDr.H. McGuire, is rep- resented in wood- cut ifos. 01 and 02, aud consists principally of the triple phosphates of lime aud mag- nesia, and weigh- ed, immediately after its removal? two and a quarter ounces; it has for its nucleus a piece of bone about half an inch long. T'lG. 61.—Extend view of a iirinary calculus. Spec. 5041, Sect. I, A. M. M. Fig. 6-2—Sectioual view of tlie calculus. DCOIII.—Account of an Operation for Lithotomy, in which a Ball ivith a Phosphatic Incrustation was Successfully Removed. By J. L. Forwood, M. D. Thomas Lindsey, of Co. F, G9th Pennsylvania Volunteers, aged 43 years, was wounded at Gettysburg, on July 2, 1803, while in a kneeling posture, by a ball which, after passing through his canteen, entered the thigh. On January 18,1804, he was discharged the service at the Newton University Hospital, in Baltimore. On his return home to Chester, Pennsylvania, he suffered many of the symptoms of stone in the bladder, for which he was treated from time to time, until February, 1800, when an operation for strangulated hernia, the result of dyspnoea, became necessary. On April 12, 1800, the operation of lithotomy was performed upon the patient, when, most unexpectedly, an irregularly shaped ball, coated with a phosphatic deposit, was removed from the bladder, weighing 708 grains. The operation was successful, and at last accounts the patient was well, and living in the vicinity. DCCIV.—Memorandum relative to a Vesical Calculus, the Nucletis of which was an Iron Ball. Con- densed from Eeports by A. N. Dougherty, M, D., late Medical Director of the Second Army Corps. William Cockcroft, late a private of Co. D, 199th Pennsylvania Volunteers, aged 42 years, was admitted to the New Jersey Home for Disabled Soldiers, on May 30, 1807, to be treated for "shingles" (herpes zoster). A week afterward he was discharged cured, without having complained of any urinary disorder. In the fall the patient returned to be treated for painful micturition, aud stated260 KEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. that lie liad been wouiulod at Petersburg, on April 2, 18G5, by a ball, the cicatrix of which was visible just above the pubis. A normal and paiidess evacuation occurred from both the bladder and the bowels half an hour after the reception of the wouud. Some days sid)se(piently he was taken to the Ilampton llospital, at Fort Monroe, where frequent and unavailiug ettbrts were made to find the ball. No urine ever i^assed through the wound, but eight pieces of bone (probably of the pubic bone) were removed at various times. At this -v isit to the "Home" his wound had healed, diflicult micturition having occurred simultaueonsly. A sound failed to reveal the presence of any extraneous substance in the bladder. In a few weeks he returned to say that the wound had reopeiied, and that in consequence he had experienced entire relief. Notliiug more was heard from him until July 13, ISGS, Avhen he was readmitted, the wound having closed and his old symptoius having grown worse. A foreign body was now readily detected by physical exploration, and the nrine was heavily, loaded with pus, and at times was bloody. On August 31st, the patient was cut for stone, and a vesical cal(!ulus removed, the nucleus of which was an iron ball. The incrustations consisted of uric acid and tripple phosphates, and the specimen, when recent, weighed one ounce and twenty-three grains, avoirdupois. The ball was part of a shrapnel,* and the incrustations w^ere chiefly on one side, giving it the shape of a cock's comb. The operation used was the one latelj" recommended by Sir William Fergusson, and consisted in making a su])erficial cut, as in Dupuytren's bi lateral method, viz, semicircular, the convexity forward half an inch in front of the anus, w ith the extremities of the wing§ equidistant between the anus and the ischium. When, in the dissection, the membranous portion of the urethra was reached, the cut was made as in the lateral. The incision described above is said to aftbrd more ample room for the fingers than the usual lateral cut. The only untoward feature of this case Avas, that although the urine began to flow wholly by the urethra as early as the tifteeuth day, there was, and still was at the date of this report (December 20, 1S08)) a fistulous track leading toward the bladder, but from which no urine came. The patient was healthy-looking, although he stated that there was still some pus in his urine. He had neither incontinence of urine nor irritable bladder, and was able to retain his urine for four or five hours. At the above date, he had left the "Home" in order to pursue his ordinary avocation. The specimen, which is represented in this wood-cut, (Fig. G3,) was con- tributed by the oi)erator. Fig. (;:!.—\ calfuhis, of wlncli an ii oii ball is the nucleus. Spec. 5520, Sect. I, A. M. M. DCCV.—Bemarl's on the Removal of a Vesical Calculus, the Nucleus of which icas an Iron Arrow- Sead. By W. H. Fokwood, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Litimore, a wild Indian, chief of the Kiowas, aged 42 years, applied to me at Fort Sill, Indian Territory, August, 1869, wdth symptoms of stone in the bladder. The following history Avas elicited: In the fall of 1862 he led a band of Kiowas against the Pawnee Indians, and was wounded in a fight near Fort Larned, Kansas. Being mounted and leaning over his horse, a Pawnee on foot and within a few paces drove an arrow deep into his right buttock. The stick was withdrawn by his companions, but the iron point remained in his body. He passed bloody urine immediately after the injury, but the wound soon healed, and in a few weeks he was able to hunt the buffalo without inconvenience. For more than six years he continued at the head of his band, and traveled on horseback from camp to camp, over hundreds of miles every summer. A long time after the injurj^ he began to feel distress in micturating, which steadily increased imtil he was "Fig. CA.—Vesical calculus of "which au arrow-head is the nucleus. Spec. 5931, I, A. M. M. ^The projectile known as shrapnel is a spherical case-shot containing leafl balls, to one of the small irou balls of a cauister-shot for a howitzer. The missile in question is similarLITHOTOMY. 261 forced to reveal this sacred.secret, as it is regarded by these Indians, and to apply/or medical aid. His urine had often been stopped for many hoars, at which time he had learned to obtain relief by elevating the hips, or lying iu different positions. The urine was loaded with blood a;nd mucus, with a few pus globules, and the introduction of a sound indicated a large hard calculus iu the bladder. The Indiaus advised me of the depth approximately to which the shaft had pene- trated and the direction it took, and judging from the situation of the cicatrix and all the circum- stances it was apparent that the arrow-head had passed through the glutei muscles'and tlie obturator foramen and entered the cavity of the bladder, where it remained and formed the nucleus of the stone. Stone in the bladder is extremely rare among the wild Indians, owing no doubt to their almost exclusive meat diet, and the very healthy condition of their digestive organs, and this fact, iu connection with the age of the jiatient, and the unobstructed condition of his urethra, went very far to sustain this conclusion. On August 23d I removed the stone without difficulty by the lateral operation through the perinteum. The lobe of the prostate was enlarged, which seemed to favor the extent of the incision beyond what would otherwise have been safe. The perinteum was deep and the tuberosities of the ischii unnaturally approximated. The calculus, of the mixed ammouiaco- magnesian variety, was egg-shapped, and weighed nineteen drachms. The arrow-point was comjiletely covered and imbedded near the centre of the stone. It was of iron, and had been originally about two and one-half inches long, by seven-eighths of an inch at its widest part, some- wliat reduced at the point and edges by oxidation. The removal of the stone was facilitated by the use of two pairs of forceps, one with broad blades by which I succeeded iu bringing the small end of the stone to the opening in the prostate, while the other, loug and narrow, seized and held it until the former were withdrawn. In this way the forceps did not occupy a part of the opening while the large en d of the stone was passing through it. The capacity of the bladder was reduced and its inner walls were in a state of chronic inflammation. The patient quickly recovered from the effects of the chloroform, and felt great relief both in body and mind after the operation, and up to the eighth day the case did not present a single unfavorable symptom. The urine began to pass by the natural channel on the third day, and continued more or less until on the seventh it had nearly ceased to flow at the wound. But the restless spirit of the patient's friends could no longer be restrained. Open hostility with the whites was expected to begin at every moment, and they insisted on his removal. He needed purgative medicine on the eighth day, which they refused to allow him to take. They assumed entire charge of the case, and the foUowiiig day started with him to their camps sixty miles away. jSTineteeu days after he is reported to have died. But his immediate relatives have since assured me that his wound was well, and that no trouble arose from it. They described his symptoms as those of bilious remitting fever, a severe epidemic of which was r)revailing at the time, and from which several white men and many Indiaus died in that vicinity. The calculus was contributed to the Museum at Washington. A section is represented in the wood-cut (Fig. GI) of natural size. [The weight of the concretion is eight hundred and fifteen grains, and it consists of an almost uniform deposit of triple phosphates about the nucleus.—Ed.] DOOYI.—Report of a Case in wJdch a Gonoklal Mmlcet Ball teas Suceessfulhj Removed from the Bladder by Lithotomy. By J. L. Forwood, M. D. Edwin T. Mason, a private of Co. K, 198tli Pennsylvania Volunteers, aged 49 years, was wounded near Hatcher's Euu, Virginia, on March 31, 18G5. He was sent to Lincoln Hospital at Washington, from which he was discharged per general order on June 9, 1865. His wound remained open, but did not require medical aid. He returned home, and followed his ordinary occupation up to February, 1809. At this date the wound healed up and the patient thought himself well; but on February, 1870, vesical trouble, bloody urine, &e., appeared. On April 16th the operation of lithotomy was performed, and there was removed a conoidal musket ball weighiug one ounce and x quarter, and having two small pieces of phosphatic deposit attached. On May 30th the patient was up and about, but the wound had not entirely healed. There were no symptoms of calcidus until six weeks before the operation, notwithstanding there seems but little doubt of the ball having been in the bladder previous to that time.EEPORT OF SUKGICAL CASES li^ THE ARMY. 262 Removal of Tumors.—Several instances of the removal of important tumors, malig- nant or non-malignant were reported : DCCVir.—Memomnilum of a Case of Scirrlms. By Ja.mes P. Kimball, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Wallace, Co. B, 31st lufnntry, aged 19 years, was admitted, on Febrnary 4, 18G8, to the post hospital at Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, with a scirrhus iu the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue immediately above the centre of the forehead. The patient was slightly cachectic, nervous, and debilitated from pain and want of sleep. On February 5tli, I made a crucial incision one and one-fourth inches iu length, through the skin over the centre of the tumor, retiected back the flaps and dissected oivt the tumor, which was of the size of a hickory nut. No anaesthetic was nsfd. The outer portion of each incision xmited by first intention, the centre filling uii by granulation. The patient was returned to duty IVlarch 5,1SG8. A large scar remained unavoidably, in consequence of the skin over the centre of the tumor having been involved in the disease. DOOVIII.—Kotc of a Case of Extirpation of a Fatty Tumor. By A. C. Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Pri\'ate Nicholas Daly, Co. I, 20th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Baton Rouge, February 22, 1SG9, with a lipoma over the left zygomatic arch. Tlie tumor was removed thiough an incision, running obliquely from the corner of the eye to the ear. Erysipelas of the face and neck supervened, but yielded to treatment. The wound of incision healed by granulation, and on March 9, 1SG9, the patient was returned to duty. DCCIX.—ISiote of a Fibrous Tumor of the Bad-. By Edward Cowles, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Isaac Spencer, Co. H, llTth Colored Troops, aged 50 years, was admited to the post hospital at Brownsville, Texas, April 13, 18G7, with a tumor, four or five inches in diameter, on the left shoulder, over the spine of the scapula. On May 21th, ether being administered, an incision, five inches, was made, and the tumor was removed. It did not present the appearance of a malignant growth, but was closely adherent to the adjacent parts. Haemorrhage was copious. The incision was closed by sutures and healed rapidly. The patient had recovered, and was reported for duty on June 21, 18G7. DCCX.—Memorandum relative to a Morbid Growth on the Lip requiring Surgical Interference. By Basil Norris, Surgeon, U. S. A. A canci'oid tumor on the bp of General H was removed very satisfactorily to him and myself, by seizing it with a pair of forceps, and enucleating the mass with a thin, sharp thumb lancet, which i)assed around and beneath it as cleanly as a razor. By this means, in the language of Professor Gross, " the operation is best done," when the skin is not involved. The nest left by the tumor was covered over with a piece of wet tissue paper, which was moistened by the tongue of the patient, as often as was necessary to keep it in place. With this dressing only, the wound nearly filled with plastic lymph in twenty-four hours, and was well in a week. I inclose extracts of a letter as a part of the report: ***** November 21,1870. , " My dear Doctor : In reply to your note of the 17th, I have the i)leasure to report that my lip is doing very well—seems perfectly healthful—although, of course, the circulation has been interrupted by the cuts it has had, and occasionally it looks a little blue and feels benumbed. You performed the operation on the 30th of March, 1870. My trouble commenced as early as the spriug of 1805, when I first noticed the skin of the lip broken as from a blister. Two such spots appeared, producing no other inconvenience than soreness to the touch and extreme sensitiveness to salt, &c. As they did not heal, I got a physician to touch one with caustic, but without good effect. I263 EEMOVAL OF TUMOES. tlien commeneed, upon advice of dilferent physicians and surgeons, to apply different remedies, caustic or emollient, acid or alkaline, until, I think, the whole round of acids, alkalies, metalloids, and autiseptics had each a chance. In the spring of 1868,1 determined to have a surgical operation tried, and after advice from two sources, one in favor of a strong caustic, and the other of the knife. This required cutting through the lip down to the external mark, and removing quite a large piece of what was thought to be diseased membrane. At that time the smaller place in front and centre of the lip, which you afterward removed, was supposed to be curable, * * * March, 1870, I showed it to you, determined to have it out if you so advised, I am glad to say that you did advise it." * * * * * * " * DCOXI.—Report of a Case of Medidlarij Cancer at the Angle of the Lower Jaiv. By J. E. Eeily, M. 1)., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Michael Keilly, Ordnance Detachment, Washington Arsenal, aged 27 years, was admitted into the hospital on February 5, 1870. A large medullary carcinoma involved the artic- ulation of the lower maxilla on the right side, and had dislocated the condyle in its growth, and had extended inward above the palatine arcings, pushing down the soft palate, and almost tilling the fauces. The patient's pulse, skin, and secretions were normal, at the time of the operation to be described. His appetite was good; but he was unable to masticate or swallow solid food. On March 31, 1870, the patient having been placed under the auiiesthetic influence of sulphuric ether, an exploratory incision, three inches in length, was made, beginning immediately in front of the lobe of the right ear, and passing downward in the direction of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It was now found necessary to make a second incision, from the angle of the jaw to the angle of the mouth, the excision of the right ramus of the inferior maxillary being necessary to remove the tumor. The operators were Assistant Surgeon J. S. Billings, U. S. A.; Assistant Surgeon G. A. Otis, U. S. A.; and Surgeon Basil ISTorris, U. S. A. The patient continued in comfortable condition during the evening, taking liquid nourishment freely, and continued in good condition until about four o'clock on April 1st, when symptoms of tetanus set in, and, in spite of the usual remedies, he sank rapidly, and died at eight o'clock in the evening, April 1, 1870. [Assistant Surgeon Billings wrote out a more extended account of this operation, and yet a third report of the case was received. I)r. Eeilly's ofiacial statement gives the main facts and dates. Dr. J. J. Woodward had the kindness to make the draAvings represented by the wood- cuts (Figs. C5, 06), and to furnish the following- mem orand urn of the microscopical appearances: " Some rather large fragments of the tumor removedfrom Private Keilly havhig been brought to the Army Medical Museum, on the day of the operation, Avere examined by me while fresh, and subsequently sections stained Avith carmine were prepared by Dr. E, M. Schafier, and mounted in Canada balsam. These are preserved in the microscopical section of the museum, (Nos. 3500 to 3512 inclusive). The tumor was chiefly com- posed of a stroma of connective tissue, Avith large meshes, Avhich Avere filled with masses of small, loosely adherent, nucleated cells. In the perma- nently mounted sections the position and arrangement of the cells is indicated by that of the oval nuclei, which measure from ^-J^^ to of an inch in long diameter. In the fresh preparation the nuclei appeared rather larger, and each was seen to be contained in a delicate young cell. Fir. 65.—^Portion of section oi medullary carcinoma, ahowmg connec- tive tissue stroma with tlie nuclei ot the cell masses on either side Spec. 3500, Sect. Ill, A. M. M,; 740.EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 264 Some of the fragments yielded sections, in wliicb tbe structnre of the parotid gland conld be distinctly made out, the nltimate lobules of tbe gland being pushed apart by a soft librillated connective tissue, in which unmerous small cells similar to those of tbe rest of the growth abounded. Tbe same sections passed through portions of the masseter mnscle, the connective tissue of which was similarly infdtrated, the bundles of fibres, and, in some instances, the individual flbi'es being pnsbed apart by the new formation. Nos. 3501 and 3502 show this con- dition of the parotid and muscle very well. In places the parotid lobules are perfectly normal, and their epithelium well shown in the pre- parations, but pushed apart by the medullary infiltration; iu other ])arts the tissue of the parotid is obscured by the new growth, and appears to pass gradually into it. The tumor I , i_ is to be regarded as a rapidly developing Fic;. (i.i.-j>.„tion oi-saiMc. siu . i„u i,, .sh>,« in^^ jKutiou of Hvemuscuill mcdullary carciuoma, involving the parotid and libvos, witli nuclei of cancer cells in tlie intervening connective tissue, the adjacent partS."J Spec. 3500, Sect. Ill, A. M. M. " ' UCCXII.—Account of an Encephnloid Tumor at the Angle of the Jau\ From information furnished by C. H. Laub, Surgeon, U. S. A. In December, 1804, William P , aged sixty-two years, thirty of which were passed in the Army of the United States, an inmate of the Soldiers' Home, at Washington, complained of a small indolent swelling under the left angle of the lower jaw. The tumor was painted with tincture of iodine for about three weeks, but its growth was not.arrested. The iiatient then left the asylum to return after an absence of three mouths. During this period the tumor increased rapidly in bulk. In October, 1SG5, its attachments extended from the mastoid process of the left temporal backward to Avithin half an inch of the spinous process of the upper cervical vertebra?, upward over the occipital bones and the ramus of the inferior maxilla, and downward along the sterno-cleido-mastoideus to within two inches of the middle of the clavicle, deflecting the trachea and oesophagus to the right. The tumor was regarded as a malignant one, and in view of the great danger that its extirpation would involve and tbe probability of its recurrence, operative interference was decided against, The tumor enlarged rapidlj', greatly impeding respiration and deglutition, and there was grave constitutional disturbance. On October 22, 1SG5, the patient died. The tumor was removed. post-mortem, by Assistant Surgeon J. S. Billings, U. S. A. A microscopical examination of the growth, by Doctors Billings and Curtis, proved it to be of a cancerous nature. It is preserved in the Surgical Section of the Army Medical Museum as No. 4961. Photograph 102, Surgical Series A. M. M., represents the appearance of the tumor a few weeks before the fatal termination. DCCXIII.—On a Case of ScirrJms of the Mamma, treated Ijy Ablation, and Internally hy the Decoction of Cundurango. By Basil'NoivRis, Surgeon, U. S. A. The specimen of scirrhus of the mamma, which I sent to the Medical Museum, was removed September 14, 1S69, from the breast of a servant woman, 42 years of age. Four years previously she requested me to examine a small tumor in the right mamma, near the nipple. It was not then larger than a filbert. An elliptical incision made to include the morbid growth embraced one-half of the gland, and a portion of skin in the direction of the axilla. In the endeavor to remove " every trace of the disease," it was necessary to dissect off the fascia from a small si)ace coveringEEMOVAL OF TUMORS. 265 tlio body of the i">ectorali.s major, and some fibres of the ranscle. The wound was well sponged with cold water, closed with silver sutures, and left to heal, as it did very rapidly, and almost entirely by first intention. Eelieved in mind and body, she continued well and cheerful until the following February, 1870, when the disease returned. A small, hard tumor beneath the cicatrix first attracted her attention, and increased until May 21st, when, having attained its foruier size, with indications of approaching ulceration, it was again removed. Three months afterward it rea,ppeared at several points aloiig the course of the scar. She next treated the tumor herself, five weeks— under the advice of friends and with my consent—with iioultices of crushed cranberries, which produced a peculiar jiustular eruption, but with neither api>reciable harm nor benefit. More recen tly I prescribed, and am still using in this case, with good effect in relieving pain, bromide of potassium and acetic acid, an external remedy, recommended by Mr. Henry Osborne, of Southampton, in a communication to the British Times and Medical Gazette, republished in the October number of the Practitioner of 1S70. He says : "I have not had an opportunity of trying the bromide of potassium and acetic acid in many cases of cancer. I nevertheless am able to state that those who have given it a trial during the last twelve months have derived the greatest relief from its use. The proportion of bromide of potassium and acetic acid should be in accordance with the severity of the pain. In one case I ordered it to the extent of three drachms of bromide of potassium to one ounce of acetic acid and five ounces of water, to be used warm and kept constantly applied to the breast by saturating a piece of lint and covering it with oil silk. If abrasion of the cuticle or a cicatrix has formed, the lotion may be more readily absorbed, or especially if ulceration has taken place; in that case the lotion should be diluted accordingly. [Subsequently Surgeon ISTorris made the following further report of this case.] Washington, D. 0., June, 1871. General : I have tlie honor to report as follows on the treatment of cancer by cundurango, as prescribed in the case of Isabella G , aged 43 years. She had been my patient twenty-one months, suffering from scirrhus of the right mamma. I removed the tumor on the 5th of September, 1869, and again on the 14th of-May, 1870. It reappeared in July following, and on the 24th of April, 1871, the day on which she began to use the remedy, it occupied a remaining small portion of the mammary gland, and extended over its original situation as far as the axilla. The axillary glands were involved, the arm and hand swollen, and the skin ulcerated, forming three circular sores, which discharged a thin offensive pus peculiar to sloughing of this variety of cancer. She complained of pain and irritable stomach, and was too feeble to leav-e her apartment. Observing, as nearly as possible, directions laid down by Dr. Casares, of Ecuador, and contained in a pamphlet published for information by the Department of State, I prepared a decoction by putting half an ounce of crushed cundurango with twelve ounces of water, and boiling it down to six fluid ounces. Of this, one ounce was taken, morning and evening, until the 11th of May—eighteen days—when the dose was reduced to half an ounce, and continued to the 29th of May. Whether as coincident, or in consequence of this treatment, the tumor completely sloughed out, leaving the integument sound and a surface granulating beneath. Irritability of the stomach, with pain in swallowing and on pressure upon the epigastrium, increased, and the patient, much emaciated, died on the 6th of June. Post-mortem examination revealed cancer of the stomach and spleen ; a hard flat tumor, leaf shaped, starting from the point of entrance of the oesophagus, embraced a portion of the spleen, which could only be separated from the stomach by tearing the morbid growth common to both organs, 1 am indebted to Dr, J, J, Woodward, U, S, A,, for microscopical examinations of the tumor and specimen, and for his note appended to this report. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, BASIL NORRIS, iSurf/eon, U. f^. A> General J. K. Barnes, ^Sm-tjeon General, U, B, Army, Washington, D. C, 34Sect, m., A. M. M. [Drawn l)y Dr. Schaeffer.] r 266 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AR]\IY. Army Medical Museum, Wmlu))f/tnn, J). C, July 21, 1871. Sir : In accordance with your request, I have made a niiscroscopical exauiination of the several morbid growths in the case of Isabella G , with the general conclusion that the case Avas undoubtedly one of scirrhus carcinoma. The specimens preserved at the Museum are as follows: No. 5598, Surgical Section. The tumor first removed by Surgeon Norris is an oval mass, about five inches long by three broad, with a portion of skin attached externally. The greater portion of the piece is occupied by a firm irregular scirrhus growth, which, after being several months in alcohol, still yielded, on scraping, a creamy juice containing cells and nuclei; on tlie edges of the mass is some normal adipose tissue. No. 5921, Surgical Section. " The tumor removed by Surgeon Norris at the second operation is a smaller mass, containing a similar but somewhat softer growth. In the skin, adherent exter- nally, a portion of the cicatrix of the first operation can be recognized, and from this an irregular soft nodule, the size of a walnut, protrudes. No. 10S3, ]Medical Section, is a portion of the stomach and the spleen of the same patient. In the" greater curvature of the stomach, and not far from the cardiac orifice, is a carcinomatous thickening of the coats of the organ, about half an inch in thickness, occupying an area about four inches in diameter. Externally the thick- ened patch was closely connected with the hilus of the very small spleen by a soft carcinomatous tumor, about the size of a hen's egg. Sections of the first and second tumors re- moved from the breast, of the stomach, and the * spleen, were ])repared in the Microscopical Sec- tion of the Museum, by Acting Assistant Sur- geon E. M. Schaeffer, and having been stained with carmine and mounted in Canada balsam, now form a part of the microscopical collection. Nos. 3513 to 3519, Microscopical Section, are from the tumor first removed from the breast, and show it to consist of an areolar stroma of soft connective tissue, the inter- spaces of which are stuffed with masses of loosely adherent, nucleated cells; the nuclei of these cells are oval, and measure from three to sixten-thousandths of an inch in long diameter; they contain generally one or two shining nucleoli. The cells themselves are of an irregular form, and various sizes, the smaller ones predominating. The connective tissue stroma contained an abundance of small nucleated, connective tissue coi-puscles, resembling those found in most new formations of connective tissue. Nos. 3G73 to 3G76, Microscopical Section, are from the second breast tumor, and are very similar to those from the first; in many places, however, the cell masses are more voluminous and the con- nective tissue stroma is less prominent. Nos. 36G3 to 3672, Microscopical Section, are sections cut perpendicularly to the surface, through the indurated portion of the stomach. In most places the mucous membrane and the tubular glands are in a condition not far from normal; but the submucous connective tissue, the muscular and iieritoneal coats, are transformed into a carcinomatous mass, consisting of grouj^s of cells with large nuclei imbedded in a connective tissue stroma, the general character of the neoplasm closely approximating those of the breast tumors. Nos. 3656 to 3662, Microscopical Section, are sections of tumor between the spleen and the stomach; they present the same general characteristics, but this tumor was much softer than the other growths, and in the section the stroma appears less pronounced, and the cell masses are more voluminous. In this case, as in others of multiple carcinoma, examined in the Microscopical Section Fig. 67.—Section of scinlius, magnified 400 diameters. »S^jjcc. 3513,KEMOVAL OF TUMOES. 267 of tlie Museum, tlie geueral similarity of the structural details of the several growths found, iu XQvy diftereut organs, deserves attention. The tumor between the stomach and the spleen was evidently of recent origin and rapidly growing. Its relation to its chief blood-vessels probably accounts for the manifest atrophy of the spleen, which was only three inches long by two and a half broad. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, J. J. WOODWAED, Assistant Surgeon U. 8. A. Surgeon Basil Nokkis, U. S. A. DCCXIV.—Remarks on the Removal of a Fibroid Growth from the Left Breast. By Henry McEldeury, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. James Johnston, Sergeant Co. C, 15th Infantry, was admitted to hospital, August 12, 1868, ■with a fibroid tumor of the left breast. The patient, a large and a well-developed man of the sanguine temperament, stated that the tumor first made its appearance during September, 1805, while he w^as working at his trade, boot and shoe making. Ilis attention was first called to the enlargement by a burning ijain in the left chest; and he then, on examination, noticed the growth. From that time until the present, the tumor has gradflally increased in size. He does not experi- ence i)ain in the growth, except when the chest becomes constricted from any cause. Has not been able to wear his suspender on the left side, nor to carry his knapsack on this account. Has a sister, who, when about eight or nine years old, liad a hard tumor on the right eyebrow, which was removed by a surgeon, and has not since returned. The remainder of the family are all healthy, and have never had any tumors of any kind. August 12,1808. The tumor is movable and rather flat; measuring two inches and one quarter, in length, and two inches in width; lying immediately beneath the left nipple, superficial to the pec- toralis major muscle ; its diameter corresponding with the direction of the fibres of that muscle; com- plains of pain when the surface beneath the nipple is pinched ; pinching the base or sides of the tumor gives no pain or uneasiness. There is no retraction of the nipple, nor lymijhatic involvement; no enlargement of the subcutaneous veins; generalhealth of the patient excellent. As the patient was anxious to have the tumor removed, its excision was performed August 12th, iiarts brought together with, interrupted silken sutures, and ichthiocolla plaster. One grain of morphine was given hypodermically, after operation. August 13th, slept well during night, and complains of no pain. Three comijound cathartic pills were prescribed. Did well until August 15th, when the wound began to assume a gangrenous appearance, and a small quantity of foetid, reddish, purulent fluid was discharged. Sutures were removed, and the parts well touched with liquor of perman- ganate of potash, no adhesion having taken place. The solution of permanganate salts was applied twice daily, until August 18th, when the gangrenous appearance had entirely disappeared. The edges of the wound were then broiaght together by isinglass plaster. The parts rapidly healed, and the patient was returned to duty September 28th, having no jiain in or about the cicatrices. Miscroscopical appearance of the juice of the growth, immediately after the operation; numerous round uninucleated cells, about the' size of blood cells, with fat and blood cells, and occasionally fragments of fibrous tissue, were the only elements observed in the field of the micro- scope. The growth appeared, on section, of a whitish color, tough and gristly feel, and had all the appearance of condensed fibrous tissue. Weight, fifteen drachms. It has been ijreserved in proof spirit, for transmission to the Army Medical Museum. DCCXV.—Report of an Encysted Timor of the Bade. By H. S. Schell, Assistant Sui'geon, U. S.A. John A. Batt, a private of Troop I, 2d Cavalry, aged 54 years, was being treated iu quarters at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, for a cystic sebaceous tumor situated between the scapuUe. ThisEEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 268 tumor liiul been opened ou April lOtli, and the contents discharged. It bad filled, ulcerated, and discharged three times previously, at intervals of six months; but at the time of second operation, it was a large, inflamed, and painful cj'st, five inches in diameter. On April 27, 18G7, the patient's constitutional state warranting an operation for removal, he took chloroform, and a crucial incision was made, and the encysted mass was dissected from the surrounding tissues. One ligature was applied; the edges of the incisions were approximated by iron wire sutures and adhesive strips. The edges of the wound not uniting, the d]-essing was removed and the wound allowed to heal by granulation. By May 30, 1867, the wound had healed. DCOXVI.—Memorandum relative to a Morbid Growth removed from the Bach of the left Forearm. By B. J. I). Irwin, Surgeon U. S. A. Specimen 55G1 of the Surgical Section of the Museum is a cystic tumor, which was removed at Fort Wayne, Michigan, from the dorsal aspect of the left wrist and fore-arm of a woman, aged about 40 years, who had never borne children, and whose usual occupation Avas that of a seamstress. The operator, who contributed the specimen, states under date of February 22, 1869, that some four years previously Professor Van Buren had removed from this patient a morbid growth from the same i)osition. The disease having subsequently returned, the woman was advised to submit to amputation of the fore-arm. Upon consultation with two medical men, it was decided to make an exploratory incision with a view to excision of the radius. The incision showed the bone to be healthy, and it was deemed advisable to confine the operation to the complete removal of the diseased tissues. The tumor extended about half an inch over the carpal bones, and about two inches along the extensor tendons of the radius. [A microscopical examination of the tumor was made by Assistant Surgeon J. J. Woodward, U. S. A., who furnishes the folloM'ing memorandum : [Uyqroma i)Mlifcrum^ of Yirchow (Die Krankhaften; Geschwiilste, Band I, S. 206).] Ganglion con- taining fibrinous bodies. The walls of the lobulated cyst are composed of tough connective tissue, containing, however, maiiy spindle-shaped elements imbedded. The little fibrinous bodies of granular matter are arranged in layers.] DCCXVII.—Account of a Morbid Growth on the Leg, requiring Surgical Interference. ScHWAETZWELDER, late Surgcon TJ. S. V. By A. C. Private Philii) —, Co. C, 13th Colored Infantry, aged about 25 years, fell through a cow- catcher, on a railroad track and iiijured his left thigh. The accident put him in the hospital for two or three weeks, during which time cups were applied above the knee. He was mustered out of service in January, 1866. In Decem- ber, 1866, the patient first noticed the appearance of a hard, painless tumor, on the anterior aspect of the left fibula, near the middle third. The tumor was first examined in April, 1867, at Nashville, Tennessee. It then occupied the greater part of the shaft of the fibula, to which it seemed firmly attached, and from which it seemed to originate. Its contour was even and smooth, and the skin adherent. Its most striking characters were extreme hardness, density, and weight. Anteriorily, and just below the head of the fibula, was a soft, fluctuating spot, of small extent. Ou thrusting a grooved needle into it, nothing escaped but thick, black blood. A heteroplastic growth was diagnosed, of scarcely questionable malignity. The patient was placed under close observation. The growth increased rapidly. In two months it doubled its size. An exploring needle introduced into several i^laces revealed osseous (osteoid) tissue, the hard- ness and apparent density of which was remarkable. The perimeter of the calf, including the tumor, measured twenty-one inches and a quarter ; of the sound leg, fourteen. The day after the measurement, June 26, 1867, the removal of the limb having been decided on, it was amputated by Dr. Schwartzfelder, just above the knee-joint. The skin was still adherent. The gastrocnemius and soleus muscles were spread out, and, with the other muscles of the leg, formed a membranous-like Fig. CP.—Osteo-cepba- loma of the left fibula. Spec. 4747, Sect. I., A. M. M.TETANUS. 269 covering for tbe tumor. Near the union of the two former with their commou tendon, the muscular tissue was destroyed or converted into a gehitinous-like substance. In front, and just below the upper tibio-fibular joint, a small sac Avas found, containing less than an ounce of dark, grumous blood. The whole growth was seen to be constituted of osseous spicula, (osteoid tissue ?) and gelatinous and cartilaginous tissue, the latter greatly predominating. On subjecting the growth to the microscope, the bone cori^uscles were clearly defined, and also others which it was inclined to range with cartilage cells. Its great succulency, and the fact that the inguinal glands of the left side were enlarged, looked toward its heteroplastic and malignant essence. On July 9th the patient was doing well, and had every prospect of recovering from the operation. He could ascribe no cause whatever for the appearance of the tumor, except ths above-mentioned injury to the thigh. The marks occasioned by the cupping were still visible at the time of operation. The specimen, with the history, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and some idea of the growth can be gathered from the wood-cut Fig. 68. Tetanus.—Six special reports were made of cases of alleged tetanus, with tlie sur- prising result of four recoveries and two deaths. DCCXVIII.—Information relative to a Fatal Case of Traumatic Tetanus. By W. H. Longwill, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Edward Waterfield, a private of Co. C, 5th Infantry, was admitted to hospital at Fort Wingate, New Mexico, on November 24, 186G, having been accidentally wounded by a musket ball, which entered the right wrist anteriorly, and passing through, emerged directly opposite, after comminuting the os magnum and the second and third metacarpal bones. A number of fragments of bones being removed, persulphate of iron was applied to stanch the heemor- rhage. Dry dressings were used until November 27th, when a linseed jjoultice was applied in order to remove the crust formed by the 'styptic. On November 30th, the crust was removed, and the cataplasm was continued; the wound discharging freely looked well, and the patient was in good condition. On the morning of December 1st, tetanus set in. Tincture of opium, in doses of sixty drops to be taken every two hours, was prescribed, and a blister was applied along the spine. At 7 P. M., a drastic iDurgative was administered. On December 2d, the patient's bowels were freely moved, and the blister had become very i^ainful, but no relief was aflbrded. He expe- rienced great .dif&culty in swallowing. The tincture of opium was continued, but, at 9 P. M,, opisthotonos occurred, when chloroform was administered through the remainder of the night with slight relief. The patient died at 3 P. M., on December 3d. At the autopsy, the median nerve was found swollen and inflamed at the seat of the wound, and five or six inches along its course. DC(3XIX.—Bemarlis on a Case of Tetanus following a Burn. By A. A, Teomans, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Private D. A. McCrum, Co. B, 24:th Infantry, was severely burned by the accidental ignition of a quantity of gun-powder, at one of the magazines at Vicksburg, on December 8, 1867. January Gth lie was attacked by iiremonitory symptoms of tetanus. His jaws Avere firmly closed and he was unable to separate them, neither could they be opened more than half an inch by the attendants, with the aid of various appliances. Pulse 85 and rather weak. Prescribed half an ounce of castor oil, to be followed by one ounce of wine with a raw egg, three times a day; beef- essence and brandy, every hour, and a grain dose of morijhine at bed-time. On the 7th, there was increased immobility of the jaws, and occasional light spasms. The treatment was continued; and in addition, an enema of soap, water, and castor-oil was administered. A blister was applied ov(^r the whole length of the spine, and a drachm of bromide of ijotassium was given every fourth hour. On the 11th the patient had severe spasms, which, increasing in frequency and violence, assumed the form known as opisthotonos, and were produced by the least movement on the part of the patient, or by a current of cold air. As the bowels had not been moved for two days, another enema was ordered, and the bromide of potassium was increased to half an ounce four times a dayEEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 270 The morpliiue, wine and raw egg, brandy, and beef-essence were continued, loth : Spasms continue unchanged in severity: muscles of extremities rigid; pulse 95, and diminished in -v^olume. Treatment continued; beef-essence and brandy given at shorter intervals. 18th: Patient improving; spasms not so severe; and there is less rigidity of muscle. For the last three days, he has had paroxsyms of spasms, commencing at 11 o'clock A. M. Four grains of quinine were ordered to be given twice daily, in addition to previous treatment. 21st: Patient continues to improve. He is now able to separate his jaws about an inch, and enjoys his food, still given in a liquid form. Pulse 87 and increased in volume. Spasms became less frequent, and ceased entirely February 3d, since, which date has had no symptoms of tetanus. 23d: He was attacked by epilepsy, of a very severe grade, to which he has been subject several years. The convulsions continued, at intervals over half a day, when finally checked by chloroform. February 29th: Is now doing well, although his hands are still very sore from the eftects of the burn. This man was discharged the service June 11, 18G8, at Vicksburg, Mississippi, for burns. DCCXX.—Rejwrt of a Case of Tetanus treated with Calahar Bean. By Charles Smart, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Hugh Nugent, bugler Ti'oop K, 5th Cavahy, on November 8,18G9, at Washington, injured his left fore-arm by a fall from his horse on the curbstone, causing a lacerated and slightly contused wound about an inch and a half below the inner condyle of humerus. The joint was uninjured. Cold- water dressings and simple ointment were applied until November 17th, when the patient com- plained of stiffness in the muscles of the injured fore-arm and the back of the neck, and that he could not separate his jaws as usual, which sym^jtoms he ascribed to a cold. He was admitted to the Sedgwick Barracks Hospital, when a hot-air batli was given, the wound dressed with bread and milk poultice, and Dover's powder administered. Excepting the stiff ness of neck and inability to separate the jaws he felt comfortable, but had no desire for food. Several attempts to swallow a teaspoonful of wine occasioned violent choking feelings, and spasms of the muscles of neck. At 7 P. M., however, the stiffness of muscles of neck was continuous, and the muscles of the spine were implicated. Every ten minutes an exacerbation took place lasting a few seconds, during which the abdomen and chest were thrown forward and the head back, while the face became flushed, and brows corrugated and the teeth clenched and exposed by the parted lips; pulse 100, increasing during and after exacerbation to 120. One-third of a grain of extract of Calabar bean was given in the form of a pill. At 8 o'clock, as no change was perceptible, the dose was repeated, and again at 9 P. M. At 10.30 one-third of a grain of the extract was injected under the skin of the right fore-arm, and oue-half grain one hour later. The only result was the fall of the pulse from 100 to 80, while the patient was quiet. Although he complained of pain and stiffness in the neck and back, no marked rigidity of the muscles in those regions was observed. At 1.30 A. M., on November 18th, sulphate of morphia was given, but without manifest effect. At 9 A. M., during an exacerbation, spasm of the diaphragm was indicated, more particularly at the attachments to the ribs on the right side. At 9.30 A. M., half a grain of the extract was given per orem, and repeated at 11. No benefit was derived from the administration; on the contrary, his condition became worse, the diaphragmatic spasms beipg continuous, i^ulse 100 to 140, skin hot but moist, and forehead beaded. Four ounces of chicken-tea and three ounces of wine were administered by feeding bottle with a rubber teat. At 4 P. M., two grains of the grated kernel of the Calabar bean in a drachm of water were given by a quill, and this was repeated at 5.30 At 7 P. M. the dose was increased to three grains and repeated at 9 o'clock, with the effect of producing marked contraction of the i:>ui)ils. No change for the better could be discovered. The spasms continued, and the patient showed signs of exhaustion. At 11 P. M. four grains of the grated kernel, with one grain of sulphate of morphia, were given, which ameliorated the sufferings of the jiatient, who fell into a dose, which lasted till 3 A. M., November 19th. During his sleep, however, the paroxysms would occasionally return. On awakening, his face was cadaveric, his pupils contracted to one- sixteenth of an inch, but he declared that he felt good. Wine being given, spasms were induced, which lasted about thirty seconds. The possibility of introducing nutritives by euemataprecluded byTETANUS. 271 spasms following any attempt to lie on the side. Wine and milk were, however, cantiously continued, but the further exhibition of the Calabar bean was discontinued until the pupils should show a tendency toward enlargement. The patient suffered no.pain either in right side, back, or neck, yet every few minutes his head was thrown back, and his chest and abdomen forward by the action of the muscles, while his riglit hand clutched at the epigastrium. The i)upils showed no enlargement. He gradually failed, and died at 10 A. M., November 19, 1869. DCCXXI.—Report of a Gase of Traumatic TetamCs thouglit to liave been treated sncce^fuUy with Calabar Bean. By David Hershey, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Charles Holker, colored, aged 20 years, by occupation a deck-hand, was admitted to the Freed- menVHospital, New Orleans, Louisiana, on May 24,1808, having about a week previous to his Admis- sion thrust a sliver of wood into the sole of his foot. It was immediately removed and the wound healed readily, no unpleasant symptoms occurring until the 24th. When admitted, spasms were occurring every twenty minutes; the jaws were firmly locked, and the muscles of the neck, chest, and abdomen were very rigid, Avith considerable opisthotonos. His bowels had not moved for five days. A terebinthinate enema was given with the desired result. Opium was administered in grain doses every two hours. He passed a restless night, the spasms recurring with but very slight intermission ; and on the 25th the pulse was 120. Tincture of Calabar bean was given in the dose of five drops every half hour, which was finally increased to twenty-five drops. Very little change took place until the 30th, when all the symptoms became less severe; beef-tea was given freely. He continued to improve, and on June 5th the pulse was 52, full and regular, and the spasms occurred but twice during the day. Opisthotonos was less marked. On the 16th, having had no spasms for four days, the use of the bean was discontinued. On June 20th he had completely recovered. The quantity of extract of Calabar bean taken during the case was three hundred and forty-two grains. DCCXXII.—Eeport of a Case of Traumatic Tetanus helieaed to have heen treated successf idly hy Large Doses of Opium and the Inhalation of Ether. By W. D. Jamaison, M. D. Acting Assistant Surgeon. Charles Wilson, a private of Co. B, 11th Infantry, aged 21 years, came under notice for medical treatment at Charlottesville, Virginia, on February 25, 1860, having chancres and bubo. The bubo had suppurated and was opened, giving exit to a copious quantity of pus. He was doing well until March 3d, when, coming in violent contact with the end of a board, which struck him over the seat of the bubo, he gave a scream, fell prostrate on the ground, and immediately became convulsed. Upon being seen within twenty minutes from the attack, he vomited the cont<?nts of his stomach, mingled with blood. From this time, 4.30 P. M., till 2 A. M. next morning, the convulsions followed each other in rapid succession, with intervals varying from five to ten minutes. Opisthotonos was marked in its fullest intensity; his speech was voluble but incoherent, changing at times to a loud and boisterous tone. The pulse at no time exceeded 86 ; the pupils were dilated, and did not respond to the action of light, or when an object was suddenly brought near the eye ; the countenance during the paroxysms, was almost purple, the superficial vessels of the face and neck being much distended; the muscles of deglutition were unaffected throughout, and the surface of the body and the extremities were much below the natural temperature. The treatment in this case consisted of sinapisms to the hands, feet, and stomach, followed by drachm doses of laudanum every hour, and the free inhalation of ether on the recurrence of spasms. No abatement of the spasms was preceptible until the next day at 2 P. M., a period of ten hours, during which time two and a half ounces of laudanum and fourteen ounces of ether had been expended. Being unable to make water, warm fomentations were applied over the region of the bladder, and bottles of hot water to the feet andperinseum, which had the desired effect an hour or so afterward, the patient experiencing no further trouble in that respect. He slept well and soundly at night, but evinced no desire to sleep in the day-time. On the fourth day the patient was wallcing about, taking no medicine except tincture of iron, and expressed himself feeling "very well."272 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IX THE ARMY. DCCXXIII.—Report of a Case of Traumatic Tetanna believed to have been treated succcssfnllij with Hydrate of Chloral By D. Bache, Surgeon, U. S. A. George Deems, a private of Troop A, 4tli Cavalry, aged 24 years, was admitted to the post hospital at San Antonio, Texas, July 4, 1870, with a contused wound of the scalp. He had been callousing the previous eveniiig, and while intoxicated had been thrown from the top of a carriage wdiich he was in the act of mounting. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He ate his breakfast as usual, but iu half an hour afterward complained of increasing stiflTness about the lower jaw, and in two hours it had become firmly closed and general convulsions had set in, each lasting from three to five miniites. Hydrate of chloral in twenty-grain doses was administered every hour. Pulse 102, temperature in axilla 100, pupils natural. Spasms occurred upon the slightest touch, or upon blowing the breath upon the face. On the next day the pulse was 64, respiration 24, temperature 98. The bowels moved and urine passed freely. The pupils were somewhat dilated equal' and sensitive to light. There was some rigidity of the masseter muscles, which were iiainful upon touch, and hyperjesthesia over the entire length of the spine ; greatest in the cervical region. The case progressed very favorably until July 13tli, the patient complaining only of occasional headache. He had been moved during the day to an adjoining bed ; at 10 P. M. he had a general convulsion, and two within the next hour; the jaws closed firmly, the pupils became widely dilated and fixed. Pulse full, intellect much confused after the convulsion. Thirty grains of hydrate of chloral were given. From this time convalescence was steadily progressive, the patient only requiring attention to his diet and secretions, and all exposure to the sun being prohibited. He "was discharged from the hospital August 9, 1870, and had no return of convulsion or any form of cerebro spinal disturbance. Death feom Chlorofoem.—Although ansesthetics were employed almost invariably in the surgical operations performed in the Army during the quinquennial period considered in this report, as well as in the reduction of luxations and fractures, and to a limited extent in obstetrical practice, there is only a single instance reported in which a fatal result is attributed to the use of chloroform. With what justice the allegation was made the reader can infer from this report. DCCXXIV.—Report of a Death ascribed to the Effects of Chloroform. By Iea Peeey, Assistant Surgeon, 9th U. S. Colored Troops. Henry Jetferson, a private of Co. E, 19th Colored Troops, aged 20 years, was accidentally wounded by a comrade at Brownsville, Texas, on August 30, 18G5. Two fragments of a conoidal musket ball entered the outer aspect of thigh, two inches below the trochanter major and, fractured the femur. He was admitted to post hosiiital, Avhere spicnlaj of bone were removed. About September 15th, extension with pulley and weight was used, and the limb, which was easily kept in place, was apparently doing well. The wound was kept open and discharged an ounce of healthy pus dailj', until October IGth, when ])us was rusty; no bony union had taken place. On November 17th, Acting Assistant Surgeon Raphael administered chloroform and ether for the purpose of excising the ends of the bone. The patient inhaled two minutes, then began to sink ; pulse failed; spasms occurred ; the head was drawn back, and hands and feet were in a tremor. The sponge was removed and the patient rallied, but as soon as the sponge was reapplied tlie spasms returned, the pulse stopped, and death supervened. At the autopsj^, the fragments of bullet w^ere found imbedded in the bone even with the surface. No ossific deposit was in the fracture or close to it, but some above and below its edge. Vaeious Suegical Affections.—The reports are too few for classification. BGCXY.—Account of a Case in whicli Transfusion was employed. By C. B. Beaman, M. D., Acting' Assistant Surgeon. James Smith, a private of Co. D, 12th Infantry, w^as admitted to post hospital at Petersburg, Yirginia, on November 7, 1S6G, suffering from thoracic aneurism, caused by a strain experiencedSURGICAL DISEASES. 273 on November 1st, while throwing heavy weights backward over his head. He had been a stont, robust man, but on admission was completely pulseless from the loss of blood by repeated emesis, sufficient to fill a common water bucket once and a half. I transfused blood to the amount of two and a half ounces into the median basilic vein; opium and morphine were administered by the mouth, cutis, and rectum every hour for over three days, in order to subdue the cough, which brought an renewed haemorrhages. An equivalent to sixty-four grains of opium was administered within the first twenty-four hours. Nourishment was given by enemata of whiskey, quinine, beef- juice, and laudanum. The patient gradually recovered under this treatment, although for several days the result was extremely doubtful. He was discharged in the latter part of the month ; he could sleep only in a chair, not being able to breathe in the horizontal posture. There was constant cough and gnawing pain in sternum near third right rib, and some hepatization of right lung. Aneurismal fremitus was occasionally^ perceptible to the ear; nevertheless the i)atient was gradually gaining strength. DCOXXVI.—Beimrt of a Case of Lumbar Abscess. By J. F. Head, Surgeon, U. S. A. Charles O , a private of Battery H, 3d Artillery, aged 33 years, and unmarried, served in the field during the rebellion with 1st or 2d Connecticut Heavy Artillery, and rei^nlisted as a veteran volunteer in 1803. In 1864 he suffered from typhoid fever, for which he was sent to general hospital at Baltimore, Maryland, where he was very ill for some time. During convalescence he felt pain in back, accompanied by swelling, which he attributed to long lying on his back. An abscess was opened in right lumbar region, and a quantity of j)us, estimated by himself at " more than a quart," was evacuated. The abscess healed rapidly, and, returning to his regiment, the man was mustered out in 18G5. In February, 1866, he enlisted in the 3d United States Artillery. He was not reported sick, except three days' diarrhoea in August, 1867, until November 28, 1867, when he complained of pain in the lumbar region, and was treated for rheumatism, with counter- irritants, salts of potassa, and electricity, and returned to duty December 24,1867. After five days duty returned to hospital, and was treated much as before for rheumatism. Eeturned to duty January 11, 1868. Eeadmitte'd March 21st with same symptoms. Treated by tincture of iodine externally, dry cups, and tonics. The disease was recognized as lumbar abscess. On April 22d, an incision, about midway between third lumbar vertebra and crest of right ilium, gave exit to less than ah ounce of apparently healthy pus. The opening healed, and he again returned to duty on June 21st. On the 28th of April, it is recorded that his weight has decreased from 145 to 121 pounds. On July 4, 1868, he reentered hospital, which he never left until his death. The abscess had reopened, and on July 8th is recorded as discharging about two ounces in twenty-four hours. Nourishing diet, wine, and quinine were prescribed. The case first came under my observation about July 16, 1868. The patient appeared to be gradually failing, the amount of discharge varying, l)us never offensive, nor could any denuded bone be detected by the probe. There was never any tenderness upon strong pressure or percussion over the spinous processes of verfeebrte., nor did the nervous power of the lower extremities ever seem impaired during the course of the disease. The thighs were flexed upon the trunk, and attempts to extend them caused pain, which was referred chiefly to the hip-joint and back. Emaciation was marked; countenance sunken and sallow; tongue moist and florid; appetite capricious; bowels generally regular, about one dejection in forty-eight hours; occasionally required a simple cathartic. The case progressed without note- worthy incident or variation until about the middle of October, when some swelling, accompanied by i)ain, was observed in left lumbar region. Tincture of iodine applied. Swelling increased, decided fluctuation observed, and on November 2d an incision, under cover of a rag soaked in carbolic acid and linseed oil one part to sev^en, evacuated about twenty ounces of abominably foetid pus. The opening was covered with antiseptic putty," after Lister's method. The discharge soon lost entirely its offensive smell, the quantity daily evacuated decreased from eight ounces to two, the original opening on the right side nearly closed, and ceased to furnish any discharge. For a time the patient seemed to rally somewhat. At about the same time with the appearance of last named swelling, oedema of the feet was observed, which afterward extended to the thighs, and 3?) .ft 274 REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. e\'cn to tlie loins, and increased pretty steadily to the time of his death. On November 23d began to expectorate blood^^ sputa, somewhat darker than in ordinary pneumonia. At first but little dysi)na?a and almost no pain in chest. On 24th complained of flight " stitch" in lower right chest. On auscultation considerable coarse rale in both fronts; no fine crepitus; back not examined on account of difficulty of moving in bed. On 28th and 29th dyspnoea much increased. On the 30th, he was evidently moribund at 8 A. M., and died at 1.30 P. M. The treatment during the last four months, in addition to the local means already mentioned, may be briefly summed upas consisting of a generous diet—eggs, milk, fresh meat, &c., ad libitum Avith strong beef-tea, regularly administered when the appetite did not induce him to take sutticient nourishment otherwise; tonics, as quinine, citrate of qniniue, and iron, compound tincture of cin- chonae, &c., brandy or whiskey, from four ounces to twelve ounces daily, and opiates, when needed, to relieve pain and procure sleep. Autopsy nineteen hours after death.—Body greatly emaciated, considerable oedema of lower extremities. Cadaveric rigidity marked. Chest decidedly resonant on percussion in both upper fronts, somewhat less so at sides. Abdomen sunken. Thorax.—Lungs do not fully collapse on opening chest. Left pleura contains about fourteen ounces of straw-colored serum. Recent adhesion at left middle front (region of nipple), where pleura costalis shows patch of arborescent redness and blotches as of ecchymosis, slight old adhe- sions at apex. Left lung, lower lobe completely hepatized. On Incision of lower part of upper lobe, free exudation of muddy, sanguineo-purulent fluids ; upper half of this lobe crepitant. Right pleura, some old adhesions at base (diaphragmatic portion), otherwise normal. Right lung, upper and middle lobes, generally crepitant. On section abundant issue of frothy serum. Lower lobe hepatized, friable, particularly toward base, where it resembles softened spleen. At anterior lower margin apparently a clot of blood effused in pulmonary textures, but its margin not well defined from the splenifled tissues surround. Pericardium normal. Heart not examined. Abdomen.—Peritonteum smooth, moist, no effusion or adhesions, no enlargement of mesenteric glands. Intestines externally pale, glossy; alimentary canal not opened. Liver, spleen, and left kidney normal. Right kidney not examined. A large abscess occupies most of situation of left psoas magiuis communicating with external opening that made on November 2d, and with the denuded bodies of second, third, and fourth lumbar vertebra?. Posterior crest of ilium denuded- On right side a section through pelvic fascia unexpectedly opened a cavity with no apparent open- ing, containing eight or ten ounces of thick, healthy, pus, communicating with space between last lumbar vertebra and sacrum, from which the intervertebral substance had entirely disappeared, the opposing surfaces of bone eroded and separated. Traces were found of another sinus, inde- X)endent of the last named abscess, communicating with the old, opening in right lumbar region. The parts were so degenerated, however, that the anatomical boundaries could not well be made out. [A section showing three lower vertebrae, sacrum, and parts of ilia in situ, -jvas forwarded to the Army Medical Museum with this report, and is numbered 5526 of the Surgical Section,] DCCXXVII.—Report of a Case of Caries of the Ptibis, treated in the Post Hospital at Fort D. A. Eussell, Wyoming Territory. By J. Basil Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. John K , buglar Troop F, 2d Cavalry, aged 22 years, reported at sick-call in the latter part of August, 18G8, complaining of pain on pressure and motion about the i^egion of the right groin. Inspection of the part showed no swelling, heat, redness, or other visible pathological change, and the case being considered as a sprain of the adductor muscles, caused by horse-back exercise, the patient was dismissed with some anodyne liniment to rub the painful part. A few days after he came again, stating the pain to be worse, and judging from his sickly and worn-out look that the affection might be serious, he was admitted to the hospital on August 31st. On admission, the symptoms were great pain in the groin, especially over Scarpa's triangle, and emaciation. His appetite was good, pulse regular, and no fever present. The painful part was for a few days painted with iodine, and an anodyne given at night to produce sleep. Ordinary diet with beef tea was prescribed. No effect being produced by the tincture of iodine, it was replaced by warm linseed-meal poultice^ which in their turn were dispensed with, and a lotion of275 LIGIIT]S"IXG-STEOKE. lead-water and opium used. The anodj-iie liniment was also used at times, and these several remedies were alternately employed till the patient's death, but with only partial alleviation of the local pain. The bowels were irregular during the whole length of the disease, being sometimes confined, but much oftener very loose. In fact the diarrhoea became so violent that during the last two weeks the evacuations were repeated and involuntary. It was treated at first by small doses of chalk and Dover's powder, tincture of catechu, opium, and acetate of lead, and when it became excessive, tannic acid was given by mouth, injection, and suppository, while the patient at the same time was taking large quantities of tincture of iron and quinine. Another comi)lication of the disease was bronchitis and pain over the chest, which annoyed the patient for a long time, and were treated by cough mixture and the local application of mustard-plasters or linseed poultices. A few light chills and some increase in the rapidity of the pulse were noticed at times, caused probably by the formation of pus. The emaciation progressed steadily, although the patient's appetite continued good to the last, and beef-tea and milk-punch Avere freely administered from an early period. He became completely bed-ridden, and an indolent ulcer opened itself over the right knee, which resisted all means of treatment. Bed-sores threatened to form upon the sacrum, but were prevented by the early application of washes of alcohol and tannin. One week before death an abscess showed itself in the perinjeum, and having opened under the action of poultices, a large quantity of unhealthy-looking pus issued from it, and continued to flow for several days. Death occurred on October 2Gth, from exhaustion. During the last three days foecal evacuations had been almost incessant. The patient was conscious to the last. At an autojisy, five hours after death, the body was very rigid, exceedingly emaciated, and of a strangely dark hue. Nothing abnormal was found in the thoracic and abdominal organs except some hypostatic congestion in the lungs. On cutting down over the sj'mphysis pubis, a vast and diffuse abscess was opened, full of a sanious, unhealthy pus. The soft parts around the i^ubis and about the perinteum were all infiltrated with that fluid, which must have amounted at least to a pint. The adductor muscles and femoral vessels and nerves of the right thigh were destitute of connective tissue and bathed in pus, which had burrowed down to the lower third of the thigh. The right pubis was extensively carious, the bony particles being so disintegrated that, on making the attempt to divide the symphysis, the knife missed the joint and cut through the bone without difiSculty. The disease had not proceeded beyond the ijubis, the hip-joint, to all appearances, being healthy. The left os innominatum w^as also found in a healthy condition. [The pathological specimen, consisting of the right OS innominatum, showing caries of the pubic i)ortion, was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum, and is numbered 5583 of the Surgical Section.] DCCXXVIII.—Bejjort of tlie Bemoral of a Bunion. By William J.Wilson, Assistant Surgeon, U.S.A. Michael McCormick, a corporal of Co. C, 34th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Holly Springs, Mississippi, in March, 1868, with a large bunion on the outside of the first metatarso-phal- angeal articulation, with which he had been suffering for a long time ; the toe was drawn inward and across and beneath the toes. The tendon of the adductor pollicis and the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis were divided subcutaueously, and the toe straightened on a splint. On March 31, 1868, the toe was much straighter and not drawn across the toes as before the operation. The bunion itself was not much reduced in size. The case is reported by the operator. Lightning-Steoke.—A report of two cases of recovery of soldiers struck simultane- ously by lightning, and also a report of a very interesting fatal case were received. DCOXXIX.—Beport of Ttco Cases of Lightning-Strol-e. By A. K. Smith, Surgeon, IT. S. A. Case 1.—Henrj^ Ward, a private of Co. D, 18th Infantiy, aged 27 years, was struck by lightning- July 12, 1870. He was admitted to hospital at McPherson Barracks, Atlanta, Georgia, on the following day. Stimulating liniments and electricity were applied. He was returned to duty July 31, 1870.REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 276 Case 2.^Cbarles Zeichler, a ]M ivate of Co. D, 18th Infantry, aj4ed 22 years, was struck by light- ning July 12, 1870. He was admitted to hospital at McPherson Barracks, Atlanta, Georgia, on the following day. Stimulating liniments and electricity were applied. He was returned to duty September IG, 1870. DOCXXX.—Report of a Case of Lightning-StroJce. By C. H. Alden, Surgeon, U. S. A. Elias W '—, a quartermaster's employe, aged about GO years, was struck by lightning, near Fort D. A. Russell, Wyoming Territory, on June 24, 18G9. At the time of this occurrence he was on horseback, lierding Government mules, about a mile east of the post, and was exposed to a violent thunder storm. The horse was instantly killed, but no wound could be discoveretl. The rider was shortly afterward found lying insensible by his side, and in about fifteen minutes was brought to hospital. On admission he was still insensible, and could not be aroused by loud calling; his eyes were closed, he was restless, and, tossing about his limbs, resisted eflbrts to remove his clothes, which were very wet. The surface and extremities were cold; the puL^e small. There was a superficial wound of the scalp, about two inches and a half long, just above and behind the right ear, ranging upward and backward, but nearly vertical, and having the appearance of being made by the point of some sharp instrument. A chain or series of large, irregular vesicated si)ots extended from below the right ear to the front of the neck, and down the chest and abdomen to the penis. There was a similar spot on the ui)iier and inner surface of left thigh, with slight super- ficial wounds like abrasion on the outer and middle surfaces of both thighs. His felt hat was very much torn on the right side, the leather lining inside being burned. His shirt was somewhat torn in front, and the pantaloons were torn in positions corresponding to wounds on the thighs. On applying heat to the extremities the patient was wrapt in blankets, and a small quantity of whiskey administered, which was swallowed without difficulty. In the afternoon the pulse grew somewhat fuller and the surface warmer, when slight vomiting occurred. In the evening he became more restless; got up from his bed and muttered a few inarticulate words; passed water in a close stool. During the night he lay for the most part quietly, but had occasional attacks of restlessness, and passed his fieces and urine in bed. On June 25th his condition was much the same as on the previ- ous evening; he was generally quiet, but occasionally grew restless ; pulse was somewhat fuller, and surface warmer than when admitted, but reaction not very decided; passed his urine involuntarily, and a little watery fluid oozed from the right ear. AVeak milk-punch and beef-tea were ordered every two hours. Toward noon respiration became somewhat blowing, and no change was apparent in the pulse or otherwise. There was occasional restlessness. Dry cups were ordered to the back of the neck and sinapisms to the extremities. In the afternoon he opened his eyes, looking around somewhat intelligently for a few moments, but did not speak, and again became entirely unconscious. At 7.30 P. M. the pulse was 72; respiration 30; temperature 97. At midnight he began to swallow with difficulty. On June 26th, at 7 A. M., his condition was apparently unchanged from the last evening; pulse 90; respiration 30. The dry cups to the nape of the neck were ordered to be repeated. He remained in the same condition until he died at 12 M. At ii post-mortem, eight hours afterward, rigor mortis was complete, having come on about 5 o'clock. The wounds were found as described on admission, the scalp wound being very superficial, scarcely extending through the skin, and the underlying muscles somewhat infiltrated with blood, but not decided. The periosteum and cranium were apparently intact. On removing the calvaria there appeared to be a very slight fissure on the inner surface corresponding in position to the external wound, but so slight that its existence was almost doubtful. Between the bone and dura nuiter was a hard, black, circular clot, about one-fourth of an inch in thickness and two inches in diameter. Opposite the centre of the clot was a minute orifice in the membrane. The brain under this clot Avas broken up and mixed with blood for about two inches in diameter, and extending into the lateral ventricles. The pia mater was injected, and the ventricles filled with bloody serum. There was no fracture at the base of brain. The thoracic and abdominal viscera exhibited nothing abnormal, excepting the heart, which was loaded externally with fat, its cavities being quite empty. [A pathological specimen, which is numbered 5585 of the Surgical Section, showing a portion of the brain, temporal bone, and dura mater, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum along with this report.]277 SUEGIOAL ESSAYS. DCCXXXI.—Extract from Reports stiggesting a Modification in tJie Methods of Anqmfation, by preserving the Periosteum to cover the Ends of the Bone, together with Eemarlcs on Amputations at the Knee. By Geoege M. McGill, late Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. ' % In the winter of 1862-'63, wliile on duty at Lincoln General Hospital, Washington, I conceived that the adoption of a periosteal flap in amputations, such as would cover the severed end of the bone and possibly unite with and nourish tlie surfaces recently cut, would be of the greatest utility and of easy performance. The idea was a new one to me at that time, and to all to whom I presented it. But recently I have observed the process noted as an old one, and have been verbally informed to the same effect by an eminent and learned gentleman. Surgeon J. H. Lidell, U. S. V. I have practiced this operation in all ordinary amputations with excellent results, and with facility from the time I conceived it until the present, and by my advice it was frequently adopted in primary operations upon soldiers of the cavalry corps of the army of the Potomac, and by such eminent and worthy men as Surgeon W. H. Eulison, 9th New York Cavalry, afterward unhappily killed while serving in the Shenandoah Valley. In these primary operations and in a secondary operation performed in the middle of the leg, by lateral flaps, upon Lieutenant , at Gettysburg, July 8, 18G3, and more recently in tertiary operations, this procedure in the leg, so far as I am able to ascertain, has been accompanied by favorable results; neither sequestra nor exfoliations having formed, and the spine of the tibia never having ulcerated through. The operation supposes no such shock as destroys the vitality of the osseous tissue involved, by the molecular disturbance that gives rise to inflammatory necrosis or by nuclear paralj'sis and subsequent separation and rejection, such as occurs, as seems probable to me after much observation, when the diaphysis of a bone is jaiTed in addition to being broken by a missile of large size, or by one moving with high velocity and striking obliquely so as to furnish a modified resultant force of injury in addition to the immediate destroying one. The operation is performed upon the hypothesis that the osseous structure at the point of division is healthy. After forming the flaps and reaching the bone and clearing away and retracting the muscles, w ithout touching the knife to the periosteum, taking half of more of the circumference of severance as the base, I form by a firm, smooth cut with a heavy-bladed knife, a long anterior flap sufticient at least to cover the medullary substance. This flap is then carefully raised bj^ a periosteum knife, the operator running the blade of this instrument firmly and whetting it, as it were, against the bone, so that the membrane is raised intact. It will be found that periosteum retracts more than skin ; this flap, for instance, retracting greatly upon and within itself. The section of bone should then be made carefully, accurately, and by no means too rapidily, as the aim is to preserve the life of osseous particles to be touched by the periosteal flap's internal surface. The fla^) is then allowed to fall of itself. I have never formed double flaps, nor fixed the periosteal flaps in any manner—proceedings extremely easy, however. I found the flaps I made to fall readily, and to adhere to the roughened cut surface of the bone. Of course, the number of cases I have had will not justify generalization, but as these cases number three in which the result was eminently good, I have ventured to present a theory of the availability of a periosteal flap in amputations, especiallj^ of the leg, in which so much inconveni- ence has arisen from the spine of the tibia even when this spine has been cut away in part. Why does not the substance of bone require its natural cover, viz., periosteum, to live properly, as much as muscles and other tissues require the skin f ** ** ** [This paper was dated Baltimore, October 30, 1865. Dr. McGill's next paper relates to knee-joint operations, and is dated January 19, 1866.] * * * * * * *. * # I submit the following remarks upon three cases of amputation through the knee-joint, in all of which the patella was left, and the proximal joint surfaces interfered with as little as possible. On May 6,1864, near Todd's Tavern, Virginia, in the brigade of the first division of cavalry, commanded by General Custer, the first sergeant of an independent New York battery, I think the 6th, was struck by a cannon ball in the left leg. Both bones were broken, and the soft parts were extensively278 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IX THE ARMY. lacerated. The soldier was removed to the field hospital of the brigade, located five hundred yards in rear of the line of battle, at which hospital, wry shortly after reception of injury, I performed amputation through tiic knee-joint. The steps of this operation were substantially those taken in the second case. The patient rallied well, and was carried to the rear very shortly. Since then I have not heard of him. Owing to the press of my duties at the time I could make no notes, and these statements are made froni memory, twenty months after the operation. The battery to which tills sergeant was attached was commanded by Captain Martin. [William S. Turner, 1st sergeant, Cth New York Independent Battery, died of pyaemia May 27, 1864, and is doubtless the patient referred to.—Ed.] On August 18, 1864, in one of our forts in front of Petersburg, Private Kelly, Co. A, Battalion of U. S. Engineers, Headquarters, Army of the Potomac, was wounded in the left knee by a sharpshooter. The ball entered somewhat to the left of the median line, near the tuberosity of the tibia, and passing upward and backward lodged in the face of the external condyle, partially imbedding itself crosswise. On consultatiou the same day the man was wounded, witli Surgeon Ghiselin, U. S. A., Assistant Surgeon J. E. Gibson, U. S. A., and Acting Assistant Surgeon Goodrich, who had charge of the case, it Avas decided to amputate through the knee-joiitt. After the usual lireliminaries, having taken a scalpel of medium size, taking position on the right side of the limb, I introduced it opposite the termination of the external condyle, and outlined an anterior flai>, the lowermost portion of Avhich was two inches below the terminal insertion of the quadriceps extensor, with a tirm cut that divided the skin and superficial fascia, terminating the primary incision of the anterior flap opposite a point of the internal condyle corresponding to the point of the external con- dyle opposite which the scalpel had been introduced. From this termination the scalpel was rev^ersed, and the inner half of the posterior flap formed, the depth of my incision being such as insured section of the superficial fascia as well as skin proper. The knife was then removed and reinserted near the original point of entrance, from which the outer half of the posterior flap was formed. This posterior flap was very long, extending fully half way down the leg. The angles of union of the anterior and lines of incision were made very acute, so that retraction would not tend to separate the angles posterior of the stump by drawing the sac of the stump tightly over the large extent of bone substance left. Tlie anterior flap was now raised, and 1 took care in raising it to dissect so as to inflict as little injury as possible upon superficial fascia. The ligament of the patella was incised closely above the tuberosity of the tibia, and the patella, with its connections, left untouched so far as practicable. The ligamentsremaiuiug were then divided at their insertion, and so cut through that the semilunar cartilages remained in the stump. All the ligaments binding the head of the tibia being thus severed with a large operating knife, I cleared the posterior flap, cutting in the plane of the retracted posterior skin flap outlined as described above. This procedure aftbrded a base of flesh to what was essentially a skin-flap. But in addition, by the method adopted, I found that the fleshy i)art of the posterior-flap had beeri so formed as to exjiose the anterior surface of the deep posterior layer of crural fascia, and expose so much of this surface that it was found that a fibrous sheet fitted upon the synovial surfaces exposed by removal of the tibia. 1 now cut away all points and strips of cartilage or fibrous tissue accidently made in operating. The ball was elevated from its bed in the face of the external condyle and this bed cleared. iSTothing unusual took place in the subsequent steps of the operation. Unfortunately, however, the silk ligature threads were rotten. There was a ball hole in the anterior flap, besides the wound in the face of the external condyle to complicate the case. The latter was oozing blood from its sides when last observed. Throughout the operation injury to what was left of the synovial sac was avoided. September 9, 1864; Kelly is doing very well. The ligatures have none of them come away yet, and gentle traction met with firm resistance this morning. He is afflicted with pains of a darting lancinating character, which shift location. The wound of entrance in the outer border of the anterior flap has healed rapidly by granulation. To a great extent the tfaps have united. A sinus, the mouth of which is to the right of the middle of the cicatricial line, communicates with the bed of the ball. So little discharge takes place through this sinus that it is thought that the bed of the ball has already been filled with callus. A peculiar " leaden" feeling has been observed by Kelly about his patella. He is not able to move this bone, but moves the left thigh without paiii. On September 14th Kelly279 SURGICAL ESSAYS. is tloiug fliielj", oue of the inside ligatures, tUat of an articular artery, lias broken off short. The popliteal ligature has not yet separated. September 22d: the patient has steadily improved. The tumor of the stump has subsided, and the line of cicatrix is somewhat" depressed. There is still discharge from where the ligature is broken off. It is probable that the knot of this ligature will remain in the stump for some time. Tlie main ligature has not yet come away. I dread pulling, be it ever so gentle, for the ligature thread is fine and very rotten. The patella is freely movable, up and down, to the right and left. The capsule of the joint, as a whole, has adhered strongly to the condyloid surfaces of the femur, and affords a sufficient stay to the connected muscles. September 27th : Kelly was sent away to West Point, New York, this afternoon able to walk on crutches. The only regret is that knots of all the ligatures remain in the stump. I have considered it inexpedient to search for them. On his way to West Point, Kelly was, as I was informed by a letter from him, attacked with what he termed gangrene." Some operation became necessary, and was, I believe, performed at West Point. From what he wrote I understand that this second "operation" did not extend to interference with bones or the remains of the synovial sac. In addition to the foregoing remarks, I subjoin a history of Private David D. Cole, wounded in the left leg at Amelia Conrt-House, April 5, 1805, and operated upon by myself on August 1, 1805, at this general hospital. The leg was much swollen, and there was a great deal of dead bone in it. Patient was greatly weakened by discharge, and prostrated by sympathetic irritation. When the operation was performed it was evident that there was no other way to save life. In operating— yielding to the opinion of a gentleman present that the tumid and discolored tissues about certain fistulous orifices, that gave vent i^osteriorly to discharge from about the dead bone, was not capable of living as part of a flap—I made a very long anteriOT flap. The angles of union of the anterior and posterior flap were too obtuse, so made in consequence of miscalculating the effects of retraction upon the anterior flap. In operating, moreover, I removed the semilunar cartilages, and thus freed the lower part of the capsule of the joint, which was immediately drawn up ; and to this removal is due in great part the extreme retraction presented. There being, however, an abundance of skin- flap to cover the condyles, I closed the stump in the usual manner. At the first dressing, three days later, I removed the sutures at the inner angle and along the centre of the line of coaptation wherever there was strain. The stump had an indolent and weak look. Removal of sutures at the inner angle of the stump disclosed a pearly surface of the internal condyle and bright red surface of the lateral ligament. The anterior flap exhibited a decided tendency to slough. In a few days this slough formed, all the sutures were removed, and the flaps carefully supported with adhesive strips. The angles opened widely after a slough (terminal) of an inch separated. But I relied on the vitality of the yet abundant integumentary tissue in the middle line of the stump. Without further bad symtoms the case progressed favorably, with a copious formation of pus, however, until the third week, when a great abscess was developed under the fascia lata. I do not think this abscess was in any manner connected with the ascending anterior pouch of the synovial sac- After this, as the abscess gradually healed, so did the stump, the general phenomena presented by the patient being favorable, pari passti. In November the patient was discharged from hospital perfectly well. At that time the i)atella was drawn upon the supercondyloid anterior space and fixed there, and the synovial sac appeared wholly obliterated. The integumentary tissue covering the faces of the condyles was well nourished, firmlj^ attached, and capable of sustaining pressure with comfort to the patient. There were no irregular nervous sensations. The patient was fat, and tlie muscles ot his left thigh were well developed. I have received a letter from him since, in which he informs me that he has received a proper artificial leg (supplied, I believe, by Dr. Hudson, of New York), and has nothing to regret in the manner in which the operation was performed. DCCXXXII.—Second Paper on Periosteal Flaps. By the late George M. McGill, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. I have the honor to transmit (Ai^ril 12, 1800) casts of the stumps of Private Josiah Gamble, Co. C, 13th Virginia Infantry; private Church Lewis, Co. B, llGth U. S. C. T., and Private JohnREPORT OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 280 H. Allison, Co. I, 21st reiiusylvaiiia Cavalry. Those of Gamble aud Lewis, are of amputations of the right leg, and that of Allison of an amputation of the left thigh, lower third. In the operations performed on these men, the method of operation with periosteal flaps to cover the cut ends of the bones, to which I called attention by a paper acknowledged by Surgeon George A. Otis, U. S. V., December 20, 1865, Avas duly tried. It has succeeded very well. Subjoined is a detailed history of each case, also of the case of Private Leonard Babb, Co. B, 5th New Hampshire Volunteers. Case 1.—Leonard Babb, Private Co. B, 5th New Hampshire Volunteers, aged 43 years, was wounded April 7, 1805, at Farmville, Virginia, in the right foot, a couoidal ball entering the heel, and making exit in the instep, breaking up the tarsal bones. He was treated expectantly until August 12, 1865, when, no improvement being manifest, and much dead bone, abscesses, and light general cachexy being observed, and more feared, at the man's desire amputation was performed in the lower part of the middle third of the leg, by the operation of Lenoir. Operating myself, I was careful to raise a long and thick periosteum tlap, being particular in so grating the knife on the compact substances of the tibia as to leave all the transitional tissue possible attached to the periosteum. His recovery was rapid and perfect; the stump was painless on pressure and admirably suited for an artificial limb. He was discharged on October 5, 1805. There Avas uo tenderness over the sharp cut end of the tibia during the cure. Case 2.—Specimen 455 A. M. ]\r., Private Josiali Gamble, Co. C, 13th West Virginia Volunteers, aged 23 years, was wounded on July 24, 1804, at Winchester, Virginia, in the right ankle. There being no prospect of recovery, and the case becoming worse daily, with dead bone, abscesses, and sympathetic irritation, on October 12,1805,1 j-yerformed amputation in junction of lower and middle thirds of leg, operating by lateral flaps, and making a circular incisions of soft tissues. I raised a flap of periosteum, as in case one, with the greatest ease. The man recovered quickly and well, but in removing the ligatures one of the knots was broken off in the stump; I believe that of the ligature of the anterior tibial, drawn downward and inward. After it was perfectly healed the cicatrix opened near its anterior extremitj', and from this opening there has been an intermittent discharge until the present time (April, 1806). Repeated efforts have been made to find dead bone without success; and I think that the knot of silk is the cause of the discharge, and that this knot will finally be cast out. Gamble was transported to Fort McHenry post hospital, on February 20, 1866. Tlie end of the tibia is well rounded. The stump is not in the least tender nor tunnd, and the man's general health is good. Case 3.—Specimen 450 A. M. M., Private Church Lewis, Co. B, 116th U. S. C. T., aged 22 years, of tuberculous diathesis. Patient spi-ained his ankle in July, 1804, while drilling, and there was extensive disease of a low type of the bones and connective tissues generally of the right ankle. 1 made antero posterior flaps. The posterior flap was formed in the soft tissues, after being outlined by the scalpel in the skin and superficial fascia, by cutting from within outward in the plane of the border of the retracted outlined skin-flap. In this case I made periosteal flaps for both tibia and fibula. The periosteum was lifted with the greatest ease, and, after the operation, was even more than sufficient to cover the ends of the bones. I found it necessary to be careful not to cut the bones below tbe folds of periosteum. These bones were very easily cut by the saw. Before this operation there was extensive irritability, the patient screaming when the foot was touched. After it he complained of great pain for several days. The fourth day after the operation, I was compelled to open the stump in the night and religate the peroneal artery, for profuse hsemorrhage, preceded, during the day, by vomiting and straining. The first ligature had apparently cut through the fibrous coat. Later there was a large abscess in the superficial fascia on the outer side of the leg. After the seventh day liis recovery was rapid, and he was transferred on February 20, 1800, to Fort McHenry post hospital, perfectly well. His tibia was markedly rounded and the end of the stump well suited to bear strain. Case 4.—Specimen 403 A. M. M., is a cast of tbe stump. John H. Allison, Farrier, Co. 1,21st Pennsylvania Cavalry, aged 19 years, was wounded on April 5, 1865, at Amelia Court-House, Vir-SUEGICAL ESSAYS. 281 giuia, by a conoidal ball. The popliteal artery near its beginning was completely severed, the missile bruising the femur about the inferior termination of the diaphysis. There was hfemorrhage to syncope on the field, and secondary htemorrhage, and when anj^ one meddled with the wound there was apt to be iLTmorrhage. Inflammation of the knee-joint, (treated by free incisions), gangrene, abscesses of the leg and thigh, anchylosis of the knee-joint, with the leg bent at right angles, erysip- elas repeated and associated with great constitutional disturbance, emaciation, pallor, leucocythjemia, and fatty degeneration, interstitial and proper, of the leg and thigh, were severally declared. At last Irritative fever was decidedly formed, and incurable ulcers on the heel and leg. By my direction Dr. H. McElderry, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., performed amputation in the lower third through the diaphysis; forming an ample anterior flap, and a short and somewhat thick i)osterior one, and raising a very long and wide i:>eriosteum flap. This periosteal flap was raised witli tlie greatest ease, too easily in fact, and after the operation was completed, was folded over every part of the cut surface of bone, as were the flaps in the case of Lewis (Case 3). Great prostration followed the operation ; from this he reacted rather slowly, a kind of fever appearing the third day. He was kept under the influence of morphia. After the fourth, day he improved steadily and speedily. At first when the stump was being dressed he complained a great deal. It was dressed first the third day. His blood presented remarkable phenomena of change of the white into red corpuscles (as Dr. McElderry and myself thought), during his cure, whicb will be fully described in a more detailed report of the case. He was discharged the service, at his own request, perfectly well, with the exception of a surface granulating in the cicatrix. On March 14, 1866, he was able to sit all day in a chair and help himself. The end of bone in this case was beautifully rounded.* When a bone is cut in amputations, two conditions, I believe, must result from the action of its distal living bone tissues. First, metamorphosis into such transitional forms as will connect with ordinary fibrous tissue. Second, change of medullary tissue into such transitional tissue and I into bone proper. If, then, we adapt living transitional tissue we substitute the mere action of union the cohesion of homologous formed material, the easiest in nature apparently, for the action of change that reproduces bone out of medullary tissue and forms a connective tissue, certainly by means of the germinal matter that lives in fully formed bone, and that has already performed the work of development and growth. Again it might be reasoned, a priori, that in changes one and two, made, of course, feebly by substance of exhausted (?) formative energy, the least injury of the ( general health and the most trifling local injury are calculated to kill or set the germinal matter free (in the form of pus), and so throw the labor of formation, and, it may be, an added one of separation, upon more i)roximal forms. Thus we have sequestra, thus often osteomyelitis and pytemia. With periosteum over the cut end of a bone, we have a tissue there whose ofBce is to form, to connect, and to resist. So promising have the results of amputations with a periosteal flap been in my hands, that I am constrained, most respectfully, to call your attention again to the subject. This paper was dated Baltimore, April 12, 1866. The suggestions it contains were communicated to several medical officers; but there appear to have been no further ex- periments on the subject, and, indeed, the whole matter of sub-periosteal operations has received little attention in the Army. Dr. McGill used and recommended, for the separation of the periosteum, a rugine no. ea.-Eugine for sub-periosteal operations. [After Oilier.] ■ similar tO that employed bj M. Oilier, and figured in the second volume of his work. * See Catalogue of the Surgical Section of the Army Medical Mnsenra, p/555. t Olukk, Traitii Experimental et Cliuiriue de la Eeg(?n6ratiou des Os. Paris, 18C7, T. II, p. 83, 36 V282 EEPOKT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. REVIEW AND CONCLUSION. The one thousand and thirty-seven cases recorded in the foregoing pages, with more or less detail, are but a small portion of those entered under the head of Class V on the monthly reports of sick and wounded for the period embraced by this report. The casualties thus entered numbered over sixty thousand.* The following consolidation from the numerical reports indicates the relative frequency of the (^fferent classes of wounds, accidents, and injuries: f Aiati-act of Wounds, Accidents, and Injuries reported on the Monthly Reports of Sick and Wounded of the United States Army for the Period commencing July 1, 18G5, and ending December 31, 1870. Burns and scalds. Contusions. Concussion of brain. ti _p "3 o u a Sprains. Dislocations. Simple fractures. Compound fractures. a 3 o [£ 'o .a 09 o ■ n a 3 o ■a a 'o a M Lacerated wounds. Punctured wounds. Poisoning. Other accidents and injuries. Homicide. Suicide. ti _a '& a ta W S,003 23, 651 152 198 13, 731 635 1, 380 219 3, 213 6, 774 3,038 1,591 683 3, 683 68 84 2 It was proposed to publish only a selection from the histories of the more interesting cases entered in Class V of the monthly reports of sick and wounded, but ultimately it was deemed expedient to print condensed abstracts at least of each case of which a special report had been forwarded. All of the evidence being thus presented to them, it was thought that medical officers would hereafter be enabled to determine precisely what cases it would be advisable to make the subject of special reports, and the extent and form in which said reports should be made. Many letters of inquiry on these points have been received by this Division of the Office, and it has been difficult sometimes to answer them definitely. The gravest wounds are occasionally devoid of interest because of their immediate or inevitable fatality ; while the most trivial accidents may be followed by formidable complications, demanding the most careful study, and yielding the most instructive illustrations. It is very desirable that the name and military description should be noted in all cases entered under Class V on the monthly report of sick and wounded, and that the patient should appear, by name, on the report of the following months, until he is finally accounted for. Thus, it will become practicable to identify always such patients, and when they are moved from one post to another to trace their histories. The memoranda of grave cases can hardly be too minute, or of trivial _cases too concise, provided means of identification of the patient are afforded. It is hardly necessary to insist on the * The exact number is 61,105. t The period covered hy the consolidation does not precisely correspond with that considered in the Report; but the ratios are the same. At the beginning of the period the Army numbered over 150,000 ; but it was rapidly reduced to 80,000; then to 54,000, and finally to 30,000, its present nominal strength.283 CONCLUDING OBSEEVATIONS. importance of the fullest description of autopsies and of pathological specimens forwarded to the Army Medical Museum. Some medical officers have performed creditable surgical operations on citizens, but have excluded such cases from their reports. Such additions to the surgical data of the Army should be forwarded in supplementary reports, otherwise the records of the office will imperfectly represent the work accomplished by the medical staff. On page 86, the results of the gunshot wounds that were not subjected to operations are summed up, and, on page 113, a summary is given of the results of the incised, punctured, lacerated, and contused wounds, comprising some remarkable recoveries after visceral protrusions and punctures of the alimentary canal. Summaries of the results of simple and compound fractures and of dislocations have been given in connection with the abstracts of cases of those injuries (pp. 114, 143). Matters of interest respecting arrow-wounds are comprised in the reports from pages 144 to 163. A few abstracts of cases of poisoned wounds, and of burns and frost-bites, close this chapter. The chapter on surgical operations, commencing (p. 170) with a tabular statement of the minor amputations, concludes (p. 218) with a favorable exhibit of the results of the major operations. Those at the shoulder and knee-joint had a larger measure of success than usually rewards the efforts of surgeons, and the small ratio of mortality in the thigh amputations (38.5) is exceptional. Two of the amputations in the thigh were of special interest as performed for the consequences of gunshot fractures of the femur, inflicted five and seven years previously. The pathological specimens furnished from these cases, very imperfectly represented by the wood-cuts (Figs. 41, 42), are very instructive. There was a successful case of amputation of the fore-arms and of the legs in one patient, and one of the two exarticulations at the hip had a successful issue.* The results of the amputations, according as they were performed for injury or disease, or in the primary, intermediary, or secondary stages, are summed up on p. 217. Under the head of excisions are included two examples of successful trephining in depressed fractures of the skull, for symptoms of compression, following on the second and third days, respectively, the reception of blows. An excision of portions of the upper and lower maxillaries resulted fatally. Two other operations on the facial bones, recorded in this section, appear to have been extractions of splinters from gunshot fractures rather * In a letter to Assistant Surgeon General C. H. Crane, Dr. J. Fayrer, of Calcutta, had tlie goodness to furnish abstracts of eight cases of amputations at the hip occurring in his practice, kindly hoping they might be of service in the further investigation into this important subject by this office. Five of the cases have already been published. (Clinical Surgery in India, pp. 630, 609, 666, and Medical Times and Gazette, 1867, p. 270, 1868, p. 657.) The series is as follows: 1. Burman, aged 30, primary amputation for gunshot injury. Death from tetanus. 2. Ashgur, aged 16, re-amputation. Recovery. 3. Hadji, aged 36, re-amputation. Death in four days. 4. Hindoo, aged 25, amputation at the hip-joint for cancer at the knee. Death in 13 days. 5. Hindoo, aged 21, thigh-amputation for injury, re-amputation at the hip. Death in 26 days. 6. Hindoo, aged 55, primary amputation at the hip for shark-bite. Death in six hours. 7. Bupeer, aged 20, cancer of right thigh, amputation at the hip. Death in five days. 8. Lieutenant H., aged 21, secondary amputation for gunshot wound. Death in a fevf hours. Dr. P. F. Eve j ecords (Eichnioud and Louisville Medical Journal, Vol. XII, p. 370) an amputation at the hip for caries and anchylosis, terminating fatally in twenty-five hours. Dr. N. S. Lincoln has recently performed a siiccessful re-amputation at the hip, at Providence Hospital, Washington, in the case of W. Cotter, aged 32, for necrosis following jirimary amputation for gunshot fracture performed seven years ago.EEPOliT OF SUliGlCAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 284 than formal excisions. Of six operations on the bones of the hand, one terminated fatally on account of pyaemia. These cases were reported as excisions ; but would probably be more suitably described as extractions of diseased phalanges, resections of the ends of the metacarpals—a finger being shot off—or extraction of splinters of metacarpals or phalan- ges. These abstracts are followed by an interesting report of a successful intermediary excision of the upper portion of the radius for gunshot fracture, and this by seven cases of excision in the continuity of the humerus, three primary, two intermediary, and two secondary, all performed on account of gunshot fractures and all terminating successfully. Two men recovered from excisions of head and upper extremity of the humerus, after gunshot fracture involving the shoulder-joint, with the excellent results that frequently follow this excellent operation. The excisions in the lower extremities were fewer in number, but of greater importance. They were all performed for gunshot injury ; one on the calcaneum, one on the first metatarsal, one on the tibia, one on the fibula, and four on the hip-joint. Every reader must be impressed and gratified by the successful issue of the excisions of the head and trochanter of the femur. Three of the four cases were eminently successful, and the fourth and fatal case w^is practiced on a patient broken down by disease and intemperate habits, and unlikely to bear even a trivial operation satis- factorily. The twenty-seven reports of ligations of the larger arterial trunks (see summary on p. 235) include one in which the common carotid was successfully tied for secondary hoemorrhage following a gunshot-wound of the face and neck, supposed to involve the external carotid near its origin. That there should not have been recurrent haemorrhage from the distal orifice in the vessel is surprising. A compulsory ligation of the aorta for rupture of an aneurism of the common iliac is reported from one of the freedmen hospi- tals. One of three ligations of the external iliac proved successful. Three of the four ligations of the femoral resulted happily. The fatal case was one in which Anel's operation was performed, neither experience nor theory having convinced the operator that tying the femoral in its middle third would not preclude the fatal consequences of recurrent haemorrhage from a wound of the popliteal. It is almost incredible, but there are still many surgeons who think it unnecessary to place two ligations on wounded arteries, but are satisfied in securing the proximal extremity or in tying the main trunk at a distance. The reports indicate that acupressure was not employed to any great extent. Styptics and tourniquets were sometimes too freely substituted for more effective haemostatics. An interesting case of brachial aneurism successfully treated by compression is recorded on p. 155. The reports under the head of " Various Operations " comprise accounts of four operations on the eye, and one on the ear; of four operations on the face, including one of rhinoplasty and one of extraction of a large salivary calculus; and five cases of bron- chotomy, in three of which the opening was made in the trachea and in two in the larynx. One of the two cases in which the operation was done for traumatic inflammatory swelling occluding the air-passages was successful. Three other cases, one of oedema of the glottis and two of membranous croup, terminated fatally ; yet the observation of the two latter convinced the experienced surgeon in charge of them of the propriety of trache- otomy in all hopeless cases of croup. The only reported case of much interest among the operations on the abdomen is oneCONCLUDING OBSEEVATIONS. 285 of successful excision of a large portion of extruded omentum (p. 250) ; but the numerical returns indicate that there were some important operations for hernia and for imperforate rectum ; but no details were reported. The rarity of strangulated hernia in the Army bears creditable testimony to the fidelity with which the physical examination of recruits has been conducted. The reports of operations on the genito urinary organs commence with accounts of fourteen cases of phymosis. These show that many of the medical officers are of M. Ricord's opinion regarding the inutility of the prepuce, and prefer circumcision to the dorsal incision. After notes" of two cases in which it was deemed expedient to amputate the penis on account of the syphilitic complications of the unhappy patients, are four reports on the surgical treatment of stricture. Four cases were treated by urethrotomy, with a single fatal result. Reports of successful removal of a foreign body of the urethra, and of suprapubic puncture of the bladder for retention, are followed by nine operations for lithotomy reported (pp. 256, 261), which presented some very interesting features. The pleasantest was that all resulted successfully. Four were performed by the usual lateral method for the removal of uric acid or phosphatic calculi of large size. Five were for the extraction of vesical concretions having foreign bodies as nuclei, the foreign bodies being a fragment of the pubic bone, a cast-iron ball, two leaden musket-balls, and an iron arrow-head. The latter instance is perhaps unique, and all constitute valuable additions to the remarkable series in the museum,'^ of vesical concretions found around foreign bodies. Median lithomony seems not to have been practiced as yet in the army. The eleven reports on tumors comprise notes of one lipoma, one sebaceous and two fibroid tumors, one hygroma, one epithelioma, two examples of scirrhus, and three of encephaloma. There were eight recoveries from the operations, with the prospect of recurrence in several cases. The reports of Surgeon B. Norris of the treatment of a case of undoubted medullary cancer by the drug called cundurango, forwarded by the minister resident at Ecuador, does not encourage a belief in any specific therapeutic property in this new agent.f The six reports on tetanus refer to two fatal cases and four examples of recovery under the use of the Calabar bean, ether-inhalation with opium, and hydrate of chloral. It must be reluctantly admitted that the evidence regarding the curative efficacy of these drugs, and also to the accuracy of the diagnoses, is altogeter insufficient. Dr. Smart's » * Specimens 88, 1687, 2567, 4712, and 5,019, Section I, A. M. M., are vesical concretions, induced by gunshot injuries of the bladder. Besides casts and henip-seed calculi, and other small secretions passed through the urethra, the Aimy Medical Museum possesses one hundred and ninety-five vesical calculi removed by lithotomy. As the erroneous impres- sion that the museum only receives donations from medical officers, and only such as pertain to military medicine and surgery, are not entirely dispelled, it may bo well to reiterate that valuable pathological preparations, from whatever source, are welcomed, the preparations carefully mounted and preserved, the histories duly registered and catalogued, the names of the donors being always recorded. t The correspondence of the minister, Mr. E. Eumsay Wing, with the State Department, relative to this drug, is printed in the National Medical Journal, May, 1871, p. 23, aud also i» pauiphlet form. Mr. Wing furuishes recommenda- tions of the drug by Drs. Casaras aud Eguiguren, and it is noticeable that the latter speaks of this agent as one " which I alone ^lossessed in Quito." Mr. Wing writes to Mr. Fish that cirndurango cures not only cancer, but syphilis, and he iudges from analogy that it will also cure " scrofula and nlcerous affections of different types." There are now on file at the State Department three reports on the use of this agent in soft cancer, and other evidence will soon be forthcoming. If the verdict is that anticipated by pathologists whose powers of analogical reasoning do not permit them to discern the pathological afSnities of cancer, syphilis, scrofula, and indolent ulcers, every one who has aided in augmenting the misery of incurables in the interest of commercial speculation will occupy an unenviable position.286 EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. carefully observed case (p. 270) was instructive in relation to the therapeutic powers of the Calabar bean. In the earlier stages, he used the extract and tincture without any- marked effect on the pupil or upon the severity of the paroxysms. He then procured a parcel of the beans from the museum, and used an infusion of the grated kernels, with the uniform effect of contracting the pupil and redacing the frequency and severity of the spasms. He assured me that he believed that he might have saved his patient if he could have employed this remedy earlier. In the past few years, I have had the oppor- tunity of examining the brain and spinal cord after tetanus in three instances only, twice in the human subject and once in the horse. Only hypertemia of the membranes was observed. The proliferation of connective tissue in the cord and medulla, proposed as the constant anatomical lesion of tetanus^ by some German pathologists, was nowhere detected. The reports on a death from chloroform and on a successful transfusion in thoracic aneurism leave much to be desired in details of diagnosis. Several reports on surgical diseases are followed by accounts of three instances of lightning-stroke, an interesting autopsy having been made in the fatal case. Dr. McGill's essay on osteoplastic amputa- tions concludes the series of papers. I have appended to the report an index of contributors, an index of patients, and a table of contents, as readers of some of the former surgical reports have justly complained of the want of facilities for reference in documents of such length. The compilation and discussion of the surgical annals and statistics of the war of the rebellion have engrossed the time and attention of this Division to such an extent as to preclude the possibility of compiling the report with the closest care ; yet it may be hoped that the value of the facts brought together, and the interest of many of the abstracts of cases, will compen- sate for all faults in the report. I am. General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, GEORGE A. OTIS, Assistant Surgeon, U. 8. A. Brigadier General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General, U. S. Army.INDEX OF REPORTERS. Adams, W. S., pp. 29, 109, 141. Alden, C. H., pp. 20, 43, 276. Alexander, E., pp. 97, 99. Alexander, T. C, p. 8. Ansel, A., pp. 102, 104.252. Arthur, J. P., pp. 57, 132. ASHHURST, J., jr., p. 114. Atwood, T., p. 45. Cleary, p. J. A., pp. 63, 95, 105. Clements, B. A., pp. 44, 55, 91, 104, 176,252. CouES, E., pp. 17, .59,110, 125, 128, 134. Caughill, C, pp. 97, 185. Corson, J. K., pp. 18,120. CowLES, E., pp. 17, 18, 23, 30, 60, 65,202. Craig, W., pp. 65, 136. Crandall, J. B., pp. 59, 83, 213. EKKATA ET CORRIGENDA. On page 18, 17tli lino, for B. C. Fryer, read B. E. Fryer. On page 22, SStli line, for Terry, read Perry. On page 39, 39tli line, for 186, read 18(i6. On page 58, 16th line, for Darrow, read Damour. On page 93, 44th line, for hyperdermic, read hypodermic. On page 143, 11th line, for pullies, read pulleys. On page 147, last line but one, for take, read takes. On page 148, 26tlx line, for seventy, read twenty. On page 149, in note under wood-cut, for itnparted, read int- pacted. ■ " On page 163, 33d line, for sentinals, read sentinels. On page 234, loth line, for coxaljia, read coxalgia. On page 234, 16th line, for extrent, read extent. On page 254, 12th line, for Kearny, read Kearney. On page 260, 14th line, for tripple, read triple. On page 267, 30th line, for ichthiocolla, read ichthyocoUa. On page 268, 23d line, omit semicolon after Krankhaften. On page 270, last line, after enemata, insert was. On page 271, 7th line, for Tetanu's, read Tetanus. On page 271, 25th line, for helieaed, read believed. ^Aivy.ii,, ii. ^v<j, ^0,6. Brown, P. H., p. 221. Brown, W. F., p. 13. Brown, D. E., p. 239. Brooke, J,, pp. 47, 76. Buchanan, W. F., pp. 27, 41, 42, 189, 225. Burns, E., p. 14. Buffington, a. L., p. 99. Butcher, W. B., p. 241. Byrne, C. C, pp. 6, 34, 100. Campbell, A. B., pp. 73, 164. Campbell, J., p. 73. Cantrell, W. a., pp. 43, 59. Carvallo, C, pp. 12, 13, 33, 73, 103, 109. Christian, E. B., p. 236. Chaney, T. M., p. 61. Chase, E. Y., p. 243. X'UUlJi, O. X'., ]). LLKJ. FoRWOOD, J. L., pp. 259, 261. FoRWOOD, J. F. M., p. 235. FoRwooD, W. H., p. 210,260. Fox, E. C, p. 67. Frantz, J. H., p. 131. Fryer, B. E., pp. 15, 18, 27, 62,74, 75, 81,107, 198,199,239. FURLEY, C. C, p. 67. Gardner, W. H., p. 98. George, W. H., p. 122. Geisdorff, F., pp. 60, 64. Gibson, J. E., pp, 25, 29, .32, 40, 228. GiRARD, A. C, pp. 26, .58,65,75,120,182,219,244,248,251,262- GiRARD, J. B., pp. 70, 72, 101, 155, 167, 201,274. Ghiselln, J. T., p. 181. GODDARD, C. E., pp. 15, 66, 91, 99, 153, 179. GOLDSBOROUGH, L. W., p. .56,288 INDEX OF ]lEPORTEES. Gray, A. J., pp. 9, 211, 242. Gkay, C. C, pp. 32,134, 131), 144, 140. Greanleaf, a. W., p. 15. Greexleaf, C. R., pp. 78, 89, 106, 109, 132,252. GWYNTIUCR, G., p. 83. Gu^'N, G. H., pp. 7, 11, C5, C7, 74, 102, IOC, 129. Haix, J. D., pp. 203, 204. Hamilto:^, F. H., p. 197. Hammond, J. F., p. 82. Hartigan, J. F., p. 121. Harvey, J., p. 46. Hassig, F., p. 50. Hayes, L. W., p. 57. Head, J. F., pp. 142, 237,273. Heger, a., pp. 132, 169. Heizmann, C. L., p. 21. Hendrickson, W. T., pp. 26, 68. Hekshey, D., pp. 84,271. Hrrz, E. B., p. 145. Hogg, A. J., p. 101. Holly, F. M., p. 86. Holmes, L. E., pp. 77, 143, 201, 246. Horner, S. H., p. 48. Hopper, W. H., pp. 55, 62, 82, 104. HoRTON, S. M., pp. 32, 56, 58, 78, 123, 140, 153, 156, 178, 181, 200, 210, 212, 222, 224,253. Hubbard, V. B., pp. 126, 208. HULSE, J. I., pp. 23, 54, 138. Hutchinson, T. S. V., pp. 7,182. Huntington, D. L., p. 188. Hyson, W. T., p. 105. Irwin, B. J, D., pp. 183, 210, 198, 268. Jackson, D., pp. 29, 35, 90,17C, 222, 223, 226, 242. Jamaison, W. D., p. 271. Janeway, J. H., p. 239. Ja:\ies, B., p. 221. Jameson, G; A., p. 44. Jennings, E. J., p. 257. Jessop, S. S., pp. 40, 57, 226,254. Jorgenson, J., p. 100. KiLBOURNE, H. S., p. 153. Kimball, J. P., pp. 66, 128, 133, 154, 155, 1.56, 262. King, J. H. T., p. 36. King, J. T., pp. 38, .57, 74, 85,101, 108, 176, 177. King, W. H., p. 221. Kirk, E. M., p. 12. Knight, C. W., p. 51. Knox, F., p. 90. KoERPER, E. A., pp, 95, 196. KuGLER, J., pp. 79, 152. Laing, J. M., p. 207. Lamont, J. C, pp. 46, 179. Laub, C. H., p. 264. Le Carpentier, J., pp. 29, 30, 56, 77,165, 211, 220, 227. Lippincott, H., pp. 8, 21, 112, 151. Livingston, H. F., p. 222. .Longwill, W. H., pp. 185, 269. Loring, L. Y., pp. .55, 111, 141. Lunney, J., I). 202. Lyon, W. B., pp. 141, 184. Magruder, D. L., pp. 36, 51. Mackin, C. J., p. 197. Macfarline, C, p. 31. Marston, j. j., p. 179. Mathews, W., pp. 35,187. Mathews, H. M., p. 151, McClIANDLESS, J. M., p. 155. McChesney, C. E., p. 84. McCrackkn, E., p. 45,252. McCoy, W. M., p. 56. McClellan, E., p. 242. McElderry, H., pp. 20, 38, 66, 149, 1.56,267. McGill, G. M., p. 277. McGuire, H., p. 239, 258. McKee, j. C, p. 49. McLean, D., pp. 103,104. McMahon, j. H., pp. 9, 102, 156. Meacham, F., pp. 26, 30, 33, 36, 64, 137, 185, 245. Mechem, a. F., p. 106. Merrill, C. S., p. 127. Merritt, D., p. 105. Miles, B. B., pp. 10, 243. Miller, G. McC, pp. 6, 140, 236. Mills, H. R., p. 175. MiDDLETON, P., pp. 60, 65, 132,148, 156, 188,191, 221,249. Middleton, j. V.D., pp. 62, 80, 117,123, 128, 164. MlNEER, W. S., p. 48. Minor, G. W. B., p. 23. MoFFA-rr, P., pp. 13, 17, 98. MuLLER, A., pp. 151, 216. Munn, C. E., p. 199. Neuman, a., p. 44. NoTsoN, W. M., pp. 18, 29, 43, 46, 71, 76,148. 149, 150, 153, 180, 247. NoRRis, B., pp. 246,262,265. Otis, G. A., p. 215. OWENSj p. 189. Patzki, J.'h., pp. 6, 37, 50, 59, 60, 194. Peabody, J. H., p. 145. Perin, G., p. 229. Perry, I., pp. 22, 38, 202, 219,272. Peters, D. C, pp. 32, 127, 156. Piper, W. J., pp. 35, 183. Pope, B. F., pp. 118, 121. Porter, G. L., p. 145. Porter, W., ii. 66. Potter, Z. H., p. 14. Powell, E., pp. 60, 88, 99. PURCELL, J. B., pp. 35, 137. Eadmore, C. C, p. 71. Eamsey, W. R., pp. 63, 182. Eandall, B., p. 178. Eaushenberg, C, p. 238. Sector, P.. pp. 28, 64. Eeily, J. R., p. 204,263. Renick, W. H., p. 184. Reynolds, F., p. 222. Eidgely, J., pp. 44, 46, 52, 77. Eippard, W. H., p. 96. EoACH, M. A., p. 54. EosE, G. S., pp. 106, 137, 196. EossE, I. C, pp. 80, 129, 132, 136, 138, 165, 206, 245, 251. EowE, C. H., p. 89. Russell, L. F., p. 241.289 INDEX OF REPORTERS. S.VNTOINE, S., p. 29. Savage, W. E., p. 74. Saundeks, J., pp. 43, 137. SCHELL, H. S., pp. 28, 48, 59, Ofi, 78,120, 191, 235, 238, 208. Schwaktzwelder, a. C, p. 2G8. Scott, J. V., p. 53. Semple, J. E., pp. 30, 193. Semig, B., pp. 149, 156. Shackleeokd, W., pp, 53, 213. SCHAFHIRT,3E. F., p. 122. Sharpe, E.,"pp. 9, 35, 4G, 47, 68, 78, 155. Shaw, J., p. 178. Simons, J., p. 114. Skinner, A. G., pp. 108,"135. Slaughter, B. F., p. 252. Smart, C, pp. 147, 189, 205, 252,270. Smith, A. H., p. 156. Smith, A. K., p. 275. Smith, H. H., p. 43. Smith, H. .1., p. 46. ' Smith, J. R., p. 41, 257 Smith O., p. 63. ^ Smith, W. F., pp. 7, 22, 212, 258. Smith, W. H., pp. 64, 145, 181. Snow, T. H., p. 1.56. Spohn, H., p. 177. Steigers, a. F., p. 209. Steinmetz, W. E., pp. 41, 74. Sternberg, G. M., pp. 125, 227, 238, 244, 246,250. Stevens, D., p. 122. Storrow, S. a., p. 199. SUHRING, F., p. 47. Tallen, J. E., p. 111. Tanszky, R.,pp. 64, 84, 85. Taylor, W. E., p. 232. Taylor, J., p. 115. Thompson, D. D., p. 88. Thomson, W., p. 83. TiEDMAN, H. G., p. 61. Tilton, H. R., pp. 19, 34, 54, 75, 77, 79, 81, 85, 129, 179, 192, 223. ToMKiNS, W. R., p. 200. Tompkins, W. A., p. 192, 253. ToNNER, J. A., pp. 34, 42, 46. TowAR, G. W., p. 63. Town, F. L., p. 51, 254. Tkemaine, W. S., pp. 37, 76, 156. TUGGLE, T. S., p. 61. Turner, H. T., pp. 156, 176, 183, 203. Vansant, J., p. 111. VoLLUM, E. p., pp. 116, 237, 248, 255. Wagner, C., p. 246. Walker, D., p. 7. Walsh, J. K., p. 139. Watkins, J. C, p. 31. Webb, J. P., p. 11. Weeds, J. F., pp. 26, 40, 41, 76, 100, 103, 107, 156,159, 174, 193, 235, 251. Weikick, S. T., pp. 57, 183. Weisel, D., pp. 29, 45. Westerling, R., p. 156. White, C. B., p. 252. White, ,J. B., pp. 34, 77, 99, 104, 240. White, R. H., pp. 12, 15, 37, 175. Whitehead, W. E., p. 49. WiGGiN, A. W., pp. 33, 123, 255. Williams, J. W., pp. 23, 57, 59, 64, 89, 102, 192. Williams, F. A., pp, 52, 90. Wilson, A. D., pp. 159, 193. Wilson, B. B., p. 61. Wilson, W. J., pp. 36, 75,375. WiNNE, C. K., pp. 19, 169, 200. WoLVERTON, W. D., pp. .32, 91, 168, 177. Woodruff, E., p. 2.52. WooDHULL, A. A., pp. 6, 19, 84,167. Woodward, J. J., pp., 263, 265. Wright, C. B., p. 178. Wright, .J. P., p. 89. Yeomans, H. II., pp. 8, 59, 118, 180,269. Young, C. W., p. 102. 3729 41st Infantry ... Castle, F 117 222 4th Cavalry INDEX OF PATIENTS. Name. Abbott, "W Adams, E Ailams, G Adams, G Alilfeld, J Aliearn, J Aheain, F Allen, C Alfonz, P Alexander, W. S. Allison, H Allison, J. n Allen, C Allison, H Alderl'er, J. K . .. Allen, J. I Alman, J Aldiich, G Alvidrcz, C Allbrislit, G. W.. Amey, B Andruss, C Andrew, C Anderson, J Appleraan, P Arkee, J. A Arthur Arnold, C Ash, R Atley, H Atwood, G. T .... Auchcnpock, M.. Avens, T. "W Baker, T Bailey, S Badamy, P BaiTy, W Barney, J Barnitz, A Banan, J Banks, A Barclay, J Barrage, J Barry, D Baker, J Barrett, T Batt, J. A Babb,L Behn, P Bently, W Behan, P Beam, I. y Bender, E Berry, G Berger, P Berger, J Bell, J BischofF, F Bisbing, J Blair, W Bow en, J Boyd, D Kegiment. S.ith Infantry ... 15th Infantry ... 9th Cavalry 4th Artillery 31st Infantry.... 8th Cavalry General service. 38th Col. .Troops 9th Cavalry Sth Infantry ... 33tl Infantry... 21st Pa. Cavalry 1st Artillery . - • 16th Infantry .. Dis. soldier 4th Cavalry 4th Cavalry 2d Cavalry 1st New Mexico Civilian Cth Cavalry 3d Infantry 9fh Cavalry 32d Infantry ... 22d Infantry.... 3d Cavalry Frecdman 2d Artillery .. 38th Infantry . 3d Cavalry 5th Cavalry... 37th Infantry . 25th Infantry. 24th Infantry . 128th Col. Troops 25th Infantry.. 6th Cavalry 6th Cavalry 7th Cavalry 4th Cavalry... Ordnance Corps. Ordnance Corps Civilian 7th Cavalry 29th Infantry... 22d Infantry 2d Cavalry Sth N. Hampsh'e 34th Infantry..- Civilian Civilian 29th Infantry ... 3d Infantry 24th Infantry ... 9th Infantry 15th Infantry... 10th Cavalry.... 37th Infantry... 2d Cavalry 1st Artillery 33d Infantry.... 9th Cavalry Page 55 37 95 114 36 156 229 41 20 30 38 280 55 59 114 132 139 156 175 205 59 6 170 252 170 157 202 222 55 102 103 170 196 46 61 76 83 89 250 115 170 170 190 190 196 222 268 280 52 62 116 137 170 170 170 175 190 170 197 176 22 Name. Bohan, J Boats, C Bowers, W Bos worth, N. C... Bowen, R Bowers, B Bowen, CM Brown, J Brown, A Baron, J. J Braunan, J Braman, C. B Brown, T Broad, R Brown, M. E Bryant, F. W Brown, A Brown, H. S Brown, E Brown, S Brown, P Brady, J Brown, S Brunett, C Brown, W Bullis, G Butler, J Buel, D. H Burke, "W Burke, E Burke, P Bui gi, R Burnside, J Buckskin Burtz, A Burroughs, W. R. Buchannan, J Buruham, F Burridge, J Burr, F Butler, J Burnham, W Bush, H B B , J. H B , J Can-, H Caldwell, W Casey, X Cappings, J Carrington, H. B. Carnovan, T Carey, J Carroll, T Calquhoun, A Carroll, J Cahil,P Carter, M Campbell, G. W.. Casey, M Cameron, J Regiment. Page. 4th Cavalry. ... 63 9th Cavalry 03 3d Artillery 123 8tli Cavalry 170 13th Infantry... 107 nth Infantry... 180 27th Indiana 205 8th Infantry 35 2d Cavalry 18 Civilian 38 7th Cavalry . .. 42 Act. Ass't Surg 45 5th Cavalry 40 2d Cavalry 48 27th Infantry ... 60 Ittli Infantry... 65 10th Cavalry 69 17th Infantry... 83 Civilian 95 10th Cavalry 153 4th Artillery 170 3d Cavalry 170 10th Cavalry.... 190 3d Cavalry 225 20th Infantry 244 3d Infantry .... 19 10th Cavalry 24 Ordnance Corps. 36 6th Cavalry 46 16th Infantry... 252 17th Infantry... 77 4th Cavalry 82 114th Col. Troops 83 Gov't eniploy6.. 91 2d Infantry 106 40tU Infantry... 110 42d Infantry 110 14th Infantry... 132 14th Infantry... 155 3d Cavalry 157 6th Cavalry 157 10th Cavalry 170 7th Infantry 170 23d Infantry 17 20th Infantry... 115 Laborer 131 25th Infantry... 25 nth Infantry... 27 6th Cavalry 46 20th Infantry... 77 18th Infantry... 78 Civilian 78 lOlh Infantry... 102 1st Artillery 106 5th Cavalry 109 12th Infantry... 135 13th Infantry ... 171 21st Col. Troops. 171 3d Cavalry 180 2d Artillery... . 181 31st Maine 206 Name. Chase, G Chase, D. E Christman, W Charleton, T Chapman, W Clioate, J. M Chavez, M Cheeseman, F Church, L Cheeseley, H Christopher, G Clark, J Clements, G. A. H.. Clarke, R ... Clapp, W. H Clinton, II. C Clay, H Clapp, G Clifford, A Clinton, R Clark,A Clements, J Cluue, M Clark, C 0. F Colby, E. P Connor, J Coler, W Cooper, J Cosgrove, J Connelly, J Corin, W Coleman, G Cole.D.D Corcoran, P Conroy, J Collins, J Cox, G Cogan, J Cody, J Colyer, G Conway, C Cooper, J. W Cooley, J Cook, J Cook, F Collins, J Connell, P Cockcroft, "W Crith, F Cramer, M Cross, E : Crabtree, N Craig, J Creeden, B . Crawford, G. C.-... Cummings, J. L Curry, P Curry, B Curry, J Cunningham, B Citllen, M C , .T Regiment. 9th Col. Troops 40th Infantry, nth Infantry. 10th Infantry. Gen'l service.. 1st Cavalry ... Civilian Civilian 11 Cth Col. Troops 114th Col. Troops 9th Cavalry 14tb Infantry.. 44th Infantry.. 28th Infantry.. 6tli Cavalry 2d Infantry loth Cavalry... 3d Artillery 17th"Infautry .. 3d Cavalry..... 4tb Infantry ... 1st Infantry 35th Infantiy .. 1st Oregon 2d Infantry Cth Infimtry 9th Cavalry.... 21st Col. Troops Sth Infantry ... 5th Cavalry 38th Infantry .. 117th Col. Troops 8th Cavalry 4tli Artillery 37th Infantry ... 8th Cavalry 2d Infantry nth Infantry ... 9th Cavalry Ordnance Corps. 31st Infantry 3d Cavalry 3d Cavalry 2d Artillery 17th Infantry ... 20th Infantry ... 199tli Pa 38th Infantry ... 19th Infantry ... 5th Artillery CivOian 8th Cavalry 3d Cavalry 40th Infantry ... 1st Cavalry Civilian 6th Cavalry 20th Pa. Cavalry. 4th Cavalry 2d Cavalry Page. 85 118 251 1.57 171 253 171 197 13 6 18 57 58 C8 74 74 279 80 83 83 83 89 90 102 142 154 157 160 171 189 190 259 62, 225 65 118 145 157 157 176 13 33 44 61 65 171INDEX OF PATIENTS. 291 Name. Biiniels, J Daniels, O. E.... Davidson, E Davis, A Davis, I Davis, J Darragh, J Daidis, T Danuey, J. H Daily, J Daily, J Day, B Dalj', W Daley, P Davis, J Dennis, F. A Dennis, W Dednian, N Delaney, J Detterer, E. M.. Devine, J Depue, G. W.-.. De Forrester, Gr. De Forrest, F ... Deinpsey, "W Desmond, H Detemple Denney, W Deems, G- Dixon, J. C Dovenie Doleman, H Donnelly, J Donnelly, P Donovan, J Dorman, G. "W .. Downey, T Dotzel, J Downs, J Dougberty, M... Dow,\V Dowdy, J Dooley, M. J Donohue, H Drum, W Dubois, J Dunn, J Dussett, O Durant Dunn, P Dutton, T , Duggan, G Dwyer, P Eagan, P Earl, W Eberhardt, J Echstrand, J. H. Edwards, J Ehlman, J Elliott, R Erne, H Eu.stace, P Farley, L Farrell, J Fairbanks, G ... Farrington, J. B. Fabry, J F —, W Feaster, J Fenske, J Fee, W Kegiment. Civilian 9th Cavalry. Cth Infantry ... 17th Infantry .. 9th Cavalry 5th Cavalry 1st Cavalry 10th Infantry ... 25th Infantry ... 3d Cavalry 9th Col. Cavalry. Pawnee scovit... 20th Infantry ... 8th Cavalry 41st Infantry 5th Cavalry 39th Infantry ... 41st Infantry 5th Artillery.... 4th Infantry 3d Cavalry 20th Infantry ... 18th Infantry ... 4tli Artillery 22d Infantry .... 15th Infantry ... nth Infantry ... 5th Artillery 4th Cavalry 5th Cavalry 8th Infantry 10th Cavalry Cth Cavalry 27th Infantry ... 18th Infantry ... 6th Infantry 7th Infantry 16th Infantry ... 1st Artillery 6th Cavalry 5th Infantry 42d Infantry 18tb Infantry ... 5th Cavalry 14th Infantry .. 6th Infantry 28th Infantry ... 16th Infantry . 33d Infantry .. 32d Infantry.. 8th Cavalry... 3d Infantiy ... 42d Infantry .. 7th Cavalry... 17th Infantry. 10th Cavalry.. 1st Artillery .. 9th Cavalry... 4th Infantry.. 5th Infantry .. Scouts 25th Infantry . 4th Artillery.. 32d Infantry .. 4th Artillery.. Civilian 41st Infantry.. Civilian Civilian. Page. 149 165 9 14 10 52 53 83 50 91 119 157 171 171 262 181 242 45 253 69 105 155 160 169 171 171 171 171 171 181 272 119 17 26 28 32 38 40 66 68 69 104 140 171 171 254 148 20 43 48 61 69 149 151 84 110 167 86 213 227 244 230 81 206 82 119 189 215 239 76 151 157 Name. Ferns, D Finally, J Fitzpatrick, T Fisher, T Fi.sher, J Finn, W Fitzpatrick, P Flannagan, J Flammery, J Fleniming, C Flannery, M Flynn, W Fletcher, T.W Ford, J Ford, M Ford, A Foster, T For.syth, G. A Foster, J Ford, T Ford, J Ford, P Fonda, C. A Freyer, H Frey, G Francis, J Fry, J Fracker, J Frank, J Franklin, A Franklin, B Francis, J Furay, A. J Furboy, K F , K Gamble, J Gallagher, W.B.... Gavin, T Garnet, R Gardner, N Gardiner, J. A Gay, T , Geddes, J Gennigs, W Gerhardt, J George, L. J Gibbons, "W Gibhart, F Gillaney, M Gill, J Gibson, E Gibben, J Glascock, J Gleason, W Gleason,H Goodwin, J Gourjan, J Goldsborough,W. H Goodpaster, L Gordon, A Gohlke, W Good, B Gordon, D Greenland, G Grey, F Gregory, A. J Gray, J Graves, W Graves, J. A Green, C . Greene, H Grevenberg, A Greitcr, W Regiment. 7th Infantry .. 3d Cavalry I8tli Infantry . 9th Cavalry 5th Artillery.. 2d Cavalry 4th Infantry .. 8th Infantry .. 2d Infantry ... 40th Infantry . 16th Infantry . 20th Infantry . 4th Infantry .. 45th Infantry . 19th Infantry . 6th Cavalry... 9th Cavalry... 9th Cavalry... 9th Cavalry... 5th Cavalry... 5th Cavalry... 19th Infantry . 23d Infantry .. 6th Cavalry... 36th Infantry . 38th Infantry . leth Infantry . 3d Cavalry 2d Infantry 14th Infantry . 2d Minn. Cavalry 3d Cavalry 2d Infantry ... 98th Ohio 11th Infantry . 13th West Va. 6tb Cavalry... 37th Infantry . 10th Cavalry.. Civilian 2d Artillery... 8th Cavalry -.. 40th Infantry . 38th Infantry . 2d Infantry ... 7th Cavalry... 117th Col.Troopi 14th Infantry . 23d Infantry .. 19th Infantry . 31st Infantry.. 6tb Infantry .. Civilian 37th Infantry . 140th New York 7th Cavalry... 4th Cavalry... 24th Infantry . 38th Infantry . 38th Infantry . 20th Infantry . 9th Cavalry... 7th Cavalry... 5th Infantry .. 41st Col. Troops 25th Infantry . 26th Infantry . 19th Infantry . 24th Infantry . 7th Infantry .. 9th Cavalry... 39th Infantry . 5tli Infantry .. Page. 193 32 151 171 190 191 239 16 15 20 66 169 171 40 44 60 65 80 102 141 159 182 206 26 63 77 99 111 139 171 216 220 109 212 10 280 39 68 77 171 190 190 • 7 25 55 171 39 41 86 95 128 190 80 83 207 27 46 58 77 85 132 171 207 6 18 20 34 62 251 84 106 120 170 Name. Grey, G Gueree, J G , R. A G , T G , Isabella .. G -, Philip ... Harling, J Hacketts, E. P.. Harvey, H Halbert, P Hall, C Hallet Hall,T Hatch, G. W...- Harkey, J Hampton, H Hardwick, W ... Harr, G Hau.sman, W Hamilton, F Hargarty, J Harmering, A... Hatzel, J Happe, H Hairc, J Hamley, J Hastings, G Haxel, P Herron, W Herrarra Herbert, H Heyl, E Hennard, J. G... Hewes, J Henrietta, F Hight, H Hier.W Hilmer, J. F.... Hickey, J Hickey, M. C Higgins, J Hogan, E Howard, J Houle, J Hood, W. J Hoifman, J Hobin, W Holden, J Hoffman, H Hoffman, W.H.. Hofnar, F Hollan, E Hoffman, C Holker, C Hogan, J Hoover, E Howard, C Houlihan, T Honig, C Hostler, W Hunter, P Hubbard, T Huff. J Huher, W. H.... Hughes, L. M... Hurley, M Hubbard, E Huntington, H.. Hughes, W Hubbell, G. E... Hutton, A Hynds, J H Regiment. 3d Cavalry Engineer Batt'u Teamster Servant 13th Col. Troops 25th Infantry ... 1st Infantry 38th Infantry ... 2d Artillery 9th Cavalry Civilian 9th Cavalry Act. Ass't Surg.. 6th Cavalry 31st Infantry 14th Infantry ... 18th Infantry ... 20th Infantry ... 9th Cavalry 7th Infantry 8th Infantry 2d Cavalry 2d Cavalry 1st Infantry 37th Infantry ... 19th Infantry ... 38th Infantry ... 1st N. M. Inf'try. 9th Cavalry 17th Infiintry ... 9th Col. Troops.. 1st Artillery 9th Cavalry Seaman 3d Cavalry 20th Infantry ... 19th Infantry ... 20th Infantry ... 33d Infiintry .... 16th Infantry ... 8th Cavalry 2d Infantry 6th Cavalry 25th Infantry ... 29th Infantry ... 2d Infantry 5th Cavalry 25th Infantry ... 23d Infantry .... 6th Cavalry Colored 42d Infantry 19th Infantry ... 5th Infantry 2d Infantry 13th Infantry ... 38th Infantry ... 8th Cavalry 2d Cavalry 25th Infantry ... 5th Artillery 7tli Infantry 30th Infantry ... 15th Infantry ... 4th Infantry 6th Cavalry 4th Cavalry ] st Artillery 17th V. R. C CitizenJones, 15 Jenkins, K 9th Cavalry 6tli Infantry ... Jones, E 26tli Infantry ... 184 47 7tli Cavalry McDonald, J 3d Artillery.. Lewis, J. H 191 Colored 3d Cavalry Jones, J Lewis, A 3Cth Infantry .. 9th Cavalry 45th Infantry ... 267 9th Cavalry Leetc, W. F Joseph W 9th Cavalry Lambert, A Name. 23d Infantry 90 210 172 McMahon, M C 83 45 174 Eeginient. 16 57 191 Lindsey, T 5tli Cavalry.. Jolmstou, W 137 4th Infantry ... Jamison, E 10th Infantry .. 172 INDEX OF PATIENTS. Joliuston, J 172 Lee, J 236 Leadtlian, M 9th Infantry . 53 172 l.st Cavalry Jeflcott, J 247 19th Col. Troops ) 104 Lee, T 20tli Infantry... 292 122 Page McWillianis, J... Jarvis, G 35th Infantry ... 9th Cavalry 121 50 32d Infantry McKeo, A Jones, D. W K , J 136 10th Infantry... Jefl'erson, H 6tli Cavalry Stcrryw eather, A .. 89 151 23d Infantry ... 24th Infantry... 4th Cavalry 22d Infantry ... 25 2d Cavalry Joliu 275 Linton,D 76 172 Krouse, C Jolinson, L Name. 6th Cavalry Linnahan, "W 16th Infantry .. 1st Cavalry 35th Infantry .. Likarte, A McCuller, J McGnun, D. A 20th Infantry ... McNalley, J Leonard, C. E Mclntyre, P Lasby, J 24th Infantry ... 10th Infantry ... 178 27th Infantry... Lavelle, W 45 Johnson, T. M ... Living.ston, W Iiliiiwgaw 17tli Infantry ... Lorenzo, G 274 Pago. 117th Col. Troops 8th Cavalry 1st Infantry 54 7th Infantry 259 7th Infantry 7th Infantry 272 McAllister, A Larsson, 0 39 20th Infantry 7tli Cavalry Lelimann, C 14th Infantry... Civilian Lightner, F Janjes, H 40th Infantry ... 122 McCnlla, ^V Jackson, N. B 262 29 McCarthy, D 184 69 38 8tli Infantry 260 243 Lawrence, M Page. McMaiius ICth Infantry... 36 253 249 34th Infantry... 7th Cavalry Jones, W. L McT , H 39111 Infantry .. 245 45th Infantry ... Lowry, N 172 134 172 66 152 100 7th Infantry .. McKeever, J 66 252 ( 102 6tli Cavalry... McDonald, M 20th Infantry Xame. 5th Infantry 169 Jennings, P . 110 82 40th Infantry ... 237 Leach, ~W McDermith, "W 238 184 Otli Cavalry Lather, J 269 McPeake, M Indian Chief MeBride, W 31st Infantry... 69 McMahon, P 4th Cavalry 8 Meyer, F 23rt Infantry.... Lilly, J Janke, W 35tli Infantry . Johnson, G McCasey, B Irving, W Johnson, H 104 90 252 9th Infantry ... 24th Infantry ... 8th Cavalry 10th Cavalry.... McDougall, J 82d Col. Troops . Jess, W 47 222 nth Infantry McConibs, C 210 McCarthy, E 14th Infantry... Citizen StcM , J Lewis, G. W 253 Joljnson, J 29 69 69 McClinty, H Jolmson, J. J 191 39 4th Cavalry 64 McCaffrey, F 2d Cavalry McMahon, J Indian Scout .. K , T 135 30 43d Infantry 256 33d Infantry McConuick, M 172 90 42d Infantry 17th Infantry... Jackson, "W 15th Infantry ... 15 7th Cavalry lltli Infantry ... Leopold, E Isaacs, D 223 3d Infantry ... 22d Infantry 69th Pa Civilian Leonard, J. F 40th Infantry ... 121 12th Infantry... Eeginient. Jackson, W 71 60 64 Logan, T 2:id Infantry .... McCann, T McClinchey, J. "W... Lillimore 183 23d Infantry.... 37 JoYcc, J Jeflt'ison, H 85 10th Cavalry.... 65tli Col. Troops. 12 98 Ilcgiment. 15th Infantry... 172 66 Logan, T 24th Infantry ... 108 67 39th Infantry ... 158 Mooney, M Maunsell. W 172 Civilian Pensioner Lorenzel, C 172 72 76 Louiston, G 7th Cavalry 253 14th Infantry ... Johnson, D Moore, J. A 34th Infantry... 35tli Infantry ... 177 Kiiowles 2d Cavalry Monaghan, E Kay, A 4th Cavalry Monaghan, H McWilliams, D 93 169 44 McDowell, D 20 9th Cavalry 69 Kane, T Moulton, M Krumholz, J 1st Infantry ... 35 16tli Infantry ... 14th Infantry... Jones, AV 263 128th Col. Troops Ordnance Corps. 6th Cavalry Keller, J. W Minnigan, C. C 9th Infantry 28th Infantry... Morgan, T 2l8t Indiana Logan,E 3d Cavalry 141 278 208 4th Artillery... Eng. Battalion.. Morris, C 81 Morris, M 111 157 241 84th Indiana 209 U. S. Engineers . 103 Kinten, H 172 192 Mathiag J. G 158 Keegan, J. 40 tst Artillery Keller, N 32 172 Kerne, G 7 5th Cavalry Johnson, & 57 Malone, E 35 172 Morton, F 48 14th Infantry ... 108 38th Infantry ... 157 Johnson, J Morrisey, J 7th Cavalry 10th Cavalry. ... Jones, 1) 3d Cavalry 16th Infantry ... Kaufman, D 23d Infantry 13thInfantry ... Miller, "W Mellan, H. B Kelly, T 5th Cavalry 160 8th Cavalry 2d Infantry 27th Infantry ... 99 Keir, W Kennedy, C 146 5th Infantry 245 43 38th Infantry.. 21 4tli Infantry Long, W. H 14th Mo. Cav ... 38th Infantry ... Miner, H 1st Cavalry J , E Civilian l.st Artillery ... 9th Infantry ... 16th Infantry... Mentieres, A Jordan,P 194 15th Infantry ... Magenthalcr McKinney, G Kelly 209 90 15 Jones, J. M 101 Marshall, A 214 29 129 Hosp'l Steward. 38th Infantry ... 31 Montgomery, J Ma.son, G. F Luther, il 47 1st Artillery 84 5th Infantry 8th Cavalry 107 48 3d Cavalry 3d Cavalry 172 39 191 104 244 155 Lockwood, G. M 91 27 31st Infantry ... Kold, J. W , 6th Infantry ... Johnson, L McLean, A 13 Merchant, J 172 3d Cavalry Milane, D. G 236 227 21st Infantry ... 1st Cavalry Melitz, K 62 19th Infantry ... McCnllough, W. W . Moore, A. C McCoy, T intchel, G 123 Maynard 42d Infantry 223 Mann, J Martin, S. G 17th Infantry... 8tli Cavalry 7th Cavalry Miller, J King, T 58 158 83 33d Infantry... 38th Infantry... 8th Infantry 183 39 Scout Marshall, J 158 6th Cavalry 1st Infantry 1st Cavalry 110 Metcalf, L Kelly, J 4th Infantry 16 1st Infantry 8tli Cavalry Kimball, J , March, T. J McCabe, P MiUer, C Morrison, D May, C Mathews, J 9 9th Cavalry L , 0 Marrion, T Koilly, M Miller, J Kelly. B 158 172 122 20th Infantry ... 32 22d Infantry Michael, C Morris, K Mack, Big 10th Cavalry.... Maitlon, L 15th Infantry... 41st Infantry... 2d Infantry 157 Morgan, J. D 10 39 Kellner, F 34 3d Infantry 1st Cavalry Mitchell, C 37 2d Infantry Kelly, J 10th Cavalry.... 31st Infantry ... 6th Cavalry Miller, E 31 Marks, J 14th Infantry ... 191 H Iiiiblcr, "\V Jones, CD Johnson, W. A... Judd, J. L Keiley, M. "W Kennedy, A Kelly, J Kennicott, E Kinnear, E Kline, J General 19th Col. Troops 8tli Infantry .... 8th Infantry .... 18th Infantry ... 6th Cavalry 7th Cavalry 5th Cavalry 19th Infantry ... 21st Infantry nth Infantry ... 144 177 240 178 37 38 131 183 209 255 Lee, J Locke, J Ludlow, J. R Maybee, J Manaban, "W Materne, K Martin, J Mason, E. T McDonough, J McLaughlin, W 3d Cavalry Civilian 7th Cavalry loth Cavalry... 3d Cavalry 6th Infantry ... 7th Cavalry 198th Pa 6th Cavalry 5th Cavalry 160 153 157 21 123 134 210 261 12 29 McCafferty, N. J ... Mechem, A. F Miller, L Mitchell, J Morris, H Morgan, W Montague, J Moller, "VP" Morgan, H Morrell, C Surgeon U. S. A. 112 Civilian '23d Infantry 30 13th Infantry ... 69 Colored 258 16 9th Infantry.... Civilian 58 8tli Lil'antry 101 7tli Cavalry 158 3d Cavalry 1,58 8th Cavalry . 1Murray, C 40th Infantry ... Det. Artillery... 39th lufantry... Pye, R Quill, X Morris, P 10th Cavalry... Perigo, D 40th Infantry.. 8th Infantry .... Shulz, R Mueller, G Shaw, J Neff,W 43d lufantry ... 193 Paulson 104 Regiment. Scott, George .. 20th Infantry... 172 Shields 38th lufantry.. Mexican Page. 37th Infantry ... Shulder, E Peternian, A.. Shire, L Seis, J 37th Infantry ... 1st N. M 173 13th Infantry ... Moore, W 67 2(1 Artillery 158 156 172 60 17th Infantry ... Simpson, E 67 Seachrist, C Pender, P 9th Cavalry Pinal, L 200 6th Cavalry Page, 3d Artillery 178 Murphy, J 3d Cavalry 150th N. T. Navity, J 9th Cavalry... Eeginient. 18th Infantry... 2d Cavalry 5th Cavalry Civilian Pearce, H , 7th Cavalry 10 85 Murray, C P , W. L .... Qucswelle, C.. - 14th Infantry 41st Infantry P , F Murjjhy, J 5th Cavalry ... 211 211 240 Silverhoi'U, F .. IJ!JDEX OF PATIENTS. 293 3d Cavalry 75 Sey forth, H. ^Y. Perkins, B Shields, J Myers, J 65 10th Cavalry Shanley, B Murphy, D Pilot, J Schuback, J 191 5th Cavalry 128 254 Scott, C. B 19th Infantry... Sheridan, P .... Naviu, T 8th Cavalry 3d Infantry Seeberger, A 4th Cavalry Assist't Surgeon 145 185 18th Infantry .. 22d Infantry.... 13tli Infantry .. Page Civilian 5th Artillery Nix, K 28th Infantry.. Seaman Civilian 224 Pomfort, N 33 Piatt, P 13th Infantry.. 36th Infantry .. 31st Infantry ... 1st Artillery ... Morgan, "W. B 79 172 1st Artillery Parker, J 50 Nalbrow, D 24th Infantry ... Mulliiis, J Add'l Paymaster Name. 145 89 43d Infantry Sachse, P 8 Murjiby, D Mowry, C 8th Cavalry Murray, T 22d Infantry ... Regiment. Name. 85 22d Infantry ... Murray, J 4th Cavalry 191 57th Infantry.. Navarra, E Civilian Priest, " Little " Civilian 7th Cavalry Peterson, C. H Mussell, A 3d Cavalry 173 9th Cavalry 46 211 Scregg, J 46 Sheppard, T ... Montiel, S 172 172 173 Shaw, R 200 11th Infantry ... Phelan, J Name. 173 23 14th lufantry... 97 Murphy, M Skehan, J 19th Infantry ... Schonard, G 137 Omaha Scouts .. 13th Infantry .. 6th Cavalry Page. 51 3d Infantry 11th Infantry... Sheehy, E Pheuix, J Schwindig, P 3d Artillery Nims, H. G Pare, W 10th Cavalry... 246 Rader, L Peak, I 185 Rose,H 9th Cavalry Smith, J 19th Infantry... 13th Infantry Reinhold, M ... 3d Artillery.. 14th Infantry 238 Smith, G Smith, F 4th Infantry 3d Infantry 31st Infantry Smith, P. D.... 191 19th Infantry ... Ray, C. P 35th Infantry ... 9th Cavalry Nolan, T 6th Cavalry.. Smith, J 248 25th Infantry ... 4 th Veteran Vol Smith, J 237 173 173 20th Infantry .. O'Callaghan, P 18th Infantry... Springer, D. K. O'Connor, D 16th Infantry ... Scout 17th Infantry ... 52 59 Ramires, D 31st Infantry ... IstN. M.Cavalry 36 Smith, P. W ... Smith, C 69 168 50 Nugent, H 270 15tli Infantry ... Ridley, S 102 Oliver, W. K 37th Infantry.. Riley, T O'Brien, L 5th Cavalry Reed, C Nohrton, J Regan, M Hosp'l Steward Oberfield, A 26 179 Rhey, C Recruit 9 12th Infantry ... Murphy, J Myers, J M , C. E Naylor, J Newell, A Neponioeeiio, B ... Neuu, J Nixon, J Niee.C Nipple, T Nolan, E Noycs, H O'Brien, J O'Brien, M O'Brien, J O'Brien, T O'Brien. L O'Callaghan, M ... O'Connor, T O'Connor, J Oliver, E Oliver, W. R O Neil, H O'Neal, W O Neil, J Oshorne, J Osborne, C Osborne. G O'Shaughnessy, T . Overton, G Owiue Owens, J. W 0 , C Payne, J. A Patterson, J. B Paine, I Patterson, W Pa-yan-za Paris, J Parks, W Patterson, A 7th Cavalry 3cl Cavalry ICth Infantry... 9th Cavalry 114th Col. Troops Mexican 3d Cavalry 5th Cavalry.. 9th Cavalry.. 3d Cavalry 5th Cavalry Ist Artillery... 16th Infantry.. 7th Cavalry 28th Infantry ... 6th Cavalry.. tr.S.A....... 6th Cavalry.. 1st Artillery. 22d Infantry. 27tli lufantry 14th Infantry 6tli Cavalry.. 5tli Cavalry.. 2d Infantry.. 24tb Infantry... 1st Cal. Vet. Vols 2d Neb. Cavalry 15tb Infantry.. 10th Cavalry... Indian Scout.. - 3d Artillery ... 3d Cavalry 7th Cavalry 24th Infantry .. 29th Infantry .. Indian Scout... 36th Col. Troops 9th Cavalry 23d Infantry ... 1.58 83 19 26 39 224 242 23 173 202 59 137 16 19 59 158 185 42 178 191 64 76 16 85 88 11 75 145 54 67 158 273 30 34 84 101 1.57 173 173 173 Phillip.s, J Pochet, N Post, P Pumphrey, T .. P , W Quigley, T Quimby, J Quinan, .1 Quohn, P Randolph, G. C. Randall, E Ramey, A Reed, B Reese, P Reynolds, J Reip, P Realey, R Read, C. E Rice, J Richards, M. E . Riley, J Rigby, E Richards, ... Rivers, C Robinson, G ... Rodgeis, W.... Rogers, G Ross, F Robbin.s, S. D .. Rosback, W.... Roberts, T Robinson, W... Russell, W Ruff, M Ryan, D Ryan, J Ryan, M Ryan, J Ryan, W Ryan, T 9th Cavalry 9tli Cavalry 45th Infantry ... 6th Cavalry 17th Infantry .. 9th Cavalry Cav. Detachm't Policeman 9th Infantry ... Trapper Ci^'ilian 128th Col. Troops 4th Cavalry 3d Artillery 7th Cavalry Civilian 37tli Infantry ... 39th Infantry ... 19th Infantry ... 1st Cavalry 9th Cavalry 20th Infantry ... 40th Infantry ... 16th Infantry ... 16th Infantry ... 9th Cavalry 23d Infantry 6th Cavalry 22d Infantry 3d Cavalry 4th Cavalry 35th Infantry... 8th Infantry 23d Infantry .... 45th Infantry ... 6th Cavalry 7th Infantry 5th Cavalry 74 29 1/3 137 246 243 226 237 255 173 186 212 67 68 132 192 204 238 253 14 103 158 173 235 22 39 251 67 123 149 173 165 51 173 59 60 107 108 173 212 Shaw, J Shelton, J.W .. Shields, J Shears. E Simmons, J Singleton, F Silence, G Simmons, D. Skillin, J. T .... Sledge, R Smith, J Smiths, G Smith, E Smith, W. S.... Smith, A Smith, G Smith, R Smith, J. B.... Smith, J Smith, C Smith, A Smith, J. E Smith, ,1 Smith, G. W... Suowdon, A Southwood, J.. Soleven, T Soolien, J Soldaco, J Spencer, H Spencer, I Spillnian, J Spyri, J Stainbrook, J.. Stone, W.U ... Stewart, T Stern,G Stuvan, E Stewart. F Stanton, C 3d Cavalry 6th Cavalry 6th Cavalry 20th Infantry .. 128th Col. Troops 20th Infantry ... 3d Cavalry 2d Cavalry Ordnance Corps. 38thTnfautry ... 38th lutantry ... 9th Cavalry 7tli Infantry 6th Cavalry 23d Infantry.... Cth Cavalry 10th Cavalry.... 25th Infantry... 20th Infantry... 27th Infantry... 26th Infantry... Ordnance Corps. 8th Cavalry 27th Infantry... 14th Infantry... 40th Infantry... 19th Infantry... 13th Infantry... Mexican 80th Col. Troops. 117th Col. Troops 7th Cavalry 2d Cavalry 19th Kansas 4th Cavalry. ... 14tli Infantry.. 38th Infantry.. 4th Cavalry 38th Infantry.. 10th Cavalry...294 INDEX OF PATIENTS. Name. Stevenson, J Stuart, K Stables, A. H.... Stall, F Stockfoid, H Stone, C. A.C.... Stack, J Stargratt, J Stowcrs, I. F Stauridge, J Stone, P Sumners, H Sumner, J Sullivan, D Summer, E. V Sullivan, A Swords, E Sweet, W. E Sweeney, T S , W Talbot, J. T Tasker, A Tasker, L Taylor, H. E Taylor, I Taylor, J. A Terry, A Tboniiison, J. A.. Thompson, C. E.. Thompson, G Thompson, W Thomas, J Thompson, E Thomas, W Thomas, J. W.... Thomas, J. K Tlndolph, J Tocker, F Tolliver, J Toober, T Tobin, J To-kah-k-len Tompkins, J. F.. Tolliver, B Toole, P Traccy, J Trowell, T Train, E. L Tyigesor, C Turner, J Turner, W. H.... Turner, T Turner, T Tynes, AV T Louis Unknown Kegiment. 10th Cavalry 6tb Cavalry 18th Infantiy... 3d Cavalry 31st Infantry 5tli Cavalry 20tli Infantry... 7th Cavalry lltli Iiifantrj". .. IGtli Infantry... 3d Cavalry 20th Infautry... 1st Cavalry 45th Infantry... 1st Cavalry Freedman 3d Cavalry 24th Infantry... 20th Ini^intry... 37th Infantry... 2oth Infautry... 10th Cavalry.... 10th Cavalry.... 24th Infantry... 2d Infantry 13th Infantry... 3Sth Infantry... 7th Cavalry 3d Cavalry 10th Cavalry 9th Cavalry 10th Cavalry 84th Col. Troops. 9th Cavalry 2d Artillery 2d Cavalry 1st Artillery Ctli Cavalry 24th Infantry... 42d Infantry I'Jth Infantry... Indian Scout 32d Infantry 7th Cavalry 2d Cavalry 16th Infantry... 128th Col. Troops 2d Cavalry 8th Cavalry 9th Cavalry 6th N.Y. Battery 4th Cavalry 9th Cavalry 16th Infantry... 40th Infantry... Page, 69 69 151 159 159 159 169 173 173 238 243 35 61 105 173 240 16 136 196 125 252 68 68 74 252 174 189 23 32 68 69 73 96 253 111 201 42 7 41 73 100 154 156 174 235 64 64 153 154 84 278 164 174 91 34 56 Name. Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown U Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Uuknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Unknown Indian.. Unknown Vandel, P Tan Doesburgh, H. Time, J. T Tetzstine, M Villhouer, C V , F. H Vogler, R Waffler, L Wagoner, S "Warner, A Wallace, W Wateriield, E Ward, H Walcott, D. W Waltsh, J Wagerle, W Watson, E AVatson, E. M Watson, G Washington, G- Washington, J Walker, S Wall, J Welch, J Weaver, W Weiss, G Weider, F Webb, J Welsh, M AA^elber, A AVelsh, J Wells, E. H Welsh, A Weber, A Welch, M White, L White, E Wheeler, T.J White, A Whitman, D Eegimcnt. 45th Infautry U. S. Mil. Acad'y Fem.ale child. Mexican 5th Infantry. Mexican Mex'n herdsman 3d Cavalry 13th Infantry 3d Infantry Ordnance Corps. 22d Infantry 18th Infantry... 13th lufantry... Civilian 27th Infantry ... 18th Col. Troops. 6th Cavalry 38th InlViutry... 31st Inlaiitiy ... 5th Infantry .... 18th Infantry ... 1st Cavalry 23d Infantry.... 3d Cavalry 25th Infantry... 2d Cav.ilry 10th Cavalry.... 9th Cavalry.... Civilian 3d Infantry Teamster 3d Cavalry 9th Cavalry 11th Infantry.. 16th Infantry.. 1st Cal. Cavalry 6th Cavalry 3d Infantry 23d Infantry ... 34th Infanti y ... 13th lufantry 20th lufantry 4th Cavalry.. 9th Cavalry.. 3d CaValry... 4th Infantry . 9th Cavalry.. 17th Infantry Page, 96 98 98 107 126 127 136 138 141 148 153 156 159 164 188 193 174 35 59 174 49 254 56 60 75 262 269 99 159 174 174 174 188 212 221 235 8 12 13 39 39 69 75 82 127 133 174 174 159 160 174 174 174 Name. Whalen, P White, D White, W White, J Whipper, T. H... Wicks, C A¥il8on, D Wilmare, S AVinterbottom, W Willmare, S Wilson, J Williams Willis, C Wilson, C Wilmot, J Wilson, William. AA'illiams. G AVilliams, I Williams, C AV'imsett, H Wilson, J Wilson, L AVilcy, J AVilliams, J AVilliams, R Willis, J. H Wilson, C. H AVil8on,G Wisewell, A. L... Williams, G Wilks, A Williams, H AVinkleman, L... Wilkinson, T Wilson, W Wolf, G Wolf, A Wright, J. A... . Wright, S AV , P W , M W ,E W , E X Teaton, F.. Young, G. W T(mng, D. M Toung, D Toungman, A Zeichler, C Zepp, A Zearambc, J Zimmer, E Zuch.M Kegiment. 3d Infantry ... 41st Infantry.. 114th Cdl.Tioops. 42d Infantry .. 24th Infantry . 26th Infantry . U.S. Infautry. 116th CoI.Troops. 6th Cavalry. 116th CoI.Troops. 10th Cavalry... 24th Infantry .. 3d Cavalry 11th Infautry .. 5th Cavalry 18th Infantry .. 12th Infantry .. 3d Col. H. Art.. 5th Cavalry 4tli Artillery ... Seaman 4th Cavalry 7th Cavalry 2d Cavalry 9th Cavalry 4.5th lufantry .. 7th Cavalry 4th Infantry ... 23d Infantry 2d Infantry 10th Cavalry... 9tb Cavalry 7th Cavalry 3d Artillery Civilian 18th Infantry .. 2d Cavalry 7tb (.'avahy ... 13tli Infantry .. 2d Cavalry 4tb Cavalry 5th Infautry Civilian 1st Oreg. Cavalry 3d Cavalry... 9th Cavalry.. 23d lufantry . loth Cavalry. 23d Infantry. 18th Infantry 21st Infantry. 24tli Infantry 37th Infantry 31st Infantry.TABLE OF CONTENTS. Page. Circular No. 3, Surgeon General's Office, 1871 3 Preliminary observations 5 Gunshot wounds of the head 6 Gunshot wounds of the face 16 Gunshot wounds of the neck 20 Gunshot wounds of the chest 25 Gunshot wounds of the chest involving spine 36 Gunshot wounds of the ahdoinen 39 Gunshot wounds involving thorax and abdomen 40 Gunshot wounds of the stomach 42 Gunshot wounds of the small intestine 42 Gunshot flesh-wounds of the abdomen 46 Gunshot wounds of the large intestine 48 Gunshot wounds of the liver, spleen, and gall-bladder 49 Gunshot wounds of the pelvis 53 Gunshot wounds of the genito-urinary organs 56 Gunshot wounds of the trunk 57 Gunshot wounds of the upper extremities 58 Gunshot wounds of the arm 61 Gunshot wounds of the elbow 62 Gunshot wounds of the fore-arm 63 Gunshot wounds of the hand 65 Gunshot flesh-wounds of the upper extremities 68 Gunshot wounds of the lower extremities 70 Gunshot flesh-wounds of the lower extremities 74 Gunshot wounds of the knee-joint 79 Gunshot wounds of the leg 80 Gunshot wounds of the foot , 84 Analytical review pf cases of gunshot wounds 86 Incised and punctured wounds and contusions 88 Punctured wounds 99 Lacerated and contused wounds 103 Concussion and compression of the brain 110 Simple and compound fractures and luxations 114 Fractures of the skull 114 Fractures of the bones of the face 128 Fractures of the vertebrae 129 Fractures of the bones of the trunk 131 Fractures of the upper extremities 132 Fractures of the humerus 133 Fractures of the radius and ulna 134 Fractures of the lower extremities 135 Fractures of the patella 13629G TABLlil OF CONTENTS. c Fractures of tlio leg 137 Dislocatious 139 Dislocatious at tlie clavicle 140 Dislocations at the shoulder-joint 141 Dislocations at the elbow-joint 141 Dislocations at the •wrist-joint 142 Dislocations at the hip-joint 142 Arrow wounds 144 Arrow wounds of the head and neck 146 Arrow wounds of the chest 151 Arrow wounds of the abdomen 153 Poisoned wounds 164 Burns, scalds, and frost-bites 167 Amputations in the upper extremities 170 Amputations in the lower extremities 190 Excisions 219 Ligations 235 Various operations 244 Operations on the eye, ear, and inouth 245 Operations on the chest 249 Operations on the abdomen 250 Operations on the genito-urinary organs 252 Cases of lithotomy 256 Removal of tumors ■ 262 McGill on osteoplastic amputations 277 Concluding observations 282 Index of rej)orters 287 Index of patients 290