SKIN GRAFTING AND ALLIED PROCEDURES 209 three to six weeks. The new skin eventually becomes movable by the development of subcutaneous fat, but it is long ere sensibility is established. Grafts taken from the Lower Animals.—As has already been said, many attempts have been made to utilise the skin of the lower animals to cover in defects on the surface of the human body. The most satisfactory results have been obtained by using the skin of young, warm- blooded animals, such as pups, kittens, rats, and guinea-pigs. The ulcer is prepared in the same way as for grafting by Krause's method, and the whole thickness of the skin is employed, that from the anterior abdominal wall being the most suitable. After killing the animal the skin is shaved, and dissected up without the subcu- taneous fat. In other respects the procedure is the same as in transplanting the whole thickness of the human skin. Histological Changes.—The anatomical and histological changes associated with the growth and consolidation of grafted skin have been most thoroughly studied in relation to Thiersch grafts. When such grafts have been placed on a raw surface without the intervention of granulation tissue, in the course of a few weeks the new skin is found to be slightly reddened in comparison with the normal skin, as a result of the formation of new blood-vessels in the substance of the graft. The original blood- vessels of the grafted tissue are found to degenerate, and to be replaced by new vessels growing up from below. These finally vascu- larise the papillae and so complete the blood- supply of the skin, a process which occupies several months. The superficial epidermis of the graft is shed as a fine pellicle within a few days of trans- plantation, but is soon replaced by a covering of laminated scales, which are shed more rapidly than in normal skin, on account of the increased nutritive activity of the grafts. The more vascular the transported tissue is the thicker is the epithelial covering, and the less tendency is there to excessive desquamation. As the graft becomes vascularised it gradually reaches the level of the surrounding skin, and as it contains no fibrous cicatricial tissue it soon becomes freely movable on its bed, and shows little or no tendency to cicatricial contraction. Normal tactile and thermal sensibility gradually returns in the course of a few months, progress- ing from the periphery of the graft towards its centre. As a rule, the hair-follicles and secreting glands of the skin are not reproduced in the grafts. Transplantation of Mucous Membrane.— Successful attempts have been made to cover over defects in various mucous surfaces, such as the conjunctiva, the cheek, and the urethra, with grafts of mucous membrane taken from VOL. IX man or from the lower animals. The technique is similar to that employed in skin grafting. Skoda's Sigrn, or Skodaic Res- onance. See Pleura, Diseases op {Acute Pleurisy, Effusion, Percussion). Skull. AS'eeAchondroplasia; Acromegaly; Bone, Diseases of ; Brain, Physiology of ; Brain, Hypertrophy ; Brain, Surgery of ; Children, Clinical Examination of {The Head); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Caries and Necrosis); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Disease of Mastoid Process); Facial Hemi- atrophy ; Head ; Headache ; Hydrocephalus ; Hypertrophy {Unilateral Hyperostosis of Face) ; Insanity, Pathology of {Pathological Anatomy); Leontiasis Ossea ; Meninges of the Cerebrum {Inflammation of the Dtira Mater); Meninges OF the Cerebrum {Tumours); Mental Defi- ciency ; Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw ; Nose ; Orbit, Diseases of ; Palate ; Physiognomy and Expression ; Post-mortem Methods {Head); Rickets ; Syphilis ; Teeth. Skutsch's Pelvimeter.—A some- what complicated apparatus for measuring the conjugata vera and the transverse diameter at the brim of the maternal pelvis in or before labour; it is somewhat difficult of application, but gives fairly accurate results. Slaug^hter-Houses. See Abattoirs. Slaveringf.—The flowing or dribbling of saliva from the mouth, as in many cases of insanity, during dentition, and in some abnormal pregnancies. Sleep, Normal and Morbid. Physiology ...... 209 Theories 210 Sleeplessness . . . . .212 Morbid Somnolence . . . .213 The Hypnagogic State . . . .213 Morbid Dreams 216 Somnambulism . . . . .216 Sleep in Insanity 216 Treatment ...... 217 See also Anesthesia ; Hypnotism ; Hysteria {Convulsions, Varieties, Fits of Sleep); Hys- teria IN Childhood {Symptoms); Insanity, Pathology op {Condition of Brain Cells during Sleep); Morphinomania and Allied Drug Habits {Effects); Nose, Post-Nasal Adenoids {Symptoms, Sleep-walking); Nursery Hygiene {Sleep); Physiology, Nervous System {Cere- brum, Sleep); Physiology, Respiration {Sleepy Hibernation); Sleeping Sickness. Physiology.—The physiological basis of sleep is a matter of uncertainty. Its phenomena are of the deepest interest, and when we consider the relationship of sleep to all forms of animate existence we wonder how it is so comparatively U