109 SCURVY, INFANTILE discoloration of the gums is usually confined to their immediate neighbourhood. Later on the gums may be much swollen so as to hide the teeth, raw, of a deep purple colour, and may bleed on the slightest provocation. In the worst cases of all they form fleshy excrescences protruding between the lips, and the breath may have an intense fcetor. The fact that the gums may appear healthy in scorbutic infants who have no teeth is im- portant in connection with diagnosis ; for one occasionally meets with cases in which sub- periosteal haemorrhages are present, in associa- tion with general tenderness, but in which the confirmatory evidence which the gums usually afford is wholly wanting. It is more common to meet with mild cases in which tenderness and some degree of gum affection are the only scorbutic symptoms. Subperiosteal haemorrhages are most com- monly met with in the lower limbs, and especi- ally near the lower epiphysis of the tibia. How comparatively seldom the arms are affected is well shown by the American statistics, which include 131 cases with swellings in the legs, as against only 14 in which they were present in the arms. However, I have seen a case in which the only swelling was around one humerus, and in which the gums appeared natural, there being no teeth. Here the diagnosis of infantile scurvy was confirmed by the rapid disappearance of the general tenderness and local swelling under antiscorbutic treatment. The size and characters of the swellings are not simply dependent upon the amount of blood effused beneath the periosteum, bat also upon serous exudation and haemorrhage into the muscles. There may be merely slight thickening around the bones, only to be made out on palpation, or the entire thigh or leg may be intensely swollen, and the skin covering it tightly stretched and shiny. The colour of the skin is usually natural, and there is an absence of any sensation of local heat. There may be oedema, especially of the dorsum of the foot. Occasionally, in severe cases, a soft crepitus bears witness to a fracture having occurred in the immediate neighbourhood of an epiphysis. The joints are not implicated, and the swell- ing, which tends to be fusiform, ceases at the junction of the shaft of the bone with the epiphyses. These swellings are not confined to the bones of the limbs, bvit may be met with in other situations, as upon the ribs, clavicles, scapulae, and even upon the cranial bones. One special variety calls for mention, namely, haemorrhage beneath the periosteum of the orbit, which gives rise to exophthalmos, usually unilateral and suddenly developed, sometimes during a fit of crying. With the exophthalmos there is, as a rule, some swelling and discoloration of the eyelid, and corneal ulceration may occur in severe cases. As has been mentioned, one of Holler's cases showed this, and that it is no very exceptional event is evidenced by the American statistics, wherein swelling or protrusion of the eyeball is mentioned as having been observed in 49 out of a total of 379 cases, and was expressly stated to have been absent in 110. In 18 cases protrusion only was mentioned, in 9 cases swelling only, and in the remaining 22 both swelling and protrusion. Cases have been described by Mr. Holmes Spicer in which such eye phenomena were practically the only symptoms present, but which yielded to antiscorbutic treatment. Sir Thomas Barlow has directed attention to a very marked depression of the sternum en bloc which is apt to be present in severe cases of infantile scurvy, and which, in its extreme form at any rate, is due to separation at the costo-chondral junctions. Weakness of the back is another not uncommon symptom. Cutaneous haemorrhages, either petechiae or vibices, are not uncommon, and bruising may follow trifling injuries. Of the mucous mem- branes, that of the gums is by far the commonest seat of bleeding, but blood may be passed in the motions, or epistaxis may occur. Of the American cases, haemorrhages from mucous membranes (excluding hfematuria) were re- ported as absent in 196, and as occurring in 164. In no less than 93 of these the bleeding was from the gums, in 33 from the nose, from the stomach in 2, and from the bowel in 37. Haematuria is not uncommon, and may be a very early, or even the only symptom of the scorbutic state, as has been pointed out by Drs. Gee and John Thomson. It occurred in three successive cases recently under the writer's care. Its occurrence affords no evi- dence of special severity of the disease. Albu- minuria may persist after the blood has disappeared from the urine, and there may be albuminuria apart from haematuria. Although in the milder cases there may be no conspicuous anaemia, in severe ones it is usually very pronounced, and especially in those in which there have been extensive subperiosteal haemorrhages, and here there is usually a cachectic earthy tint of the skin. I am indebted to Dr. H. Thursfield for a summary of the results of a series of blood examinations which he has made. The changes observed were in no way characteristic, but resembled those met with in cases of ordinary rickets, viz. a marked deficiency of haemoglobin and a much less conspicuous diminution in the number of red corpuscles. The colour-index, in a number of cases, averaged 0"5. In very severe cases with subperiosteal and other haemorrhages, nucleated red corpuscles were seen and occasion- ally some poikilocytosis. In the absence of complication the leucocytes are not increased in number, nor is the ratio of the several