104 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE hydrocele cavity, and the operation is com- plete. The patient must lie in bed for about two weeks; the scrotum must be well suspended, and the wound aseptically dressed with dry absorbent dressings. Care must be taken that no bagging occurs ; all drainage as a rule may be dispensed with in two or three days. Patient will be getting about at the end of the third week, but should wear a suspender of some kind for some months afterwards. Treatment by Excision of the Parietal Part of the Sac.—The scrotum is grasped firmly behind, and the tissues over the hydrocele made tense. An incision three inches long is made over the front and lower part of the tumour, down to the usually transparent and almost structureless tunica vaginalis, which can best be freed from most of its external attachments in its tense and unopened condition ; the hydrocele being extruded out of the wound, except at its posterior and lower attachments. The sac is now to be opened and cut away close to the testis and epididymis, but without injuring those structures. All bleeding points are to be carefully tied, especially those in the thicker parts of the sac through which the "freeing" incision has been made. A drainage tube is inserted in the cellular tissue-space from which the sac has been removed and the edges of the external wound brought together by sutures. An aseptic dry dressing is applied, and the scrotum raised and supported. Drainage may be dispensed with in twenty-four hours, and the parts kept dry. Rest in bed for two or three weeks afterwards is desii'able. Treatment by excision is the most radical of all the above methods, but recurrence has been recorded even after this operation. In troublesome or rebellious cases—particu- larly in elderly men—castration through an inguino-pubic incision is sometimes the safest procedure to adopt. Congenital Hydrocele.—In this condition the cavity of the tunica vaginalis is continuous upwards with the cavity of the peritoneum, and depends upon non-closure of the funicular process of peritoneum along which the testis has passed from the abdomen through the inguinal canal into the scrotum. The size of the communication with the peritoneum may vary from a thread to a finger end. Though generally met with in infancy and soon after birth, it may not develop until later in life. Where such an anatomical condition is pre- sent the fluid contained in the hydrocele may have come downwards from the peritoneum, and often does so in the serous form of tuber- culous peritonitis in children. Treatment.—Simple measures may be tried in children, and careful tapping is admissible, but radical treatment for its permanent relief is the soundest procedure. The sac must be exposed and isolated, like the sac of a hernia, and after its neck has been tied it may be cut away. Truss treatment is uncertain and usually unsatisfactory, and the injection of irritants is mentioned only to be condemned as dangerous. Infantile Hydrocele.—In this condition the sac of the tunica vaginalis extends upwards along the cord to the inguinal canal, or even beyond into the abdomen. The hydrocele is closed at its upper end, and has no open com- munication with the peritoneal cavity, although the two sacs may lie in close contact with each other. There are two varieties of infantile hydrocele: (1) inguinal; and (2) abdominal. In the inguinal variety, which is by far the more common, the upper limit of the sac is in the inguinal canal, usually at one or other of the rings. In the abdominal variety—a very rare form—the sac extends through the whole length of the inguinal canal, where it is more or less constricted, along the cord structures into the abdomen, where it becomes larger again, and may reach as far as the loin. It is sometimes described as a form of hydrocele " en bissac." Treatment.—In the inguinal form puncture is a safe procedure, but should this fail excision of the whole of the sac from its uppermost limits downwards to the testis must be practised. The operation on the abdominal variety is a somewhat difficult and dangerous one, and ought not to be attempted except where there is a clear reason for interference, as death has followed the procedure. Funicidar Hydrocele, or Hydrocele of a Hernial Sac.—This term is applied when the sac of a hernia—either congenital or acquired— emptied of its hernial contents, and either partly or wholly shut off from the peritoneal cavity, becomes distended with serous fluid. The congenital variety is the most common, and is sometimes described as congenital hydrocele of the cord, a term which exactly expresses its anatomical condition: it consists of an open pouch of peritoneum which extends into the inguinal canal, and is quite separate below from the tunica vaginalis. The acquired variety is rare, and although often confined to the inguinal region, may extend into the scrotum ; sometimes after the reduction of its hernial contents the neck of the sac is obliterated by the pressure of a truss; or the orifice is com- pletely obliterated by a plug of adherent omentum, or again the sac may communicate with the peritoneal cavity by a very narrow channel. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—The congenital funicular hydrocele has many of the characters of congenital vaginal hydrocele, but it does not extend so far into the scrotum, and the testis can be seen and felt below it. In the acquired variety there is usually the history