524 TEETH fatty degeneration. In acute pulpitis the odontoblast cells pei'sist to the last, and are only destroyed when suppuration ensues. The Fn;. 7. symptoms of total acute pulpitis are very severe. The inflammation extends to the peridental membrane, periosteum of jaw, and the affected tooth, and adjacent ones become loose and painful to touch. There may be also a certain amount of pyrexia present. In some very acute cases the colouring matter of the blood is forced into the tubules, producing a red staining of the tooth. Treatment.—In cases of partial acute pulp- itis the anodyne di-essings already mentioned and counter-irritation to the gum may allay the inflammation, and enable the tooth to be filled. A non-conducting antiseptic formagen cement or guttapercha should be used to line the cavity with, the metallic filling being placed on the outside. In cases of slight exposure of pulp a hollow cap of vulcanite containing some antiseptic paste is carefully placed over the ex- posure, a little cement (oxyphosphate of zinc) over this, and remainder tilled with amalgam or other suitable filling. In cases of total acute pulpitis, on the other hand, especially if the pulp is much exposed and the peridental mem- brane affected, it is better to destroy the pulp. This is usually done with arsenious acid, the physiological action of which is to pr(jduce em- bolism of blood-vessels of pulp. A small portion, about the size of a pin-head, of devitalising fibre (a vegetable fibre charged with As^Og and crea- sote) is taken, and carefully inserted over the pulp, after having removed, with spoon exca- vators, as much as possible of the soft carious tissue from the cavity, and a piece of softened guttapercha is packed in to retain the fibre. AsoOg, it must be remembered, is a very power- ful escharotic, and must on no account touch the soft tissues of the mouth. In twenty-four hours or so the pulp will be found to be de- stroyed, and has to be thorouglily removed with tine barbed instruments, and the root or roots tilled with guttapercha or cement, etc., under antiseptic precautions. To allay the pain in- cident to acute pulpitis doses of any of the following may be given:—Tincture aconite, tincture gelsemium, phenacetin, or a hypo- dermic injection of solution of eucaine may be useful. (3) Chronic pulpitis, as a result of exposure, is met with more frequently than the acute form, and is very often overlooked by the patient, owing to the compai-ative immunity from pain associated with it (Fig. 9). Neur- algic pain in face, neck, or jaws is, however, a common association with chronic pulpitis. This form of disease is less amenable to treatment than even the acute pulpitis. The pulp at point of exposure, and for a slight depth be- yond, is liighly vascular and red, and from the surface is given off a serous or purulent fluid of a disagreeable phosphatic odour. Beyond the inflamed portion the pulp will be seen to be quite normal in its character. In the neigh- bourhood of the inflamed part the odontoblast cells are found atrophied and rapidly disappear- ing. As the ulcerative process extends, inflam- matory degeneration is likely to ensue, and Suppurating pulp. Fig. 8. gradually reduces the pulp to a greyish yellow shrivelled mass, or, under favourable circum- stances, the chronic may take on acute disease, ending in suppuration and gangrene. It is probable that the presence of micro-organisms