203 SKIN—PIGMENTARY AFFECTIONS pigmented areas a papillary, wart-like aspect. In Boeck's case the disease occurred in a woman, aged fifty-two, who had been operated on for non-relapsing cancer of the breast three years before. Death followed two years after the onset of the symptoms. Cases resembling in some respects A. nigricans have been described by Radcliife Crocker and Leslie Roberts. (4) Melanotic Multiple Sarcomata. — This neoplastic disease, originally supposed to be sarcomatous in nature, is called by Unna nsevo- carcinoma, who maintains that the new growth arises in pigmented moles from the epithelium, and not from the mesoblastic tissues. This view is confirmed by the investigations of Gil- christ of Baltimore and Johnstone of New York. (5) Post-inflammatory Pigmentation. — True hypertrophy of pigment may follow inflamma- tory diseases affecting the epithelium. The most striking of these is lichen planus, in which the pigmentation may be intense. It is to be noted that the pigment formation corresponds with the period of recovery and restoration of the epithelium. Pigmentation may follow erythema multiforme and urticaria. When pigmentation follows the cure of psoriasis it is probably due to the action of arsenic. The discolorations which follow eczema are usually of hgemic origin. B. Disappearance of the Melanin tvith Arrest of Pigment Function. — (1) Congenital.—Albinism may be partial or complete. This abnormality is most frequently met with in the coloured races. The arrangement of the achromic patches is usually irregular. It may be unilateral, as in Hutchinson's case {Archives of Surgery, vol. i., 1889). Occasionally they are symmetrical. It is stated that complete albinoes are defective in powers of resistance. Darwin states that albino cats with pink eyes are usually deaf. (2) Leucodermia (Syn. Vitiligo, Melasmic leucopathia. White disease). — When pigment matter has ceased to be precipitated, what already exists may be completely withdrawn. The laws relating to the disappearance of melanin are unknown. The final term of the process, whatever that may be, is atrophy, just as new and erratic growth is the final term of the melanin-forming process. Usually the process does not extend so far, and we have simple disappearance of pigment without any obvious structural change, and when once this pigmentless character is attained it seldom if ever reverts to the normal-coloured condition. The withdrawal of pigment from a circumscribed area is accompanied by increased formation in the immediate neighbourhood. Hence the fit- ness of the name employed by Laycock, namely, " melasmic leucopathia." The clinical result is a white patch surrounded by a pigmented margin. Numerous patches form on any part of the body. They spread slowly, and may remain stationary for years. Eventually the whole surface may be involved, and such cases are sometimes described as " cures." If the leucodermic patch is hairy, the pigment is withdrawn from the hairs, which thus become colourless. Leucodermia may occur in appar- ently healthy and normal skins. It is commoner in the tropics and among the coloured races. Laycock describes its concurrence with enlarge- ment of the lymphatic glands, and in one case with general leucocytosis. The withdrawal of pigment always accompanies alopecia areata. Pigmentary Anomalies of Hair Laycock rightly regarded hair as an excretory organ for carbon pigment. In light-coloured hair the colouring matter is confined to the medullary cells, but in the dark brown and black varieties the pigment granules are to be found throughout the whole of the cortical sub- stance, lying between the fibrous plates. The pigment is melanin, and, so far as we know, identical with that of the epithelium. Grey- ness or whiteness of the hair is natural in old age, but it may occur quite early in life as an hereditary peculiarity, or as a result of disease or long-continued bodily exhaustion. Many cases are recorded of the hair becoming suddenly grey, or even white, under the influence of terror or grief. The curious anomaly of grey hair becoming once more pigmented has been observed on rare occasions. Dr. Meachen re- cords a case of a child in which the withdrawal of pigment occurred in rings at regular intervals, thus imparting a ringed appearance to the hair. The names ringed hair and leucotrichia annularis have been given to this condition. Changes in the colour of the hair have been observed to take place under the influence of pilocarpine. Borax may effect the colouring matter of hair in so far as it affects the growth of the hair papillae. Cases recorded of changes of hair colour in workmen in copper-smelting works and cobalt mines are probably examples of spurious pigmentation. Treatment of Abnormalities of Pigmentation. —As the pigment is situated in the deeper layers of the epidermis and rarely disappears spontaneously, the only remedy lies in complete destruction of the pigmented epidermis. In extensive distribution of pigment it would be inadvisable to attempt this; when limited to a few freckles, the method suggested by F. Hebra may be tried. Care must be exercised in the choice of a caustic, for, as Hebra says in his treatise, there are some caustics after the action of which the epidermis subsequently formed contains more pigment than that preceding it, and others, on the contrary, after the applica- tion of which the newly produced epidermis contains less pigment than that which was de- stroyed. To the first belong spurge-olive, croton oil, cantharides, mustard-seed, and sulphuric acid; to the latter, acetic, hydrochloric, and