479 SYPHILIS ulcerates, so that it always leaves scars, and may be extremely painful. Gummata situated superficially in the skin show a tendency to ulcerate in a serpiginous manner, a part of the ulcer healing in one direction whilst it extends in another, so that the ulcerated surface presents an appearance like a snail-track. The leg is more often affected than any other part of the body, and next in order of frequency come the forearm and thigh, the neighbourhood of the joints showing an especial liability to ulceration, though the scars do not afterwards hamper their movements. Gummata are also found, but less commonly, in the subcutaneous tissue, where they give rise to very chronic and troublesome ulceration. Such deep-seated gummata usually occur on the inner surface of the forearms and arms, on the breast, and on the legs. They are not of uncommon occurrence upon forehead and scalp, where serious destruction of the tissues may ensue, even to perforation of the bone. Gummatous ulceration is to be distinguished from lupus by the fact that it occurs in older people, that it shows a much greater tendency to suppurate, and that there is other evidence of syphilis. Cases have occurred in which glanders, actinomycosis, and leprosy have been mistaken for syphilitic eruptions. The treatment in the ulcerating forms con- sists in the application of fomentations of biniodide of mercury, 1 in 1000, or of black wash, until the suppuration has ceased and the ulcer presents a healthy appearance, when the healing may be completed by the application of boracic ointment. A mixture containing perchloride of mercury and iodide of potassium should also be ordered for the patient. Muscles and Tendons.—The muscles are affected in syphilis either directly or secondarily through the nerves supplying them. The primary lesions assume the form of an inflam- mation of the connective tissue in the muscle, either localised as a gumma or diffused through- out the muscle. The flexor muscles of the forearm, the biceps, the pectoralis major, the sterno-mastoid, the masseter, and the rectus abdominis are perhaps more often affected than the other skeletal muscles. In the diffuse inflammation the muscle becomes uneven, shortened, and irregular in outline. In the gummatous form one or more tumours can be felt in the affected muscles, usually near their tendons. The growth at first moves with the movements of the muscle, and can be felt more readily during relaxation than during contrac- tion ; but the attendant inflammation soon attaches the muscle sheath to the surrounding tissues, and there is then interference with the movement of the muscle. Early treatment is advisable, as the inflam- matory changes can then be arrested ; but as the myositis often causes but little pain or in- convenience the patient may not seek advice until the gummata have begun to break down, when deep and troublesome ulcers may be formed. The synovial sheaths of the tendons are liable to a gummatous inflammation in the later stages of syphilis, the tendo Achillis, the biceps, and the flexor and extensor tendons of the wrist being most frequently affected. The local treatment consists in strapping the affected part, and limiting the movement in the muscle to which the tendon belongs. Bursse, like tendons and muscles, are the seat of gummatous inflammation, which is sometimes synuuetrical, as when both the pre- patellar bursEe are enlarged. The inflammation may begin in the bursa or it may spread from the surrounding tissues. Troublesome ulcers are produced if the bursse are left untreated, and when they are subject to irritation; but the inflammation usually subsides under a course of iodides if the bursa be kept clean. The Nervous System.—The later manifesta- tions of syphilis in connection with the nervous system are severe and far-reaching. They depend, as in other parts, upon the production of inflammatory new tissue, which has a ten- dency to undergo degenerative changes at first and afterwards to be replaced by scar tissue. The anatomical peculiarities of the central nervous system lend certain features to these changes which differentiate them from similar changes in other parts of the body. In the first place the progress of the disease cannot be estimated until definite signs are produced, since evidence derived from sight and touch is necessarily excluded. The peculiarities of the terminal blood-supply and the fact that the cells of the nervous system do not reproduce them- selves render comparatively slight anatomical changes of great functional importance. Syphi- litic inflammation affects the central nervous system in the same way as it involves other parts of the body. Gummata more or less localised may spring from the pia mater of the brain or spinal cord. A diffuse inflammation may involve the dura mater or the pia mater, compressing the nerves and leading to the fibroid thickening known as spinal pachy- meningitis. The arteries may be thickened and so diseased that the blood clots as it passes through them, or the scar tissue which is formed yields to produce an aneurysm. More rarely one of the arteries within the brain substance gives way, and the patient dies of cerebral haemorrhage. Apart from these well-recognised conditions resulting from syphilis, there is reason to think that some forms of myelitis, and certain scleroses of the cord, such as those producing locomotor ataxy, are more or less directly connected with syphilis. Cerebral Thrombosis.—The disease of the cerebral arteries manifests itself chiefly by an