45 SCARLET FEVER for a new invasion of active bacilli, and when these convalescents return home the natural result follows which defeats the force of isola- tion. When scarlet fever is becoming prevalent I carefully isolate every case of sore throat, however slight, and consequently an epidemic has never occurred. I endeavour, moreover, to prevent a recent case being placed near a con- valescent, and thus I have never experienced a "return case," although I have allowed boys to return to school or to their homes with impunity. It is further suggested by some authorities that some sore throats, produced solely by exposure to the infection of scarlet fever, are capable of inducing the disease in what are termed second attacks. It may be so : I cannot assert the contrary. But I am quite sure of my previous interpretation, know- ing well the facts of those cases which were affected with the oft-repeated tonsillitis, and which caused me trouble. (ii.) The Period of Infection.—Of all zymotic diseases scarlet fever is the least infectious in its early stage. Were it not for this fortunate feature in its natural history it would probably spread as freely as measles or rose-rash. Its most infectious period is undoubtedly diiring the height of the eruption, with a gradual diminution as the illness wanes. At this stage its powerful capacity of infection is evidenced by the cases occasionally recorded where not only a moment's exposure has sufficed to produce in- fection personally, but even where a mother, after the briefest exposure, has, without being herself affected, conveyed infection to her child at a distance. In such cases I believe that the sick-room must have formed a hotbed of infection from the absence of a free supply of fresh air. The question, however, of deepest concern is the duration of the infection. One course only is sound and sure in our present state of know- ledge. In slight cases six weeks' quarantine should be imperative ; in all other cases freedom from infection should not be certified until all desquamation, all discharges from the eyes, nose, mouth, throat, and abscesses have ceased. It is questionable whether the prolonged period of persistence of infection which is sometimes assigned is not really due to fomites. Although I have expressed the only safe rule of action, I am far from believing that the duration of infection is at all as extensive as that which is ascribed. I am of opinion, though demonstration is not available at present, that in an average case of scarlet fever without com- plications, supplied throughout with abundant fresh air, free from contact with recent cases, and with a thorough disinfection of person and clothes, the infection does not endure for half the time we usually assign. I submit the pro- position, with clear conviction, that, where dis- infection has been complete, and no fomites are present, the prolonged peeling from the hands and feet is not infectious. When, however, we consider the question of fomites we are struck by the tenacity of infec- tion. Without doubt the disease is readily and frequently conveyed by fomites, and thus all calculations become frustrated. Disused in- fected rooms, disused clothes folded up in drawers, and long-forgotten toys have caused scarlet fever to start de novo months after the previous illness. With reference to the recrudescence of scarlet fever, I am not quite clear that such a process occurs. Nor am I now certain that a relapse ever takes place. In former years I thought otherwise ; but having of late years attended (and studied those of other observers) cases of scarlet fever preceded and followed by a distinct disease, closely resembling scarlet fever, which I have provisionally designated a "Fourth disease," I am seriously dubious of the recru- descence theory. (iii). The Period of Protection, or Immunity from Further Attacks.—Fortunately one attack, as a rule, confers immunity for life. Where second attacks are recorded, I believe that usually they belong to the species of the "Fourth disease." There are certain rare in- dividuals, however, who are so susceptible to the influence of the poison that they will exhibit some of the symptoms in every conceivable anomalous form whenever they come in contact with the disease. I had one patient who was thus afflicted. Similar instances are found in smallpox. A patient of mine had been inocu- lated for smallpox; had suffered from confluent smallpox ; had been subsequently vaccinated ; and yet eventually died of smallpox poisoning at the age of seventy-five, without eruption, caught from one of his parishioners with whom he sat reading. On the twelfth day acute fever showed itself, with severe backache; and on the ninth day of a severe illness, attended with delirium, he died. Such instances, however, are so rare as to be unique. IX. Complications. — The complications of scarlet fever are numerous and various, and even when not fatal they frequently entail permanent damage upon organs, or lifelong ill-health. No period of the disease is free from complications. At one time they arise suddenly, at another their advent is too in- sidious to attract notice. (i.) General Diseases.—Rheumatism forms one of the earliest and most frequent complications. It affects chiefly the smaller joints, such as the fingers, hands, and wrists; suppuration is sometimes produced in the joints. Its appear- ance usually occurs during the first week, and elder children and adults rather than young children are affected. (ii.) Diseases of the Nervous System.—Scarlet fever is frequently complicated with severe