575 THERAPEUTICS: HEALTH RESORTS which are little understood. No one who has resided at high altitudes can have failed to notice the peculiar condition of nervous irrita- bility which affects both man and beast during the prevalence of certain atmospheric states, somewliat similar to that which affects some people during a thunderstorm, but much more marked. We have yet much to learn as to the physio- logical eiFects of high altitudes and diminished atmospheric pressure, and observers are by no means agreed in the results which have been obtained. Paul Bert, Egger, and others main- tained that one of the first results was a notable increase in the number of red blood corpuscles, which they attributed to the deficiency of oxygen causing a greater need of oxygen carriers ; but considerable doubt has been cast on these results, though the latest observations tend to confirm their truth. Besides the diminished pressure and increased rarefaction of the air, there are several other points of importance in the atmospheric condi- tions at high altitudes. (1) There is much greater transparency and diathermancy owing to the low degree of ab- solute humidity. (2) There is greater difference between the sun and shade temperature, and the daily range of temperature is greater. (3) The absolute humidity of the air is much lower owing to the lower temperature. (4) The air is purer, being freer as a rule from inorganic dust and from micro-organisms, though not more so than true ocean air. It is the presence of these qualities which makes the high climates so valuable in the treat- ment of phthisis and gives them their peculiarly stimulating qualities ; and in addition there is an amount of electricity in the atmosphere of regions such as Colorado, the effect of which it is difficult to estimate, but which certainly has a remarkable effect on the nervous system. The desert climate has something of the same effect as that of high altitudes, and the air is remarkably pure owing to its coming from a large and practically untainted area. The effects on the nervous system are much less in degree, but some people find it very stimulating, and it is not rare to meet with those who suffer from insomnia in Egypt, when living in or close to the desert. Climate and its Effects Change of climate has become one of the most ordinary therapeutic measures in these days: to an infinitely greater degree since the expenses of travel have so much diminished, and the facilities so enormously increased. For one person who was sent abroad fifty years ago, probably fifty are sent now, and the increase has been very great in the last twenty years especially. The advantages of change of climate are fairly obvious, and have probably come within the personal experience of most men at some time or other. We may look at the matter from either the physical or the mental point of view. (So far as the physical side goes, we are concerned here with climatic effects only, the question of baths being dealt with in another article {v. Balneology)). But, as a matter of fact, it is almost impossible to separate the results of the two factors. On the one hand, we may see a physical condition markedly improved when the sufferer is removed from domestic and business worries; on the other hand, mental depression may disappear like mist with the sense of physical well-being which a bracing climate produces. " Caelum non animum mutant qui trans mare cuiTunt" is one of those proverbial generalisations wliich, after all, have only a limited application. Much, very much, depends on the constitution of the individual—much on the nature and causation of his ailment. It may be perfectly true that for the melancholic, the confirmed neurasthenic, the early general paralytic, for the man who has failed in life, has sustained crushing personal misfortune, or committed a hidden crime, mere change of climate may be useless or worse than useless, but, after all, such cases are the exception. There remain an immense number, the over- worked, the over-anxious, the bored, the hypo- chondriacal, for whom a judicious shifting of scene may form a fresh starting-point, and it is precisely the organisations which are liable to these troubles, because they are somewhat unevenly balanced, which are also specially susceptible to the effects of climatic change. Personal susceptibility to changes of weather and climate varies indefinitely, and is generally inversely related to the mental and physical robustness of the individual. The tireless worker will, as a rule, be found to be one whom no vicissitudes of weather materially affect. Meteorology as a science is not to be dealt with here, but we may ask. What do we mean by climate, and what are the conditions that detei-mine it ? before going on to the considera- tion of actual health resorts. As a matter of fact we very rarely talk of climate except in relation to life of some kind, and we really mean by it the sum-total of the physico-chemical conditions, permanent or changing, in any given locality which affect life, whether it be animal or vegetable. The determining conditions of climate in a place may be summed up as follows :— (1) Latitude. (2) Altitude. (3) Orientation. (4) Relation to sea, whether the centre of a continent, island, etc. (.5) Relation to mountain ranges (which is a