543 TEMPERATURE diminished production of bodily heat; (2) to excessive loss of heat; or (3) to these two pro- cesses acting in combination; but it is not always possible to determine to which of these factors depression of the general temperature is due. The fall of temperature consequent on extensive burns of the skin is, however, due to increased loss of heat dependent on paralytic dilatation of the blood-vessels in the injured parts. Prolonged exposm^e to cold also causes excessive loss of heat from the body ; and if this loss be continued for a long period, the temperatvire of the body may be reduced to such a degree that the life of the individual is endangered, or that death ensues. In animals, death from freezing is mainly due to paralysis of respiration, for by means of artificial respira- tion the animals can be kept alive for longer periods than they could otherwise be. The temperature falls after the occurrence of a severe hcBmorrhage. In animals a haemorrhage of moderate amount causes the temperature to fall about 1 '5° to 1 '8° F. This fall is maintained for a few hours, but thereafter the temperature rises to a higher level than that existing before the hsemorrhage occurred. The loss of a larger quantity of blood is followed by a rapid and marked fall of temperature, whether the tem- perature previously has been normal or elevated. Such a fall of temperature is of great significance in typhoid fever, and in duodenal and many cases of gastric ulceration. Starvation and vomiting lower the tempera- ture. In collapse there is a marked fall of temperature due chiefly to rapid and excessive loss of heat. In severe collapse, associated with serious danger to the life of the patient, the temperature may fall to about 93° F. In many patients suffering from chronic diseases the temperature is subnormal. Examples are seen in cases of chronic nephritis, cerebral abscess, and enteritis, though in the latter condition a febrile temperature is not uncommon, especially in children. In such cases depression of the temperature is due more to deficient production of heat than to excessive loss of heat. A reduc- tion of temperature can be eff'ected by certain drugs—alcohol, chloroform, ether, opium, and chloral, for example. The group of drugs termed antipyretics, which bring about a reduc- tion of an elevated temperature, have little if any effect in rendering a normal temperature subnormal. The antipyretics will be again re- ferred to in dealing with the treatment of fever. B. Elevation of the General Temperature.— Elevation of the general temperature may be induced (1) by increased heat production, (2) by diminished loss of heat, or (3) by these two processes in combination. The term fever is employed by some writers to signify elevation of temperature induced by no matter what cause, but it is more usual not to regard mere eleva- tion of temperature, or hyperthermia, and fever as synonymous terms, but to reserve the term fever for a general disturbance of metabolism, one of the main features of which is an ab- normal elevation of temperature. It must, however, be admitted that in some instances it is difficult or impossible to determine whether the elevation of temperature is a simple hyper- thermia or a febrile pyrexia. Hyperthermia may be induced by muscular exertion, exposure to high temperatures, or by lesions of the central nervous system. Muscular exertion, especially if prolonged, causes a rise of temperature by increasing the production of heat within the body. Sutherland Simpson has recorded the fact that muscular exercise in the monkey causes the rectal tem- perature to rise from 3° to 4° F. In man active muscular exercise causes an elevation of tempera- ture of about 0'5° to 2° F. This hyperthermia, due to increase of metabolism in the muscular tissues, ceases simultaneously with, or very soon after, the muscular exercise is discontinued, provided the individual be in normal health. If, however, he be affected with some morbid condition, or be convalescing from disease, muscular exertion not only tends to induce a more marked rise of temperature, but this elevation tends to persist for a varying period of time after cessation from the muscular exercise. On exposure to an atmosphere of a high tem- perature, which tends to raise the general temperature of the body, there is, as already mentioned, a simultaneous and compensatory excess of heat lost from the skin. But pro- longed exposure to a very high temperature cannot be withstood without harm resulting. If guinea-pigs be exposed to a temperature of 104° to 107° F. their temperature rises to 107° to 113° F., and the animals die; whereas if animals be exposed to a gradually increasing high temperature they remain alive even though the temperature of the atmosphere be raised to 105° to 107° F. After exposure to such a temperature there is marked degeneration of the red blood corpuscles and fatty degeneration of the parenchyma of the liver, heart, and kidneys, but the blood pressure may remain normal. If the human subject be exposed to a temperature of 122° F. his temperature rises to 107° F. or still higher, and death may ensue. Similarly in the case of sunstroke the tempera- ture, in consequence of diminished loss of heat, rises, it may be, to 104°, 105°, or even to 113° F. The skin is hot and dry, the respiratory and cardiac frequency are both markedly increased, and there is increased excretion of urea from the kidneys. The increased rapidity of the respira- tion is usually ascribed to the heat of the skin stimulating the respiratory centre reflexly. Hyperthermia of Nervous Origin.—The experi- ments of Wood, Eulenberg, and Landois, Bokai, and others, on the production of hyperthermia