SYPHILIS i69 possible upon the same machine, the record of his weight being put into writing at once. Inunction. — The method of administering mercury by inunction comes next in efficacy, even if it do not surpass the plan of internal administration during the secondary stage of syphilis. Inunction, however, has its limita- tions, and they are even more marked than those of the method usually adopted. It is dirty, it requires time, it is likely to give rise to a troublesome eczema, and it produces salivation unless it be administered carefully. Inunction is often serviceable for a short time whilst the patient is I'esting from the internal administration, so that it may be employed for a fortnight once in three months. The following directions are to be given to the patient. He is to procure freshly prepared blue ointment put up in gelatin capsules each containing thirty grains. He retires early in the evening, and takes a warm bath, thoroughly washing the parts to be anointed with soap and water. He then dries himself and puts on pyjamas and a flannel dressing-gown, his room of course being warmed in cold or damp weather. The most accessible hairless regions are employed for the inunction. These are the inner surface of the thighs, the inner surfaces of the arms and forearms, the sides of the chest, the loins, the buttocks, the soles and the inner surface of the feet. One of these regions is selected in order, so that each part only receives its inunction occasionally. The part to be anointed is sponged over with a solution of bin- iodide of mercury of the strength of xttVo'' ^'^d afterwards gently dried with some absorbent wool, for it is important that the skin should be kept aseptic. Twenty grains of the blue ointment are then smeared over the surface of the skin at the selected spot, and briskly rubbed in with i the hand over as large a surface as possible, and for not less than twenty mitmtes by the clock, an additional ten gi-ains being added during the inunction. All the ointment should have disappeared by the time the inunction is I complete and the skin presents a greyish colour, j as if it had been lightly blackleaded. The patient then takes oif his dressing-gown and I goes to bed, after washing his hands with soap and hot water to remove any ointment which f may be adhering to them. He has a warm I bath on the morning following the inunction ' to remove any ointment which has not been absorbed or rubbed off during the night. The I dose of ointment may be gradually increased I from half a drachm to sixty or ninety grains, though in some cases it may be necessary to L give more. I The results of this method of treatment are I often very satisfactory. The patient begins to I gain in weight, his appetite returns, his diges- tion improves, he sleeps well at night, and he ceases to be listless. In such cases, and when mercury is badly borne during internal ad- ministration, the method of inunction may be continued for 50 to 100 days, the patient being carefully watched during the second and third weeks, when he may suddenly develop a trouble- some stomatitis. If special care be taken to keep the skin aseptic and to avoid rubbing the ointment into hairy parts, the risk of dermatitis will be materially reduced. It is well to secure the services of a professional rubber in these prolonged courses, though of course with an intelligent patient it is not absolutely necessary. Fimiigation.—Some cases of dense or widely distributed eruptions on the skin and of obstinate ulceration receive much benefit from fumigation with mercury when other methods have failed. This plan of giving mercury fell into disuse owing to the difficulty of administra- tion, but of late years, with the invention of cheap and portable Turkish baths, it has been somewhat revived. The patient sits naked in the vapour bath, and below him thirty grains of calomel are vaporised by a small spirit lamp. The vaporisation takes twenty minutes, and at the end of that time the lamp is extinguished and the patient remains in the bath ten minutes longer to cool. He then goes to bed. It is only necessary to volatilise the calomel and not to add any water, for profuse perspiration on the part of the patient will defeat the object for which the batli is given. In all cases the patient should be within easy reach of help whilst he is taking the bath, as he may faint or be accidentally scorched. The baths should not be taken directly after meals, and at first they should only be administered every other day. They may be continued for a month or two if the result is satisfactory, but they are more often used temporarily and for a special purpose. Hypodermic Injection.—The desire of many men to advance their art, and the wish of patients to be cured of syphilis by some short method which shall cut at the root of the disease, have lately led to the treatment of syphilis by the hypodermic injection of a very large variety of mercurial preparations, some soluble, others insoluble. The method has fallen into disrepute from the unwarrantable claims made in its behalf. There is no rapid cure of syphilis, and practitionei-s mislead their patients if they hold out to them any hope of materially shortening the ordinary course of treatment by any method known at present. There are, however, some conditions under which hypodermic injections of a mercurial preparation may be usefully employed. When mercury is badly borne by the alimentary tract, or by the skin, a hypodermic injection is some- times well borne, and as it is imperative that mercury should be given in syphilis, such injections are then advantageous. In like manner hypodermic injections are to be given