STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 369 to persevere for a few times, when he will then probably pass it himself without any discomfort. To a bystander the performance appears to be much more distressing than it really is. By washing out the stomach, not only may the noxious products of defective digestion be re- moved, but the opportunity is offered of the direct application of remedies to the surface in the form of sprays, as of carbolic acid, menthol, nitrate of silver, etc. In practical hands the method of intragastric faradisation, or galvan- ism, the positive pole being introduced into the stomach and the negative placed on the spine, has been found of great value in the treatment of most of these neuroses of the stomach, and this is much facilitated if the patient has been accustomed to the passage of a stomach tube. Special Symptomatology and Treatment of Inflammation of the Stomach and Duo- denmn. Acute Gastritis Symptoms.—Having regard to the wide range of causes, from an indiscretion in diet to a single dose of an irritant posion, or the invasion of pyo- genic micro-organisms, it is to be expected that a considerable variation in the intensity of symptoms is exhibited by the cases comprised under this term. In the milder cases, when the condition supervenes upon previous good health and the cause is a temporary one, the patient may com- plain of but a slight feeling of malaise with dis- inclination for exertion, and an elevation of temperature by a degree or degree and a half, or perhaps not even so much. The symptoms otherwise are chiefly referable to the stomach, as loss of appetite, and usually thirst; a sense of discomfort even amounting to pain in the epigastric or left hypochondriac regions; a feeling of nausea, and probably retching or vomiting at first of such food as may be in the stomach, but little digested, and later of a little mucus and sour fluid, examination of which shows an absence of hydrochloric and the presence of organic acids—lactic, acetic, or butyric. The tongue is coated and foul, and the breath offensive. The bowels may be un- affected, or there may be some diarrhoea. Of symptoms remote from the digestive organs, a slight degree of headache, frontal or occipital, and a somewhat quickened pulse are the most usual. According to the character and intensity of the exciting cause, any or all of these symptoms may be much increased in degree. The slight sense of illness may deepen into a state of pro- stration, and such is specially likely to be the case in children, in whom also the intestine is somewhat more prone to be simultaneously affected. The temperature may reach 103° or even higher, this being in some measure VOL. IX determined by the temperament of the patient. The pain may be severe, of a burning character, and shooting through to the back, increased by deep breathing or by anything but the blandest material swallowed. Tenderness also may be elicited over the epigastrium, and the ab- dominal muscles are rigid or contract on the slightest pressure. When the gastritis is the result of a cor- rosive poison, pain is severe, and is felt in the throat and gullet as well; the retching and vomiting is most distressing, and the material brought up is frequently blood-stained with shreds of the mucous membrane; the motions may also contain altered blood, and defecation may be painful. The general symptoms are much intensified, the patient becomes cold and collapsed, with a small, scarcely perceptible pulse and rapid shallow breathing, increasing until death occurs from cardiac failure, some- times with convulsions or coma; or there may be peritonitis, to which the fatal result is attributable. In phlegmonous or suppurative gastritis the symptoms are also severe, especially those in- dicative of the general condition, but none are peculiar to the disease. There is a state of grave illness which rapidly deepens, and death com- monly ensues in the course of a few days, though occasionally it has been known to con- tinue for weeks. The temperature ranges higher as a rule than in other forms of gas- tritis, and may reach and remain at 104° Fahr. or even higher; the nervous symptoms, such as pain, restlessness, delirium, and coma, are con- siderable ; jaundice may develop, and vomiting, constipation, or diarrhoea, a dry brown tongue, thirst, and loss of appetite are constant. When the suppuration is circumscribed and an abscess is found in the gastric walls, pus may appear in the vomit from a bursting of the same, but short of the occurrence of this phenomenon, the diagnosis will remain uncertain, though the nature of the case may be suspected. The symptoms of chronic gastritis are essenti- ally those of a chronic gastric dyspepsia, since that is the usual morbid state underlying the clinical complex known as chronic gastric indi- gestion, when that malady is not purely nervous in origin. It may become established as a sequence of acute gastritis, or may slowly develop without any definite commencement as the result of obstructed portal circulation, of continued infection from oral sepsis, or in the course of chronic toxsemias, such as gout, chronic nephritis, etc., but its most frequent cause is probably to be found in the continued mal-digestion of food in the stomach, whether from imperfect secretion of gastric juice, im- paired motility of the organ, or oftenest of all from the repeated subjection of the mucosa to improper ingesta. Hence, besides occurring alone, it is an almost constant accompaniment 24