348 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF hydrochloric acid is almost entirely formed by the parietal cells, it is there that the digestion takes place. Wlaen the material is reduced to a sufficiently fluid condition, it is passed on through the pre-pyloric sphincter into the pyloric region by more or less rhythmically propulsive efforts, by which it is propelled through the relaxed pyloric orifice. It would also seem that the antrum pylori can reject and force back towards the fundus such solid masses as may have escaped solution. These move- ments of the stomach are mainly stimulated by the character of the food, warm and hot ingesta specially exciting them; and though over- acidity calls forth the peristalsis, it appears to induce a spasmodic and even painful spasm of the pylorus with consequent hindrance to the escape of the chyme. Normally, the passage through the pylorus of the fluid foods, unless requiring gastric digestion, begins to take place as soon as swallowed. The movements of the duodenum are of the ordinai'y vermicular form of peristalsis such as the rest of the intestine presents. For the efficient performance of these motor and secretory processes it is obvious that a satisfactory state of general nutrition, an un- impeded and adequate blood-supply, and even more especially a healthy and undisturbed nervous control are essential. Exertion, whether mental or bodily, directly after a meal is apt to be harmful, probably by interfering with the requisite blood-supply. The same may be said for sleep under like circumstances. It is also desirable that the digesta should be got rid of without delay, and this is done, as described, by the propulsion of them into the duodenum, for as a rule very little absorption takes place by the gastric mucous membrane, although some salts, sugars, peptones, and alcohol do enter the blood from the stomach, especially the last named. In this restricted absorptive capacity of the organ may be seen a protection to the body generally, supplementary to the further protective power exercised by the germicidal action of its secretion. The absorp- tive power of the stomach is, however, of some value, as indicated by the experiments of Heidenhain, which go to show that the efficiency of the gastric secretion is partly dependent on materials absorbed at the commencement of digestion. In the duodenum, or at all events in its lower part where the villi and valvulte conniventes are well developed, a greater range of absorption most probably takes place. There is a function of the stomach of which but little is positively known, and still less what share it may take, if any, in normal digestion, and that is its excretory power. Various sub- stances, for the most part toxic, such as anti- mony, morphia, toxalbumins, and toxalbu- moses, have been known to pass from the blood-vessels of the stomach into the organ, and then to produce their poisonous effects by local irritation or by re-absorption. Lastly may be mentioned the fact that in the healthy state the activities of the stomach and duodenum are carried on without conscious sensation to the individual. The healthy ap- petite appears in great measure to be connected with the condition of the stomach, and is allayed by the taking of sufficient food. But it is not a mere question of the stomach being empty or full, since there may be anorexia when the viscus is quite empty but the mucosa is un- healthy, or the desire for food may quickly follow a full meal. Even more than with many other of the bodily functions, the influence of habit is potent in modifying the processes of digestion within limits that are not detrimental to the individual's well-being. Diseases of the Stomach and of the Duodenum In entering upon a consideration of the dis- eases of these organs it is necessary to remember that there are two groups of morbid conditions met with, which are more or less independent, at least in origin, though constantly associated and to be investigated from different stand- points and by different methods. On the one hand are structural diseases of the organs, such as ulcer, inflammation, new growths, etc., whether primary in occurrence or determined by malnutrition of the body generally or by special disease of other parts, and characterised by certain signs and symptoms, local and remote, from which the nature of the lesion may be inferred. In connection with such diseases the digestive process, as carried out in the stomach or duodendum, will be likely to suffer more or less as the motor and secretory functions of the organs are interfered with by the morbid changes therein. On the other hand are per- versions of digestion arising for the most part independently of previous structural change in the organs, and attributable in the first place to the qualities of the ingesta or the mode in which they are presented to the stomach from the mouth, to imperfections in the composition or quality of the gastric or duodenal secretions, to inefficient or excessive motility of the stomach, to nervous disturbances, or to other interferences with digestion that may be, primarily at least, due to causes apart from the organs immediately concerned. At the same time it must be admitted that the maintenance or constant repetition of such conditions may be the determining factors in the production of structural disease of the stomach or bowels. In approaching the subject of stomach disease, therefore, the difference between gastro-duo- denal indigestion or dyspepsia, and definite structural lesions of the organs, must to some extent be kept in mind in the proper analysis of the symptoms presented and in the pursuance of treatment.