314 SPLEEN, MEDICAL AFFECTIONS OF 25 per cent, sank to 0'6 per cent. In splenic cases so large a proportion of the lymph-tissue could not be prevented from supplying lympho- cytes to the blood until a very late stage of the disease, but the diminution may well be con- siderable. In many cases, however, it will be impossible to make the diagnosis during life. Splenomegaly in Children.—In the first years of life blood differs from that of adults in several respects. The proportion of lymphocytes is higher, say 40 per cent instead of 25, leuco- cytosis is much more easily produced by chemo- tactic influences of all kinds, and in anaemia nucleated red corpuscles are very apt to appear in the blood—a reversion to the embryonic condition. These cells are usually normoblasts, but may be megaloblasts, which are of course normally present in the blood in early foetal life. The spleen enlarges readily in all the chronic anaemias of infancy, no matter what their cause, and the pi'oportion of red marrow in the bones is greater than in adults and is readily increased by such conditions as rickets. These facts make it often very difficult to determine to which variety of blood disease an anaemia belongs. Pernicious anaemia, and leucocythaimias of both varieties luidoubtedly occur in children; but about twelve years ago von Jaksch attempted to differentiate another disease, which he called anaemia pseudoleuk- cemica infantum. Much has been written for and against this differentiation, but the most recent views are in favour of the acceptance of von Jaksch's distinction. The children affected are from six months to four years old as a rule, and most of them are rickety. Syphilis, intestinal catarrh, and chi-onic tuberculosis seem also to be causally associated with the disease. The children are pale and badly nourished, and the most striking feature is the enlargement of the spleen, and in a less degree of the liver; the lymph-glands may also be moderately enlarged. In the severer cases there is a tendency to haemorrhage. The disease runs a chronic course, and may terminate in recovery after some months, or, on the other hand, may end fatally by anasniia and asthenia, by haemorrhage, or by intercurrent affection. Pathologically, the enlargement of the spleen is a simple hyper- plasia : the marrow is red and soft throughout, and contains an undue proportion of nucleated red cells. The liver has been described as con- taining islands of blood-forming cells, and if this observation is confirmed, it would give one the impression that the marrow was insufficient for the required blood-formation, and that it was passed back to the liver as well, which in foetal life is a blood-forming organ. In the blood the red cells are greatly diminished in severe cases, exceptionally falling to a million. The ordinary corpuscular changes of severe secondary anaemia are found with a quite excessive propor- tion of nucleated red cells. The majority of these are normoblasts, but megaloblasts may occur. The colour-index is low, even in cases with megaloblasts, however. There is usually high leucocytosis — from 20,000 to 50,000— which persists without much change. Lympho- cytes are always relatively increased, even beyond the noi-mal high proportion in infants. Eosinophiles are usually at or about the high normal number of infants, say 5 or 6 per cent. Myelocytes are uniformly present, though not in such large proportion as in myelaemia. The essence of the disease seems to be a blood- destruction, probably from unknown toxic influ- ences, but the liver does not contain the deposits of iron found in pernicious anaemia, nor is there any leukaemia infiltration of organs. Treatment of Splenic Enlargements.—From all that has been said of the physiology and pathology of the organ, it will be seen that the vast majority of splenic conditions are secondary to disease elsewhere, and that the enlargement of the organ is to be regarded as a symptom, often a very valuable one from the point of view of diagnosis, but not calling as a rule for special interference except in those cases, dealt with elsewhere, where removal is advisable for surgical reasons. Since the discovery of the impoi'tance of the bone-marrow in blood-forma- tion, the spleen has ceased to be credited with impossible and contradictory functions, and it is to be hoped that the knowledge that the changes in the marrow are also secondary to influences from other organs may lead us in time to the correct interpretation and scientific treatment of many of these pei'plexing anaemias. Splenaemia.. See Leucocyth^mia. Splena-lgfia..—Pain in the spleen, especi- ally of a neuralgic type. SplenculUS. — An accessory spleen or lienculus. Splenectomy.—Excision of the spleen. See Spleen, Surgery of [Splenectomy). Splenic Fever. /SVe Anthrax. Splen i n.—A therapeutic preparation made from the spleen. Splenisation or Splenification. —Conversion of the tissue of an organ [e.g. the lung) into a thickened and infiltrated state re- sembling splenic tissue. Splenitis.—Inflammation of the spleen. See Spleen. Splenitis. — Shaped like a splenium or bandage, and, hence, a name applied to a muscle so shaped {splenius capitis, splenius colli) and also to the posterior end of the corpus callosum {the splenium).