115 SCURVY IN ADULTS view that scurvy can be induced by a diet from which all kinds of fresh food are excluded. Thus it has been asserted that sterilisation or prolonged boiling of milk destroys its anti- scorbutic properties, and nearly all cases of scurvy in children can be traced to prolonged feeding on sterilised milk or foods that have been doctored in some way (see article " Scurvy, Infantile," p. 108). The view that the symptoms of scurvy are due, not to deprivation of fresh food, but to absorption of ptomaines from decomposing meat, seems to be indicated by the fact that the ingestion of a regular supply of lime-juice has in certain cases failed to keep off scurvy when preserved meat formed the principal article of diet, and it receives some support from the experiments of Jackson and Harley, who observed symptoms closely resembling human scurvy in monkeys fed on meat which was partially decomposed. With regard, however, to the first consideration, viz. the appearance of scurvy in persons who were taking lime-juice, an event which must be of exceedingly rare occurrence, it is possible that the lime-juice shared the drawback of the other preserved food, and had lost its antiscorbutic properties. With regard to the experiments on monkeys, it must be borne in mind that the symptoms were by no means identical with those of human scurvy, and that we must be exceedingly cautious in inferring from the results of giving putrid meat to vegetarian monkeys, the effects which similar feeding would have upon omni- vorous man. To sum up our present knowledge of the etiology of scurvy, we may say that it is liable to appear when the diet is composed chiefly or exclusively of food which has been kept a long time, or has been subjected to profound physical or chemical changes; but whether this effect is due to the disappearance of certain so-called antiscorbutic properties, or to the de- velopment of toxic products of decomposition, the evidence at hand is insufficient to enable us to decide. Scurvy, Land. iSee Purpura. Scurvy Rickets. See Scurvy, Infantile. Scutch.—The residue of the hides, hoofs, horns, bones, etc., after the liquid glue has been run off (in glue-making); it is used for manure. Scutula..—The shield-shaped (Lat. scutttm, a shield) crust left on the skin when a vesicle bursts and dries up. See Favus (Clinical Features, Scutula). Scybalum.—A hard mass (rounded or irregular) of constipated fseces (plural, scybala); it is derived from Gr. arKvj3aX.ov, dung. See Constipation (Symptoms). Scythian Disease.—A disease char- acterised by atrophy of the male genital organs and the development of feminine attributes ; a form of sexual perversion or effeminacy. Scytobiastema. — The skin in the embryonic stage (Gr. o-kJtos, hide, and p\da-Tr}fia, a bud). Sea Coast. See Lung, Tuberculosis (Treatment, Climate, Sea Coast). Sea Kale.—A vegetable (Crambe mari- tima) used in invalid feeding. See Invalid Feeding (Vegetables). Sea Sickness. See also Hypnotism (Uses).—A form of nausea, often accompanied by vomiting, induced by movement on the sea. The nausea and vomiting in this affection have nothing to distinguish them from the same symptoms in some other affections; their lead- ing characteristic is the causation. The same train of symptoms may be induced by move- ment in a train, omnibus, or the like. While the peculiar movement on the water is mainly responsible for the condition, there are con- tributory factors. Of these we may mention sensations derived on board from the sense of smell, and also mental stimuli derived from the recollection of past experiences. The cause of sea sickness is quite obscure. It may be, as some suppose, that the epigastric region is the seat of an equilibrative centre, but if so the manner of working of such a centre is quite un- known. It is more likely that the epigastric sensations of discomfort are secondary to a dis- turbance in the cerebrum or medulla. On a long voyage the condition tends to spontaneous cure usually in from three to five days. The treatment of the disease is not very satisfactory. A great variety of remedies have been advo- cated, but only a very few of these have been found to be really serviceable. Mention may be made of cocaine, morphin, and phenacetin, either alone or in various combinations. Great care and discretion are necessary in the administra- tion of these or other sedatives. Persons who are prone to sea sickness should pay particular attention to the state of the digestive tract for a few days before sailing. A light diet should be taken, and the bowels should be thoroughly cleaned out by small doses of calomel followed by a saline. When on board the circumstances should be disregarded as much as possible, the attention of the passenger being taken up in the pleasantest way possible. A good meal may be taken, with a little stimulant. If nausea set in notwithstanding these precau- tions, little or nothing can be done to alleviate the condition. If the voyage be a short one the symptoms will cease on the removal of the cause, and if the voyage be a long one the patient must look forward to a few days'