SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 305 Kyphosis, not due to caries, may be classified as follows:—(1) Kyphosis of infancy, due to feeble muscular development and rickets; (2) Kyphosis of childhood, due to rickets, acute anterior poliomyelitis, pseudo-hypertrophic mus- cular paralysis, hereditary hump-back ; and it is also met in association with chest deformities arising from adenoids and nasal obstruction; (3) Kyphosis of adolescence, or round shoulders; (4) Kyphosis of adult life, due to (a) occupation, e.g. in cobblers, tailors, and porters, (6) muscular and gonorrhoeal rheumatism, (c) arthritis de- formans, {d) osteitis deformans, (e) osteomalacia, (/) progressive muscular atrophy, and {g) bronchitis and emphysema. It will therefore be seen that the causes are very diverse. In infants and very young children rickets causes so much weakness that they are unable to sit upright. When the case is very severe, and the back almost powerless, the child should be nursed as much as possible in a reclining posi- tion, or carried about in a padded wicker tray. For older children who sit up, but with a bent back, a backboard of leather with axillary and perineal straps attached is very useful. Of course the diagnosis from spinal caries should be carefully made. In childhood, if the pos- terior curvature persist, the best treatment is a combination of recumbency, douching and sham- pooing, active and passive exercises of the muscles, and a support. It should be remem- bered that persistent antero-posterior bowing of the spine in children is often a prelude to scoliosis later. Therefore it is essential to remove all possible causes, especially adenoids and nasal ob- structions. Round shoulders are frequently the result of a so-called weak spine due to too rapid growth, chronic illness, or general debility, and the groups of muscles which are particularly affected are the trapezii and the serrati magni. Flat foot often coexists with this condition. The treatment consists in removing the causes, improving the general health, strengthening the enfeebled muscles, and in correcting the existing deformity. One of the most potent causes is faulty positions at school and in piano practice, and, no doubt, the length of lessons is much to be deprecated. To correct any deformity the chief reliance must be placed on gymnastic exercises. Artificial supports in the majority of cases are faulty in theory and pernicious in practice. The object of the exercises should be expansion of the chest, straightening of the back, and an erect carriage of the head. In old age kyphosis is due to general wasting of the tissues, and absorption of the inter- vertebral discs, particularly in the dorsal region. Osteomalacia.—The forward bending of the spine, which may be very extensive, is due to softening of the bones and ligaments. Unfor- tunately little or nothing can be done for it. Osteitis Deformans (Paget's Disease). — Kyphosis is one of the characteristic symptoms VOL. IX of this disease, and the spine becomes prominent, particularly in the cervical and upper dorsal regions, and the head falls forward on to the chest. The spine is rigid and painful. Osteitis deformans has been shown to be a chronic in- flammatory disease affecting the bones of the cranium, of the spine and pelvis, and the long bones, and it is eventually fatal. Spondylitis Deformans is also called rheu- matism of the spine, or rheumatoid arthritis of the spine. Some cases present a similar condi- tion to that in arthritis deformans. But it seems that in cases of spondylitis deformans the spine is first affected, while in arthritis defor- mans the joints of the extremities first suffer. Spondylitis deformans occurs in children occa- sionally, but most frequently in young male adults, and is often preceded by a history of gonorrhoea. The pathological changes are very similar to those produced by arthritis deformans, with the addition of ossification of the spinal ligaments, and intervertebral substances and fusion of the vertebrse. A certain group of these cases, one of which was described by Pasteur in 1889, shows implication of the muscles and soft parts, and scleroderma is associated with the condition. The symptoms are as follows : constant pain, occasionally becoming acute, gradual loss of movement in the back, exaggeration of the dorsal curve, and flattening of the lumbar curve. The disease appears first of all in the lower dorsal and lumbar region, and gradually spreads to the cervical area until the whole spine is rigid. It then affects the costo-vertebral articulations, so that the movement of the ribs is lost in respira- tion. After a time stiffening of the shoulders occurs. The disease is of an extremely chronic nature, and treatment seems to have little or no effect. Pain may be mitigated by hot fomenta- tions or by electricity and massage, but active and passive movements are to be avoided, and they are often harmful. Spondylolisthesis—The definition of this term is a slipping forward of the body of one of the lumbar vertebrse from the bone immediately below it. We say the body advisedly, because the laminae and spinous processes remain prac- tically in place. The usual vertebra affected is the fifth lumbar, sometimes the fourth, and slipping of the first sacral vertebra has occurred in one recorded case. The displacement varies in degree, and the intervertebral discs may be obliterated or replaced by an arthrodial joint. The pedicles of the affected vertebra may elongate, or the arch is completely separated from the body. Neugebauer gives the following causes : separation of the vertebral arch due to congenital defect or to fracture, disease of the sacro-vertebral articulation, and bony changes the result of pressure. It occurs most fre- quently in women, and at puberty or shortly afterwards, and many of them say that they 20