SCARLET FEVER 56 are astonishing. Sucking ice is also agreeable. Gargling, inhaling, and spraying the throat with antiseptics, such as permanganate of potash, boracic acid, and sulphurous acid, afford material aid where the strength permits their employ- ment. A local wet pack or hot fomentations to the throat also produce relief. In sloughy, ulcerated, foul throats, chlorine water (called euchlorine), locally applied, as well as swallowed, is of the greatest service. (8) Where the submaxillary region is enor- mously swelled, early incisions not only relieve instantly, but may also prevent suppuration. (e) Adenitis.—The same observation applies to inflammation of glands. (^) Otitis commences with earache, which can be relieved by gentle syringing with hot water, followed by opium, atropine, or cocaine applied in the ear. Mustard, applied behind the ear, sometimes arrests the inflammation when em- ployed early. When the pain is severe, and the temperature high, the application of leeches in front of and behind the ears speedily removes the pain and arrests further mischief. If, however, suppuration supervene, incision of the tympanum is called for; while, if perforation occur, irrigation with antiseptics such as boracic acid is essential, followed by insufHation of dry boracic acid or iodoform. If the mastoid become tender or reddens, an early incision through the periosteum, or even gouging, should be effected without hesitation. (17) Diarrhoea may require treatment, either by starch and opium injections or by opium and bismuth given internally. {&) Rheumatism may demand treatment with salicylates, liniments, or blisters; and if sup- puration of a joint supervene, an incision, with antiseptic precautions, should be made. (t) Albuminuria.—Where simple albuminuria arises in the course of scarlet fever a prolonged stay in bed is requisite, and a milk and farina- ceous diet should be prescribed. Where, how- ever, simple albuminuria exists from the onset no significance may possibly be indicated beyond a hyper£eraia of the kidneys; even in these cases, nevertheless, the preceding course is advisable. (k) Amte Nephritis.—In this acute attack, accompanied by htematuria and scanty urine, the kidneys should be rested through action upon the skin and bowels, and by aiding the reduction of arterial tension. (1) As regards the skin, hot air and vapour baths, hot wet pack, and hot drinks should be employed. (2) As regards the bowels, bitartrate of potash, Epsom salts, and compound jalap powder should be used. (3) Arterial tension may be efficiently relieved by nitro-glycerine or erythrol-tetranitrate, by leeches, wet-cupping, venesection; and where the urine is suppressed, an incision through the capsule of the kidney itself may save life. If convulsions occur, morphia or chloroform may be required. If pulmonary oedema arise, venesection, sufficient to relieve the right side of the heart, may be necessary, together with the administration of digitalis and nux vomica. When relief has been afforded to the kidneys their normal functions are resumed, the hsema- turia disappears, and the headache and vomiting cease. For this purpose iron, in conjunction with sulphate of magnesia, is very efficacious. If recovery take place a prolonged stay in bed, clothed in flannel, is essential, followed by residence in a warm, dry climate. (A) Ataxic Symptoms.—Where these symp- toms arise, carbonate of ammonia, musk, and alcohol are imperative; transfusion, or hot saline injections, may prove of service. lyjx) Eczema.—Where eczema occurs at the orifices of the mouth, nose, and ears, hot boracic lotion alleviates rapidly, and may be followed by the application of oleate of zinc or boracic ointment. (v) Ulcerative Stomatitis.—In mild cases of this description alkalies and opium bestow relief; but in severer forms the local use of euchlorine should be adopted. And if the inflammation proceed to noma, fuming nitric acid, after an anaesthetic, is indispensable. (iv.) Convalescents.—On the termination of the illness the patient, in mild cases, is perfectly well, and requires no further care. But the state of health after an attack of the severe type may demand the most assiduous treatment on account of the condition of the blood and the state of the kidneys, throat, and ears. A sojourn of many months in a warm, dry climate may be essential to complete recovery. (v.) The Limitation of the Disease.—We have hitherto discussed those points only which relate to the treatment of the individual attacked. In consequence, however, of the infectious nature of the disease, and its fre- quently epidemic character, a few words are necessary with reference to the protection of those who are not already infected. These I shall offer in the form of suggestions only, without discussion of the detailed method of procedure. 1. Notification.—The value of notification, in addition to its use for statistical purposes, consists in securing the isolation of the sick person and the nurse. 2. Disinfection.—A. Disinfection DUBING Illness. (a) All the excreta, expectoration, urine, and excrement should be received into vessels containing perchloride of mercury, or one of the tar derivatives. The nasal secretion should be excreted into pieces of linen, which should be immediately burnt. (/?) The body, in all cases, should be washed sufficiently for purposes of cleanliness.