484 SYPHILIS symptoms. It usually appears within the first six months of life, is plastic in type, and occurs in both eyes. Adhesions are often formed between the iris and the capsule of the lens, but there is neither keratitis nor choroiditis in the earlier stages. The inflammation responds readily enough to ordinary antisypliilitic treat- ment. Choroiditis occurs in the eyes of very young children, the subjects of inherited syphilis, often in association with manifestations of cerebral syphilis. The ophthalmoscope shows small flecks of exudation of a brownish colour, and apparently situated in the choroid; there is often but little disturbance of pigment, and no atrophy either of the choroid itself or of the optic disc, and the vessels of the fundus are altered in outline as a result of endarteritis. The condition may therefore be distinguished from the tuberculous choroiditis in which there are large, round, well-defined, and milk-white spots to be seen in the choroid—a distinction which is of very great importance from a diag- nostic point of view, and consequently for treatment. The Nervous System.—The brain and spinal cord with their meninges are subject to the same syphilitic changes in infants as in adults. A chronic inflammation of the membranes of the brain may occur even during intrauterine life, and may lead to a thickening of the dura mater. The chronic meningitis may or may not be associated with hydrocephalus; the child often has convulsions, and may be an idiot. It is sometimes correlated with inflam- mation of the cerebral substance, which may become sclerosed and even calcified. The cerebral arteries in syphilitic infants are subject to the same arterial changes as in adults with acquired syphilis. The endarteritis causes thrombosis, and may lead to hemiplegia, softening of the brain, and idiocy. Later Symptoms.—Few diseases clear up so rapidly and satisfactorily as hereditary syphilis in young children, but few relapse so completely when the treatment is discontinued, and even in some cases in spite of treatment. Recurrence takes place as a rule during the second year, perhaps because the difficulties of teething have weakened the child, but it may be delayed for a longer period, and even until the changes at puberty reawaken any latent taint which may have existed. The earliest symptoms of recurrence are usually associated with the mucous membranes. Sores may be developed at the angles of the mouth, and mucous tubercles may appear wherever there is a combination of moisture, warmth, and friction. True condylomata are sometimes formed, but they are much commoner in children who have acquired syphilis than in those who are the subjects of the inherited disease. The hones suffer equally with the mucous membranes. Hound and semi-fluctuating swell- ings are developed on the skull, especially upon the frontal bones, as well as upon the tibiae and phalanges. The swellings are due to a gum- matous periostitis, and usually disappear under appropriate treatment, but necrosis of the underlying bone may take place if they sup- purate. A similar inflammation of the palate produces widespread destruction within the mouth; whilst the mucous membrane of the nose is liable to undergo extensive inflammatory changes which may involve the bones and cartilages, leading to the depression of the bridge which is thought by many to be one of the characteristic features of early syphilis. Gummata are occasionally seen in the sTcin, but they are less common than in the children who have acquired syphilis, and they are much less easily cured by mercury. The testes, and perhaps the ovaries, are afifected by diffuse inflammation in some cases of hereditary syphilis. The body of the testis is generally affected, but the epididymis does not always escape. There is often a loss of, or diminution in, the sexual characteristics in persons who have been the subjects of heredi- tary syphilis, and it is thought that this alteration may perhaps be due to the changes occurring early in life in connection with the ovaries and testes. Ear.—Deafness is an important complication of hereditary syphilis. It may begin suddenly at any age from infancy to adolescence, some- times without warning, and with continuous subjective noises, due apparently to pathological changes in the labyrinth. Unhappily, very little can be done to cure this form of deafness, which may lead to deaf-mutism when it occurs before the child has leai'nt to talk. The latest signs of hereditary syphilis appear in the eyes, teeth, joints, and nervous system. The Eyes.—Inflammation of the cornea is one of the best recognised amongst the later mani- festations of hereditary syphilis. It is an inter- stitial keratitis, which may begin at any age between five years old and five-and-twenty, though it is most common about puberty. It may occur in those who are apparently in good health, and who have long been free from any sign of inherited taint. One eye first becomes irritable, and the cornea hazy, and after a time the other eye becomes affected in a similar manner. The corneal patches increase in size until the cornea becomes opaque like ground glass, and the patient is blind for all practical purposes, though he never loses perception of light. The inflammation is attended by a circumcorneal zone, due to congestion of the ciliary region, but there is very little conjunc- tivitis. The pain may be slight or severe. Sooner or later the corneal opacity becomes salmon-pink in parts, due to the ingrowth of