546 TEMPERATURE tion of the temperature may cause some accelera- tion of the pulse and respiration, but all the other changes to be described occur quite inde- pendently of the pyrexia, and are due to the same cause, namely, the toxin. There is usually, though not invariably, in- creased consumption of oxygen and increased excretion of carbon dioxide by means of respira- tion, indicating that there is increased oxidation of the tissues of the body. But there is no constant relationship between the pyrexia and increase of metabolic activity, and the latter is not necessarily the cause of the pyrexia. Degenerative changes in the parenchyma of the different organs can usually be demonstrated. The most frequent changes are albuminous in- filtration, and fatty degeneration of the liver, kidneys, and cardiac muscle, less constantly of other glandular organs. Fatty degeneration can be induced by artificial exposure to a high temperature ; but that the degenerative changes in fever are due to the causal toxin, and not to the pyrexia, is shown by the fact that the ex- tent to which the changes occur is not propor- tionate to the elevation of temperature, and that the changes may be more marked after diphtheria or typhoid fever in which there has been merely moderate pyrexia, than after acute lobar pneumonia associated with a much higher elevation of temperature. Necrotic changes in the renal epithelium and in striped muscles, for example, are likewise induced by certain toxins. Changes in the Blood.—In consequence of localised congestion of internal organs there may be a diminution in the number of red blood corpuscles per c.mm. in the peripheral blood; but there is usually moi'e or less well-marked hsemolysis causing the ansemia so frequently associated with fever. The presence of hsemo- siderin in excess in the spleen is a result of the hsemolysis. In many febrile diseases there is also well-marked leucocytosis, whereas in others, such as malaria and typhoid fever, there is no increase in the number of leucocytes in the peripheral blood, owing in some instances to the withdrawal of leucocytes towards the seat of infection in the internal organs. The blood serum sometimes contains a diminished amount of albumin, and the coagulability of the blood may be either increased or decreased. The alkalinity of the blood and of the blood serum is diminished during the course of a febrile disease, and the reduction is probably the more pronounced in proportion to the severity of the infection. During the periods of recovery and convalescence the diminution of alkalinity gives place to an increase, but if the organism be unable to withstand the infection or the toxin, the degree of alkalinity continues to fall until the fatal issue supervenes, as shown by von Rigler, after injection of diphtheria toxin, mallein, and tuberculin. Loss of body iveight is a constant and marked feature. That the loss is not due to the pyrexia is shown by the fact that a patient loses weight during the course of an infective disease, even though his temperature be maintained at or about the normal level by means of antipyretics. The loss of weight may be in part due to diminished ingestion of food, or to imperfect absorption of food, but is mainly due to de- generation or disintegration of the tissue cells consequent on the action of the causal toxin. Another result of the toxic action is seen in the increased excretion of nitrogen in the urine. The urinary secretion is diminished in amount, except during the initial stage of the fever; the colour is darker, the specific gravity is higher than that of normal urine, and urates are present in excess. The total amount of nitrogen excreted in the urine is increased, but except that the ammonia compounds may constitute ten to twelve per cent of the total nitrogen, instead of the normal two to five per cent, the distribution of nitrogen remains the same as in health, so that on examination of the urine it will be found that there is increased excretion of urea, uric acid, and kreatinin. The urine frequently contains proteids. Serum albumin, together with serum globulin, is most frequently present; albumose is also not infrequent. The passage of these proteids through the glomeruli is almost certainly depen- dent on a morbid condition of the glomerular epithelium even though in some cases there are no visible changes in the kidneys. Ehrlich's diazo reaction can often be obtained, and the urine contains excess of the phosphoric and sul- phuric acids, and may contain acetone and diacetic acid, but the chlorides are invariably reduced except in malaria, in which disease the excretion of phosphoric acid is diminished. Circulatory Disturbances.—The heart's action is accelerated, but the increase in frequency is by no means always proportional to the pyrexia. Thus in typhoid fever the pulse may be slow and the temperature high, whereas in severe septic infection the conditions are not infre- quently reversed. There is usually diminution of the blood pressure, and the pulse is dicrotic or hyperdicrotic ; in other cases the blood pres- sure is normal or may even be increased. The circulatory disturbances are not due to the elevation of temperature alone, for in animals exposed to a high temperature both Welch and Krehl found the functional activity of the heart was normal even though there was fatty de- generation of the cardiac muscle. Respiration is also accelerated. This change may be artificially induced by raising the tem- perature of the blood, or by exposing the skin to heat. But in fever marked increase of the respiratory frequency is usually dependent on indirect causes, such as cardiac enfeeblement, or inflammatory changes in some part of the res- piratory tract.