SLEEP, NORMAL AND MORBID 219 bromide, ethylene or ethene bromide, mono- bromide of camphor, and hydrobromic acid. Bromides, if long continued, are apt to cause weakening of the mental faculties, acneform eruptions, and sometimes oedemaglottidis. The chloroform and alcohol groups include alcohol, ether, aldehyde, paraldehyde, chloro- form, chloral hydrate, chloralamide, urethane, chloral urethane, acetal, methylal, sulphonal, tetronal, amylene hydrate, hyphone. All these drugs have been used with varying success in the treatment of insomnia. Paraldehyde is perhaps one of the best, and can be administered for long periods without bad results. The paraldehyde "habit" may be acquired, and large doses (§i.) taken without serious effects. Sometimes, however, insanity may supervene Dote 1 2 5 —1 5 0 7 8 9 K) 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 EO Z\ K E5 E+ ES e6 a& £9 30 ■M T £ 3 4- 5 6 7 8 9 10 n 0 1 J. 2 ^: 1 6 7 8 9 — N / \ / / \ / \ \ / \ D 0 :§ ^§ o nj "5 $ $ 4 Unnc Boweli Chart 10.—Delusional. as a result, and the form is sometimes similar to alcoholic pseudo-general paralysis. Sulphonal is also very frequently used, but has to be ad- ministered with caution. Its slowness of action, its insolubility, and tendency to accumulate in the intestinal canal render it at times dangerous even to life. Its ill effects are headache, giddi- ness, staggering gait, confusion of ideas and difficulty of speech, occasionally a scarlatiniform or measly rash, vomiting, and haematoporphy- rinuria. Erlenmeyer believes that the dose should never exceed 30 grains, but this dose is useless in some cases of urgency. I have occasionally given 60 grains with good results. It is contra-indicated in cases of melancholia with sluggish bowels. Opium and its alkaloids must be given with caution. It is sometimes good for temporary use, but usually does harm if long continued. The bimeconate of morphia is useful in condi- tions of agitated melancholia. Hyoscyamine and hyoscine are useful in the treatment of insomnia in the chronic insane, but should be given with great caution where recovery is to be looked for. Sulphate of duboisine, cannabis indica, conium. Calabar bean, boldine, and boldo- glucine have all had trials. Boldo-glucine is said to possess hypnotic powers without causing ansesthesia, but its properties have not yet been sufficiently in- vestigated. Sleeping: Sickness, or Negro Letliargy. Geog7-a2)hical Distribution . . .219 Symptovis . . . . . .220 Morbid Anatomy ..... 220 Treatment ...... 221 Definition.—A chronic meningo-encephalo- myelitis, characterised clinically by progressive physical and mental lethargy, terminating in death. Geographical Distribution. — Sleeping sickness is endemic in tro- pical West Africa. It occurs in more or less cii'cum- scribed districts, from the Senegal to San Paulo do Loanda. It is very common along the middle reaches of the Congo. Although principally a dis- ease of inland districts, it occurs on the coast and islands, as for example in Fernando Po and the Ilha do Principe. It has been met with as far inland as Timbuctoo on the upper Nigei', at or near Stanley Falls on the Congo, and on the shores of Lake Tanganyika. Until recently this dis- ease, apparently, was confined to the western watershed of the African continent, but within the last year or two it has invaded Uganda, and is at present extensively epidemic in that country and in other and neighbouring districts in the upper part of the Nile basin. So far there is no i-eliable account of its endemic occurrence in any other part of the world, although there is some reason to think that it may occur among the aboriginal tribes of Guiana, South America. Although sleeping sickness can be acquired only in the endemic area described, owing to the great length of the incubation period in some instances—seven years, it is said—the clinical manifestation of the disease may take place in any part of the world. Hence in the days of the slave trade the disease was common enough in the West Indies, but only among the im-