82 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE with tubercular diseases of the testis, and occasionally with syphilitic disease of the organ. Their cure can be effected only by getting rid of the necrotic foci which give rise to them. Scrotal Calculi.—These consist either of uric acid or of phosphate of lime, and are formed by deposition from the urine, either within the urethra or along a fistulous track. They have been met with in some cases of large size, after many years of existence and growth. Having made their way by ulceration through the urethra, they increase by the deposition of salts from the urine which escapes through the urethral fistula. They may be removed through a simple incision made over them, and steps taken to close the opening into the urethra so as to prevent the formation of future calculi in the same situation. Tumours of the Scrotum. - Of the non- malignant tumours of the scrotum mention need only be made of :—neevi, which should be excised as soon as it is evident their removal is indicated; cysts, usually sebaceous, which may be removed in the ordinary way; lipomata, fibromata (which sometimes attain a very large size, and may contain cartilaginous, myxo- matous, or sarcomatous elements), and chondro- mata. Sequestration dermoids (Bland Sutton) arise in detached or sequestrated portions of surface epithelium, chiefly in situations where, during embryonic life, coalescence takes place between skin-covered surfaces. In the scrotum this coalescence is in the middle line. They contain putty-like material, in which are usually a few hairs, and are lined with stratified epi- thelium ; in their walls papillas and sebaceous glands are found. The treatment of any of these non-malignant tumours is removal by operation. Epithelioma of the Scrotum, or Chimney- Sweep's Cancer.—Epithelioma of the scrotum is almost entirely confined to chimney-sweeps, and is more common in this country than in others. It occurs, however, in other than sweeps, especially in those whose occupation favours the saturation of their clothes with some irritant. Thus it has been noticed among the employes at gas-works, tar-works, and chemical manu- factories. The skin of chimney-sweeps is very commonly encrusted with scaling and indurated patches. In many of them, even when they are thoroughly clean, the whole skin is dry, harsh, and dusky, and before operation for the removal of scrotal cancer in them, it is a common ques- tion whether one or more warts and scaly patches near the chief disease should be removed with it. Nor are such warts confined to the scrotum, they may exist on every part of the trunk and limbs In its origin, structure, course, and implica- tion of adjacent glands, witliout involving more distant regions, it corresponds with epithelial cancer of the skin in other parts, it is slow in its progress and early in its invasion of lymphatic glands. It commonly begins as a soft, small tubercle or wart in the scrotum. This tubercle appears to be of simple nature, and may remain for a long time without change, only increasing very slowly. Sooner or later it becomes in- durated, spreads, and is covered with a crust; and when the crust is removed it bleeds a little. Subsequently it ulcerates, and an uneven, open, cauliflower-like surface is formed, discharging thin bloody fluid, and having a sinuous everted or inverted edge, with a large tuberous margin and an indurated base. Other forms in which this disease may originate are horn-like excres- cences, or subcutaneous nodules over which the skin may be thin and adherent, but not other- wise affected. In such cases the epithelioma has probably commenced in the sebaceous glands or hair follicles. Finally, the affection may start from one of those moles which are met with in the pigmented skin of the scrotum. In whatever way the disease begins, ulceration of a malignant nature is sooner or later certain It then goes on spreading until the whole scrotum is destroyed, and occasionally the crura of the penis and the thickened tunica vaginalis or even the testicles themselves are exposed. Before this, however, the inguinal glands be- come indurated, subsequently they soften and break, forming excavated cancerous ulcers which spread until the patient is exhausted by the discharge and pain. Often a large vessel in the groin gives way and haemorrhage shortens the patient's sufferings. The lumbar glands and abdominal viscera are not as a rule involved. Treatment.—The only treatment is by excision, which must be early and freely done. In very early cases only complete cure by operation is to be expected, and should recurrences occur, they should at once be removed, so long as it is possible to get well beyond the limits of disease, even although the testes and the penis may have to be sacrificed. Enlarged inguinal glands should be at once removed, and by clean, careful dissection all the fat and connective tissues adjacent to them should be cleared away. It is important in following a chain of inguinal glands to remember that the course of their efferent vessels is inwards along the groin, and then downwards from the groin into the femoral triangle—usually through the saphenous open- ing—from whence they pass upwards by the side of the femoral vessels, through the femoral canal, and accompany the iliac vessels to the back of the abdomen. If operation is deferred until ulceration of the glands has set in, it will usually be useless and disappointing. In inoperable cases of cancer of the scrotum with ulcerating inguinal glands, the friends of a patient should always be warned that haemorrhage is likely to occur, for it is the commonest cause of death in these cases. Other forms of malignant tumours of the