RUBELLA: ROSERASH 19 that his friend was travelling daily; and that no more infectious places existed, outside in- fectious hospitals, than railway carriages, trams, cabs, and churches, which are rarely ventilated during or after the services. Rubella is un- questionably one of the infectious ailments which involve a long period of incubation. And when an observer appears to find an incubation period of less than twelve days, he should, in his own mind at all events, doubt the supposed fact. The most common period is the eighteenth day; but it may range from twelve to twenty- two days, and accordingly, when a term of five days is alleged, the true period will probably be 5-t-12 days. (ii.) The Period of Infection.—It is needful to repeat that, although in most cases the first detected symptom is the rash, the disease is infectious at a prior stage, for even when I have isolated on mere suspicion the disease has still spread. I am not prepared to specify definitely the length of this earlier stage ; but a minimum of forty-eight hours may be fairly accepted. The extent of infectiousness after this period I am not able to assign, since all my cases being isolated in hospital, the possibility of infection has ceased. I think, however, we may reason- ably assume that the disease is highly infectious until the rash attains its height, and that it gradually wanes as this fades and the brawny desquamation ceases. My plan at Rugby is— 1. In very mild cases to isolate for ten days; 2. In the average case for fourteen days; 3. And in a severe case, followed by much desquamation, to allow a few days beyond the fourteen. In all instances disinfecting baths are given on several nights, and the clothes are disinfected as carefully as in scarlet fever. This plan has never failed me in an experience of thirty-one years; but it may be that even these periods of isolation are longer than is ab- solutely necessary. Owing to the completeness of the system of isolation and disinfection just described, which should be the plan to be aimed at in all in- fectious diseases, I possess no evidence relating to the retention of infection in clothes. (iii.) The Period of Protection.—In my judg- ment there is absolute immunity from a second attack; and I believe that any contrary state- ment arises from confusing this disease with the " Fourth disease," or with English measles. The disease affords no protection against Eng- lish measles, scarlet fever, or the Fourth disease. Sequels.—There are practically no sequelae, though I have seen the submaxillary glands en- larged. Inasmuch, however, as the slightest feverish attack, for example from a cold, or even vaccination, may in the delicate or cachectic develop latent mischief, and may be answerable for a considerable deterioration of health, so this slight feverish zymotic disease may similarly act. But there are literally no sequelse pathog- nomonic of it. Relapse.—I have never seen a case of relapse or recrudescence, although these are stated to occur occasionally. Relation to other Diseases.—The disease is of frequent occurrence in those who have had measles a short time previously, and vice versa, so that these two diseases are mutually unpro- tective. And when the disease breaks out in a community, where some have had measles and some not, it attacks them indiscriminately, and never develops into true measles. Diagnosis.—(i.) Measles.—Some cases of this disease so accurately resemble measles in the eruption that, at a certain stage of the illness, it is impossible to distinguish between them. The temperature, the pulse, and the eruption are frequently almost identical—the differences varying merely in degree. The distinctions, therefore, between a severe case of roserash and a mild case of measles will puzzle the most wary. It is only by seeing the disease from the commencement, or by studying a group of cases and obtaining an accurate history, that a valid diagnosis can be effected. This difficulty mainly arises from the fact that the diagnosis is apt to be based on the appearance of the eruption alone, without the devotion of sufficient attention to the history of the attack, the incubation period, and the presence or absence of other symptoms. Those alone who are connected with the treatment of the young when congregated in large numbers realise the difficulty and doubt produced by classing two perfectly distinct and definite diseases under the common name of measles without the prelix of "English" or " German." This confusion may be largely rectified by calling " English measles " (Morbilli) measles, pure and simple, and designating German measles (Rubella) roserash. At present when a pupil is certified as having had " measles" it frequently means that he has had the German variety, and vice versa, and thus he starts an epidemic amongst those supposed to be protected by a previous attack. The prodromata of measles with three days' malaise, catarrh, and cough accompanied by fever are quite pathognomonic of measles. The eruption, not appearing until the fourth day of measles, instead of the first as in roserash, is, however, quite convincing. The glandular hypertrophy is absent in the early stage of measles. And the period of incubation is usually of much shorter duration in measles. Sequelse are frequent in measles and often formidable, while they are absent in roserash. (ii.) The Fourth Disease.^—Until April 1900, ' " On the Confusion of two different Diseases under the Name of Rubella," Clement Dukes, Lancet, 14th July 1901 ; "Fourth Disease," J. J. Weaver, The Journal of State Medicine, 1901.