STERNUM 341 Depression of Sternum); Teratology {Malforma- tions of Thorax). Stern lJta.tory.—Producing sneezing or sternutation; errhine; e.g. tobacco in the form of snufF, ipecacuanha, and sassy bark. See Pre- scribing {Action on Mucous Membranes). Stertor.—Deep respiration accompanied by a snoring sound; met with in cases of apoplexy, etc. See Brain, Affection of Blood- vessels {Cerebral HcBTnorrhage, Diagnosis). Stetho-.—In compound words stetho- (Gr. a-rrjOo';, the breast or chest) means relating to the thorax; e.g. stethograph (an instrument for recording the movements of the chest), stetho- menia (vicarious menstruation from the bronchi), stethomitis (inflammation of the muscles of the chest), etc. Stethoscope.—An instrument, with a single or a double ear-piece, by which ausculta- tion of the thoracic or (sometimes) the abdomi- nal organs is carried out. See Chest, Clinical Investigation of {Auscultation). See also Cross References under Auscultation. Stevenson's Screen.—A roofed and louvred box for sheltering shade thermometers in. See Meteorology {Temperature). Stewart's Method.— A plan for estimating the organic nitrogen in the soil, devised by Hunter Stewart. Stew i n g". See Invalid Feeding {Prepara- tion of Meats, Stewing). St. GervaiS. See Balneology {France, Sulphated Muriated Waters). Sthenic Fever.—Fever characterised by a high temperature and a full, quick pulse (Gr. aOevo';, power or strength). Stibium. See Antimony. Sticking^ Plaster. See Plaster. stiff" Joint. See Joints, Diseases of, {Anchi/losis). Stiffneck. See Rheumatism, Chronic (Muscula?-). Stiffneck Fever. See Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal. Stig'ma.—A small mark, cicatrix, or spot, commonly used in the plural {stigmata) for the hsemorrhagic spots seen in hysteria in the positions occupied by the nail-wounds inflicted in crucifixion ; the physical stigmata of heredity are malformations (usually of the minor type) commonly found in criminals and the insane {e.g. abnormalities of the external ear, etc.). See Hysteria {Symptoms, Stigmata); Mental Deficiency {Diagnosis, Stigmata of Degenera- tion). Still Birth. See New-born Infant {Asphyxia Neonatorum). See also Asphyxia {In New-born Infants) ; Labour, Accidental Com- plications {Injuries to Fcetus, Still-birth) ; Medicine, Forensic {Infanticide). Stillicidium. — The flow of a liquid slowly, drop by drop, or guttatim. See also Balneology {Douche Bath). Stilling^'S Canal.—The central canal of the spinal cord, also the hyaloid canal. Stilling^'S Nucleus.—The red nucleus of the subthalamic region ; the sacral nucleus of Stilling is an island of nerve cells in the saci-al region of the spinal cord. See Spinal Cord, Medical {Anatomical Considerations). Stimulants. See Alcohol {Clinical Uses). Sti m U1 us. See Physiology, Protoplasm, Cell {Stiinuli); Physiology, Tissues {Muscle and Nerve Stimulation). St i ngi ng I n sects.—Many insects when in a mature stage bite the skin of man in order to obtain nutriment, and all, whilst doing so, probably inject into the skin with the saliva a toxic substance—probably formic acid in the case of the bee sting—which inhibits coagu- lation or promotes the flow of blood. The sting may be trivial or may result in serious disease or even death, according in part to the species of insect and in part to the idiosyncrasy of the person who has been stung. One of the most frequent insects which in this way attacks man is Pulex irritans, the common flea. The lesion is a small circular red area with a central spot of darker tint. When the lesions are petechial, the case may be mistaken for purpura. In other persons there may be urticaria or a more or less general erythema, and there is much cutaneous irrita- bility. The role of the pulex as a trans- mitter of plague infection has of late engaged the attention of many investigators. The lesion caused by the bed bug {Cimex lectularius) is a whitish wheal with a central spot, and much itching. Some persons mani- fest hardly any signs of reaction to the bite of this insect. Gnats or Mosquitoes.—The disturbance pro- duced by the ordinary "midge bite" varies greatly in different persons, but there is usually much pruritus, with small wheals and consider- able hypersemia. Mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles, when infected with malarial protozoa, transmit these parasites through the skin wound {vide "Malaria," vol. vi.). Similarly it has recently been demonstrated that filariasis is acquired by the sting of mosquitoes (Low,