98 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE The veins of the scrotum enlarge in time. The epididymis may become merged in the swelUng. Both testes may be affected, especially in the round-celled variety, a complication which does not often occur in carcinoma. Secondary de- posits are most common in the iliac and lumbar glands. They may occur also in any of the viscera. The prognosis in sarcoma of the testis is extremely bad. Lyrnpho-sarcomaof the Testis (Sutton).—These tumours are often described as " small round- celled sarcoma " ; they occur in lads and young adults, often affect first one and then the other testicle after a variable interval, disseminate very rapidly, and speedily cause death. They are the most malignant of the sarcomatous tumours. Treatment. — Early removal of the testicle offers the only chance of successful treatment. To wait until an accurate diagnosis is certain is only to wait too long, chiefly for the reason that the abdominal lymphatic glands are quickly affected in testicular sarcoma. It is important, therefore, in every case to examine carefully by palpation for enlargement of the iliac, pelvic, and lumbar glands before submitting a patient to operation, no matter how early it may have been seen. It is desirable in operating to follow the cord along the whole length of the inguinal canal, by splitting the fibres of the external oblique muscle to the extent necessary, as is done in radical cures of hernia. The cord can be traced and divided in the subperitoneal tissues, and the weakened inguinal canal sewn up as in Bassini's operation for hernia, etc.; the lower or arched edge of the internal oblique muscle being sewn to the inner surface of Poupart's ligament before the external oblique is brought together over the canal. In those cases where the scrotal tissues are not invaded by the new growth the skin incision is best made from a point opposite the external ab- dominal ring obliquely downwards to the upper part of the scrotum, the testicle being squeezed upwards from the scrotum through the wound. If the scrotal tissues are invaded by the growth, the affected area must be widely removed be- tween elliptical incisions continuous with the one already described. Any secondary swelling within the abdomen contra-indicates castration as a possible curative measure, as it is useless trying to excise these secondary masses. Carcinoma of the Testicle.—Carcinoma takes the form either of soft marrowy growths (en- cephaloid or medullary), or of firmer or more compact tumours with an abundant stroma (scirrhus). It often happens that different parts of the same growth differ in structure. The disease usually starts in the convoluted seminiferous tubules. The cancer cells are ex- ceptionally prone to mucoid and fatty degenera- tion, and in the softer forms haemorrhage is very common ; sections of such growths are apt to be mottled with various tints. Cysts with gelatinous or colloid contents are produced by the mucoid or colloid degeneration of the cells in the cancerous loculi, the tumours being then described as cysto-carcinoma or colloid carcinoma. Carcinomata, likewise, in many cases contain rounded nodes and nodules, or elongated, ramified, and cactus-like patches of cartilaginous tissue, chiefly in the neighbour- hood of the I'ete testis and epididymis. These patches as they grow sometimes break into the lymphatics and seminal canals of the testis, and therein ramify, assuming the most diverse forms (chondro-carcinoma). In cases of carcinoma of the testis the fibrous stroma of the growth itself, or that of the epididymis, sometimes undergoes sarcomatous proliferation. Met- astasis takes place both through the blood- vessels and through the lymphatics. Encephaloid Carcinoma. — The mass of an encephaloid carcinoma has a soft, pulpy con- sistence, and a more or less uniformly white or pinkish white colour. When squeezed a creamy fluid oozes from its cut surface. It is usually so soft and so fragile that it is liable to give way under slight injury, and blood becomes effused in its substance. This may take place at many points interstitially or into ragged cavities. The effused blood, undergoing changes, gives rise to a variety of appearances and discolorations. As the growth increases, the coverings of the testis yield under pressure, and become stretched to a great extent before they give way, and even when the tunica albuginea has yielded the scrotum continues to expand. In course of time, however, the tumour becomes adherent to the scrotal tissue and ulcerates through them, and the true fungus hsematodes appears growing rapidly, with a sloughy surface which bleeds readily. The surfaces of the tunica vaginalis are usually more or less adherent, and the cavity sometimes contains blood-stained serum. The growth extends to the cord, and affects the pelvic and lumbar lymphatic glands. Secondary deposits are found in the lungs and other situations. Sym.ptoms of Soft Carcinoma of the Testis.— The testis is at first occupied by a regular oval or pyriform mass. This is at first rather firm, but soon the mass becomes softer at some parts than others, and has a pulpy, elastic, or fluctuating feel. Its weight is heavy. Pain and tenderness are not conspicuous symptoms. Testicular sensation is early lost. The scrotal veins enlarge. Thickening of the cord is an early feature; separate masses of growtli can sometimes be felt within it. Enlargement of the intra-abdominal lymphatic glands (lumbar and pelvic) is an early incident, and must always be carefully looked for before any operation is advised. As the growth becomes larger irregular bosses form on its surface—