SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF 154 ture of the humerus may take place in the neighbourhood of the joint. Diagnosis.—There is usually no difficulty in making a diagnosis. The knee or hip is already affected, the knee-jerks are absent, and the characteristic ophthalmoscopic appearances are present. Charcot's disease may be distin- guished from syringomyelia by the fact that it does not suppurate, and that there is no ansesthesia. No treatment is curative, and it can only be directed to save the joint as far as possible. Loose Bodies.—Loose cartilages are found less often in the shoulder than in the knee and elbow, but from the frequency with which the shoulder is the seat of tuberculous disease and of arthritis deformans enlarged synovial fringes are not uncommon. The loose bodies derived from the synovial fringes are of several kinds. They are sometimes numerous and vesicular, apparently derived from cystic degeneration of the synovial fringes; at other times they are multiple and cartilaginous, as is common in joints affected with arthritis deformans, the cartilage cells being developed by a proliferation of the cartilage cells which are found in healthy synovial fringes. Melon-seed bodies occur in the shoulder as a result of a chronic plastic synovitis. They consist of fibrin, and every stage can be traced from a rough mass of fibrin to the smooth and flattened masses which so closely resemble melon seeds in appearance. Treatment.—A simple incision into the joint from in front will allow of the removal of the loose bodies, if they are troublesome; but it should be remembered that such joints are often on the verge of disease, and vinless the wound heals by first intention a severe arthritis may be set up. Paralytic Deformities of the Shoulder.— The deltoid and the serratus magnus are the muscles most likely to be paralysed in connec- tion with the shoulder. Paralysis of the deltoid is due to spinal paralysis or to injury of the circumflex nerve. The shoulder is much flattened, and appears angular, for the projecting acromion stands out in marked relief. The relaxation of the ligaments is also well marked, for the finger can be passed between the head of the humerus and the glenoid cavity when the arm is drawn slightly downwards. Paralysis of the serratus magnus is an inter- esting affection, which may be bilateral, and is often associated with paresis of the rhomboids and trapezius. Causes.—The condition may be congenital or acquired. In rare cases there may be a congenital absence of muscles, more commonly it is the result of cold. The last patient whom I saw was a boy of nineteen who had lately been apprenticed to his father, a butcher, and he had to cry his wares outside the shop in all weathers. In other cases it may follow typhoid fever, infantile or other paralysis, or may occur in progressive muscular atrophy. Syniptmns.-—The patient complains of weak- ness in the shoulder, and his friends notice that he has " winged scapulte," for the condition may be bilateral. The weakness is due to the fact that the inferior angle of the scapula slips forwards and stands out beneath the skin when the patient holds out his arm straight in front of his body. There is a diminution in the length and power of the reach of the affected arm, and the patient is unable to extend the arm upwards and forwards without bending the body sideways and flexing the forearm, the humerus being at the same time much abducted. This is due to the paralysed serratus failing to fix the scapula upon the ribs, by which means alone its rotation is possible. The surgeon can readily explore the under surface of the scapula with his fingers, so great is the separation between the bone and the thorax. Diagnosis.—An examination of the spines of the vertebrse will distinguish this condition from the " scapula alata " of lateral curvature. Treatment. — The affected shoulder should be galvanised two or three times a week with an induced current, strong at first and after- wards weaker. The positive pole should be placed over the spine on a level with the upper border of the scapula, whilst the negative pole is placed successively over the different digita- tions of the serratus magnus. Massage may also be usefully employed, the shoulder being kept warm and a sling being worn in the intervals of treatment. The patient should be put upon a course of strychnia and iron, and if there is much pain a blister may be applied over the lower part of the scalenus anticus muscle, i.e. over the clavicular insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, with the intention of causing some counter-irritation of the external respiratory nerve of Bell. Tumours The clavicle, the scapula, and the upper end of the humerus are all liable to tumour forma- tion, the growths being either innocent or malignant. The innocent tumours are either bony or cartilaginous. The bony tumours are of the nature of exostoses, and grow chiefly from the scapula though they spring sometimes from the neck of the humerus, causing pain and venous congestion of the arm if they project into the axilla. Cartilaginous tumours grow as pure chondromata from the scapula. They undergo the various forms of degeneration common to this kind of growth, viz. cystic degeneration, fatty change, myxomatous degeneration and calcification. The rapid softening of the tumour which takes place in connection with I the cystic degeneration sometimes leads to