590 THERAPEUTICS: SERUM THERAPY is diluted with 9 c.c. of the phenol to make a 1 per cent solution. Of this dilution 10 minims are administered subcutaneously with the usual precautions. If the patient is not tuberculous there is no rise in temperature, but if tubercle is present it will run up to 102^ or 103", and fall again in twenty-four hours. There will probably be considerable constitutional disturb- ance, indicated by restlessness, headache, pains in the joints, and inability to sleep. The preparation commonly employed in the treatment of phtliisis is tuberculin R. The best plan is to begin with a dose of mg., and to ran up to 20 mg. The larger doses are expensive,—about 17s. a dose,—and from 50 to 60 injections may be required, although not all of this magnitude. Good results have some- times been obtained, but usually in conjunction with favourable hygienic conditions, and the administration of cod-liver oil and other remedies. It appears to be of very little use in mixed infections or in advanced cases. In a few cases carefully observed at the Westminster Hospital it did no good, and its use had to be abandoned. It produces a very slight reaction even in moderately large doses. Tuberculin, as a diagnostic agent, is invaluable, but thera- peutically it leaves much to be desired. Maraglioni's serum is frequently spoken of in connection with the treatment of tuberculosis, but it is difficult to obtain definite information respecting its action. Campana of Rome states that it is nothing but Koch's tuberculin im- proved. Rumpf of Hamburg maintains that it has no therapeutical effect, whilst Bertola says that it has a specific action in tuberculosis, but that it must be administered for a long time. It has been but little used in England. Antienteric Serum. — This can hardly be regarded as a therapeutic agent, although it is a powerful prophylactic. The results obtained by the inoculation of the serum in the case of the officers and men of the military garrison during the siege of Ladysmith, as published by Prof. A. E. Wright of Netley, are distinctly encouraging, inasmuch as they show that the proportion, on the one hand of attacks and on the other of deaths, was seven times less in the inoculated than in the uninoculated. If the number of men, no doubt a considerable one, who had previously suffered from enteric had been subtracted fi-om the number of the un- inoculated, the statistics would have borne an even more favourable aspect. Antipneumococcic Serum.—Several serums of this description have been prepared by Pio-Foa, Washbourn, and others, but they are rarely used. Therapeutic Test.—The diagnosis of a disease by administering a remedy which has a specific effect (e.g. quinine in malaria, mercury in syphilis), and judging from the re- sult ; thus, in obscure eye conditions or nervous maladies, improvement under mercurial treat- ment suggests syphilis as the causal factor. Theria.ca..—An old name for a compound containing several drugs, and supposed to have the effect of an antidote in the bites of poisonous animals (Gr. 6rjpLov, a wild beast); as treacle was used in the compounding of the antidote the name theriaca came to signify molasses or treacle. Theria.triC£i.—Veterinary medicine. Therma.—A warm spring or bath. See Balneology (Historical). Thermaesthesiometer.—An instm- ment for determining cutaneous sensibility to heat in different regions of the body. Thermal.—Belonging to heat (Gr. Oepfirj, heat); e.g. thermal analgesia (cutaneous anaes- thesia to thermal impressions, as in syringo- myelia, q.v.), thermal springs (springs produc- ing warm water, usually containing a medicinal agent), etc. Thermic.—Relating to heat, e.g. thermic fever. See Sunstroke (Nomenclature); Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of the (Continued Fevers of Short Duratiori). Thermo-.—In compound words thermo- (Gr. OepfXT), heat) means relating to or produced by heat; e.g. thermo-anoBsthesia (loss of per- ception of heat, see Hysteria), thermochroic (transmitting some thermal radiations but not others, which are changed or absorbed), thermo- therapy (treatment of disease by heat), etc. Thermocautery. See Cautery (Paquelin! s). Thermogen.—A special appliance for keeping up the temperature of a patient during a lengthy operation. ThermOgrenesiS. — Heat production. See Antipyretics and Antipyretic Measures ; Physiology, Fate of Food Absorbed (Prodtic- tion and Elimination of Heat, Temperature); Temperature (Normal, Variations, etc.). Thermohyperaesthesia. — Abnor- mal sensitivenesss to heat (Gr. 9ipfj.rj, heat; vTrep, over; and a'La-O-qcn'i, sensation). Thermoi.—A coal-tar product, acting, in doses of 3 grains, as an antipyretic, analgesic, and antiseptic; its formula is Cj^Hjj;N03. Thermolysis.—The dissipation of heat, e.g. by the skin and lungs ; also chemical de- composition produced by heat. See Antipy- retics (Modes of Action). Thermometer. See Meteorology; Temperature ; etc. Thermopylse. See Balneology (Greece). ThermotaxiS.—The regulation of the body heat. See Antipyretics and Antipyretic Measures (Modes of Action).