578 THERAPEUTICS: HEALTH RESORTS resort. It is sheltered from the south-west by Beachy Head, but fully exposed to the east, and therefore cold in the spring. Seaford is a quiet but growing place to the east of Beachy Head, and therefore sheltered from the east winds to some extent. Brighton has a very bracing climate, and, though not facing so much east as Eastbovirne, a large amount of east wind in the spring. The autumn and early winter months are often delightful, and, like most of the towns on this part of the coast, it enjoys a larger amount of winter sunshine than almost any part of England, except Torquay and Falmouth ; about 450 hours yearly more than London. The chief season is autumn and early winter, but it is largely frequented at most seasons owing to the easy access from London. Worthing, though near by, has a milder climate, and is noted for its fig gardens. Passing by Bognor and Littlehampton, both quiet little places with good sands, we come to the Isle of Wight, where Ventnor, on the under cliff of the southern shore, shares with Bourne- mouth the reputation of being the best resort for consumptive patients in England. The climate is much milder than any of the mainland resorts, except the Cornish, yet not relaxing, and the place is well sheltered by the downs behind. Bournemouth, though less sheltered, is favoured by a dry sandy soil and extensive pine woods ; the climate is more bracing than that of Ventnor. Weymouth has a fairly bracing climate and fine sands. Sidmouth, near the mouth of the Exe, is remarkably sheltered, and has a large amount of winter sunshine. Torquay has a reputation for pulmonary cases second only to Ventnor and Bournemouth, but is much more relaxing, warmer, and moister; less so, however, than Falmouth, which is well suited for bronchitic patients, and especially for those who have spent their lives in tropical or semi-tropical climates. It has a higher temperature and less daily range than any place in England, except the still more westerly Penzance and its neighbourhood, but is more sheltered than the latter. On the north coast of Cornwall are St. Ives, Newquay, and Bude, all more bracing than the southern resorts. Ilfracombe is the principal health resort of the North Devon coast. It is somewhat exposed, but has a mild winter climate. Clevedon and Weston-super-Mare have long had a reputation in the west of England; the latter is the more bracing, and is specially bene- ficial to children. In Wales, Tenby, Aberystwith, and Barmouth are the best-known resorts in the south, and in the north Llandudno, Colwyn Bay, and Rhyl, which are much frequented by the inhabitants of Manchester and Liverpool. Inland resorts in England, apart from those places which have baths and mineral waters, are very few in number—in fact, Malvern is almost the only one of note. Great Malvern has an elevation of 520 feet, and an equable but fairly bracing climate. It is largely visited by invalids of all descriptions and those who need recupera- tion after hard work or illness. Ilkley in Yorkshire is a similar recruiting place for the inhabitants of the large Yorkshire towns, but is practically only a summer resort. Some of the spas, such as Harrogate and Buxton, may be visited for their climates as well as their waters, but have only a summer season. More inland resorts are greatly to be desired in England, as at present the health resorts are almost confined to the coast; but in the English climate it is difficult to find inland places which would be suitable all the year round. Two which should be mentioned, though the accommodation for visitors is scanty, are Hind- head in Surrey, at an elevation of 800 feet, and Crowborough in Sussex, which is a little more. The elevation for the south of England is very considerable, and both possess bracing climates. There is a good hotel in each place, but other- wise house-room is rather difficult to get, most of the houses being in private hands and likely to remain so. Scotch Health Resorts The well-known places on the west coast are more to be regarded as summer pleasure resorts than as health resorts, and are for the most part too humid for invalids; the best known of them are Wemyss Bay, Helensburgh, Rothesay, and Oban. On the east coast, which is drier and more bracing, but very cold during the spring months, when winds from the east and north-east are prevalent, there are several resorts of consider- able value, of which Nairn, StrathpefFer (apart from its baths), Portobello, and North Berwick are the best known. During the summer, autumn, and early winter, the climate presents considerable advantages over most parts of the British Isles, the air being dry and invigorating and well suited for early phthisical cases and those which need bracing. These are all seaside places, and many more could be named on the same coast. Of inland resorts Pitlochry in the Perthshire Highlands, but at no very great elevation, and Braemar are the two best known. The latter at an elevation of 1100 feet comes nearer to being a mountain resort than anything else in Great Britain, and has a most delightful and invigorating climate. It is crowded during July and August, but is said to be delightful during May and June and in the autumn, though of course rather cold. Those who cannot go to Switzerland will get