AND PHYSIOLOGY 166 SKIN—ANATOMY explanation does not apply to the subcutaneous fat, for in the latter situation the cells are not degenerated, and the fat is of the nature of an infiltration. The presence of fat in the coil- glands and ducts has been noted by a large number of observers, and Unna has strongly advocated the view that the subcutaneous fat is derived from that source. The lymph which bathes the coil is said by him to be loaded with fat. It is taken up, as a rule, by the small venules, and in the process is filtered and the fat deposited. The latter accumulates in columns around the blood-vessels, and is event- ually taken up by the connective tissue cells of the subcutaneous tissue. Epidermal Appendages. — 1. Hairs. — (a) General Characteristics.—Hairs are present on all parts of the human skin, except the palms, soles, red portions of the lips, ungual phalanges, and glans penis. There are three types of hairs, namely:— (1) Long hairs such as occur on the scalp, beard, moustache, axillae, and pubes. (2) Stijf hairs, or h-istles, such as the eye- lashes (cilia), and the hairs of the nasal and auditory orifices (vibrissse and tragi). (3) Lanugo, or doivny hairs. The long hairs and the lanugo hairs are implanted more or less obliquely in the skin; the bristles vertically. The shape of the hair in section varies in diff"erent individuals and in different races. Straight hairs are, as a rule, circular, while curly hairs are generally oval; and on the beard, and occasionally on the scalp, angular figures may be produced. Hairs differ greatly in thickness, being thickest on the head and about the genitalia. The vai-ious colours of the hair are dependent on three factors :— (1) Pigment granules situated in and ai'ound the cells of the hair-cortex. (2) The diffuse colour of the protoplasm of the hair-cells. (3) The presence of air between the hair- cells. The diffuse colour of the protoplasm is said to produce blonde or reddish shades, while the granules are regarded as being responsible for black and brunette tints. The presence of air between the cells causes the hair to become grey or white. During life the hairs have a limited existence, and are shed at varying intervals. In the scalp they have been said to have a life of from two to four years. (6) Structure of the Hair.—The hair consists of a shaft or stem which widens out at the lower end to form a bulbous swelling known as the root. The root and part of the shaft are situated in the hair-follicle; the remainder of the hair is free. (1) Shaft.—The greater portion of the shaft is formed by the hair-cortex, in the centre of which there is a more variable structure known as the medulla. The cortex is protected ex- ternally by a sheath or cuticle. (a) The cuticle consists of a single layer of flat, quadrilateral cells arranged in an imbricated manner, with their long axes directed upwards and outwards at an acute angle to the shaft. {(i) The cortex is made up of bundles of nucleated spindle-shaped cells, which give it a fibrilated appearance. These spindles have ridges on the surface, and interlock to form a highly resistant structure. The cells contain a diffuse yellowish colouring matter and pigment granules; air may be detected between and occasionally within them. (y) The medulla occurs, as a rule, only in the hairs of the scalp, beard, axillae, and pubes. It ceases towards the points of the hairs. It is composed of rouleaux of plates, consisting of three or four flattened cells, which, near the hair-root, contain keratohyalin granules. (2) Root or Bulb.—The root is softer and lighter in colour than the shaft, but is composed of the same two or three layers of cells, but these are much less differentiated and more cubical in shape than in the shaft. It is in- dented beneath by the upgrowing vascular papilla of the hair. (c) Structure of Hair follicle.—The hair- follicle is a simple invagination of the epidermis enveloped by a condensed layer of connective tissue of the corium. It ensheathes and pro- tects the growing portion of the hair. It may be divided for descriptive purposes into an upper third or funnel, a middle third in connection with which ai-e the sebaceous glands and arrectores pilorum, and a lower third which ensheathes the hair-root and which is indented below by the papilla. In the upper third the epidermal layers lining the follicle are the same as those of the epidermis, the continuation of the stratum corneum being next the hair, but in the lower two-thirds only the prickle-cell layer and the basal layer of the epidermis persist. The continuation of the prickle-cell and basal layers is generally known as the external root- sheath " of the follicle, and consists of several rows of polygonal prickle-cells with large round nuclei. Between this layer and the hair there is a complicated structure named the " internal root- sheath." It is only present in the lower two- thirds of the follicle; it begins at the papilla as several layers of polygonal nucleated cells containing granules of keratohyalin. As the cells ascend in the follicle, those next the ex- ternal root-sheath become cornified, while in those next the hair the cornification process is much less rapid, and owing to the difference in the degree of cornification, the layer tends to split longitudinally in two, which are known respectively as the sheaths of Huxley and Henle. Within the internal root-sheath there is a