441 SUPPURATION slight variations in blood-pressure, but in ani- mals, Dr. Brodie and the writer have altogether demonstrated the marked fall of blood-pressure that occurs upon injection into the veins of large doses of virulent cultures of staphylococcus pyogenes aui-eus. Amyloid disease is usually a sequel of suppuration. It must be observed that amyloid disease does not occur in prolonged cases of tuberculosis which have remained pure infections [see " Lardaceous Degeneration," vol. v.). Diagnosis.—It must not be assumed that every thick white or yellowish fluid is pus because it looks like it. Fluid of this character may be caused by the suspension of epidermic cells as seen in dermoid cysts, or by other cells seen in the degenerations of malignant epithelial and malignant connective tissue tumours. Chylous fluid may give rise to error in diagnosis. The writer has seen the carpo-metacarpal articu- lation of the thumb in a man suffering from gout full of fluid thought to be pus, which was really composed of acicular crystals of uric acid suspended in altered synovial fluid. The mere presence of an acute abscess can be recognised by the signs and symptoms already detailed. There are a few aseptic fluctuating swellings from which it should be readily dis- tinguished. (1) Hcematoma.—This resembles an abscess in having a fluctuating centre and a diff'use oedematous margin; and leucocytosis may also be present if the hsematoma is a large one. It differs from abscess in its sudden appearance after injury (necessary trauma may be slight in hsemophilics), in the absence of pain, heat, red- ness, pyrexia, and constitutional depression, and in the freedom from enlargement of the lym- phatic glands. (2) Distended gall and urinary bladders. (3) Collections of synovial fluid, (4) Serous effusions. The three last named have well-defined margins. There is an absence of intense pain, redness, heat, pyrexia, and constitutional de- pression, leucocytosis, and in (3) and (4) more functional activity is possible than in sup- purative lesions. The association of an abscess with aneurysm may be somewhat difficult to diagnose from an uncomplicated abscess. The nature of the case can be definitely settled by its history, by the suspicious anatomical relation of the suppurative process, and by the presence of a bruit and other signs of aneurysm. Except by the history of the case, and upon the results of operation, it is often impossible to distinguish between hydatid and other cysts undergoing acute suppuration and a true acute abscess. The simple recognition of a disease as acute abscess is not sufficient. Such a diagnosis does not include all the knowledge that can be ascertained concerning the malady. This in- adequate recognition takes account only of a clinical condition, the existence of which may be due to a variety of agents. The specific agents are the essential foundation of a diag- nosis. Certain clinical signs, however, may sometimes give a surgeon the clue to diagnose the actual micro-organism. The existence of an acute abscess in itself is a step towards this clinical method of diagnosis, in so far as the process must be due to one of the micro-organisms of acute suppuration. The markedly localised and circumscribed abscesses, such as boils and carbuncles, are most frequently due to a staphylococcus infection, but an ab- solutely analogous condition may be brought about by bacillus typhi. Again, if the circum- scribed abscess be complicated by lymphangitis it is possibly a streptococcus infection, but lymphangitis may also accompany the infection of a virulent staphylococcus. The cases in which the writer has found a pure streptococcus in an acute circumscribed abscess have been rare, and such an abscess has usually followed in parts that had recently been the site of erysipelas. Therefore a history of a previous attack of erysipelas at the same part influences the impression as to the cavisal agent of the new symptom of suppuration being due to the presence of streptococcus pyogenes. The presence in the urine of staphylococci, streptococci, and bacillus typhi has aided the diagnosis of cases suff'ering from some lesion due to these micro-organisms. The seat of disease bears on this subject; staphylococcic infection is liable to occur in arthritis, meningitis, osteomyelitis. But the writer has published a case of subacute abscess connected with the right sacro-iliac synchon- drosis in a child of ten months, who recovered in six weeks, in which pure and virulent strepto- cocci were found. On good grounds Widal's reaction is regarded as a confirmatory process in the diagnosis of conditions due to bacillus typhi. In staphylo- mycoses and streptomycoses the writer has been unable to convince himself that the application of the homologous sera aids the diagnosis. A comjylete bacteriological examination of the pus and abscess ivall is essential as confirmatory evidence. In most cases of acute abscess ex- amination of the pus alone will reveal the micro-organism, in others it is rarely found in the pus, but it is more certain to be found in the abscess wall. A notable example of the latter is Ducrey's streptobacillus of soft sore. Hence in all cases wall and pus must be tested. The examination ought to include staining, growth on artificial media, plate cultivation, and inoculation into animals. To collect pus in a suitable way for this complete and rigorous bacteriological examina- tion the writer now adopts the following plan :—• By means of a sterilised flask alone the coUec-