TETANY 573 the bowel may be indicated. If the spasms are severe chloral may be administered, preferably by the rectum. In the tetany of young children, as it is seen in this country, an antirachitic regimen is nearly always indicated, including cream, cod-liver oil, hypophosphites, with fresh air and sunshine. Exposure to cold must be avoided. The cold spinal douche is of the greatest value, and should be given once or twice daily, while the child is sitting in a couple of inches of warm water so as to avoid chill. This treatment is all the more indicated if laryngismus is also present. Tetra-.—In compound words tetra- (Gr. Terpas, four) means four; e.g. tetrabrachius (united twins with four arms), tetracid (a chemical compound having four atoms of hydrogen which are replaceable by acid radicles), tetraviazia (having four mammary glands), tetranopsia (having the field of vision limited to one quadrant), etc. Tetrodon. ^ee Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes {Poisonous Globe Fish). Tetronal.—A non-official hypnotic drug, being, chemically, diethylsulphonediethylmeth- ane (CgllgQSgO^); in its chemical composition, action, and uses it closely resembles sulphonal, and, like it, may produce hsematoporphyrinuria ; the dose is from 10 to 20 grains. Tetronerythrin. Pigments of the Body and Excreta {Lipochromes). Tetter.—A form of skin disease ; generally used to indicate cases of impetigo, but also of eczema, psoriasis, and herpes. Texas Fever. See Malaria (Histori- cal) ; Parasites {Sporozoa, Bovine Malaria, Red- water Fever). Texti le Trades. See Trades, Danger- ous (Cotton, Flax, Linen). Thalamencephalon. —The hinder part of the fore-brain (prosencephalon) developed from the anterior cerebral vesicle; it consists of the optic thalami, subthalamic tegmental regions, pituitary and pineal bodies, the struc- tures in the interpeduncular space, the optic nerves and retinas, and the posterior part of the third ventricle ; it is also called the dien- cephalon or 'tween-brain. See Embryology {End of Third Week, etc.). ThalamO-.—in compound words thalamo- (Gr. 6aXa/ios, an inner room, bedchamber, or couch) means relating to the optic thalamus of the brain, e.g. thalamocele (cavity of the thalam- encephalon). Thalamus Opticus. -S'ee Physiology, Cerebrum {Structure). Thalassophryna. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Fishes). Thalassotherapy.—Treatment of disease by sea voyages, sea bathing, sea water, etc. (Gr. OdXaaaa, the sea, Oepa-n-eia, medical treatment). Thalline Sulphate.—A nonofficial drug, prepared from chinoline; it has the formula (CjQHjgNO)2HqS04, and is tetrahydro- paraquinanosol; its action is as an antipyretic and antiseptic, and the dose is 3 to 8 grains. Thamisin.—A patent substance used as a precipitant and deodorant in the disposal of sewage as practised at Henley (Reeve's process). ThanatO-.—in compound words thanato- (Gr. Odvaro?, death) means relating to death, mortal; e.g. thaiiatognonionic (indicative of death), thanatomania (suicidal mania), thanatophobia (morbid fear of death), and thanatotyphus (malignant typhus). Thane's Method.—A method of find- ing the fissure of Rolando in cerebral surgery; if a line be drawn from the glabella to the inion, the upper end of the fissure will be found half an inch behind the mid-point of this line. Thapsia. See Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata {Causes, Vegetable). Thebaine. See Alkaloids {Thebaina); Opium. Theca.—A sheath or case ; e.g. theca folli- culi, the connective tissue covering or tunic of the Graafian follicle. Theine.—Caffeine (C8H10N4O2), so called because it is present in tea (3 to 5 per cent). See Caffeina. Theism.—The disordered state of the digestive and nervous system due to excessive tea drinking. Thelitis. — Inflammation of the nipple (Gr. O-qX-q, a nipple). Theiy-.—In compound words thely- (Gr. ^TjXv?, female) means relating to or belonging to the female as distinguished from the male; e.g. thelyblast (the female element of the nucleus of a cell which is bisexual), thelyjiiiania (satyri- asis), thelytocous (producing females), etc. Thelyg^Onia.—Nymphomania, or, more correctly, the procreation of female children, or, simply, female offspring. Thenar.—Relating to the palm of the hand (Gr. devap, the flat of the hand), e.g. the thenar and the hypothenar eminences. Th6nard's Method.—A method of making whitelead from litharge, which may