SYPHILIS 481 mercury and the iodides in the earlier and later stages of syphilis; but until the pathological life-histoi-y of syphilis is fully told, the whole truth must remain hidden. It would appear that so long as the syphilitic poison is being- generated in the affected body and is giving rise to actual changes in the connective-tissue elements, so long is mercury eflPective, for it limits the output of poison and may actually arrest its manufacture. Mercury, therefore, must always be given in the earlier stages (p. 468). Chronic inflammation in the connective tissues is due to the action of the syphilitic poison, and the inflammation in each individual falls with greatest intensity on the connective tissue in his weakest part. In some persons, therefore, the arterial system suffers most, in others the osseous system, and in others, again, the nervous system or the deeper layers of the skin. The chronic inflammation of the con- nective tissues may continue when it has once been started, even in the absence of fresh syphilitic poison. The iodides possess the power of causing absorption of this new and imperfect connective tissue, so long as it is cellular in character, since they have no action upon fully formed fibrous or scar tissue. This power of absorption is not limited to syphilitic fibroid tissue, for it is manifested in other forms, as in cancer and actinomycosis. The term absorption is merely a convenient one, because as yet we do not know how the iodides act upon the newly formed connective-tissue cells to cause their disappearance. From time to time the tissues appear to regain the power of manu- facturing fresh supplies of syphilitic poison, and it is sometimes advantageous to give mercury and iodides together. For this purpose the draught known at St. Bartholomew's Hospital as Paget's mixture is convenient and efficacious. It consists of liq. hyd. pei-chlor. one drachm; caramel, a sufficiency; iodide of potassium, five grains; and chloroform water, a fluid ounce. The draught contains abovit one-tenth of a grain of the red iodide of mercury, and is given three times a day. The iodide of potassium is usually given, but it may be advantageously replaced in many cases by iodide of sodium, or iodide of ammonium, or each salt may be combined with the others. A little carbonate of ammonium increases the good effects of the drug. The ordinary dose of the iodides is five grains, to be increased rapidly to ten or fifteen grains, three times a day. Much larger doses are sometimes required, so that patients are frequently ordered forty-five to sixty grains thrice a day, to be taken for long periods of time. In such cases it is convenient to administer the dose as a drink in some effervescing water to be taken just after each meal. The iodides seem to act more efficaciously when they are administered with large quantities of sarsaparilla—the essence of Zittmann's treat- VOL. IX ment (p. 471)—or with guaiacum. It should be clearly understood, however, that in Europe neither of these drugs has any curative effect upon syphilis at any stage, though guaiacum was used by the native races of America for the cure of syphilis, and from them was introduced into Europe in the fifteenth century as a reputed powerful anti-syphilitic. It has not, however, withstood the test of time or of advancing knowledge. As mercury produces a series of symptoms known collectively as salivation from the most prominent sign, so the administration of the iodides may produce a train of symptoms called iodism. The most common symptoms of iodism are loss of app^ite with gastro-intestinal dis- turbance, and a metallic taste in the mouth with coryza, lacrymation, tinnitus aurium, and a pustular eruption which in severe cases may be purpuric. A few patients present a remarkable idiosyncrasy, for minute doses of the iodides will produce these symptoms ; whilst others can take large doses without showing any symptoms of poisoning. The use of iodides should not be continued for an unduly long period, as there is reason to believe that the tissues become habituated to the presence of iodine. The course of treatment should be interrupted, therefore, from time to time, and the patient should be ordered a tonic mixture, containing iron and nux vomica or strychnia and dilute phosphoric acid. Various sulphur baths have been highly ex- tolled in the treatment of syphilis, the most frequented being those at Aix-la-Chapelle, Aix in Savoy, and Luchon. There is, however, no reason to suppose that these or any other baths can eliminate the syphilitic poison, though they may benefit the general health of the patient and thus put him into a better position to with- stand its effects. As a broad rule, a person who has had syphilis remains immune to the disease for the rest of his life, and this applies to individuals who contracted the disease during or just after their birth. In very rare cases reinfection may occur, either because the patient has been com- pletely cured after the first attack, or because, for some reason as yet unknown, he is peculiarly liable to the disease. Relation of Syphilis to Life Insurance. — There is no evidence to show that syphilis if it be well treated materially shortens the life of the patient. Dr. Salomonsen, who has recently considered the relation of syphilis to life insur- ance, thinks that the patient should be kept under observation for four or five years after the initial lesion; that the premium should be increased for the next four or five years ; but that if the patient has been well treated and is in good health ten years after the date of infec- tion, he may safely be passed at the ordinary rates for his age.