SCAKLET FEVER 49 Characteristics between Rubella, the " Fourth Disease," and Scarlet Fever—continued. Rubella (Kose-Eash). 2. Sensations of Illness.—Even with a full eruption as intense as in measles the patient usually states that he does not feel ill, although there may be other indi- cations to the contrary. 3. The Tempirature. — This varies from normal to 103° or 104° F. 4. The Pulse.—This is normal or slightly increased in frequency, but always bearing a ratio to the temperature. 5. The Tongue. — This is clean or slightly furred, and never coated with a thick white fur, which peels on the fourth day. 6. The Throat.—The fauces look dry, with a dark, motley, red hue. 7. The Glands.—The lymphatic glands throughout the body are enlarged, tender, and hard, like peas, notably the posterior cervi- cal, the axillary, and the inguinal. 8. The eruption is usually the first noticeable symptom. Its ap- pearance is that of minute rosy red dots, not patches. It shows itself first behind the ears and on the scalp and face, especially on the oral circle; from these situations it extends to the neck and the chest, and ultimately covers the entire body. The minute dots be- come larger and gradually coalesce, forming patches of the bat's wing pattern, which so extend and alter in colour as to be indistinguishable from measles. In other cases the spots become so difiused that the rash, in patches, resembles the eruption of scarlet fever; but never, in this disease, is this appearance manifest from the commencement. The "Fourth Disease." 2. Sensations of Illness.—Where the eruption is slight there is no illness of any kind, and where the eruption is copious the feeling of ill- ness is sometimes scarcely apparent, although I have seen boys really ill from this disease. 3. The Temperature.—This varies from 98-4° to 103° or 104° F.; but even with a very extensive rash the temperature is not necessarily high. 4. The Pulse.—In slight cases the pulse is normal, and where the case is a well - marked one its rate is quickened, while still bearing a ratio to the temperature ; that is to say, where the pulse is accelerated the temperature is raised in a propor- tionate degree. 5. The Tongue. — The tongue is clean or slightly furred, and never coated with a thick white fur, which peels on the fourth day, leaving the tongue raw. 6. The Throat.—The fauces are usually swollen and reddish, assum- ing a velvet appearance, but this condition bears little relation to the extent of the rash. 7. The Olands.—The lymphatic glands universally are enlarged, hard, and tender, and feel like peas, though less manifest than in rose - rash. Those mainly affected are the pos- terior cervical, the axillary, and the inguinal. 8. The eruption is usually the first noticeable symptom, and will cover the whole body with a considerable diffuse rash in a very few hours. The hue is a bright rosy red, and the eruption is raised somewhat from the surface of the skin. The sensation of heat of the skin to the touch, even where the rash is very full, is much slighter than in scarlet fever. Scarlet Fever. 2. Sensations of Illness.—In slight cases there is no apparent illness, but I have never seen a case with a severe eruption where the patient was not really, and also sensibly, very ill. 3. The Temperature. —This varies from 99° to 106° F., but is never increased in the usual ratio to the pulse. A full rash always means a high temperature. 4. The Pulse. — Even in slight cases the pulse is accelerated, and in severe cases very greatly quick- ened, and always out of all propor- tion to the height of the fever ; that is to say, even with a temperature only just above normal (99° F.) the pulse will be very rapid (120). 5. The Tongue.—If the case be slight there may be no early signs, though the tongue peels on the fourth day. But in a well-marked case the tongue is early coated with a thick white fur which, peeling off from the tip and edges on the fourth day, gradually leaves a raw, red tongue, commonly termed the "strawberry" tongue. 6. The Throat.—The appearance of the fauces may vary from the most insignificant affection to an intense dusky redness, with marked swelling, showing sometimes white spots of inspissated secretion ; and the severity of the throat affection bears usually a distinct relation to the skin eruption. 7. The Glands. — The lymphatic glands of the throat and neck can scarcely be detected during the first few days; but subsequently they may be enlarged in proportion to the severity of the faucial affection. This, however, creates no difficulty, as the axillary and inguinal glands ai'e not so involved as in rose-rash. 8. The eruption is diffuse, dusky red, papular in character, and origin- ates behind the ears. It presents a goose-flesh appearance. It does not occur in isolated dots at any stage ; nor in patches which are raised and have well-defined margins. It ap- pears early about the clavicles and on the chest and the covered parts of the body. The rash is rarely so full at an early period as in the "Fourth disease," and the skin is markedly burning to the touch. VOL. IX 4