SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 83 scrotum are rare, but the following have been described : encephaloid and scirrhus carcinomas, chondro- adeno- and melanotic sarcomas. Elephantiasis Scroti.—This is a lymphatic affection mainly of the skin and subcutaneous tissues, and is of the same nature as the Barba- does leg. It is rarely seen in Europe or North America, and is chiefly found in India, Arabia, China, West Indies, Syria, the delta of the Nile, and other hot countries. It is a chronic inflammatory disease associated with much oedema, set up by repeated attacks of erythema, and resulting in chronic hyper- trophy of the skin and cellular tissue. This seems to be due in some cases to obstruction of the scrotal lymphatics by the filaria sanguinis hominis. In other cases simple inflammatory matting, or cicatricial contraction of the lower abdominal lymphatics, or of the thoracic duct itself, may occasionally give rise to the disease. Syphilis has been said to originate the condition sometimes, but this is by no means certain. Elephantiasis appears to consist primarily in an inflammatory hyperplasia of the cellular elements of the connective tissue, the roots of the lymphatic vessels being specially involved. Inflammatory overgrowth of the elements of the lymphatic glands next ensues, with obstruction to the passage of lymph through them. Then this fluid stagnates in the lymphatic vessels, which sometimes dilate even to their radicles in the cutaneous papillae, and accumulates in the interstices of the affected tissues, adding to their bulk, and at the same time stimulating them to overgrowth. It is only in the early stage of the disease that the dilated condition of the lym- phatics admits of ready detection. At a late period the morbid tissues are characterised mainly by a dense accumulation of white fibrous tissue. The lymphatic glands also after a time become the seat of fibroid change. In some cases of elephantiasis scroti groups of vesicles appear here and there on the affected surface, and discharge considerable quantities of lymph, which coagulates after its escape, and is either transparent or milky from the presence of molecular fat. When elephantiasis attacks the scrotum the part becomes hot, swollen, and tender. The pain is not limited to the scrotum, but is felt along the inner side of the thigh and at the groin. The form of the tumour is conical, having its apex above and base below. As the constitutional symptoms which usher in the complaint subside, the swelling decreases to a certain point, and with the recurrence of another attack similar symptoms return, and a corresponding accession is given to the size of the tumour, which may at length reach to the knees. Unless the swelling be great it usually preserves its form ; the penis is con- cealed in its large folds. Sometimes the raphe deviates from the middle line; cracks are seen from the skin being suddenly and tightly stretched. Abscesses occasionally arise in different parts of the scrotum. It sometimes happens that during the febrile paroxysm a clear discharge exudes from the skin of the scrotum. This is looked upon as a favourable sign. Elephantiasis is frequently connected with hydrocele. Sometimes mortification happens in the skin, and the subcutaneous tissue sloughs, exposing the testes. The chief—almost the only—inconvenience is the dragging and great weight. The scrotum attains enormous propor- tions, its weight amounting sometimes to more than 150 pounds. Treatment.—In the early stages strapping with mercurial ointments, and the use of tonics and the iodides internally may be tried, but later on an operation should not be delayed. The operation should be performed under the most perfect hgemostatic and aseptic condi- tions. In very large tumours, the testicles, and the penis occasionally have to be sacrificed. The tumour must be emptied of blood as far as is possible by prolonged elevation above the level of the patient's body, and means taken for arresting haemorrhage during the operation, either by clamps, elastic tourniquets, ligatures, either with or without preliminary transfixion with stout needles or skewers long enough to pass through the base of the tumour. Ballin- gall successfully removed an enormous tumour weighing 106| pounds by transfixing the neck of the tumour in the middle line, the knife emerging at the perineum, and then passing through the opening a strong double ligature, which was brought up round each side and tightened by means of tourniquets. M'Leod advises that an elastic tourniquet about three feet long be taken, and the centre of it passed round the loins ; the ends are brought over the brim of the pelvis, are crossed twice over opposite sides of the neck of the tumour, and finally are brought together below the navel. The neck of the tumour will thus be tightly embraced by two turns of the cord on each side crossing each other on the pubes, and just in front of the anus. No portion of diseased tissue must be left behind. Even although the prepuce appears to be healthy, it should be taken away close to the corona, and the raphe of the perineum should be removed to the verge of the anus. If any attempt is made to cover the penis or testes with flaps, these should be taken from the skin of the abdomen or thighs, and not from the neck of the tumour; but a satisfactory result can be secured without re- sort to flaps, which are prone to slough and suppurate. The first step in the radical operation consists in decorticating the penis. The prepuce is slit up, and the skin incision continued from this slit along the whole dorsum of the organ to the root. The body of the penis is then freed by