475 SYPHILIS earlier period in syphilis than the chronic or disseminated form. It is often associated with retinitis, the patches of exudation being small, yellowish in colour, and situated near the peri- phery. The vitreous is cloudy and hazy and the pupil is dilated. The patches of inflammation in disseminated choroiditis are scattered over the fundus of the eye, though they are especially numerous at the periphery Both eyes may be affected, and as the symptoms are less marked than in the acute form, the changes are often far advanced when the patient first comes under skilled observation. There is then more or less ex- tensive atrophy of the pigment-cells, though the sight is often fairly good until the central portion of the fundus is involved. The treatment of choroiditis is essentially the same as that recommended for syphilitic iritis, atropine being most useful in the acute form of the disease. A course of mercury may be pre- scribed in the chronic form, to be followed by the administration of iodide of potassium, sodium, or ammonium. The condition of the vitreous sometimes gives a clue to the value of the treatment adopted, for it may become more translucent in the favourable cases, whilst at other times it maintains its opacity or flakes. Retinitis, unassociated with choroiditis, occa- sionally occurs in the later forms of syphilis, leading to a dimituition of central vision, with hemeralopia, in which the vision fails rapidly as twilight increases, until patients are practically blind in subdued lights. The patient may complain of subjective flashes of light, or of vibrating or rotating spots of light. The de- tails of the fundus in the affected parts are hazy, the disc looks hypertemic, and there may be retinal htemorrhages. The prognosis is good if the constitutional treatment be thoroughly carried out. Syphilitic inflammation of the motor nerves of the eye, and of the optic nerve itself, are well-recognised conditions, but as a result of intracranial rather than of intraocular causes, though occasionally a periostitis of the orbital plate will give rise to symptoms of papillitis or of squint. In the majority of cases, however, the third, fourth, or sixth nerves are involved in a gummatous inflammation of the dura mater as they pass through the foramina at the base of the skull. The sixth nerve is most often affected by inflammatory changes at the base of the brain, because it has the longest course on the floor of the skull. More rarely the nuclei of the nerves in the brain may be affected as a con- sequence of endarteritis of the cerebral vessels, and still more rarely there may be a gumma of the cerebral substance itself. Diplopia is the most marked feature of the paralysis, and according to the character of the double vision it is possible to distinguish the weakened muscle, and consequently the nerve affected. When the paralysis attacks the third nerve the upper lid droops, the pupil is dilated, and the eye looks outwards (exophoria) with crossed diplopia. Paralysis of the sixth nerve causes an internal squint, and there is homonymous diplopia. When the fourth nerve is involved the patient complains of a diplopia in which the two images are inclined towards each other at their upper or lower ends, and the position of the images causes him especial trouble in such an action as walking down stairs. Mr. Hutchinson some years ago described an interesting condition to which he gave the name of ophthalmoplegia, in which all, or nearly all, the external muscles of the eye are affected with a paresis, which may develop later into complete pai-alysis. The disease is usually associated with syphilis, and is always due to a lesion situated below the aqueduct of Sylvius, so that it involves the oculo-motor nerves. The nuclei of the ciliary muscle and of those of the iris escape, because they are situated farther forwards, and have a different blood-supply. The symptoms are ptosis or drooping of the upper eyelid, with limitation of the movements of the eye in every direction, but more especi- ally upwards. There is neither loss of accom- modation nor paralysis of the iris. Optic Nephritis.—Syphilis causes a papillitis in the same manner as it produces a paralysis of the oculo-motor nerves. The papillitis is usually a late manifestation of the disease, and it either runs a chronic course with but little impairment of vision, or it is acute with rapid loss of function on the part of the optic nerve. The treatment of each form of syphilitic neuritis is a sufficient course of iodides. The prognosis need not be too gloomy, for the gum- matous inflammation to which it is usually due often subsides, and the nerves then resume their function. The lachrymal apparatus may suffer disturb- ance as a result of displacement of the puncta owing to facial paresis; to stenosis of the nasal duct due to inflammation spreading from the bones forming the nose ; or from abscesses in connection with the duct itself. The patient suffers from epiphora or watery eye, which needs the treatment usually adopted in non-syphilitic forms of this condition, with removal of any diseased bone which may be present. Iodides will prove indispensable. The Ear.—The external ear is not particu- larly subject to gummatous ulceration. The middle ear is most frequently affected in patients who are suffering from syphilis, owing to the extension of the inflammation from the naso- pharynx. Simple catarrh and suppurative in- flammation are common during the secondary stage of the disease, whilst labyrinthine disease may lead to early and complete deafness, bone conduction being diminished from the first ap- pearance of symptoms.