STOMACH: SURGICAL 389 ally results from the perforation of an ulcer into an area which is shut off from the peritoneal cavity. The ulcer is usually of the chronic variety, and the perforation is preceded by adhesive peritonitis. The situation of the abscess varies with that of the ulcer giving rise to it. The commonest situation is below the left vault of the diaphragm—subphrenic abscess —and is associated with ulcer higher up in the lesser curvature, or anywhere near the cardia. Abscess in the left hypochondrium projecting below the costal margin is usually associated with an ulcer in the anterior wall of the body of the stomach. Abscess in the lesser sac of the peritoneum, or in the substance of the pancreas or in the retro-peritoneal tissue, may result from an ulcer in the posterior wall. Subphrenic abscess on the right side may take origin from an ulcer of the duodenum. Abscess may also form anywhere in the vicinity of the stomach in cases of perforated ulcer treated by operation and in which the infective material has not been successfully removed. Once a perigastric abscess has formed it may burrow and extend in various directions, may burst into the pleura or lung, or may rupture on the skin surface—it may be in the anterior abdominal wall or in the loin, and give rise to a gastric fistula. The abscess, as soon as it is recognised, should be opened and drained; it is rarely necessary to interfere with the ulcer from which it has originated. Gastric Fistulce.—These usually result from the perforation of an ulcer with or without the mediation of a circumscribed abscess. External fistulce open on the skin, which may undergo partial digestion around the orifice. The patient may emaciate from loss of gastric contents. Small fistulse tend to close, especially if the patient is fed per rectum; healing may be hastened by using the cautery. Larger fistulse require operative treatment. On opening up the belly, the fistula may lead directly into the stomach or into an intermediate cavity. The dissection must expose the ulcer, which is then excised or its edges inverted and sutured. Internal fistulm result from the perforation of the ulcer into an adjacent viscus, usually the colon; the stools contain food-materials and the patient complains of foetid eructations and of vomiting of scybalous matter. To cure such a condition, the belly is opened, the viscera con- nected by the fistula are separated, and the re- spective openings closed by sutures. Apart from ulcer, gastric fistula may result from stab and gunshot wounds, from operations on the stomach where the sutures have given way, and from ulceration connected with gall- stones. Cicatricial Stenosis of the Pylortis and Dila- tation of the Stomach.—These are not uncom- mon as a result of ulcer in the vicinity of the pylorus. The clinical features are those of gastric stasis and dilatation with cumulative vomiting. Splashing is readily elicited, peri- staltic waves may be observed passing from left to right, and the greater curvature may be as low as the umbilicus or even the pubes. Such cases, although much benefited by washing out the stomach and other measures, can only be cured by surgical means. The arguments for and against interference must be discussed in relation to the peculiarities of each individual case. The operation is, in the first instance, of the nature of an exploration. The pylorus is in- vestigated. It is desirable in this connection that the surgeon should be familiar with the physical characters of the normal pylorus, otherwise he may conclude there is stenosis when this does not exist. The opening is nor- mally closed by the sphincter muscle, which gradually yields and allows the passage of the forefinger, inserted by invaginating the anterior wall of the stomach. If the sphincter does not yield to the dilating force of the finger, it is certainly stenosed. Confirmatory evidence of an antecedent ulcer is usually forthcoming, in the shape of puckering of the serous coat or cicatricial induration or adhesions. In order to relieve the patient we must either open up the pylorus or make a fresh communi- cation with the intestine. Gastro-enterostomy yields the best and most enduring results. Pyloroplasty is easier, but is contra-indicated if there is extensive cicatricial induration or adhesions. Pylorectomy is performed if cancer be suspected and cannot be excluded. The associated dilatation of the stomach usually disappears when the stomach has been rendered capable of emptying itself. It is only when it is very pronounced and combined with atony that recourse should be had to gastro- plication. Perigastric Adhesions.—Although adhesions involving the stomach may exist without giving rise to symptoms; they may, by interfering with the motor functions of the organ, by caus- ing fixation and kinking of the pylorus and con- sequent dilatation, give rise to considerable suffering and ill-health. The symptoms may depend on stretching of the adhesions, consist- ing in dragging pain and discomfort after a full meal, relieved by lying down, or by wearing a belt, and aggravated by exertion ; or they take the form of gastric stasis and vomiting as a j result of obstruction at the pylorus. If relief does not follow on restriction of the diet, resting after meals, and the wearing of a belt, the question of opening the abdomen and liberating the adhesions (gastrolysis) may have to be con- sidered. Slight adhesions are separated by the fingers, firmer bands are divided between liga- tures. Less commonly the formation of dense adhesions fixing the stomach to the anterior belly-wall may give rise to a palpable abdominal