SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF 148 of dislocations are irreducible in the sense that the head of the bone cannot be replaced by the ordinary methods of manipulation. The coexistence of a fracture of the upper end of the humerus with a dislocation of the shoulder is a not uncommon cause of irreduci- bility. The method of treatment in these unfortunate cases has varied greatly. It used to be the rule to wait until the inflammatory process had subsided before the head of the bone was excised, and this rule is still a good one to follow if the surgeon does not see the patient until some time after the accident, or if he is imable.to operate immediately. But if the patient be seen at once and the operation is not delayed, it is better to cut down upon the front of the joint, reduce the dislocation and wire the fracture, before the tissues have become softened and infiltrated. The difficulty in reduction is sometimes due to the capsule being detaclied from the scapula rather than torn through as is usual, and in old-standing dislocations the condition of the capsule is one of the commonest causes of the impossibility of reduction, whilst in other cases the muscles become sclerosed and shortened, or the head of the humerus is altered in shape. These cases are also best treated by arthrotomy and replacement of the head if possible. Re- section must be performed when the humerus cannot be replaced without undue difficulty. It is most important in the case of children that the epiphyseal cartilage should not be injured, and only the ossified portion of the head should be removed, the epiphyseal cartilage being carefully spared. The resected end of the humerus too shovUd not be pushed into the glenoid cavity, lest the growth of the bone should cause anchylosis. In adults, on the other hand, it is the rule to push the resected end of the bone into the glenoid cavity when regeneration of the bone is expected. The operation of resection or excision of the shoulder is described on p. 157. Secondary Dislocations of the Shoulder Secondary dislocations are either associated with paralysis of the deltoid and scapular muscles, often due to poliomyelitis, or they are seen after destructive inflammation of the joint, and as recurrent dislocations they occur after traumatic dislocations as a result of causes which are too slight to displace a normal joint. The causes of habitual dislocation are many; the chief causes being laxity of the capsule of the joint, partial fracture of the head of the humerus or of the glenoid cavity, tearing away of the muscular insertions, rupture of the tendons around the joint, and abnormalities in the shape of the head of the humerus, probably the result of chronic non-suppurative inflam- mation. The treatment of recurrent dislocations of the shoulder joint should be by massage and exercises. The exercises should be made against resistance, and should be especially directed to the development of the atrophied muscles. Ab- duction of the affected arm will cause contrac- tion of the deltoid, whilst a course of electrical treatment will assist in causing them to contract. The shoulder should be shampooed daily, and the treatment should be continued for three months. If the dislocation recurs at the end of this time, an operation may be performed to expose the front of the capsule, which is then resected and shortened by the insertion of sutures. Rupture of the Biceps Tendon May result from any of the accidents which usually cause dislocation of the shoulder. The head of the humerus is drawn upwards and for- wards in its socket until its further progress is stopped by the acromion and coracoid processes and by the coraco-acromial ligament. The con- dition was known at first as partial displacement of the long head of the biceps—though there is no pathological evidence to show that such dis- placement ever occurs without rupture—and afterwards as partial displacement of the head of the humerus, in the belief that the capsule in such cases was stretched, but not torn. The treatment is the same as for ordinary dislocations of the shoulder, viz. reduction and subsequent rest of the joint. Dislocation op the Acromial End of THE Clavicle The acromial end of the clavicle may be dis- located alone or simultaneously with the sternal extremity, and the displacement is either in- complete or complete according as the acromio- clavicular ligaments alone are ruptured, or both the acromio-clavicular and the coraco-clavicular ligaments are torn. The condition is painful, and the attitude of the patient is similar to that assumed in a broken clavicle, for the patient supports the elbow of the injured side with the uninjured hand, whilst he bends his head to- wards the affected shoulder. The abnormal projection of the collar bone on the affected side is very evident, the arm falls towards the chest, and the cavity of the axilla is diminished, whilst the head of the humerus and the acromion are less prominent than on the sound side. Treatment.—Reduction may be difficult owing to the acromial end of the clavicle becoming en- tangled in the anterior fibres of the trapezius, but usually it is as easy to replace as it is difficult to keep the two bones in apposition. The treatment generally adopted is to bend the elbow to a right angle, and then carry a long strip of adhesive plaster, three inches wide, under the forearm close to the olecranon, bringing the ends along the front and back of