155 SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF a chondroma being mistaken for a sarcoma. Myelomata, formerly called myeloid sarcomata, grow in connection with the clavicle, with the neck of the scapula, and with the upper end of the humerus always as tumours beginning inside the bone and leading to its expansion as they grow. The myelomata used to be looked upon as malignant growths, but the tendency of modern pathology is to place them amongst the innocent tumours, for they do not recur if they be removed whilst they are still encapsuled by bone. They often follow an injury to the shoulder, and in their early stages may be mistaken for sprains, or rheumatic affections resulting from the accident. They are allowed, therefore, to attain a considerable size, and have too often involved the soft tissues before a diagnosis is made. Clinically, therefore, they are malignant of the least malignant type. The increased size of the bone can be recognised by careful examination as well as by the radio- scopic appearances, and the treatment will depend upon the stage which the growth has reached. The treatment consists in removal of the tumour by excision of the affected bone, or by the more formidable amputation at the shoulder joint [see p. 156). The malignant tumours of the shoulder are always subperiosteal sarcomata, so far as they come under the observation of the surgeon, though the pathologist occasionally finds secondary deposits of cancer in the head of the humerus in patients who have died of scirrhus of the breast, and as a pathological curiosity cancer of the upper end of the humerus may be secondary to a uterine carcinoma. The sarcomata are spindle-celled, chondrify- ing, ossifying, or mingled with fibrous or myxomatous tissue. The early symptoms, especially when the growth is at the upper end of the humerus, are very obscure, and may consist of little more than impaired movement at the shoulder. In the later stages the rapid growth, the enlarged joint with congested veins and inflamed skin, may lead the surgeon to think he is dealing with some inflammatory condition, especially as the patient may appear to be in good general health, and there is an absence of the ulceration and cachexia which are too often thought to be always associated with malignant disease. Sarcoma of the scapula usually begins on the dorsum or at the neck of the bone, and the growth soon involves both surfaces, so that it is difficult to ascei'tain whether it began as a periosteal or as an endosteal tumour. The surrounding muscles are therefore quickly involved, and the disease runs a rapid course. The axillary glands are not often affected, but secondary tumours are found in the lungs, in the liver, and in the kidneys. The scapula may be excised, if the patient be seen early in the course of the disease, but recurrence is so frequent that it is better to perform Berger's operation of complete removal of the upper extremity (see p. 156). Sarcoma of the clavicle is rare. It affects the neighbouring lymphatic glands, and recurs rapidly after removal. The growth is usually diagnosed at an earlier period than the other sarcomata of the shoulder, but it should not be mistaken for the more common tuberculous periostitis with osteitis of the bone. Complete resection of the clavicle may be undertaken {see p. 157). Sarcoma of the humerus is especially malig- nant, for the tumour may spread along the whole length of the bone within a few weeks of its first appearance. It is more rare in the humerus, however, than in the tibia and femur. The surrounding muscles are quickly involved, but the axillary glands escape. Extension from the humerus to the clavicle and scapula are not at all uncommon, and it is advisable, therefore, in many cases to perform Berger's major opera- tion upon the unfortunate patient. Treatment.—The broad principle of treatment to be followed in malignant disease of the shoulder is early and complete removal of the growth as soon as the nature of the swelling is recognised. But to be of any service the operation must be performed before the growth has ulcerated, and, in the case of endosteal sarcomata, before spontaneous fracture announces that the growth has escaped from the bone and is involving the soft tissues. Amputation of the shoulder with or without excision of the scapula and removal of the outer portion of the clavicle is alone of service in most cases of malignant disease of the shoulder, and the more extensive the operation the more satisfactory will be the result, for there will be the less likelihood of recurrence. Wounds of the Axillary Artery Wounds of the axillary artery result from stabs and less commonly from injuries inflicted during the reduction of old-standing dislocations of the shoulder. The haemorrhage varies with the extent of the wound. It may be so slight as to allow of repair and the subsequent forma- tion of an axillary aneurysm, or it may lead to rapid death. The loss of blood externally is not necessarily very great, for the tissues of the armpit allow of great distension, and the bleed- ing may be in great part concealed. Treatment.—Pressure upon the subclavian artery as it passes over the first rib will arrest the bleeding for a time, but local pressure is exercised with extreme difficulty at this spot. The axilla must be laid open as soon as possible, and a ligature must be tied round the artery at a point above and below the injury, the artery being afterwards divided between the two ligatures. No pads or compresses applied