550 TENDON-JERKS resting on the biceps tendon and look for a contraction in that muscle. This method the writer first learned from James Collier. Triceps-jerk (cervical segments 6-7).—Take hold of the patient's arm by its anterior aspect, just above the elbow. Allow the forearm to hang dependent, and strike the triceps tendon close to its insertion into the olecranon. A percussion hammer should be used in examining this jerk; a stethoscope with a rubber ring round the ear-piece will be found a convenient instrument for the purpose. Wrist-jerk (C. 7-8).—The patient flexes his arm to a right angle, keeping the elbow close to the side and the forearm in a position of semi-pronation. The observer grasps the wrist by its ulnar aspect and strikes the radius just above the wrist; if the jerk is present the tap will be followed by a movement in the direction of flexion. The arm-jerks above described are usually to be obtained when correctly tested. Sometimes, however, even the most careful examination fails to elicit them in a healthy individual. For this reason their absence is less significant than absence of the jerks in the lower extremities. Unilateral absence or a very obvious difference on opposite sides of the body is to be regarded as of diagnostic importance. Occasionally in cases of cerebral disease a triceps clonus may be obtained. In some cases of rigid hemiplegia, where there is marked con- tracture of the fingers, a sudden and maintained extension of the fingers will produce a wrist clonus. Knee-jerk (L. 2-4).—There are several ways of testing this jerk. That most generally employed is to tap the patella tendon while the patient is sitting with one leg crossed over the other, repeating the process in the case of the opposite leg. Or the patient may sit on a table with his legs dependent; this is a useful method for comparing the activity of the two jerks, especially in a case where there is difficulty in relaxing the hamstrings when examined in the ordinary way. A very useful plan is as follows :—The patient, sitting on a low chair, extends both his legs as far as possible, keeping the soles of the feet and heels in contact with the ground. The slightest contraction of the quadriceps in this position produces a forward movement of the foot. Where the patient is to be examined in bed, the best means of obtaining the jerk is to ask him to turn slightly on the side to be examined, and to flex the leg at the knee (in this position complete relaxation is best obtained); then raise the limb slightly from the bed, supporting it from below with one hand below the knee, and strike the tendon, watching the vastus internus muscle for any contraction which may occur in it. In comparing the activity of the knee-jerks on opposite sides where the patient is confined to bed, the following method will sometimes be found useful:—The lower limbs being extended and thoroughly relaxed, and the patient lying in the dorsal position, the index-finger of the left hand is placed transversely across the limb just above the knee and in contact with the upper border of the patella. A downward stroke of the hammer on the finger is followed by a contraction of the quadriceps, drawing the patella suddenly upwards. The knee-jerk can only be obtained by this means if it is abnormally active. In the case of children, a good plan is to take hold of the foot, allowing the sole to rest on the palm of the hand, at the same time slightly dorsiflexing the foot, the leg being flexed at the knee. When the tendon is struck any forward movement of the leg is readily felt by the hand which grasps the foot. The ulnar aspect of the right hand makes a good percussor in the case of the knee-jerk, although some form of percussion hammer is better. It is very important in testing the knee-jerk to look for the contraction in the vastus internus muscle. As has been already stated, the leg is only the lever which expresses the contraction in the muscle. Where the patient is wearing boots, or in the case of stout people (where the lever is a heavy one), there may be no move- ment of the leg, although there is a fairly good contraction of the muscle. Knee clonus is to be tested for by suddenly depressing the patella tendon, when a series of clonic movements occur. The knee-jerk is constantly present in health, and is equally active on the two sides. Con- siderable variations in its activity are to be found in different individuals. Absence of the knee-jerk is always indicative of organic disease ; it is never absent in a purely functional disorder. The alterations which it undergoes under various conditions have been already stated (p. 549). Knee clonus, like ankle clonus, is almost always a sign of organic disease. A crossed knee-jerk is very occasionally met with ; it may be a true reflex; its time reaction is several times as long as the uncrossed. Adductor-jerk (L. 4 [?]).—This is best elicited by abducting the thigh and tapping the tendon of the adductor-magnus or the internal condyle of the femur. A contraction of the adductors results. This jerk is only present in a minority of healthy individuals, but can usually be obtained when the other tendon-jerks in the lower ex- tremities are increased. The crossed adductor-jerk, like the crossed knee-jerk, is probably a true reflex. Tendo Achillis-jerk (L. 5-S. 1).—The patient kneels on a chair, and the tendo Achillis is struck with the hammer just above its insertion. A