STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 344 curvature; between that point and the pyloric region is the mesocolic area, the transverse mesocolon separating the stomach from the last part of the duodenum and coils of the jejunum. The most important surface relations, in addition to those already mentioned, are—the oesophageal opening nearly corresponds with the junction of the seventh left costal cartilage with the sternum from 4 to 5 inches from the surface ; the lowest normal limit of the greater curvature should not be below a line drawn inches above the level of the umbilicus, and when the organ is empty the line is consider- ably higher. The normal capacity of the adult male stomach may be as much as three pints, and is usiially less. The weight of the organ is about 4i oz. The duodenum is the first portion of the intestine intervening between the stomach and the jejunum. It is about 10 to 12 inches in length and 2 to 2| inches in diameter, being in this latter respect somewhat larger than the rest of the small intestine. It forms a curve of a shape varying with the position of the pylorus, with the concavity, in which lies the head of the pancreas, directed to the left and somewhat upwards. It is conveniently described in four parts—the first being almost horizontal from left to right and before back, moving with the pylorus, and consequently being almost directly antero-posterior when the stomach is distended and the pylorus is moved to the right. Posteriorly are the common bile duct, the portal vein, and the gastro-duodenal artery. The second portion, about 3 inches long, extends vertically and slightly backwards from the level of the left side of the body of the first lumbar vertebra close under the neck of the gall-bladder to the left side of the body of the third or fourth lumbar, from which it is separated by the vena cava, with the right kidney to its outer side ; in front are the imder surface of the liver, and below that the transverse colon with which it is connected by the transverse mesocolon. The third part, which forms an angular curve with the foregoing, and is 2 to 3 inches long, curves transversely and slightly upwards to the left side of the aorta, with which and the vena cava it is in contact, the inferior mesenteric vessels passing down in front between it and the trans- verse colon, and the head of the pancreas above. The last two inches of the duodenum, consti- tuting the fourth part, bends upwards on the left side of the aorta to end by a sharp curve forwards in the jejunimi. Behind it is the psoas muscle, and sometimes the inner edge of the left kidney; in front is the stomach, from which it is separated by the transverse mesocolon. This terminal part of the duodenum, however much the rest of this section of the canal may be dis- placed, maintains a uniformly fixed position owing to the presence of a musculo-fibrous band which attaches it to the left crus of the dia- phragm, and this fixity is further aided by the post-peritoneal connective tissue. The relation of these viscera to the peritoneum is of importance clinically. The stomach, ex- cept immediately behind the cardiac orifice, where it is in direct contact with the diaphragm, is completely enveloped by this membrane, which passes off the smaller curvature to the under surface of the liver, forming the gastro- hepatic omentum, and from the greater curva- ture to form the anterior part of the great omentum, the posterior surface of the stomach thus constituting a part of the wall of the lesser peritoneal sac. The reflection of peritoneum from the cardia to the diaphragm is known as the gastro-phrenic ligament, and that which passes from the fundus to the spleen, in which run the splenic vessels, is termed the gastro- splenic omentum. In contrast to this arrange- ment the duodenum is only very partially covered, the posterior surface being more or less closely connected with the post-peritoneal tissue in the neighbourhood of the kidneys and large vessels, and with the head of the pancreas. The left side of the fourth part is covered by peri- toneum, which there forms several small fossse (duodeno-jejunal). The transverse mesocolon has been mentioned as being attached to the anterior surface of the second, third, and fourth parts. Although the stomach ordinarily appears, when viewed externally, as a single pyriform bag, marked oft' at the pylorus by a circular constriction from the duodenum, it will be found that functionally regarded it consists of two parts, a cardiac and a pyloric, the latter being much the smaller and of about a fourth the capacity of the other. Occasionally indications of a separation by the appearance of a slight groove on one or both curvatures, several inches from the pylorus, and sometimes a thickening (of the muscular coat) may be felt along a line joining these grooves—pre-pyloric sphincter— and a deep constriction is now and then seen, due to the contraction of the muscular fibres in this situation, showing how the organ is im- perfectly divided into two unequal portions, a condition which probably obtains to a greater or less degree during the process of gastric digestion. As seen from the inside the surface of the living stomach is found to be of a deep rose-red colour, an appearance which is quite lost after death, being replaced by an ashy-grey coloration not unfrequently marked by petechial spots. Unless much distended, the mucous membrane is thrown into numerous folds or rugse, caused by a wrinkling of the loosely attached membrane as the muscular layers contract. These rugee, which are mainly disposed in a longitudinal direction, are best marked along the greater curvature and less distinct towards the pylorus.