.388 STOMACH: SURGICAL Treatment. When to Operate.—The operation should be performed as soon as the necessary preparations have been completed. The only exception to this rule is where we believe that the perforation has taken place into an area walled in by adhesions. There are two reasons for delaying interference under these conditions : (1) because there is a considerable chance of spontaneous recovery, and if a perigastric ab- scess results, it may be safely opened at a later period; (2) because the ulcer concerned is usually unfavourably situated for interference, being mostly on the lesser curvature or posterior wall, and in obtaining access to it adhesions are opened up and there is risk of infecting the general peritoneal cavity (von Mikulicz). The OjJeration for Perforated Ulcer. — The usual measures are taken to alleviate shock. The belly is opened in the middle line. The escape of gas and of turbid watery fluid confirms the diagnosis of perforation into the genei'al peritoneal cavity. The parts exposed are in- jected and smeared with recent lymph. The peritoneal contents should be soaked up with gauze as the operation proceeds. We are often guided to the perforation by the gushes of gas and fluid which escape at each inspiration, or by the decided accumulation of lymph in its vicinity. If it be not found on the anterior surface of the pyloric segment which is exposed at the wound, the left lobe of the liver is raised by the assistant and the stomach pulled down so as to expose the body, fundus, and even the cardiac portion of the organ. At this stage it may be necessary to obtain better access by a right-angled cut across the left rectus, and it may be through the costal margin. If there is no ulcer on the anterior wall or leaser curvature, the posterior aspect must be explored by tearing an opening in the gastric colic ligament close to the greater curvature, and introducing two fingers into the lesser sac. No time should be lost in finding the perforation and proceeding to its closure. This is effected by means of a purse-string suture, or a series of Lembert sutures which will completely invaginate the area of the ulcer. If it be impossible to close the aperture efficiently because of the friability of the gastric wall or inaccessibility of the ulcer, a portion of omentum may be brought up to cover in the gap, or adjacent viscera may be stitched over it. The possibility of a second perforation must be borne in mind. The next procedure is to cleanse the peritoneum. If the cavity be infected as a whole, a large glass tube is introduced into the pouch of Douglas by a separate incision above the pubes, and the whole cavity is irrigated with salt solution at 105° F. The fluid is introduced by means of a funnel and flexible rubber tube. A large quantity of fluid is required, and the tube is moved with the fingers so as to reach in succession the parts in the immediate vicinity of the perforation, the space between the liver and diaphragm on either side of the suspensory ligament, the space between the stomach and spleen, the right kidney pouch, the right iliac fossa, the pelvis, the left iliac fossa, and left kidney pouch. When the fluid returns quite clear, the rubber tube is withdrawn and the wound closed, a considerable quantity of fluid being left in the abdomen. When the perforation is a small one and the leakage of gastric contents very limited, it is sufficient to mop up the fluid and lymph with gauze. The after-treatment is conducted on general principles. The pelvic drainage- tube is removed in twenty-four hours. The immediate prognosis chiefly depends on the length of time between the perforation and the operation, so that after twelve hours there are more deaths than recoveries. To a less extent it is influenced by the conditions attending the perforation. If the stomach is distended after a recent meal, if the perforation is widely patent, and if there is much retching, the escape of gastric contents is greater, the shock is more severe, and the infection more widely distributed. Provided the shock and initial infection of the peritoneum be recovered from, the patient has still to run the gauntlet of various com- plications. The author has observed death on the fourth day from a second perforation, to- wards the end of the first week from septicaemia, during the second and third weeks from pleuro- pneumonia, embolism, etc., and as late as six months after the operation from pyelo-phlebitis and multiple abscesses of the liver. Perforated Ulcer of Duodenum.—The clinical features closely resemble those following the perforation of a gastric ulcer. In some cases the pain is referred to the right hypochondrium. The tenderness and arrested movement of the belly wall are most marked along the right side of the abdomen, because the escaped fluids gravitate down the right side into the iliac fossa. In more than one-third of the recorded cases the diagnosis was made of acute appendi- citis. On opening the abdomen, the incision being made through the right rectus, the peri- toneal contents are found to be mai'kedly stained with bile. There is little or no gas. The signs of peritoneal infection are most marked down the right side of the belly. To expose the first part of the duodenum, the liver and right costal margin are drawn upwards, the stomach and omentum displaced to the left, and the hepatic flexure of the colon downwards. The ulcer is usually found on the anterior wall, but may be on one of the lateral surfaces. The closure of the ulcer and cleansing of the peri- toneum are carried out in the same way as in gastric ulcer. The mortality is even higher than in perforation of the stomach, only eight of the fifty-one recorded cases having recovered (Moynihan). Perigastric Abscess.—Perigastric abscess usu-