107 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE most frequently met with is that of ordinary vaginal hydrocele and encysted hydrocele of the epididymis. It is probable that the encysted hydrocele is formed first, and that owing to the irritation which its presence produces, effusions of fluid take place secondarily into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. When the latter collection has attained a large size the presence of an encysted hydrocele may easily be over- looked. In such cases when the vaginal hydro- cele is tapped, the usual pale yellow fluid escapes, and the swelling though diminished is not removed. If then the trocar be thrust onwards into the remaining swellings the characteristic watery or opalescent fluid of encysted hydrocele escapes. Another combina- tion is that of encysted hydrocele of the cord with vaginal hydrocele. (2) Combination of Hydrocele and Hernia.— A large hydrocele predisposes to hernia, and the usual combination is that of vaginal hydro- cele with inguinal or scrotal hernia. The two swellings can usually be distinguished if atten- tion be paid separately to their chief determin- ing points. Encysted hydrocele of the cord is occasionally complicated with inguinal hernia. The treatment of these conditions by tappings and trusses must be carried out in the usual way. If radical measures are called for, some open method of operation—according to the individual features of each case—is the safest procedure. Impotence.—By impotence is meant the in- capacity for coitus. The causes are best divided into two heads : those which are physical and often permanent, and those which are psychical,—these latter being often tem- porary, frequently exaggerated, and sometimes imaginary altogether. The causes of impotence in the male are many and various. Firstly, congenital or acquired defects and deformities of the penis and testes, such as extreme conditions of hypospadias and epispadias; absence of penis; twists, and curvatures of the penis; or a persisting infantile condi- tion of the genital organs or excessive size of the penis. Secondly, impotence may be acquired in the course of several diseases ; thus it may arise from mere mechanical obstruction offered by the size of large scrotal hernias or hydroceles, in which the body of the penis is buried in the protuberance of the tumour. The same result is also seen in some cases of elephantiasis of the scrotum and penis. It may result from loss of the power of erection, which may be due to excessive sexual indulgence or prolonged masturbation ; and further occurs as a natural symptom and feature in certain acute and chronic diseases, such as diabetes and albuminuria; and in injuries of the brain and spinal cord, such as contusion of the brain and fracture of the spinal column. Thirdly, im- potence is brought about by the prolonged use of certain drugs, such as the bromides, iodides, opium, conium, camphor, arsenic, lead, and the abuse of alcoholic liquors. Fourthly, many cases arise from psychical causes, in which impotence is due to some mental disturbance, or to some deficiency of mental power. Treatment varies with the cause, the removal of which is obviously the key to the cure. The last-mentioned type must be dealt with on common-sense lines; forced eff"orts at inter- course must be avoided, and sexual matters must be allowed to take their own course. Sterility.—Sterility is the condition of in- ability to impregnate, and must not be con- founded with impotence or the incapacity for sexual intercourse. The two conditions are distinct, though they may coexist. The causes of sterility in the male are chiefly these: 1. Malposition or retention of the testis. It has been already mentioned that nearly all such testes are atrophic and sterile. 2. Obstructions in the vas deferens and epididymis when bi- lateral. Congenital strictures in, or absence of these parts occasionally occur; but in the great majority the obstructions are acquired, and are residua of the acute epididymitis of gonorrhoea or the chronic epididymitis of tubercle. Injury to the vas or epididymis sometimes occludes their canals. 3. Obstruc- tions, strictures, or fistulge in connection with the prepuce, urethra, ejaculatory ducts, seminal vesicles, and prostate. The pin-hole preputial meatus has many times given rise to sterility which has disappeared after circumcision. Strictures of the urethra in any part of its course may become tightly closed during erection, the seminal fluid regurgitating into the bladder, and being discharged subsequently with the urine. The ejaculatory ducts have become permanently occluded after the opera- tion of lateral perineal lithotomy. Fistulaj in connection with the urethra, seminal vesicles, or prostate may allow of the escape of the seminal fluid through adventitious channels, and so make impregnation impossible. Another condition exists, and has been called aspermatism, in which a man who has sexual desires and erection finds that the act of coitus, however prolonged, is never satisfactorily com- pleted by an ejaculation of semen, though this, accompanied by the usual orgasm, may take place at other times. The treatment of sterility consists in ascertain- ing the cause of the condition, and treating it on general lines so far as it is capable of being treated. Scruple or Scrupulus.—A weight of 20 grains; one-third of a drachm. See Prescribing {Weights and Measures). ScultetuS Bandage.— A bandage for compound fractures (devised by Scultetus,