178 SKIN—TUBERCULOSIS them. Their true colour is best displayed by pressing on them a piece of glass, such as the condensing lens of a Hartnack's microscope, for the pressure dispels any complicating hypertemia, and no amount of pressure will cause the typical nodule to disappear. This method, which Unna calls the "diascopic," is of great value in the diagnosis of a doubtful case. When examined microscopically, these nodules are found to consist of a collection of those cells which Unna calls plasma cells, and which are best known in Great Britain as epithelioid. These are aggregated into little round areas, ten or a dozen of which go to make up a clinic- ally visible " apple-jelly " nodule. Occasionally a giant cell may be observed among them, and very occasionally a tubercle bacillus. At this stage, which may conveniently be styled Lupus vulgaris simplex, the disease may remain in cleanly, healthy persons for an in- definite period, giving rise to no inconvenience except from its appearance, and spreading very slowly or not at all. Any part of the body may be affected, though, as afterwards referred to, lupus has its preferences and favourite seats. The disease, however, only exceptionally follows this simple type. The most common complication—so common as to be to most the typical form of lupus—is that of catarrh. Just as in catarrhal tuberculosis of the lung, the catarrh is due to the addition to the original disease of other organisms, so in the skin, micrococci are responsible for the change which converts a mere disfigurement into a disagree- able, discharging eruption. The brownish- yellow nodules become concealed by dirty yellowish-black crusts, and pus constantly exudes from the apparently raw surface. This stage of the disease has long been known and described as Lupus exulcerans, but the term is a misnomer. There is no ulceration in the true sense of the word. However ulcer-like the case may appear, careful examination will disclose the fact that the surface is still covered, imper- fectly it is true, with epithelium. The epithe- lium is swollen, distorted almost beyond re- cognition, but it is still there. The process is essentially one of catarrh. In sections appro- priately stained there are found on the surface myriads of cocci, and to the effects of these are due the purulent discharge and crusting. The true skin is packed with innumerable leucocytes, which in the majority of cases make it difficult to recognise the tuberculous nature of the disease. It is, indeed, often enough difficult in the leucocyte-impregnated tissues to recognise the same process as in the simple variety of the disease ; but a few weeks' appropriate treatment, and the apparent discrepancy is cleared up— destroy the pyococci and the catarrh disappears, leaving the simple variety of the disease. Another common variety of lupus, which also has its analogy in the lung, is fibroid lupus, often erroneously called Lupus verrucosus. The error is curious and inexplicable, because there is a Lupus verrucosus which is distinctly " warty " in its character, though it is much rarer than the fibroid form. Fibroid lupus is most fre- quently seen on the limbs and buttocks; it is exceptional on the face. In it there is an excessive production of fibrous tissue, and the tuberculous nodules are few in number, but show evidence of their chronicity in the presence of (for lupus) an excessive number of giant cells. There is also some increased activity of the epithelium, but no true warty formation. The prognosis of this form is exceptionally good. True warty lupus, Lupus verrucosus, is prob- ably due to the addition to the lupus of the cause, whatever it may be, which produces warts. It occurs especially on the hands and on the buttocks. The same growth of epithelium is seen as in warts, with long processes of con- nective tissue-forming cores for the epidermic cylinders. As a rule the warty growth and the lupus are coextensive, but in some cases the warts last longer than the tuberculosis. Veru/:ca necrogenica, or the post-mortem wart, is that form of tuberculosis of the skin which appears on the hands of butchers and path- ologists, and it would seem a matter which will require a good deal of explaining away if Koch's new theory is to be accepted. It is the most benign form of tuberculosis, and indicates the vigorous reaction of healthy tissues to repeated inoculation with the bacilli. A great part of the growth is epithelial, as, indeed, the name wart suggests. It is commonly situated at the side of the nail, and may persist for years, undergoing very little alteration. The treatment is that of the warty form of lupus, but if a complete cure is to be attained, the work which caused the lesion must be for a time abandoned. Lupus is most common on the face, and in a great number of instances it begins on the mucous membrane of the nose or the lachrymal canal, and lasts there imsuspected for, it may be, months before it reaches the skin. Perhaps the next commonest seat is the buttocks, and then come the hands and feet. No part of the body is, however, exempt, unless it be the scalp, where primary lupus is almost unknown, though the disease in rare instances spreads from neigh- bouring affected areas. It is believed that in some instances flies are responsible for the inoculation of the disease. Diagnosis.—This is usually easy. Almost always at some part of the disease the presence of apple-jelly nodules can be detected, and the diagnosis is never absolutely certain until these have been recognised. Not infrequently, how- ever, they are obscured by some of the com- plicating processes. The catarrhal process very rarely entirely conceals them, for the borders are usually not so much affected as the centre