TEETH 527 tissues of the pulp. In form they are flattened, round, warty, or berry - like, and present no regularity in their histological structure, but sometimes they have a laminated concentric arrangement of their tissues round a portion of the uncalcified pidp. This somewhat cor- responds to the structure of osteo-dentine, though lacunae are absent. Osteo-dentine is a variety of dentine embracing the characters of both bone and dentine, and is, like other forms of secondary dentine, developed from the connective tissue of the pulp. It is found loose in the pulp tissues in the shape of round or irregular nodules. It usually contains a blood- vessel round which is developed a concentric arrangement of the tissues analogous to that of the Haversian system in bone, agreeing with this tissue in the presence of lacunre and canaliculi. The pulp, when the subject of inflammation, expands like other tissues, and being forced against these growths, originates severe neuralgia. Any of those varieties of secondary formation may be the cause of neuralgic pain, but the variety that more especially is productive of this condition is (ii.) dentinal tumour or odontome. As this particular variety of growth occurs frequently in seemingly sound teeth, it is very difficult of diagnosis, but a skiagram taken of the teeth would show it up. The treatment would be to drill into the pulp, destroy and remove it, etc. Diseases of Peridental Membrane The peridental membrane covers the root of the tooth, and acts as a kind of - cushion to the teeth when subjected to blows or I'oughly used in mastication. It is composed of fibrous tissue, is very vascular (the blood-vessels also supply the cementum with nutrition), and is richly supplied with nerves which are the source of the sense of touch in the teeth, and are the origin of the sevei-e pain incident to conditions of inflammation of this organ. Etiology.—The causes are various. General causes are gout, syphilis, rheumatism, struma, mercurialism. Local: blows, filling tooth too full, accumulations of tartar, phosphorous poisoning, putrid pulp, filling tooth before canals are aseptic. Strumoiis periodontitis is accompanied by less pain than that of the ordinary form of peridental inflammation, and suppuration speedily ensues. Rheumatic peri- odontitis, though rather painful, is of that kind termed plastic periodontitis, and does not tend to suppuration. Peridental disease may be divided into {a) acute; (5) chronic. (a) Acute Periodontitis.—Symptoms.—Sensi- tiveness of root involved, characterised as a dull sensation of oppression in the tooth. After this has continued for some hours or days un- interrupted pain occurs in the tooth, and is intensified when the tooth is touched or used. Pain is also increased by warmth, active move- ment, the horizontal position, or stimulating drinks. The gum over the root of the tooth now becomes swollen, red, hot to the touch, sensitive to pressure, especially at apex of root, and the tooth feels raised in its socket. With some patients there is a general indisposition, furred tongue, and more or less pyrexia. The pain now becomes more severe, and the inflam- mation affects the tooth on either side, spreads to the gums and face, producing oedema. With the latter symptoms suppuration occurs, the pain becomes less acute, and assumes a more dull and pulsating character. Over the apex of root may now be observed a swelling which, on attaining its full size, becomes soft and fluctuating ; the pus eventually forces its way through. As soon as the pus is evacuated there is a rapid diminution of all the symptoms, and the tooth after a time resumes its former Calcareous nodule. Blood- vessel. Fig. 13.—Calcareous degeneration of pulp. position and firmness, or a chi-onic alveolar abscess may be formed. Average duration of acute periodontitis, seven or eight days. There are, of course, subacute forms of this disease also, which are more amenable to remedial treatment. Treatment. — In the acute form palliative treatment onl}' can be used at first. The application to the gum of E/ Tinct. iodine (lin.) 3ij., acid carbolic 3j., or capsicum plasters, freely incising the gum. Hypodermic injection into the gum of sol. eucaine, or the internal adminis- tration of 8 grains phenacetin every three hours ; free purging. After the acute symptoms have disappeared thorough asepsis of root canal must be carried out, and the root and tooth filled. The diagnosis between acute pulpitis and acute periodontitis is not difficult. On tapping a tooth affected by acute pulpitis there will be little or no pain compared to that of the tooth with the inflamed peridental membrane. In the case of a front tooth there will also be some