STAMMERING 327 During ordinary breathing the diaphragm undoubtedly plays the chief part, but in the deep breathing which the stammerer should cultivate, the diaphragm has a less active role, and chiefly prevents the tendency of the ab- dominal contents to be aspirated into the chest, This can be seen on watching the upward move- ment of the diaphragm by means of the X-rays during a full inspiration. In this type of breathing the ribs move backwards and out- wards. They also turn on their axes and are raised (by means of the serratus magnus), and carry the sternum forwards and upwards. In so doing they carry the inner ends of the clavicles, which are fixed to the top of the sternum, upwards and forwards. The chest is thus enlarged in all its dimensions with the least possible exertion. The front abdominal wall sinks in, but is not pulled in by muscular effort. At the risk of repetition the writer particu- larly wishes to emphasise the fact that this method of breathing must not be confounded with forced, " extraordinary " or so-called "cla- vicular " breathing. In the latter the outer as well as the inner ends of the clavicles are actively pulled up, whereas in the former the inner ends only are moved, and they are pass- ively pushed up from below by the upward and forward movement of the sternum.^ After the chest has been filled with air the breath should then be allowed to escape slowly with a very slight hissing sound made with the mouth open, and due to the escaping breath being controlled at the larynx by means of the false vocal cords. Practice will soon enable the duration of escape to be extended from ten seconds to sixty. It may be thought that undue attention has been drawn to the question of breathing, but the writer has found that apart from the great improvement in general health which quickly follows, nothing gives the stammerer so much confidence as his ability to take a full breath and hold it or control its exit at will. Let us now pass to consider the treatment of a case in which the stammer is due to the false vocal cords being so closely approximated that no breath can pass until the spasm has ceased. In such a case the initial vowels are usually the stumbling-block. The patient must therefore be taught to alter the ordinary conditions of voice production, and to produce each initial vowel by consciously permitting a slight escape of breath in the form of an aspirate, ha-he-ho instead of a-e-o. This preliminary escape of breath ensures a continuous flow of voice by preventing the spasmodic closure of the false ^ Fuller directions for the practice of this type of breathing, which is so essential for the stammerer, will be found in a small pamphlet called Twelve Lessons on Breathing, by George E. Thorp, published by Reeves & Co., London. vocal cords. This method, though ugly, must be continued until the stammerer has no fear of trying to pronounce an initial vowel. When this stage has been reached the preliminary and accompanying escape of breath can be gradually decreased, until it is finally possible to attack each vowel quite cleanly and with no preceding aspirate. When the fault lies in the obstructive closure of the oral mechanism, it is first necessary to find out on which consonants the greatest difficulty is experienced. If the case is slight, one may begin with these consonants, but if it is severe it is better to leave the consonants which give the most trouble until the others have been dealt with. In some few cases it is sufficient to point out to the stammerer that it is the lack of the voice- sound which causes the difficulty, and he is soon able to overcome it. In most cases, however, definite exercises must be given in order to show the stammerer how it is possible to keep up a continuous or almost continuous voice-sound without interruption during the formation of the consonants. For this purpose he should begin by intoning a vowel, say o, and continue it as long as the breath lasts. When this can be done for twenty seconds, an attempt must be made to form one of the " voiced consonants" without interrupting the flow of voice—thus o-mo-mo. In so doing the positions for the consonants are not to be firmly taken, and therefore their sounds will at first be quite indistinct. As the writer knows from experience how difficult it is in some cases to get the patient to hear that the voice-sound is being interrupted by the consonant, he would suggest that the exercise should be practised with the eyes shut and also with the ears closed. By this procedure it is possible to concentrate the attention much more easily on one's own voice, and so to hear the slightest interruption in the continuity of the sound. Other things being equal, it will be found that the nasal sounds interrupt the tone least and are the best to begin with. After the exercise has been so mastered that it is possible to make the different consonants distinct without intermitting the continuous voice-sound, it must be repeated with the voiceless or breath con- sonants. This will be found to be very difficult, and in some cases requires long and arduous practice. When the stammerer has succeeded in doing this, he should discontinue the intoning and try to do the same exercises in a drawling voice. He may then go on to words and sentences, and eventually to ordinary conversation. At this stage some daily practice in reading aloud or repeating by rote should also be insisted on, and should be carried on for several months. Even after the stammer has disappeared, it is liable to return if the patient gets run down or