SENILE INSANITY 120 tional decadence accentuating these malformi- ties, the person may at the senile period pass the borderland and become insane. Previous attacks may render the patient liable to break down again at the senile epoch. These cases, while they do not come under the strict category of senile insanity, yet have at this period most of the symptoms of their aberration altered and coloured by the under- lying process of regression. Vascular lesions act powerfully both as pre- disposing and exciting causes of abnormal senility. The most common diseases are end- arteritis deformans, atheroma, and fatty degen- eration affecting the larger vessels, and hyaline- fibroid changes in the smaller vessels of the cortex and also in the walls of the lymph channels. These changes, leading to a gradual diminution of the lamina of the vessels, and to a thickening of their walls whereby osmosis is diminished, cause a gradual malnutrition and degeneration of the brain areas supplied by them. Thrombosis and embolic conditions are prone to occur, and softening of small areas of brain matter may ensue. Hasmorrhage may also result from the rupture of miliary aneur- ysms or from the walls of new vessels which frequently accompany these changes. Dr. Ford Robertson has found these softened or heemor- rhagic areas in 40 per cent of post-mortem examinations in cases of senile insanity. The gross lesion may have been present only a few days in many of these cases, and may have been the immediate cause of death, but the vascular changes which preceded them had always existed for some time. These softened areas are in the great majority of cases multiple, often affecting symmetrical areas in the two hemispheres. They may be minute or micro- scopic, but often involve large areas, and wher- ever found they point to widespread degenera- tion of the brain substance, such as could not exist without abnormal mentalisation. While not accepting the toxic theory as a cause of physiological regression, we must admit that it is one of the greatest factors in the pro- duction of pathological change. Indeed, in cases of typical senile insanity the autotoxic basis is undoubted. As pointed out by Dr. Robertson, the process finds expression not only in the brain but in all the organs of the body. The liver is fatty and atrophied, the kidneys cirrhotic, the lungs are emphysematous or show chronic congestion, the intestines are frequently the seat of catarrhal changes. The toxines may either be formed in the body or introduced from without. They act both as direct poisons to the nerve cells and processes, and also by their effects on the vascular system and neur- oglia. Alcohol and syphilis are probably the two principal examples. In many cases it will be found that alcohol has been indulged in for years, without apparent result, yet when de- cadence sets in a pathological dementia or some psychosis becomes evident. This may even follow, in cases who have been temperate in their use of alcohol for years, as a result of ex- cessive drinking previously. The nerve cells are able probably to resist the effects of the toxines during the period of nerve-cell growth and maintenance, but so soon as their own in- volutionary regression sets in, then the slightest interference with their nutrition acts powerfully, and determines that their involution shall be pathological. Dr. Lewis has traced this cause in no less than 40 per cent of cases. Syphilis also acts similarly, and though quiescent for years, frequently exacts this penalty in old age. Influenza has been increasingly evident in recent years as a cause of abnormal senility. This is especially the case when there have been recur- rences of the illness. When there is a combina- tion of these toxic-producing factors, as in cases of syphilis with alcoholism, or where influenza follows one of them, the tendency to degenera- tion becomes very marked. Rheumatism, gout, and chronic Bright's disease are by no means uncommon members in this group, and lead poisoning is also not infrequently noted. Over and above these are the cases where the toxine results from perverted metabolism in the in- testinal canal or elsewhere. It is probable that the intoxication is in many cases due rather to a failure in the formation of the protective alexins, than to an excessive production of morbid toxines. Over-exertion of the brain, mental stress and worry, malnutrition and traumatism are also frequent exciting causes. To have a physio- logical old age it is necessary for a man or woman to have lived throughout a physiological life. Neuroses of Senility.—Apart from the psychoses and dementia, there are certain symp- toms of nervous disorder observable during the senile period. These may be grouped into two classes : those associated with changes in the vessels and blood-supply, and those in which the supporting structures are involved. The first class contains cases with symptoms of giddiness, vertigo, sickness, feelings of weight in the head, and also subjective noises and visual phenomena. These are due in all likelihood to alterations in the supply of blood to the differ- ent brain areas, and when they are unilateral, as sometimes happens, they come closely into line with megrimous attacks. Dyspnoea and asthmatic conditions, especially in the early part of the night, are also notable. These are not infrequently among the first symptoms of in- volution, and they may pass off after the process is fully established. They are, as a rule, par- oxysmal. The second group have a more organised basis, and therefore a more permanent character. Pareses, especially of muscles sup- plied by the cranial nerves, passing off and