111 SCURVY, INFANTILE of the lymphoid cells of the medulla, which con- sists in the main of connective tissue elements and blood-vessels. In the cancellous tissue the trabeculse are scanty, and the number of osteoblasts are markedly below the normal. The denser portions of the bone structure are also affected. Schoedel and Nauwerk attribute the rare- faction of the bone to deficient formation rather than to the absorption of bone previously formed. They base this opinion upon the fact that Howship's lacunae are not increased in number, that the osteoblasts are scanty or even absent, and that there is a diminution rather than an increase of osteoblasts. They are, moreover, inclined to connect the defective bone formation with the abnormal condition of the bone-marrow above referred to. The rarefaction has been ascribed to the intraosseous extravasations, but Naegeli is in- clined to look upon it as a primary and charac- teristic feature of the disease which precedes the occurrence of hfemorrhagic lesions. The ordinary changes met with in the bones of rachitic infants are also present in the great majority of the cases. Other hsemorrhagic lesions are also met with, but these are not characteristic of infantile scurvy. Blood-stained fluid may be present in serous cavities, and there may be haemorrhages into the viscera as well as into the superficial structures. Sutherland has observed subdural haemor- rhages in a case in which another exceptional feature was fracture of the femur near the middle of the shaft. Lastly, there may also be present the lesions of intercurrent disorders such as broncho- pneumonia. 4. Etiology and Pathogenesis.—Although infantile scurvy results from errors of diet, these errors are as a rule of a much less gross character than those met with in many cases of severe rickets. As a matter of fact the disease, at least in its milder forms, is more often met with among infants in favourable surroundings than amongst those of the class from which hospital patients are mostly drawn. It has been pointed out by Dr. Cheadle and others, that the antiscorbutic properties of milk are not of a high order, and they are apt to be impaired or destroyed by the various modes of preparation so largely resorted to, such as con- densation, peptonisation, and the prolonged heat- ing required for effectual sterilisation. It will, indeed, be found that in most cases of infantile scurvy, milk prepared in one or other of these ways, or humanised milk, which has undergone sterilisation, has been the main article of the child's diet. There is, moreover, evidence to show that the mere raising of milk to the boil- ing-point is not wholly without a similar effect. Hence it is evident that excessive care, as dis- tinguished from want of care, in the feeding of infants may induce the disease, and thus its comparative frequency among children of the well-to-do classes is readily explained. However, of the infants brought up upon sterilised, humanised, or even condensed milk, only a small proportion develop scurvy, and it is probable that the risk of its occurrence is removed by the addition to the diet of some fresh element, such as raw-meat juice or the juice of oranges. On the other hand, the advantages of sterilisation of milk as a pre- ventive measvire are obvious, and provided that the reduction of its antiscorbutic properties is recognised and guarded against, the risk of scurvy need not be regarded as contra-indicating its use when fresh milk cannot be relied upon. In cases in which fresh milk has been given, it has usually been only for a short period, and that some time previously, or the quantity may have been wholly inadequate, or the milk itself may have been of inferior quality. In some of the worst cases very little milk of any kind has been taken, and now and again one is confronted with infants whose diet has consisted entirely of a farinaceous food and water. It is in such cases that infantile scurvy is met with in its most severe forms, and it is probably by re- placing milk, either wholly or in part, that the proprietary foods which often figure so largely in the dietary of scorbutic children conduce to the development of the disease, seeing that they are themselves devoid of antiscorbutic properties. However, Holt mentions two cases which have come under his observation in which scurvy developed in infants taking sterilised milk and a proprietary food, who recovered when the food was stopped, although the heating of the milk was continued. In some instances the history forthcoming appears to be at variance with what has been stated above, the dietary showing no conspicuous error. Nevertheless the scorbutic lesions present are unmistakable, and that the diet is actually at fault is shown by the rapid improvement which sets in as soon as a change is made. Thus in a case in which in addition to subperiosteal swellings there was severe affection of the gums, the infant was at first given fresh milk and water in the propor- tion of 1 to 3. After three months it had milk and barley water in equal parts, and from six months onwards a malted food with fresh cow's milk. The milk, for which an adequate price was paid, was just raised to the boiling-point, and from the age of six months the amount taken daily was about a pint and a half. Nevertheless, under the ordinary antiscorbutic treatment, the improvement was rapid, and recovery was ultimately complete. Such cases, like those mentioned by Holt, seem to support the view that errors of diet which cause scurvy may be positive rather than negative, the presence of deleterious ingredients