523 TEETH tips on fractured teeth, all of which have stood remarkably well, and when well made are scarcely detectable in the mouth. Diseases of the Pulp The pulp occupies the central portion of the crown of the tooth, and the root canal or canals, terminating at the apical foramen. It is largely endowed with nerves and blood-vessels, which terminate in loops, forming a fine plexus and network at the periphery of the organ. The pulp matrix is semi-gelatinous, and is thickly covered with cells, outer layer odontoblast, deeper layers oval, round, and connective tissue cells. Those cells, both in the bulbous and root portion, are more numerous at the periphery. In the root portion the long axis of the cells are parallel with the direction of the pulp canal. The anatomical relations of the pulp, and the fact that it is bound up in a rigid cavity, render it very susceptible to pathological condi- tions when irritated or inflamed. Pathological conditions of this organ might be classified thus :— (1) Irritation of the pulj). (2) Acute pulpitis. (3) Chronic pulpitis. (4) Abscess of pulp. (5) Hypertrophy, atrophy, and degenerations of pulp. (6) Secondary hard formations in pulp cavity. (1) Irritation of the pulp is usually conse- quent on some slight injury to the enamel or subjacent dentine, either by caries, abrasion, erosion, or from fracture, or the conduction of thermal changes through a metallic filling and hypersensitive dentine. This sensitiveness to changes of temperature, it must be remembered, is one of the normal functions of the pulp. In such cases the irritation is conveyed to the pulp by means of the dentinal fibrils, as a result of which there is produced a certain amount of hypersemia or determination of blood to the part opposite the lesion. This hypera^mia may only cause a slight distension of the blood- vessels, or result in extensive dilatation of the vessels without, however, any alteration of the tissue elements of the pulp. If the condition persists, or happens frequently, the vessels fail to contract owing to partial paralysis of their vaso-motor nerves and a permanent dilatation of their walls, results ending in exudation of their contents and the production of acute pulpitis. If, on the other hand, the irritation is removed by treatment, the pulp resumes its normal condition again. The pain caused by pulp irritation with hyperaemia is sharp, inter- mittent, and paroxysmal in its character, its location being commonly in the neighbourhood of the ear. The patient frequently has diffi- culty in locating the pain, or refers it to the wrong tooth. Pulp irritation may be, in certain cases, a resultant of pulp exposure, but in such cases the pulp speedily becomes acutely in- flamed, and suppuration is likely to ensue. Treatment.—The removal of any metallic filling, and dressing the cavity with a small piece of cotton-wool soaked in carbolised resin, or equal parts of clove and cinnamon oils, re- tained in place with a piece of guttapercha, or cotton-wool dipped in sandaracli varnish. After the pulp has soothed down some non-conducting material should be inserted between the floor of the cavity and the metallic filling. Tincture of iodine applied to the gum is also useful in these cases. (2) Acute pulpitis is pretty common as a sequence of long-continued irritation, but is Acute pulpitis. Fig. 6. much more frequent as a result of pulp exposure from caries, fracture, etc. The inflammation may be limited in extent, or may implicate the whole of the organ (Fig. 6). In the first in- stance, on examination of such a pulp, it will be found in the neighbourhood of the exposure of a bright red colour shading oft' from the peripliery to the centre, the blood-vessels are numerous and distended with blood, the nerve bundles and connective tissue cells in neighbour- hood of focus of inflammation present evidences of structural changes, while a molecular cloudi- ness may be noticed due to the presence of numerous fat globules. As the disease extends the normal elements of the pulp become to a larger extent replaced by inflammatory exuda- tions and fat cells, and the distended vessels, especially at apex of root or roots, are liable to be strangulated, resulting in death of the pulp. Thrombosis of the main vessel may also lead to this result. A further pathological change may be suppuration (Fig. 8), wherein the exudation cells and tissue elements of the pulp proliferate extensively and become converted into pus cells, accompanying which condition there is usually