STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 357 sufficient to give the gastric juice a chance to exercise its digestive action and establish a small area of destruction, which in many cases is prevented from healing by the continued action of the juice and the irritation of food. If, as is often the case, the acidity of the secre- tion is abnormally increased its destructive power will be greater. The minute h;emor- rhages in the submucosa so frequent in the extreme hypersemic states to which the stomach is subject, by the pressure they exert and the tissue damage they determine, would also appear to be conditions contributing to the same result. Since also gastric ulcer, at least in its commencement, is most common in chlo- rotic girls, the general malnutrition in such patients x-enders the resistent and reparative power of the tissues much less than normal, and consequently favours the production of ulcer. It has been sought to explain the occurrence of the lesion by ascribing it to a perverted trophic influence exerted through the vagus, but the grounds for such a view are extremely uncertain. Lesions of identical character to those so- called " round" or " peptic " ulcers are met with in the duodenum, most frequently in the first part, much less often in the second, and most exceptionally in the third, i.e. below the entrance of the alkaline bile and pancreatic secretion. A preference is exhibited for the anterior wall. Sometimes there is more than one ulcer, and a similar gastric ulcer may coexist; the stomach lesion, however, is much more frequent than the duodenal, in the pro- portion it has been estimated of thirty to one. In origin, appearance, and course they exactly correspond, though perhaps a larger proportion of the duodenal perforate, and a subphrenic ab- scess is on the whole oftener attributable to the latter than' to the gastric ulcer, but healing does take place, and the orifice of the bile-duct may be included in the cicatrix, causing biliary and pancratic obstruction. The chief point of interest about this form of duodenal ulcer is its association with extensive cutaneous burns, an association too frequent to be mere coincidence, records showing about 6 per cent, but much less frequently than was formerly supposed, probably from the greater antiseptic precau- tions now observed in the treatment of the wounds. It may be mentioned that severe frost-bite has also been known to be associated with duodenal ulceration. It has been sug- gested that during the inflammatory stage of the burn septic particles gain entrance to the circulation, and as a result minute hsemorrhagic infarctions have been seen in the mucosa of the alimentary canal, the damaged tissue being then dissolved by the gastric juice. Whilst this hypothesis may satisfactorily account for the absence of such ulcers from other parts of the intestine, it does not explain why the duodenum rather than the stomach is the seat of the ulcer, as undoubtedly is the case. For this reason the explanation given of a duo- denitis and ulceration due to excretion in the bile of irritants derived from the burned area may be more valid, except that the site of the ulcer is oftener above the entrance of the bile- duct than below. The occurrence of gastric and intestinal ulceration in the course of chronic Bright's disease occurs with sufficient frequency as to render probable a cavisal connection, and such ulcers are found in the stomach and duodenum, though less often and less extensively than lower down in the canal. In these situations, when the solvent action of the gastric juice is efficient, the lesions partake of the general characters of the peptic-perforating ulcer. The softening and ulceration of caseous soli- tary glands in the stomach and duodenum, and the subsequent enlargement of the ulcer in width and depth by the solvent action of the gastric juice, were regarded by Drs. Perry and Shaw as one mode of origin of the peptic ulcer. The submucosa may be the seat of syphilitic gummata which may ulcerate, and the vessels of the stomach may exhibit the appearances of endarteritis, in common with those elsewhere. Chronic ulcei'S with fibrosis of the walls of the stomach are sometimes met with in patients the subjects of syphilis, and in whom similar changes exist in other parts. The characteristic intestinal lesion of typhoid fever has been occasionally seen in the duo- denum in conjunction with ulceration of the ileum and jejunum. The duodenum may present the oedematous or sloughing patches with petechise which dis- tinguish intestinal anthrax, and may be the only part of the canal affected. Much less often is the stomach involved. New Growths.—By far the greater number of new growths met with in the stomach and duodenum are malignant in character, and exclusive of the uterus, the stomach is the commonest site in the body for development of cancer. (a) Carcinomata.—These are almost always primary. Occasionally the stomach is involved by the extension into it of a cancer of adjacent parts, e.g. gall-bladder or pancreas, or from the oesophagus. The sex and age incidence of gastric cancer have been referred to in the section on Etiology. Structurally the tumours consist of a per- verted epithelial overgrowth embedded in a fibrous stroma, and upon the differences in the proportion of these elements, the character and mode of arrangement of the cells, and the de- structive and degenerative changes which may take place in the new formation, depend the diff'erences, naked eye and microscopic, which these gi'owths present, and to some extent the varied symptoms they give rise to.