SYMPODIA or less completely inverted and fused together into one member; symelia; sireniform mon- strosity. See Teratology {Malformations of Limbs). Symptom.—An indication of the pre- sence or progress of a disease, serving as a means of diagnosing the nature of the malady and the success or failure in curative measures; it is sometimes opposed to a physical sign, and is regarded as a subjective manifestation, while a physical sign is objective. Symptom-Complex.—The group of characteristic symptoms which together make up the clinical picture of any disease ; a syndrome. Syn-.—In compound words syn- (Gr. crvv, with) is a prefix signifying with or along with. Syna,ncea,. See Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes {Poison Wounds caused by Fish). Syna,psiS.—The close relationship (with- out actual continuity) which the terminal pro- cesses of two neurons form with each other (Gr. <ruv, with, and oltttu), I clasp). See Physiology, Tissues {Nerve, StrucUire). Synarthrosis.—An immovable joint in which there is no synovial cavity; e.g. sutures, synchondroses, schindyleses, and gomphoses. SyncephalUS.—A tei-atological type in which two foetuses are united by the heads and thoraces; e.g. the various forms of Janus monster, and fused twins with a single head and two pelves and two pairs of lower limbs. See Terat- ology (United Twins, Syncephalic). Synchelia or Syncheilus.— Ap- parent absence of the mouth or fusion of the lips (Gr. <jvv, together, and ;^etAos, a lip). Synchisis or Synchysis.—Confu- sion or mixing together (Gr. arvy^ea), I pour together); e.g. synchisis scintillans, the appear- ance of falling particles due to the presence of cholesterine crystals in the vitreous humour of the eye. See Vitreous Humour, Diseases of {Degeneration). Synchondrosis. See Synarthrosis. Synchondrotomy. — The section of the intra-articular cartilage of such a joint as the symphysis pubis ; symphysiotomy {q.v.). Synciitism. — Parallelism between the planes of the foetal head and those of the mother's pelvis in labour ; synclitic descent is downwai'd progress of the foetal head, certain planes of which maintain their parallelism with the successive planes of the pelvis ; it is doubt- ful whether synciitism normally occurs in labour. Syncionus. — Tremor occurring simul- taneously in several muscles, e.g. in chorea. OR SYMPUS 455 Syncopal. See Syncope. Syncope. See also Catheters, Uses ani> Dangers of {Syncope); Diphtheria {Complica- tions); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Etiology, Gouty Syncope) ; Heart, Myocardium AND Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease, Sudden Death); Heart, Neuroses of {Brady- cardia) ; Hysteria {Disorders of Circulation); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Progress, Terminations); Malaria {Syncopal Form); Malingering {Cir- culatory) ; Pleura, Diseases op {Pleurisy, Prog- nosis, Sudden Death); Pleura, Surgical Af- fections OF {Empyema); Raynaud's Disease {Symptoms, Local Syncope) ; Shock ; Stomach AND Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symp- tomatology, Syncope) ; Unconsciousness.—Syn- cope or fainting is a symptom seen in many different diseases, and may be induced by con- ditions differing widely one from another. No matter, however, what be the indirect or predisposing causal factor, the direct cause is essentially cerebral anaemia. The usual signs and symptoms of syncope are pallor of the face, cold sweat on the brow, clamminess of the hands, a sensation of sinking, nausea, and often of giddiness, blurring of vision, or a sensation of darkness, loss of consciousness, and, if the patient be in the erect posture, a somewhat gradual and passive sinking of the body towards the horizontal position rather than an actual sudden fall. The patient then remains uncon- scious for a variable period of time, during which the cardiac activity is so feeble that the radial pulse and cardiac impulse are imper- ceptible, although the heart's action is probably, almost certainly, not altogether in abeyance. During this period the respiratory movements are feeble and shallow. The attack passes off gradually, and consciousness is, as a rule, re- gained with one or more sighing respirations. Syncope is of more frequent occurrence in the female than in the male sex. Many women are, it is almost unnecessary to state, subject to frequent fainting attacks. In these instances of ordinary fainting, the event is, as a rule, brought on by some emotional disturbance— fright, horror, grief, pain, sudden joy, and so forth—or by the individual being in an over- heated or overcrowded apartment or building. In cases of this nature, there is a primary dilatation of the cutaneous and intra-abdominal blood-vessels with consequent fall of blood pressure, cardiac weakness, and cerebral anaemia. Syncope is further a not infrequent symptom of cardiac disease, being more common in associa- tion with aortic than with mitral lesions, and the patients who are liable to syncopal attacks usually complain of headache, and of giddiness and faintness, when they rise suddenly from the recumbent posture. In cases of myocardial disease, whether associated with valvular lesions or not, in cases of aortic aneurysm, of cardiac