SPECTROSCOPE IN MEDICINE 262 During the interval of time necessary for a complete vibration, the wave motion propagates itself through a distance known as the wave length (A). The velocity of light is the distance traversed by the wave motion in one second, and in a vacuum is constant for light of all wave lengths. It is measured by the ratio of the wave length to the period of vibration. The wave length determines the quality or colour of the light. It is longest for i'ed light, and successively shorter for orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet light. From these facts it also follows that the period of red light is longer than that of violet, the inter- mediate colours having intermediate times of vibration. The velocity of light in its passage through a glass prism is less than in vacuo, and also depends upon its wave length. The shorter the wave length of the light transmitted the greater is its retardation. In consequence, light of shorter wave length is refracted to a greater degree than that of longer wave length. Mixed light containing light of different wave lengths may therefore be decomposed into its constituents by means of a glass prism. The process of decomposition is known as dispersion, and the coloured band resulting fi-om the de- composition of mixed light by a glass prism is termed a spectrum. The instrument used for the analysis and examination of light is known as a spectroscope. Rays of homogeneous light, i.e. light containing a series of waves of one wave length, undergo deviation on passing- through a prism, but are otherwise left un- altered. When the entering and emergent rays of homogeneous light are symmetrically placed with reference to the refracting surfaces of the prism, the deviation is minimal. Description of the Spectroscope.—Various types of spectroscope are in use. The form used by Bunsen and KirchhofF consists of the following parts—three tubes, a collimator, a telescope, and a scale-tube placed horizontally with their long axes directed towards the centre of a circular plate, upon which an equilateral flint glass prism is placed with its refracting edge vertical to the axes of the tubes, and parallel with the slit of the collimator. White light, obtained from one of the sources to be mentioned later, falls upon a narrow slit placed in the principal focus of a lens situated at the end of the collimator nearest the prism. The rays of light diverging from the slit are thus rendered parallel, and fall obliquely upon the anterior surface of the prism. The continuous spectrum resulting from the passage of the rays through the prism is viewed by means of a telescope. The telescope consists of an anterior lens directed towards the prism, which forms a real inverted image of the spectrum. By means of the eye-piece of the telescope an enlarged secondary virtual image of the spectrum is viewed by the observer, Fine cross wires are present in the eye-piece of the telescope in order to enable one to localise different parts of the spectrum. The axis of the scale-tube is placed approxi- mately at right angles to that of the telescope. The photographed scale, consisting of numbered transparent vertical lines on an opaque back- ground, is placed at one extremity of the scale- tube, and lies in the principal focus of a lens situated at the end of the tube next the prism. The rays of light diverging from the illuminated scale are rendered parallel by means of this lens, and then fall upon the post surface of the prism, whence they are reflected into the tele- scope tube. By means of the telescope an image of the scale is formed in the same plane as that of the spectrum, but situated above it. The scale and spectrum can thus be simultaneously brought into focus by the ob- server. The spectroscope should also be pro- vided with a rectangular compai'ison prism placed over the lower half of the slit of the collimator. The light coming from a source placed at right angles to the axis of the colli- mator falls vertically upon one of the surfaces of the comparison prism, undergoes total reflec- tion at the hypotenuse, and emerging vertical to the third surface, which lies in apposition with the lower half of the slit, passes through the collimator. The upper half of the slit is illuminated by a source of light placed in the direction of the long axis of the collimator. By this means two spectra, situated one above the other, may be examined simultaneously. It is important to remember that, owing to the optical construction of the spectroscope, the spectrum yielded by the light passing through the lower half of the slit when viewed by the observer is seen above that yielded by the light passing through the upper half of the slit. The width of the slit may be varied by means of a micrometer screw. The narrower the slit the fainter and purer is the spectrum obtained; while the wider the slit, the brighter but less pure the spectrum. It is desirable, but not essential, that the edges of the slit should move symmetrically to the median line. In some instruments the slit is divided into an upper and a lower half, the width of each of these being independently adjustable by means of micrometer screws. When provided with the latter mechanism, together with an adjustable slit in the eye-piece, the instrument may also be used as a spectrophotometer. In some forms of the instrument—spectrometers—the scale- tube is replaced by means for accurately measur- ing the angular displacement of the telescope when it is directed towards different parts of the spectrum. Some types of the instrument are fitted with both these means of measui-ement. Another useful type of the instrument is the direct vision spectroscope. The construction of this instrument is based upon the principle that