SPINAL CORD 276 position in this region it is frequently termed the ventral longitudinal bundle. It is distri- buted throughout the cord to the ventral horns lying along the depths of the ventral fissure. Some of its fibres cross in the anterior commis- sure shortly before reaching their destination, The posterior lo7igitudinal bundle (descending fibres) have their origin in the nuclei oculo- motorii, some of the fibres crossing in the posterior commissure of the third ventricle, some in Meynert's decussation. Lying on either side of the middle line beneath the grey matter of the aqueduct and fourth ventricle, they sink along the raphe at the decussation of the medulla, and enter the ventral column of the cord. They are distributed to the ventral horns of both sides throughout the spinal cord. The four tracts last mentioned are the earliest tracts to be developed, and as the result of injury they are the earliest to show degeneration; consequently the products of such degeneration are absorbed relatively early. For example, as the result of a lesion injuring both the pyramidal tract and the posterior longitudinal bundle, at an early period, after such a lesion, the posterior longitudinal bundle might show marked degeneration and the pyramidal tract none, while long after the occurrence of the lesion the pyramidal tract might show degeneration and the posterior longitudinal bundle none. The vestibulospinal tract consists of a large number of fibres, having their origin in Deiter's nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle. In the spinal cord they are scattered over the ventral column from the lateral limit of the ventral roots to the depth of the ventral fissure. They are distributed to the ventral horns of both sides, the crossing fibres running in the ventral commissure. Descending Fibres of the Posterior Columns.— Descending collaterals of the posterior roots. These extend but a short distance below their origin (at the outside not more than three segments). They lie in close apposition to the mesial surface of the posterior horn, and end in the grey matter of that horn. Intrinsic descending system of the posterior column. These fibres are found only below the fourth dorsal segment. Their origin and destination are unknown. Very conspicuously degenerated in transverse lesions, they occupy successively areas in their course which have been termed the comma tract, the cornu-commissure zone, and the superficial crescentic zone, the oval area of Flechsig, the septo-marginal tract of Bruce, the sacral triangle of Gombault and Phillippe. Ascending Tracts.—Goll's column (dorso- mesial column) is composed of the long pro- cesses of the posterior root fibres from the lumbo-sacral region. In the thoracic region it seems doubtful whether any long ascending processes are given off by the posterior root fibres, and in the cervical region the long ascending collaterals do not reach Goll's column, but ascend in the posterior external column to end in the nucleus cuneatus. The fibres of this tract end for the most part by arborising around the cells of the gracile nucleus. Some, however, sweeping round that nucleus cross the raphe, as internal arcuate fibres reach the inferior vermis of the cerebellum by the infeinor peduncle. Burdach's column (dorso-lateral column) is composed in greater part of the fibres of the entering posterior roots, which after a compara- tively short course pass out of the column. The ascending degeneration, therefore, in this column does not extend a great distance above the point of lesion except in the cervical region, where, as has above been mentioned, the long ascending fibres of the cervical roots ascend in the dorso-lateral column to the cuneate nucleus. The majority of the ascending collaterals of the posterior root lie for several segments above the entry of each root as a compact bundle mesial to the dorsal horn, and constitute the "external root zone" of Burdach's column. Other fibres derived from the posterior roots occupy the dorsal part of Burdach's column, and form the " dorsal root zone," while between these two and the mesially situated Goll's column is a somewhat triangular field—the "middle root zone." The latter is of especial interest pathologically. Its fibres are doubtless of posterior root origin ; but, in marked con- trast to the fibres of the external and dorsal root zones, and of Goll's column, which are developed before the end of foetal life, those of the middle root zone are not developed till after birth. Further, they are the first structures to show degeneration in tabes dorsalis, and even in marked cases of the latter disease the patho- logical changes may be confined to this zone. The direct cerebellar tract is formed by the axons of the cells of Clarke's column of the same side, and reaches the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum by way of the resti- form body. Gower's tract arises from cells at the base of the posterior horn, chiefly upon the opposite side of the cord from the lumbar region up- wards, and reaches the cerebellum by way of its superior peduncle. It is distributed mainly to the lateral lobe. The ascending fibres of the posterior longi- tudinal bundle, of the thalama-, rubro-, and ponto-spinal tracts, accompany the descending fibres of these bundles. Their origin in the spinal cord has not been definitely ascertained. The central canal of the spinal cord at an early period is oval in shape, witii its longer diameter dorso-ventral. At a later period it becomes quadriradiate with a short ventral and