SMALLPOX 226 Pain, tenderness, and swelling meantime gradu- ally disappear. After a variable period, extending perhaps to eight, ten, or twelve weeks or more, the falling- oS of the scabs is completed, as also the desqua- mation of adjacent skin. For a varying period the hypersemic condition of the sites of the scabs persists, leaving reddish blotches, especially marked in cold weather. These ultimately dis- appear, but the scarring which results from destruction of the skin persists through life. Loss of hair is common, but the loss is not as a rule permanent, unless the pocks on the scalp have been deep. Convalescence is frequently interrupted by large tracks of skin the pocks completely coalesce, more especially this is the case on the face, hands, and arms, whilst on other parts of the body they are closely crowded together. The mucous membranes and the larynx are usually implicated. High temperature and delirium are prominent symptoms. Recovery from this form of disease is the exception ; when it does take place convalescence is slow, and great permanent disfigurement ensues. Purpura Variolosa.—This name is given to the happily rare form of smallpox believed to be associated with the hfemorrhagic diathesis, and which is characterised by extensive htemor- rhages into the skin, and of internal parts. Fig. 6.-Mary D., aged 23, had never been vaccinated. The illustration shows the twelfth day of illness, and is in marked contrast to the preceding vaccinated case. The eruption is confluent. Constitutional disturbance was great, and convalescence exceedingly protracted, but the patient ultimately recovered, though with permanent scarring and disfigurement. the occurrence of boils, which often recur to a most troublesome extent for many weeks. Bron- chitis is frequent; pleurisy, and inflammations of the joints, are not uncommon. Conjunctivitis is a not infrequent compUca- tion. An ulcer often occurs on the cornea, commencing at its edge. Clinical Variations in Smallpor.—-It will be obvious that there are considerable variations in the type of smallpox, and it is necessary that three prominent types should be specially alluded to. Variola conjluens is a term usually applied to those forms of smallpox in which the eruption covers practically the whole of the body; over Variola hcemorrhagica pustulosa, as the name implies, associates the haemorrhages with the ordinary eruption of smallpox. Haemorrhages occur in the papules, and also in livid spots on the trunk and limbs, and the condition of the gums resembles that seen in scurvy; bleeding from the nose and rectum, hoematuria, and in women metrorrhagia, are frequent. The initial symptoms in this variety are severe, the secondary fever usually low and accompanied by great prostration. Both forms of disease are almost always fatal. Varioloid.—Varioloid is the name commonly given to a form of smallpox, mild in course and sliort in dui'ation, and which, in fact, is the form