85 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE of the vertebral column. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic system. The testicles hang obliquely and at unequal heights in the scrotum—the left being the lower. They are of ovoid form, and measure 1^ inches in length, nearly 1 inch in width, and inches in thickness. The weight of each varies from f to 1 ounce. With the exception of the posterior border, where the vessels and nerves enter or pass out, they are closely invested by the tunica vaginalis. Attached to the posterior border of the gland is the epididymis, principally composed of a long, tortuous efferent canal. Its upper extremity, larger than the lower, projects forward on the upper end of the testis, and is named the head, or globus major; the lower extremity is called the tail, or globus minor ; whilst the intervening portion is the body. The epididymis, partly surrounded by the tunica vaginalis, is attached to the testis by fibrous tissue, and at the globus major also by the efferent ducts of the testis. At the front of the globus major and towards its outer side are found one or more small pedunculated bodies—the hydatids of Morgagni. They consist of connective tissue and blood- vessels, and are remains of the Mlillerian duct. The testis is enclosed in a dense, unyielding fibrous capsule—the tunica albuginea—which is prolonged at its posterior border for a short distance into the substance of the gland to form the corpus Highmori, or mediastinum testis. The mediastinum extends from the upper nearly to the lower end of the gland, and from its front and sides numerous slender fibrous cords and imperfect septa of connective tissue are given off in radiating directions to be attached to the internal surface of the tunica albuginea at different points, thus incompletely dividing the glandular substance into lobules. The whole inner surface of the tunica albuginea is covered by a multitude of fine blood-vessels— branches of the spermatic artery—tunica vascu- losa. The gland substance is a mass of con- voluted seminiferous tubules, loosely connected together by a peculiar fibrous tissue rich in lymphatic spaces. The diameter of these tubes is about 2 mm., their length about 60 cm., and their number between 800 and 900. Their walls are composed of several layers of flattened cells. Amongst the epithelial cells of the innermost layer several filaments or spermatozoa may be observed in different stages of develop- ment. As the seminiferous tubes approach the mediastinum testis they unite with one another at acute angles into a smaller number of tubes which have a less flexuous course, and at length become nearly straight. Close to the medi- astinum they taper into short, straight tubes (tubuli recti) of smaller diameter and lined by flattened epithelium. The tubuli recti open into a network of vessels, which lies in front of the mediastinum—rete vasculosum testis— which have no proper walls, but are mere channels in the fibrous stroma lined by flattened epithelium. From this network originate twelve to twenty tubules—vasa efferentia—which per- forate the tunica albuginea beneath the globus major, and having again become convoluted— coni vasculosi—they ultimately terminate in the convoluted canal of the epididymis. The canal of the epididymis is disposed in numerous coils, and extends from the globus major downwards to the globus minor, where, turning upwards, it is continued on as the vas deferens. When unravelled it is 20 feet or more in length, with a varying diameter of from •4 to "27 mm., and is lined in its vipper part by ciliated epithelium. The vas deferens forms the continuation onward of the epididymal canal. It ascends upon the inner side of the epididymis along the back of the testis, and passes upwards in the spermatic cord as far as the internal abdominal ring, where it turns suddenly downwards and inwards into the pelvis, crossing over the external iliac vessels, and turning round the outer side of the epi- gastric artery. Running beneath the peritoneum it reaches the side of the bladder, upon which it descends, curving downwards and backwards to the under surface of that viscus, and finally passes forward to the base of the prostate gland. In its course within the pelvis it crosses over the cord of the obliterated hypogastric artery and lies to the inner side of the ureter, beyond which it is attached to the coats of the bladder, in contact with the rectum. Gradually ap- proaching its fellow of the opposite side upon the base of the bladder, it passes between the seminal vesicles—the duct from which it joins close to the base of the prostate—to form one of the common seminal or ejaculatory ducts. The vas deferens is about 18 inches in length, and has an average diameter of 2*5 mm. with a lumen of -7 mm. Towards its termination beneath the bladder it becomes enlarged and sacculated, forming the ampulla of Henle, and resembling in shape and structure a part of the seminal vesicle. Its walls consist of an outer areolar investment, an intermediate thick muscular layer, and a lining of columnar epithelium—not ciliated. From near the com- mencement of the vas or lower part of the epididymis a long narrow tube leads off. and becoming tortuous and convoluted, is rolled up into an elongated mass among the vessels of the cord—the vas aberrans. It is developed from the Wolffian duct of the foetus. In front of the cord immediately above the head of the epididymis is a small body consisting of several small angular masses containing convoluted tubes lined with ciliated epithelium. It is sometimes called the paradidymis, and is a remnant of part of the Wolffian body. The spermatic cord is formed by the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics of the testis, by the