SLEEP, NORMAL AND MORBID 215 condition may be determined by the adminis- ti'ation of an ansesthetic, such as ether or chloroform. According to Lyman, most dreams are com- posed of visual images. The dreamer looks upon a picture which changes silently before his eyes, without appealing to any other sense than that of sight. He also believes that in certain cases any other sense may become excited, producing illusions or hallucinations as perfect as the images of healthy vision. They may be suggested by external impressions, or they may, at least apparently, find their starting-point in accidental states of the bodily organisation. It is very questionable whether hallucinations of smell, taste, or common sensation ever do occur in dreams. With regard to smell and taste it is unlikely, as we are unable to conjure up actual tastes or smells apart from their sensible cutaneous or other effects and accom- paniments. Most of these phenomena are illusory, and are due to the presence of an actual stimulus acting on the organs of sense. All the phenomena connected with the cutaneous sense, the muscular sense, and sensations of pain are productive of illusions, and may be traced to alternations of the specific energy of their nervous connections. Muscular unrest, ansesthesia, parsesthesia, hypersesthesia, etc., all may be indirectly productive of the various dream illusions. With regard to vision and hearing, however, the habitual reference to these senses renders them particularly liable to act during sleep, and it is with the activities of these two senses that most of the dream states have to do. Maury states that the ease with which dreams are recollected varies inversely with the depths of sleep in which they occur. The intensity or vividness of the illusions or hallucinations also in part determine their capability of recall. The most important factor, however, is the awakening immediately after the dream and recalling to consciousness the events of the dream. When sleep is continued after a dream there is apt to be failure of registration, and when full consciousness is reached, the dream cannot be recalled. Manaceine believes that the hypnagogic state is most noticeable in stout, phlegmatic, and plethoric individuals, and very rarely in nervous and sanguine persons. When the hypnagogic period is abnormally long, it often forms an early symptom of mental break- down. For many of the facts connected with the hypnagogic state, it has been argued that there is a complete analogy between the hypna- gogic and the hypnotic states. The response or reaction to suggestions from without is some- what similar. In a series of experiments undertaken by Manaceine, it was found that the hypnagogic state occurred more frequently in children than in adults, and in males more frequently than in females. Too warm a bed- room had a bad influence in producing it. A psychological analysis of our dreams recorded in the almost classical writings of Maury reveals the fact that dreams are mainly made up of visual images. Visual dreams complicated by auditory representations consti- tute about 60 per cent of the whole. Purely auditory hallucinations are regarded as occurring only in musicians. As we have already seen, dreams connected with sensations of touch, temperature, and muscular movement, also of taste and smell, occur only as illusory pheno- mena, and may be traced to some form of actual stimulation present. In general para- lysis of the insane, in the ataxic type, where there is loss of muscular sense, the dreams sometimes take the forms of feelings as if the body were flying in the air. Dreams have been divided into two groups :— {a) Presentation dreams {nervem-eiz Trdume)- occasioned or accompanied by peripheral excita- tion. These would correspond to the illusory types occasioned exoneurally, and any of the senses may be aff"ected. (5) Representation dreams (psychische Trdume)' occasioned by central cerebral excitation, and of the hallucinatory types. The rarity of olfactory, gustatory, and organic hallucinations depends upon the absence of representation in. connection with those senses. Ribot investigated the revivability of smells,, etc., in dreams in sixty persons of varying class,, age, and sex, and found that in 60 per cent of his subjects there was a distinct and in many cases a very pronounced ability to revive, voluntarily and involuntarily, familiar smells, such as those of many flowers, carbolic acid, etc.i Titchener also believes that taste dreams involve a representative element. When we consider the impossibility of voluntarily reviving either smells or tastes apart from any present objective stimulus, and without any confusion of the actual smell or taste with other sensible eff'ects upon the other senses {i.e. smell and taste apart from their usual accompaniments of sight, touch, and common sensation, etc.), we doubt the accuracy of these observations, and it is probably more correct to assume that where there is any representative elements in dreams of tastes or smells, that element is either due to some present objective stimulus, or confusion of the sensible effects of a former stimulus—the eff^ects themselves being repro- duced, and not the actual smell or taste. As a general rule, dreams are more numerous in cultured persons, and tend to reproduction of the individual's personal experience in varied forms; in uncultured individuals, on the other hand, dreams are neither so numerous nor ' Ribot, Psycliologie des Sentiments, Conterap. Sc.. Series, 1897, j)p. 140 et seq.