520 TEETH especially if weakened by structural defects or previous disease, and as a frequent result severe odontalgia or neuralgia is induced. The oral mucous membrane when irritated and inflamed, as it very often is in the pregnant condition, secretes acid, and this along with acid eructations have an injurious effect on the teeth. Likewise the fact that owing to the tendency to retch and besickthe teeth are often neglected at this period. It is frequently found after pregnancy that the pulps of filled teeth have become atrophied or gangrenous as a result of the impaired nutrition incident to this state, eventuating in alveolar abscess, and it may be septic local conditions. In the state of typhoid, tuberculosis, or any of the exanthemata, where vitiation of the oral secretions prevails, there exists a state of matters favourable to the development and progress of dental caries, and it is well known Fig. 5.—Section of carious dentine. Leptothrix fibres in tubules of dentine and expected, that after an attack of say typhoid, the teeth generally are found affected by caries, although they had given no trouble prior to this. There seems to be a greater tendency to caries between the ages of 12 and 30. Two reasons may be given why this is so : one is that the teeth of young people contain a larger amount of animal matter, making them more susceptible to attack; and, second, the teeth as a general rule are not cleansed so well as they might be, while the amount of ferment- able matter in the shape of sweets, etc., taken must acc injuriously on the teeth. With age the teeth get harder and less susceptible to caries. Diet in Relation to Caries.—It has been found that diet has an important bearing in respect to dental caries, as it has been found that people living principally on farinaceous foods suffer most from caries, while flesh-feeders are not so prone to it, the mastication of the tough fibrous material cleansing the teeth, and though it finds lodgment about the teeth and decomposes, the product is alkaline, whereas the soft fari- naceous foods get packed in between the teeth and into fissures, fermenting and producing acid conditions favourable to the spread of caries. Dr. W. Wallace, in a paper recently read by him, attributes the prevalence of caries in the present day to the elimination from our food-stuffs of the fibrous tissue, the large amount of starch food used, and the over-cook- ing of our animal food, giving the teeth and jaws so little to do, it being well known that organs not used are liable to degeneration. The great increase in the prevalence of dental caries in Great Britain within recent years led the British Dental Association in 1890 to appoint a committee to investigate the con- dition of school children's teeth, and from the valuable reports issued yearly up to date we learn that a considerable advance has been made in the education of public opinion, and in furtherance of the supervision and treatment of school children's teeth ; but much remains to be done, and it is to be hoped that ere long all board schools and others will have dental surgeons appointed to them, to look after and treat the teeth of those who are to take our places as soldiers, sailors, mechanics, merchants, etc., who will enter life poorly equipped indeed if deficient in teeth, or constantly laid up, as a result of diseases, local or general, due to septic conditions produced by numerous bad teeth. The late war has drawn attention to the numerous rejections of otherwise fit recruits, both in the army and navy, owing to defective teeth. A recruit must have ten sound teeth in either jaw to be eligible for enlistment; after enlistment not the slightest attention is paid to the teeth, which is very bad policy, and makes the primary precaution of no avail. To remedy matters, it would be well for the Government to appoint dental surgeons to the various military and naval depots, whose duty it would be to examine recruits' teeth (an expert only can tell whether a tooth is savable or not), and do the necessai'y operative work, inculcating on the patients at the same time the necessity of keeping their mouths in a sanitary condition by regular daily brushing of the teeth. Condition of the Saliva in Dental Caries.— The saliva in bad cases of dental caries is frequently found thick, sticky, and of an offen- sive odour. In gout, rheumatism, and diabetes the saliva is strongly acid, and as this acid is usually lactic, we can understand that this would injuriously affect weak teeth, while the presence of a large or small amount of sulpho- cyanide of ammonia in the saliva is said to prevent or retard dental caries. It is not definitely known whether in alkaline conditions of the saliva dental caries can progress, but it has been pointed out that some micro-organisms which are capable of softening dentine have alkaline products.