STOMACH : SURGICAL 391 occupy its normal position (the patient being recumbent and having been so for a variable period before the operation), but it is easily displaced downwards, the gastro - hepatic omentum is usually so attenuated as to be transparent, and the pancreas may be visible above the lesser curvature. The aim of the surgeon is to shorten the superior attachments of the stomach so as to jirevent prolapse of the organ when the patient resumes the upright posture. This operation is known as gastropexy. Attention is then directed to the pylorus, and if it be narrowed or kinked, pyloroplasty or gastro-enterostomy should be performed, and if the organ is much dilated, its capacity may be diminished by gastroplication. [See also Entbroptosis, vol. iii. p. 120.) Cancer The surgical bearings of cancer of the stomach chiefly belong to the domain of diagnosis and treatment. Diagnosis.—The outstanding clinical features are loss of flesh, anaemia, and dyspeptic symp- toms. The stomach-tube usually demonstrates a greater or less degree of stasis of the gastric contents, especially if the pylorus is obstructed. Free hydrochloric acid is absent, except when cancer is grafted on a pre-existing ulcer. Al- though rarely present at an early stage of the disease, the formation of lactic and butyric acids is characteristic of cancer. Examination of the blood may show an association of decided ansemia and leucocytosis, the aneemia being characterised by a diminution in the proportion of hsemoglohin and an irregularity in the size and form of the red corpuscles. The absence of a palpable tumour is not to be allowed to affect the diagnosis; the belly wall may be too thick and rigid, the tumour may be too small, or—and this is especially the case in cancer of the pylorus and lesser curvature—it may be out of reach beneath the liver or costal margin. If cancer be suspected and there is no palpable tumour, recourse must be had to an exploratory incision, as it is our only sure means of making the diagnosis at a stage at which it is of real value. In the presence of a palpable tumour other possibilities must be borne in mind. It must be differentiated from tumours of the colon, omentum, gall-bladder, liver, pancreas, and abdominal wall, tumours resulting from perigastric adhesions related to a penetrating ulcer, and a floating kidney or spleen. Valuable information is often obtained by artificial dis- tension of the stomach, but certainty may not be attained until the abdomen is opened. Treatment.—So long as there is no specific remedy for cancer, removal of the growth affords the only possibility of cure. Whether this is possible and expedient can rarely be determined before opening the belly. Opinions founded on external examination may prove misleading. A small and movable tumour may be found to be hopelessly complicated by granular infection or metastases in the liver or peritoneum ; and conversely, a large tumour may lend itself to radical removal and permanent cure. Even cachexia, although ominous, may not be a bar to a successful operation. Surgically speaking, the most hopeful cases are those in which the pylorus is obstructed at an early stage, because the patient is more likely to seek advice while the disease is still confined to its seat of origin. An exploratory operation should only be undertaken if the strength of the patient is such as will enable him to survive removal of the disease; otherwise the exploration has no object. Points to he Investigated on Opening the Abdomen.—The stomach is examined, and the presence of cancer excluded or confirmed. Difficulty may be experienced in differentiating between a chronic ulcer with induration and adhesions, and " ulcer-cancer"; in doubtful cases it is safer to regard and treat the con- dition as cancer. Having identified the growth, the conditions for and against its radical removal must then be determined. Attention is directed to the following points:— 1. The Extent of Involvement of the Stomach itself.—This is estimated by inspection and by palpating both anterior and posterior walls of the viscus between the fingers : growths origin- ating at the pylorus or near the lesser curvature tend to spread towards the cardia, often un- equally on different aspects of the organ. Mere extent of the disease is not in itself a bar to operation, as shown by cases of successful removal of the whole organ, but extensive disease is usually associated with widespread infection of the glands and with infected ad- hesions, both of which are likely sources of recurrence. 2. The Extension of Cancer to the Lymphatic Glands.—This is estimated by the enlargement and induration of the glands. As in cancers elsewhere, the glands may be enlarged without being infected, hence the advisability in doubt- ful cases of having one of them submitted to microscopical examination at the time of the operation. The coronary glands along the lesser curvature, lying close to the stomach between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omen- tum, are most often infected in cancers of the pylorus and lesser curvature. They may be enlarged right up to the cardia, and they should be removed as a routine procedure, at any rate, up to the point where the coronary artery joins the lesser curvature. The chain along the greater curvature more often escapes, but in pyloric growths the glands immediately below the tumour should be removed. Infection' of the deeper glands lying along the upper border and partly embedded in the substance of the