VOL. IX 1 ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONARY OE MEDICINE AND SURGERY RhinolithS.—Nasal calculi. See Nose, Foreign Bodies {Rhinoliths). Rhinophyma..—A form of acne rosacea, with hypertrophy, affecting specially the nose. See Acne {Rosacea). Rhinopla.Sty.—Reparative or plastic surgery of the nose. Rhinorrhoea..—A mucous or serous dis- charge from the nose. See Nose, Foreign Bodies, etc. {Nasal and Cerehro-Spinal Rhinor- rhoea); Hydrocephalus {Symptoms, Escape of Cerehro-Spinal Fluid by the Nose); Measles {Complications, Rhinitis). RhinOSCleroma. See Nose, Chronic Infective Diseases {Rhinoscleroma); Pharynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Rhinoscleroma); Skin, Bacteriology of the {Rhinoscleroma); Tumours of the Skin {Rhinoscleroma). Rhinoscopy. See Nose, Examination OF the {Anterior and Posterior Rhinoscopy). Rhipecephalus Annulatus. — A species of tick which conveys Texas fever to cattle. See Malaria {Historical). RhiZOdontrypy. — Opening into or puncture of the root of a tooth. RhiZOpoda,.—See Parasites {Protozoa). Rhodopsin.—Visual purple. See Retina {Anatomy). RhoeadOS Petala.—Red Poppy Petals or those of Papaver Rhoeas; they contain no morphine but only red colouring matter ; there is an official preparation {Syrupus Rhoeados) used as a colouring agent. Rhombencephalon. — The hind- brain or posterior cerebral vesicle of embryology, corresponding to the medulla oblongata, pons varolii, and cerebellum. See Embryology. RhombOideuS.—A muscle of the neck having a rhomboid shape. RhonchUS.—A rattling or snoring sound (Gr. po^Oo^, a roaring) heard on auscultation over the lungs, and due to narrowing of a bronchus or to the presence therein of tenacious mucus; it has not, correctly used, the same meaning as rale {q.v.). Rhubarb.—The erect rhizome of several varieties of Rheum grown in China, Tibet, and America. It contains numerous alkaloids, the most important of which are chrysarobin, chrysophanic acid, and rheotannic acid. To the first two it owes its purgative properties, to the last its astringency. Dose — 3-10 grs. (repeated); 15-30 grs. (one administration). Preparations — 1. Extractum Rhei. Dose— 2-8 grs. 2. Pulvis Rhei Compositus. Gregory's powder. Contains magnesia and ginger. Dose —20-60 grs. 3. Pilula Rhei Composita. Con- tains aloes. Dose—4-8 grs. 4. Tinctura Rhei Composita. Dose—1-4 3. 5. Liquor Rhei Concentratus. Dose—1-1 3. 6. Syrupus Rhei. Dose—1-2 3. 7. Infusum Rhei. Dose—1-1 §. Rhubarb is an excellent stomachic and purgative for occasional use, as when it is desired to unload the bowels without affecting the general system, or for the purpose of removing irritating materials from the intestine. If used over long periods it tends to cause chronic constipation. It should not be ad- ministered alone, on account of the griping it causes. It is specially valuable in the digestive disturbances of children, and in the treatment of irritative diarrhoea whether in children or