213 SLEEP, NORMAL AND MORBID passes into deep slumber, and remains so until he is with difficvilty awakened. STAGES 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 ir 5TAQE HYPNAGOGIC DREAM DEEP / CHAKT 4. Morbid Somnolence. — Morbid somnolence occurs as the result of habit, and in those who are anaemic, and also very commonly in children, savages, and cretins. Extreme heat and ex- treme cold also cause weakening of conscious- ness and morbid somnolence. Narcolepsy^ or sleeping sickness, occurs in various countries as an endemic disease. It is more commonly seen in feeble-minded individuals, who after fatigue become drowsy, and pass into a condition of profound sleep, which may last, with or without intermissions, until death occurs. Sometimes the condition simulates that of katalepsy. In myxoedematous conditions there is apathy and increasing drowsiness, with weakening of all the mental faculties. In states of mental enfeeble- ment and of limited intellect there is a tendency to prolong the duration of sleep. In some of the reported instances of prolonged sleep there is some resemblance to the winter sleep of animals. Clinically, the occurrence of fleeting inter- ruptions of consciousness is of great import- ance. There are several types which should be mentioned. Petit mal, or paroxysmal sleep, occurring as a minor form of epilepsy. This condition ranges in severity from simple drowsi- ness or actual sleep to states of mental auto- matism in its different degrees. I have else- where {Mental Physiology, p. 342) mentioned the two chief hypotheses to account for the period of mental automatism, viz. (1) the period is not accompanied by consciousness, so that nothing can be recalled to memory ; (2) con- sciousness does exist, but in so weak a form that none of the facts occurring in conscious- ness can be recalled. Certain cases of mental automatism are very closely allied to dream states, in which a person may answer questions rationally, having, however, little or no after- consciousness of the event. The loss of memory for dreams has been thought to rest in the fact that the states of consciousness during dreams are extremely weak. The various types of so-called double con- sciousness form an interesting series of grada- tions between sleep and health. In a contribu- tion to the proceedings of the British Medical Association (vide British Medical Journal, 23rd September 1899), I endeavoured to bridge the apparently impassable gulf between the pheno- mena of double consciousness and our more ordinary experiences, and drew analogies from a comparison with dream, somnambulistic, epi- leptic, amnesic, and insane states. Briefly enumerated, the cases mentioned fall under the following seven types :— 1. Those occurring in early life, and in which the abnormal state is preceded by night-terrors, somnambulism, or by both. 2. Types in which the abnormal state is pre- ceded by profound sleep, and in which the normal state is only again reached after pro- longed sleep. 3. Types due to temporary or periodic am- nesia acquired as the result of accident, injury, or disease. 4. Epileptifoi-m types. 5. Insane types. 6. Hysterical anaesthetic types. 7. Types in which, during the abnormal state, the subject assumes the possession of a medium- ship. These types are more fully considered in other volumes under the headings of " Night Terrors," "Memory," "Epilepsy," and "Uncon- sciousness." Usually the narcoleptic types of morbid sleep tend to progress in frequency and severity until they threaten not only dementia—or loss of mental life—but also physical death. Sometimes electricity has proved beneficial, but in the great majority of cases treatment seems to be of little avail. Morhid somnolence occurs occasionally in the condition known as katatonia. The later stages of this disease (attonita) are characterised by immobility, with even marked rigidity of the muscles, and occasionally mutism. The motor inhibition is very noticeable, and the fixity of the posture, together with total inability to respond to stimuli, suggest a condition closely analogous to morbid sleep. Sometimes thei'e is " verbigei-ation " or abnormal and uncontrollable repetition of words somewhat analogous to the phenomena called echolalie. In this latter condition the subject may not understand or be able to answer any questions ; he hears, but only repeats mechanically over and over again, at each repetition cutting the phrase shorter and omitting final syllables, until the whole has disappeared ("Sleep," in Be Manaceine, p. 110). For particulars as to the relationship of sleep to hypnosis, see article on " Hypnotism." The Hypnagogic State. — The condition known as the hypnagogic state occurs when the individual is neither awake nor fully asleep. During this period, as we have seen, the senses become more or less inactive, the activity of the sense of hearing being the most persistent. The reflex activity of the spinal cord is at first somewhat exalted, owing to its being released in a considerable measure from the control of the