415 STRUMIPRIVAL Strumiprival.—Having lost the thyroid gland ; this has as its result a form of cachexia {cachexia strmnipriva); thyroprival. Striimpell's Disease.—Acute prim- ary haemorrhagic encephalitis. Strumpell's Paralysis.—The hereditary or family form of spastic spinal paralysis. Strumpell's Theory, ^ee Athetosis {Pathology, Polio-encephalitis). Strychnia and Strychnina. See Strychnine. St rye h n i n e. See also Alkaloids ; Asphyxia {Causes); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Treatment, Medicinal); Nux Vomica; Pneumonia, Clinical {Rational Treatment); Toxicology {Strychnine). — Nux Vomica, the poison-nut, is the dried ripe seeds of Strychnos mix vomica, an East Indian tree. It contains two alkaloids, strychnine and hrucine, the former being the more powerful. The dose of nux vomica is 1-4 grs. Preparations— 1. Tinctura Nucis Vomicae, containing \ gr. strychnine in 110 m. Dose—5-15 m. 2. Extractum Nucis Vomicae, containing about 5 per cent of strychnine. Dose~\-\ gr. 3. Extractum Nucis Vomicae Liquidum, containing 1^ gr. strychnine in 110 m. Dose—1-3 m. Strychnine occurs as minute, odourless, elongated prisms of a creamy white colour. It is extremely bitter, and can be tasted in a solution of 1 in 30,000 in water. It is sparingly soluble in water, but much more readily dis- solved in alcohol and chloroform. Dose— eV-Ts gr- Preparation—'^■^vxv^xx?, Ferri Phos- phatis c. Quinina et Strychnina. Each fl. dr. contains ^ gr. strychnine. Dose—1-1 3. Strychnin^e Hydrochloridum is more com- monly used. It is soluble 1 in 35 of water. Z)ose—^i^-yij gr. Preparation—lAQ^ViOx Strych- ninfe Hydrochloride Contains 1 gr. in 110 m. Dose—%% m. (by mouth); i-4 m. (hypodermically). Nux vomica is very largely used, with excellent results, as a bitter stomachic in cases of feeble digestion with an atonic condition of the gastro-intestinal musculature. In chronic constipation it is a valuable addition to other remedies as a stimulant to peristalsis. For this same action it is often of the greatest service in the after-treatment of abdominal operations for the prevention of threatened paralytic bowel distension. It forms an ingredient of most tonic mixtures prescribed for conditions of general depression or ill-health, for the debility following severe illness, and nerve exhaustion following overwork, etc. Much difference of opinion exists as to the indications for the use of strychnine as a cardiac stimulant. It should be remembered that it is in no sense a cardiac tonic, but a powerful circulatory stimulant acting through the nervous system. It is thus invalu- able as a whip to a flagging heart in threatened sudden heart-failure in the course of any disease, in profound shock, after severe haemor- rhage, in syncope during chloroform anaesthesia, and in opium poisoning. But its continued employment throughout a long, exhausting illness is usually harmful, and simply overdrives a willing but already partially exhausted heart. For similar reasons over-stimulation by means of strychnine in cases of post-operative shock should be carefully guarded against. In some cases of organic cardiac trouble, however, strychnine appears to have a more beneficial effect than either digitalis or strophanthus. As a respiratory stimulant, also, strychnine must be used with discrimination. In the dyspnoea of severe bronchitis and of phthisis it is often invaluable as a direct stimulant to the re- spiratory centre, especially when the breathing is becoming feeble and shallow ; but in pneumonia, where most often the danger lies in cardiac exhaustion from toxaemia, stimulation of respira- tion is uncalled for and may be injurious. Strychnine has been employed in a large number of nervous diseases. In progressive muscular atrophy it appears to have done good, and also in lead palsy. . In old-standing hemi- plegias and infantile paralysis it may be helpful, but it should never be used during the acute stage of such diseases. In post-diphtheritic paralysis it is of great service. It has given excellent results in some cases of nocturnal incontinence. Occasionally chorea minor is benefited by strychnine when other drugs have failed. In amaurosis brought on by alcohol or tobacco it is almost a specific. A combination of strychnine and atropine is recommended to counteract the craving for drink in cases of alcoholism. St. Sauveur. See Balneology {France, Sulphur Waters). Stultitia.—Mental dulness. See Mental Deficiency, etc. Stump. *See Amputations ; Ankle-Joint, Region of, Operations ; etc. Stupe.—A pledget or cloth wrung out of hot water and applied to the skin as a counter- irritant ; it may be sprinkled with laudanum or turpentine to increase its effect. Stupidity. See Adolescent Insanity {Lesser Meiital Changes). Stupor.—Mental torpor; although used in a somewhat vague fashion, the term stupor is usually given either to acute dementia {anergic stupor) or to delusional or melancholic stupor {^melancholia cum stupore). See Adolescent Insanity {Puberty and Adolescence); Catalepsy