SMALLPOX 227 that the disease commonly takes when it attacks those who have been previously vaccinated. The term "modified smallpox" is equally applicable. Vaccination {q.v.) protects most persons completely for a certain length of time from smallpox, but the longer the term of yeai's since this protection was afforded, the less will its influence be, consequently the terms " vario- loid " or " modified smallpox," under which are included all these modifica- tions, must be regarded as comprehensive ones. Gener- ally speaking, the initial ■symptoms do not differ from those already described. They may, however, be of shorter duration, and the ill- ness may terminate with the appearance of a pimple or two upon the face or wrists, the temperature falling ab- ruptly to the normal; indeed, but for the association of the illness with other cases •of smallpox there would be nothing to be considered pathognomonic in cases such as these. The initial exan- themata, already described, are met with in varioloid; the erythematous rashes are said by authorities only to occur in this variety of the disease, and to be not infre- quent. The true eruption presents every variety in amount, and it may abort completely at the second, third, or subse- quent day of its appearance, instead of following the usual •course, and convalescence at once commences. The erup- tion, though disci'ete and sparse in its distribution, is quite characteristic, and ex- cept for this limited distribu- tion, and the abrupt check to its development, it answers the description given; it is ■chiefly upon the face, wrists, hands, and forearms, and very sparsely scat- tered on the trunk and limbs, very little on the back. In rare cases the disease runs a more severe course, approaching the unmodified disease. The following cases are illustrative of some of the salient clinical features, and must be noted in connection with the accompanying charts :— Case L—Kate H , aged 10.—Admitted June 28th, on the fifth day of the illness, with a very diffuse rash cohering over the entire face, ;arms, and hands, patches of cohering eruption on trunk and legs, but more scanty on the back. Stage of rash vesicular. Frequent cough, laryngeal in character; eyes suffused; patient moaning and delirious; numerous dark, htemor- rhagic spots on the back, chest, and legs; eruption evident about the tongue, sordes, blood-like on lips and teeth; occasional efforts to vomit, patient constantly grinding her teeth. The eruption progressed in the usual way Fig. 6.—James B., aged 44. Had been vaccinated in infancy, one faint scar hearinj; evidence of tlie fact, and he had been re-vaccmated on the second or third day of incubation of smallpox, two places developing fairly well. The eruption is seen (sixth day of illness) to be exceedingly sparse, and the constitutional symptoms were trifling. during the next twenty-four hours, the patient in the meantime remaining more or less delirious. Some sleep had been procured after bromide of potassium, but when awake the patient required careful restraint to prevent her rubbing or scratching the affected parts. Numerous bullte containing blood-stained serum apparent about the face. Several of these have been rubbed by the patient, leaving large abrasions on various parts of the face ; a similar condition exists on the right wrist. The cough continues, and is relieved by spraying