SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 97 cate with each other. The loculi are lined with regular columnar, cubical, or stratified epithel- ium, and intra-cystic papillomata are not un- common. The connective tissue framework of the tumour consists mainly of fibrous tissue, but it may be so abundant as to form the bulk of the tumour, the cysts being sparse. In some of the specimens, especially those met with in infants, plain muscle fibre has been detected, and in at least one instance hair has been found. As the tumour increases in size, it flattens the body of the testicle until it is reduced to a narrow stratum intervening between the tunica albuginea and the adenoma. In the large specimens it is often difficult to detect any remnant of the testicle. Symptoms and Ca-iise. — This form of cystic disease may aff'ect the testicle at any age between birth and the fortieth year, most often in middle life. The tumours grow insidiously, painlessly, and slowly. They exist for several years, and may attain a moderately large size. They are smooth, uniform, and ovoid, but as they enlarge careful palpation may detect some spots softer and more elastic than others The spermatic cord and lymphatic glands are un- alFected, and the general health is not impaired. Recurrence after removal is exceptional; metas- tasis is not unknown. Castration is the only treatment, and ought not to be delayed. Enchondroma of the Testicle.— The frequency with which cartilage appears in cystic sarco- matous tumours of the testis is noteworthy; it occurs also alone in hyaline masses which vary in number, and apparently without cysts or sarcomatous material, but though cases from time to time occur in which the masses of car- tilage are united and surrounded by fibrous tissue—firm and well developed—without any admixture of softer material, yet clinically it is extremely doubtful whether any of these appar- ently simple enchondromata of the testis may not at any time become sarcomatous. We un- doubtedly meet occasionally with small cartil- aginous tumours of the testis which have been gaining slowly, perhaps for three or four years, and in which there is no recurrence after removal, yet it may be doubted whether a cartilaginous tumour of the testicle really deserves the term innocent. Symptoms.—Enchondroma of the testis would be recognised by its hardness, its bossy or lobulated outline, its slow rate of growth, and its painlessness. The cord would be normal, and the general health unimpaired. Early castration should always be performed. MyomM andfibromu of the testis are exceed- ingly rare, and would scarcely be recognised as such until microscopical examination was made. Their clinical history would be that of similar innocent tumours elsewhere, and their treatment would be by enucleation or castration. VOL. IX Teratoma.—These tumours, which are con- genital and cystic, occur in two forms:—(1) Those containing fragments of bone, teeth, nervous tissue, or intestine; or (2) the more ordinary forms of dermoid cyst containing epithelium, hair, and sebaceous material. Both kinds are met with outside the testicle near its junction with the epididymis. Their mode of origin is uncertain. They may be noticeable at birth or not until a later period, and may remain quiescent or may become inflamed and suppurate. They tend to atrophy the testicle, and may possibly degenerate malignantly. Their early removal is necessary, either by completely dissecting away every vestige of their sacs, or by excision of the testicle should the simpler procedure prove impracticable. Sarcoma of the Testicle.—Sarcoma is probably the more common form of malignant disease of the testicle, the round-celled occurring most often, and the lymph o-sarcoma next in order of frequency. The sarcoma have their origin in the intertubular connective tissues, and are rarely of pure form throughout their structure, being usually mixed with myxomatous and car- tilaginous tissues. Sarcoma of the testis usually commences in the body of the testis, appearing first as an oval or egg-shaped lump uniform in outline. It is this absence of any irregularity or bossi- ness which at first often makes it difficult to distinguish these cases from those of chronic orchitis, especially as the history of a blow and subsequent inflammation may be present in either case. Later on irregularity of outline and unequal resistance at different spots may both be met with. The tunica albuginea is usually not only distended, but also thickened ; the cavity of the tunica vaginalis contains fluid at an early period, but later on it is usually obliterated. In section the sarcomata may appear uniformly fleshy or marked by fibrous septa, giving the growth a lobulated appear- ance. Microscopically the cells are round or spindle-shaped, occupying the intertubular tissues, separating and compressing the seminal tubes, many of which are altered in shape, and their epithelium degenerated into granular detritus. It is important to bear in mind that sarcoma of the testis is very prone to enlarge the nearest lymphatic glands, contrary to the rule of sarcomata in general. Symptoms and Course.—The disease usually appears in healthy patients either in early childhood, or in manhood between the years of twenty-five and forty. It may be attributed to a blow or squeeze, but frequently is discovered by accident. The rate of growth varies with the exact nature of the tumour ; as a rule it is rapid, but in some of the least malignant forms it may be slow. The tumour is smooth, sym- metrical, solid, and heavy. Testicular sensation soon disappears, and pain is usually present.