246 SNAKE-BITES AND POISONOUS FISHES of grammes of an animal killed by one gramme of poison, as Cobra, 4,000,000. Hoplocephalus, 3,450,000 (4,000,000 Martin). Pseudechis, 800,000 (2,000,000 „ ). Common Viper, 280,000. Sir J. Fayrer believes that a full dose of venom from a cobra, hamadryad, krait, or Daboia is necessarily fatal. It is only in cases where an amount little above the minimum lethal dose has been injected that remedial measures are of any use. The Effects of Heat and Chemical Agents.— A temperature of 100° C, if prolonged, will modify or destroy any snake venom, even after the removal of the coagulable proteid. A 10 per cent sol. of caustic potash or soda, after being in contact five or ten minutes, diminishes the poisonous properties of the virus. A 1 per cent sol. of pot. permang. destroys one part of venom when in contact, but its action is unreliable. Hypochlorite of lime, 1 in 60 of water freshly made up, destroys the venoms completely, as also does 1 per cent of chloride of gold. The latter two are the only ones recommended by Calmette, and are generally accepted now as being the best. Symptoms.—These are very varied, according to the character of the snake and the amount of venom introduced, but depending greatly upon the presence or absence of the coagulable proteid. Cobra.—If the amount injected be very large, death may follow very rapidly as if from shock —due to paralysis of the cardiac ganglia. When introduced in smaller quantity, and slowly ab- sorbed, it produces some local redness and oedema, with progressive weakness and general paralysis, but showing a great preference for certain centres, particularly those governing the tongue, lips, and larynx, causing inability to swallow and profuse salivation ; respiration is rapidly extinguished with or without con- vulsions, and finally the heart stops, the pupil is contracted but reacts to light, the urine is never albuminous. If the symptoms pass ofi", complete recovery is rapid. When the poison is injected in a maximum lethal dose, stimula- tion of the centre produces violent convulsions, especially respiratory spasms, followed by general paralysis and rapid death. European Viper.—Very quickly after the bite there will be local pain and swelling of the part, with general prostration, feeble pulse, perhaps passing into a condition of semi-coma or delirium, with slight convulsions. Recovery is generally rapid, though local suppurations not infrequently follow. Daboia and Indian Vipers.—In these there is marked local inflammation at the seat of the bite, with swelling of the limb, great pain, and haemorrhages. Violent convulsions soon set in, but not necessarily followed by general paralysis and death. The paralysis does not especially select out the respiratory organs as in the case of cobra poisoning. The bi'eathing has a peculiar irregular character, being at first quickened, then slowed. Hjemorrhages from the mucous membrane are common, hsematuria and albuminuria being almost always present. The pupils are generally dilated and insensi- tive to light. Rattlesnake.—The symptoms following the bite of one of these snakes are much like those produced after a bite from the Indian vipers, except that the local symptoms are more marked, general symptoms of blood-poisoning being after a short time evident. Recovery from an almost hopeless condition is sometimes extraordinarily rapid. Australian Snakes.—In these, according to Martin, local pain and swelling of the part bitten is not generally severe. The constitu- tional symptoms come on from a quarter to half an hour after the bite, with faintness, drowsiness, and prostration; the pulse gets thready, respiration becomes very slow, hsemor- rhages and albuminuria are generally present, the comatose condition gets deeper and deeper, respiration stopping, then the heart. Sea Siiakes.—Although all these are poisonous, they rarely attack man. I have seen scores taken by careless sailors on the north-west coast of Australia, etc., without any bad results. Several instances of fatal bites have been re- corded, one having caused death m \\ hour. The most fatal period after all bites appears to be between two and three hours; more than 25 per cent die between one and three hours. Treatment.—When a person has been bitten by any snake supposed to be venomous, the first and very important measure is to prevent the entrance of the virus into the general circulation. As the part bitten is generally one of the extremities, this may often be done by applying a tight ligature at once between the part bitten and the trunk; the second point is to remove or counteract the virus as soon as possible, suck the wound to extract the poison, cut the part out or cauterise freely, then wash the wound well with hypochlorite of lime = 800 parts of chlorine to one of lime, or inject 8-10 cm. of the same in the track of the bite ; this destroys the venom in situ, neutral- ising that not yet absorbed, or a solution of chloride of gold would act equally as well. Inject 10 to 20 c.c. of antivenine if obtainable into the subcutaneous tissue of the flank, or if general infection is marked give it intravenously; after this has been done the ligature may be removed. One should also promote warmth, stimulate the circulation, and carry on artificial respiration if necessary. If no antivenine is to be had, give stimulants freely.