STOMACH: SURGICAL 396 packed round with gauze. The "posterior" sero-serous continuous sutiire is inserted for a length of two and a half inches ; on the intestine stitching close to and parallel with the mesen- teric attachment, on the stomach the line of suture should run from below upwards and to the right, making with the horizontal an angle of about 45°, as it comes to be horizontal when the stomach is replaced (von Mikulicz). The ends of the suture are left long, and gauze is packed in along either side of the suture line to absorb any contents which may escape. Each Fig. 5.—Anterior gastro-enterostoniy and entero-anastomosis. viscus is then opened 3 mm. from the suture line ; any contents which escape are soaked up ; the bleeding points are seized with forceps, and those in the stomach are ligatured. The edges of the openings are united with a continuous catgut suture passed through all the coats. A large Mayo Robson bobbin should be used as an internal splint; it is inserted before com- mencing the anterior suture. In very feeble patients the anastomosis may be more rapidly effected by means of a Murphy button, the female half being inserted in the stomach. In non-malignant cases I usually perform an entero-anastomosis in addition to the gastro- enterostomy, making a communication between the afferent and efferent limbs of the jejunal loop about four inches below the junction with the stomach. This constitutes the most certain means of preventing the so-called "circulus vitiosus," or regurgitation of intestinal contents through the afferent limb into the stomach. Posterior Gastro-enterostoniy (von Hacker's operation).—After opening the abdomen, the omentum and transverse colon are turned up- wards and laid on a sheet of gauze. A sagittal slit is made about the centre of the transverse mesocolon, carefully avoiding the larger blood- vessels passing to the colon. The slit is en- larged with the fingers so as to expose the posterior wall of the stomach, which is then drawn into the opening, or, still better, pro- truded by the fingers of an assistant from above. A few points of suture unite the stomach to the edges of the opening in the mesocolon. The jejunum, at a distance of from eight to ten inches from its origin, is then Fig. 6.—Posterior gastro-enterostomy. Von Hacker's operation. anastomosed with the stomach in the usual way. A Mayo Robson bobbin is again useful as an internal splint. In either of the above operations, it is recommended by Moynihan and others to remove an elliptical portion of mucous mem- brane in the case of each viscus, so as to prevent the formation of an obstructing ring and subse- quent narrowing of the opening. If the operation is followed by vomiting beyond that which can be ascribed to the ansesthetic, the stomach should be emptied and washed out by means of the tube. Gastrectomy—Resection of the Stomach.—This is almost exclusively performed in cases of malignant disease. If it is not necessary to interrupt the continuity of the organ, the portion resected should be in the form of a wedge or ellipse, in order to avoid an irregular gap and a complicated line of suture. The gap is sutured at a right angle to the long axis of the stomach, so as not to narrow the lumen. In the majority of cases in which the continuity of the organ is interrupted, the resection in- volves the pyloric segment, and is spoken of as a pylorectomy, although a good deal more than the pylorus is taken away. Resection of the Pyloric Segment—Pylorec-