TEMPERATURE 547 Digestive Disturbances.—The salivary and gastric secretions are deficient, and the absorp- tive power of the stomach is diminished. There is consequently interference with the patient's appetite and digestion. Intestinal peristalsis is lessened, the hepatic cells show degenerative changes, and there is interference with the con- version of ammonium carbonate into urea, and the secretion of bile is diminished. Cerebral phenomena—headache, inability for mental work, delirium, stupor, and coma—all due to the action of the toxins on the central nervous system, are usually well marked in fever, whereas in simple hyperthermia these phenomena are conspicuous by their absence. Treatment of Fever.—In every case the endeavour must, if possible, be made to treat the fever specifically, but in only a few febrile diseases has this aim been hitherto attained. The patient must be carefully watched and nursed, and the diet must be light and such as can be easily assimilated. In the event of specific antitoxic treatment being impossible, the question arises as to whether the pyrexia should be treated, and if so in what manner should treatment be carried out. The view which probably at present finds most general acceptance is that pyrexia should be dealt with when it attains an excessive height, or when it has persisted, or is likely to persist, for a pro- tracted period, but that moderate pyrexia should not receive special treatment. The drugs of the antipyretic group reduce the pyrexial tem- perature to normal, yet the mode of action of many of these substances is imperfectly under- stood. It may, however, be stated that they may act (1) by diminishing oxidation; (2) by inducing diaphoresis; (3) by destroying the causal virus or rendering its toxic product innocuous. The most efficient antipyretics are antipyrine, antifebrin, quinine, phenacetin, salicin and its compounds, aspirin, etc. Most of these drugs have a markedly depressing effect, particularly on the heart, and may induce collapse, cyanosis, fall of blood pressure, and other unfavourable symptoms. Antipyretics should therefore be employed with caution, more especially as they have no curative action, and do not shorten the duration of the disease. The employment of antipyretics is indeed less relied on now than formerly. Diaphoresis is often beneficial in fever; it may conveniently be induced by means of the hot pack. In the application of cold to the surface of the body one possesses a reliable and safe method of lessening pyrexia. One may make use of the cold bath (temperature of 90° F. cooled down to about 70° F.), or the cold pack, or one may rub the patient with ice, or sponge with cold or tepid water. The bath or cold pack combined with ice-rubbing is the best means of treating hyperpyrexia, in which con- dition the free administration of alcohol is serviceable. For further information regarding the cold pack, baths, etc., vide the articles Balneology, vol. i., and Hydropathy, vol. iv. Tempora.1.—Relating to the temple, i.e. the part of the head above the ear and behind the eye; e.g. the temporal bone, artery, lobe, nerve, region, etc. See Arteries, Ligature of {Superficial Temporal); Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symptoms, Hearing); Brain, Sur- gery of {Cerebral Abscess from Ear Disease); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Caries and Necrosis); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases OF {General Symptomatology, Pain in Temporal Region); Syphilis {Tertiary, Vascular System, Arteries). TemporO-.—in compound words tem- poro- (Lat. tempus, time) means relating to the temple or to the temporal bone, artery, nerve, etc.; e.g. temporo-auricular (relating to the tem- poral and auricular regions), temporo-maxillary (relating to the temporal region and the superior maxilla), te^nporo-sphenoidal (relating to the temporal and sphenoid bones), etc. See Brain, Physiology of (Functions of Cerebral Cortex); Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Diseases of Temporo-Maxillary Joint). Temulence.—Drunkenness or any state in disease resembling it (Lat. temulentia, intoxi- cation). Tena.CUlUin.—A sharp hook on a handle for seizing and fixing parts, e.g. the cervix uteri during operations such as repair of the cervix; also a variety of artery forceps. Tenby. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {English, Welsh). Tender Toes. See Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce, Nervous System). TendinOSUS.—Having the chai-acters of a tendon, e.g. the semi-tendinosus muscle of the thigh. TendO AchilliS.—The common tendon of the two calf muscles (soleus and gastrocne- mius) inserted into the heel. . Tendon.—The dense fibrous structure by which a muscle is attached to a bone (Lat. tendere, to stretch). See Ankle-Joint, Region of Injuries {Dislocation of Peroneal Tendons, Rupture of Tendo Achillis); Ankle-Joint, Region OF, Diseases {Diseases of Tendon Sheaths); De- formities {Tendon Transplantation); Hysteria {Trophic Troubles of Tendons); Paralysis {Spas- tic Paralysis, Myotatic Irritability); Syphilis {Tertiary, Muscles and Tendons). Ten don-Jerks. See also Brain, Cere- bellum, Affections of {Tumour, Tendon Jerks); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptoms); etc.—Nature of the Tendon-jerks. — The tendon-jerks, tendon