RIPAULT'S SIGN 13 Ripault'S Sign. — A sign of death, consisting of a permanent change in the shape of the pupil produced by pressure on the eye. Rippoldsa,U. See Balneology (Germany, Chalybeate). RiSOriuS.—The name given to one of the muscles of the face, a continuation of the platysma myoides, which draws the lips out- wards, as in the act of smiling (Lat. ridere, to laugh); musculus risorius Santorini. RiSUSSardoniCUS.—Thepeculiargrin or distortion of the facial muscles seen in tetanus. See Abdomen, Clinical Investigation of [Ex- amination of Patient, Risus Sardonicus); Spasm [Hysterical); Tetanus [Clinical Features). Ritter'S Disease.—Dermatitis exfolia- tiva neonatorum. See Newborn Infant [Der- inatitis Exfoliativa). Ritter'S Law.—The law of contraction expressed in the fact that a nerve is stimulated both at the closing and at the opening of the electric current. Ritter-Vaili's Law.—The fact that division of a nerve from its centre is followed by temporary increase of irritability, followed by a gradual loss taking place centrifugally. Rittliausen's Process.—A chemical method of estimating the proteids of milk (casein and lactalbumin). Riverside. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts [America). Riviera. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts [Riviera). RivinuS, Ducts of.—The ducts of the sublingual gland. See Salivary Glands. RivinUS, Notch of. -A notch in the upper mai'gin of the annulus tympanicus, bridged over by Shrapnell's membrane. Rivoita's Disease. ^SeeAcTiNOMYcosis. Roasti ng;. See Invalid Feeding [General Preparation of Food). Robert's Pel vis.—The transversely con- tracted pelvis, or double oblique contraction of the pelvis, named after H. L. F. Robert (1814- 78), who first described such a pelvis at WUrz- burg in 1842. Robertson Pupil, ^^eeArgyll-Robert- son Phenomenon. Roborat.—A food prepared from maize ; it contains lecithin and glycerinophosphoric acid. Rochelle Salt.—The tartrate of potas- sium and sodium, KNaC^H^O,., 4H2O. Rock Fever. See Undulant Fever. Rod and Cone Layer. See Retina and Optic Nerve [Anatomy); Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism [Anatomy of Eye). Rod Test. See Strabismus [Variable Squint, Maddox Rod Test). Rodent Ulcer. Clinical Features . . . .13 Diagnosis . ■ . .14 Treatment . . . . .14 See also Cornea (Types of Corneal Ulceration, Rodent Ulcer); Dermatitis Traumatica et Ven- enata [2^ar Dermatitis, Diagnosis); Eyelids, Affections of [Malignunt Growths, Rodent Ulcer); X-Rays [Use in Rodent Ulcer). Rodent ulcer is the term commonly but rather unfortunately applied to a little-malignant variety of carcinoma, which is characterised by certain peculiarities. It was first described in the early part of last century by Jacobs, of Dublin, an ophthalmic surgeon, whose attention was drawn to it from the fact that it so frequently occurred in the neighbourhood of the eye. While it has been observed on almost every part of the surface, it is most common upon the upper part of the face, and indeed the great majority of cases are further limited to two situations—the angle of the nose where it rises from the face, and the outer angle of the eye. The former of these is affected probably twice as often as the latter. It is often stated to be a disease of late life, but that statement will not stand critical ex- amination. The statistics from which it is derived are taken from hospital reports, which give the age of the patient at the date of operation, and ignore the fact that the disease may have lasted for ten, fifteen, or more years. It has been seen in patients as young as four- teen, but its earliest signs are perhaps oftenest obsei'ved between thirty-five and forty-five. It commences as a small nodule below the surface of the skin, and has usually an existence of many years in this form befoi-e the ulceration, which the name leads one to expect, appears; then the centre sloughs away, and the typical rodent ulcer is developed. The surface is flat, and the ulcer terminates in the abrupt, raised, rounded, or " rolled " edge which is so character- istic of the disease. It is due to the presence beneath the skin of cancerous alveoli, which elevate and stretch the skin over them. To this stretching is due the shiny, polished appearance which the rodent edge invariably has. If left alone the disease steadily progresses, attacking everything it meets, eventually eroding the bones of the skull, and thus leading to death, but in spite of its local malignancy metastasis is practically unknown. During the whole of