505 TABES DORSALIS completely atrophied, according to the stage of the disease and the degree of disturbance of cutaneous sensibility. Next, there is a set of coarse fibres of medium length which enter on the inner side of the posterior horn, in what is called the " cornu radicular zone." These pass forwards and up- wards, being pushed forward by the fibres of the next entering root, and they come to occupy the anterior and middle portion of the postero- external column, sending fibres which break up into collaterals in the grey matter (a) aroimd the cells of the anterior horn, (6) arovmd the cells of Clarke's column. There is yet a third set of long fibres which pass forwards and towards the mid-line to enter the posterior median column. In the case of the lower extremities these fibres form the column of Goll, which runs up the whole length of the spinal cord to end in the cells of the funiculus gi-acilis. These three sets of fibres forming the greater part of the posterior columns may be looked upon respectively as the first afferent channels for spinal, cerebellar, and cerebral impulses. Each root contains fibres conveying impressions to each of these termini, and the three together are essential for perfect motor action, and co- ordination. Their disease interferes with the guiding impressions coming from the joints, tendons, muscles, and skin essential for perfect locomotion and motor activity; but in the posterior columns of the spinal cord there are other sets of fibres which have their cells of origin within the grey matter ; these are endo- genous association fibres serving to link up the spinal segments of different regions of the cord. They are affected, but at a much later date than the exogenous fibres, and no doubt it is their affection which leads to severe ataxy and eventually to the complete helplessness of the paralytic stage of tabes. These endogenous fibres are ascending and descending and occupy four regions of the cord: (1) the comma tract; (2) a triangle to the inner side of the posterior horn; (3) a region corresponding to the anterior portion of the posterior column, called the cornu-commissural zone. In the lumbar region (4) a small oval area is found occupying the middle line of the posterior column, the fibres of which pass back- wards in the sacral region to form a small triangle. The whole of the exogenous fibres may be destroyed, also nearly the whole of the endogen- ous, but it is rarely that some of the endogenous fibres cannot be found in the cornu-commis- sural zone. Occasionally atrophy of the cells of Clarke's column occurs with degenerative atrophy of the cerebellar tracts. Occasionally the anterior horn cells show atrophic changes, especially certain groups supplying the small muscles of the hand or the muscles of the feet and legs; as a rule, however, the anterior horn cells fibres and roots are normal. In some cases, especially where there have been changes of the cerebral cortex, degeneration in the pyramidal tracts may be found. This is the rule rather than the exception in tabo- paralysis. In arm-tabes the posterior roots which enter into the formation of the brachial plexus are affected, and in rare instances the lumbo-sacral roots are not affected. The same three sets of fibres in the spinal cord undergo degeneration and atrophy, but a section of the cord in the cervical region would, in such case, show no de- generation in Goll's column. The long set of fibres conveying impulses which will eventually reach the cerebral cortex, occupies a position in front of and overlapping the triangle of fibres forming Goll's column. These proceed to Bur- dach's nucleus in the medulla. Atrophy and sclerosis of any of the cranial nerves may occur, accounting for the symptoms observed during life, but the most frequent and the most important is the grey atrophy of the optic nerve, which is associated with no apparent change in the vessels. It is a progi'essive at- rophy of the fibres back to the ganglia cells of the retina, which in prolonged cases may even themselves undergo atrophy. The Argyll-Robertson pupil, which, as we have seen, is the most important sign of the disease, has so far not been satisfactorily ex- plained. It is said that there is an atrophy of fibres of the corpora quadrigemina, and that thereby impulses produced by light stimuli traversing the optic nerve, are interrupted in their passage to the motor nucleus of the sphincter iridis. This, however, in the writer's opinion, is not sufficiently demonstrated to be acceptable. Cerebral Cortex.—Atrophy of the tangential and supra-radial fibres of the cerebral cortex has been described by many authorities. Un- doubtedly some of the cases may have been incipient tabo-paralysis; others may have been true tabes or tabes with mental symptoms; it is quite possible that in prolonged cases of tabes an associated atrophy of such structures physiologically correlated may occur. Diagnosis.—A patient suffering with tabes will in all probability seek advice, not for the characteristic signs which differentiate the dis- ease from all other diseases, but on account of some subjective symptom which causes hira pain, discomfort, or interferes with his occupa- tion or business. A mistaken diagnosis in general arises, not from the practitioner not knowing, but fi'om his not looking for the char- acteristic signs, namely, the Argyll-Robertson pupils, absent knee-jerks, sensory disturbances of the skin, and Romberg's sign. In this way the lightning pains may be mistaken for neur-