STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 356 of the several layers being more or less distinct; and to this the expression " fimnel-shaped " has been usually, if not very helpfully, applied. Moreover, the edges in this case may be, though not always, much thickened from fibroid growth, but not undermined; the size of the ulcer is generally much larger, attaining a measurement of even five or six inches across in extreme cases, and sometimes of irregular outline. The chronic inflammation associated with the growth of these slowly progressing ulcers, and that is to be seen in the tissues immediately around the edges, tends to cause adhesions of the stomach to contiguous parts, and this in pro- portion to the fixity of these structures. Hence perforation into the peritoneum is in some measure avoided, and the floor of the ulcer may be formed by the pancreas, the liver, or even the spleen, far less commonly by the abdominal wall owing to its constant movement, and the ulcer is more likely, therefore, to perforate into the peritoneum when situated on the anterior surface of the stomach. But the same accident may happen whatever the situation of the ulcer, and perforation into the pleural or pericardial cavity, or into the post-peritoneal connective tissue, and formation of subphrenic abscess, may occur. Or in this way communication between the stomach and the intestine may be estab- lished, and even very rarely into the cavities of the heart. Perforations on both surfaces have been met with. Whilst ulcer of the stomach may be found at any part, it is far more fre- quent in the pyloric region, and on the whole oftener on the posterior wall. Occasionally the ulcer may extend across the smaller curvature on to the anterior surface. Although the length of time which the ulcer has lasted undoubtedly determines differences in the appearances pre- sented, the writer is unable to recognise that any essential distinction in their nature exists between the two forms here described, and can see no advantage in applying the term "acute" to the former variety, the actual duration of which no data exist for determining, and no clinical justification for drawing such a distinc- tion as the term might imply. Cicatrisation of the ulcer very frequently occurs, and the scar may be seen post-mortem, perhaps in association with a more recent ulcer. Considerable defor- mity of the organ may result from the shrinking of the scars, especially of those which extend over both surfaces and the lesser curvature, whilst if the pylorus be involved in the cicatrix the orifice may be much constricted. In offering an explanation for the production of these ulcers, the fact that a healthy mucous membrane successfully withstands the digestive action of the gastric secretions, and that any condition which tends to diminish the resisting power of the tissues favours the necrotic process, must be borne in mind. Indeed, the pathology of gastric ulcer mainly resolves itself into the search for this deteriorating condition, it being fully admitted that the solvent action of the gastric juice is the immediately destructive agent. It is obvious that this action may be at once exerted on a slightly damaged epithelium, whether of the surface or in the glands; but assuming the deeper layers of the mucosa are not implicated in the original damage, whether mechanical, corrosive, inflammatory, degenera- tive, or other, then the resulting necrosis is limited to the epithelium and a merely super- ficial erosion is formed. But with a deeper implication a deeper lesion ensues, and ulceration is the consequence. It is probable that the immediate cause is not always the same, although the various conditions that have been suggested are not equally frequent in their activity. The effect in this direction of mechanical or chemical damage of the mucosa is obvious, but few cases are to be thus explained, and still fewer by blows or pressure on the epigastrium, though the latter has been put forward in the case of tailors, cobblers, etc., and in tight-lacing. An impair- ment of the blood-supply by embolism or throm- bosis of the small vessels, thereby interfering with the nutrition of circumscribed areas of the gastric wall, is a possible but certainly not a frequent cause. But it is in this way that minute emboli in pyaemia, or particles that gain an entrance to the circulation as the result of cutaneous burns, may give rise to a few cases of gastric or duodenal ulcer, the gastric juice being the actual destructive agent which exerts its solvent power on the damaged tissues. End- arteritis will also affect the tissue nutrition, and this may explain the alleged liability of the lesion in syphilis as distinct from the ulcerating gumma that has developed in the submucosa. Dr. S. Martin has described a condition which he has termed " bacterial necrosis " due to the invasion of the mucosa or of the gastric glands by micro-organisms, the tissues being from some cause less resistant than normal. It is not suggested that any special inflammatory change follows on the invasion, comparable to that which leads to the ulceration of the intestine in typhoid or tuberculous infection, but that the tissues invaded become less resistant to the peptic digestion, and necrosis and ulceration in consequence ensue. Whilst it cannot be denied that this is the primary cause of some cases, it can hardly be accepted as other than a very occasional condition. Minute fibro-myomata in the submucosa have also been described by the same observer as a rare cause of ulceration of the superimposed mucous membrane by the pressure which the growths exert and con- sequent impairment of the vitality of the tissue elements. To the writer it appears for many reasons probable that the most frequent cause of this far from rare lesion is the readiness with which a catarrh of the mucous membrane is induced, and with that superficial erosion just