157 SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF lower edge of the teres major, which forms the posterior boundary of the axilla. The incision is then carried across the axilla until it ends at the posterior inferior angle of the scapula. The posterior flap is made by carrying the knife from the end of the clavicular incision backwards over the acromion by the shortest route to join the first incision at the posterior inferior angle of the scapula. The two flaps are dissected up as quickly as possible, and the arm with the scapula is removed, the smaller vessels being secured as the operation proceeds. Excision of the Scapula.—The patient is placed upon the sound side, and the surgeon stands directly behind him. He begins his incision over the acromion process, and extends it along the spine as far as the vertebral border. A second incision is then made along the verte- bral border of the scapula, commencing at the upper angle, and ending at the inferior angle of the bone. The flaps are dissected up, care being taken not to include any diseased or doubtful tissue. The muscles along the upper and vertebral borders are then detached, and the vertebral border is lifted upwards and out- wards to allow of division of the serratus mag- nus and subscapularis muscles. The acromion process is sawn off at its junction with the spine and drawn forwards, so that the upper aspect of the shoulder joint is exposed. The capsule of the shoulder is divided, and the scapula is removed by cutting through the remaining tissues. The haemorrhage attending the opera- tion is considerable, and precautions should be taken to arrest it as quickly as possible, even by a preliminary ligature of the subclavian artery. Various modifications of the formal operation may be required, according to the conditions attending the individual case. The tumour may be so situated that the neck and glenoid cavity may safely be left untouched, or, on the other hand, it may be necessary to remove the head of the humerus and part of the clavicle. Excision of the Clavicle.—The clavicle is excised on account of sarcoma and necrosis. The operation is easy, for the bone is exposed and divided with a Hey's saw, care being taken not to injure the large vessels and nerves which lie directly behind it. Excision of the Head op the Humerus.— The head of the humerus is excised for various conditions, the result of inflammation or injury, in which the movements of the shoulder are limited and painful. Anchylosis, tuberculous disease, osteoarthritis, which is arthritis defor- mans, and some irreducible dislocations of the shoulder are the most frequent conditions lead- ing to excision. The anterior incision has now supplanted the older method of excision by a deltoid flap. The arm is rotated outwards, and is drawn somewhat away from the side, whilst the surgeon stands facing the patient and opposite the joint he is about to open. The knife is entered on a level with and half an inch external to the coracoid process, and a vertical incision is made three inches in length through the anterior fibres of the deltoid. Care is taken to avoid the cephalic vein, which lies in the intermuscular space between the deltoid and the pectoralis major. The fibres of the deltoid are retracted, and the bicipital groove is then exposed and laid open in its whole length. The long tendon of the biceps is drawn out of the groove, and is held aside with an aneurysm needle or blunt hook. The capsule of the joint is laid open freely, and the arm is then rotated inwards until the supra- spinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor muscles can be detached from their insertion into the great tuberosity by the help of a periosteal elevator. The arm is afterwards rotated out- wards, care being taken to preserve the long head of the biceps, and the subscapularis in like manner is detached from the lesser tuber- osity. A blunt director is passed under the bone, which is divided with a narrow-bladed saw, the line of section usually passing through the tuberosities. The head of the bone is then removed with a pair of lion-forceps, and any further disease is gouged away. The glenoid cavity must be carefully examined when the operation is performed for tuberculous disease, and as much as possible of the pulpy synovial membrane should be cut away, whilst the edges of any sinuses are scraped and pared. A posterior incision must be made for drainage in every case. The drainage tube is passed to the most dependent part of the wound, the circumflex nerve and artery being carefully avoided; and, if the incision is made very low, the situation of the rausculo-spiral nerve must be remembered. The resected extremity of the humerus is pushed into the glenoid cavity, and the wound is closed in the usual manner. A thick pad is placed in the axilla to prevent the humerus being drawn inwards. Passive movement should be begun at the end of the first week, the tube being removed on the third day. The passive movements are increased gradually as the wound heals, the muscles, especially the deltoid, being shampooed and treated electrically. The after-treatment is maintained for many weeks, but the more extended movements, such as abduction, should not be practised until several weeks after the humerus is sufficiently fixed in the glenoid cavity, as there is some fear lest the end of the humerus should pass under the coracoid process, where it may form a coracoid articulation in- stead of the ordinary glenoid joint. Rotatory movements must be begun as soon as they can be made without pain. Complete mobility of the joint is hindered by the thickening of the capsule, which in some cases is shrunken and in some parts is as resistant as cicatricial tissue,