SKIN DISEASES OF THE TROPICS 189 Treatment.—Antiseptic ointments, or better, thorough cleansing with lotions or baths and removal of crusts and discharge, with subse- quent dry dressing with boric powder, rapidly effects a cure; but articles of clothing, such as stockings, infected by discharge should be de- stroyed. The writer found peroxide of hydrogen spray useful in similar cases. IV. Caused by Animal Parasites (a) The Chigger or Chig(e—Pulex Pene- trans—Sand-Flea.—Geographical Distribution. —Though originally found only in latitudes 23° N. to 28° S. of the Western Hemisphere, this parasite was introduced into Gaboon about 1872, whence with marvellous rapidity it has invaded all tropical Africa, entered China, and threatens India, where elaborate precautions are being taken to prevent its spread. Description. — The chigger resembles the common flea in appearance, but is smaller and has a proportionately larger head and broader abdomen. Its colour is reddish-brown. Al- though not confined to them, its favourite haunts are low plains, and especially sea-shores and the banks of rivers. The filth and debris about native huts and cattle-sheds provide its headquarters, and in the dust of dark corners of these, larvae and mature insects protect them- selves against rain and high temperature, which are injurious to them. Both male and female suck the blood, but the harmful effects are produced only by the female, which, when impregnated, bores obliquely through the epidermis to the corium, whence she obtains nourishment. Here, by development of the eggs, the abdomen rapidly enlarges at the expense of the second and third segments, while the unchanged posterior segment blocks the opening in the skin. The eggs, if discharged by its rupture, develop into thirteen-ringed larvse, which become surrounded by a cocoon, pass through a nympha stage, and arrive at maturity after eight or ten days. Symptoms.—The entrance of the parasite is marked by itching, often unnoticed by recent arrivals, and the small opening can be seen in the centre of an inflammatory swelling, usually either in the sole or great toe, or in the folds of the toes, the parts nearest the ground, although exceptionally they attack the scrotum, hands, or elsewhere. From the condition of their houses and from absence of foot-covering, natives are especially liable. The parasites usually number one or two, but there may be many. By their abdominal swelling considerable irritation is caused, the chigger becomes bathed in pus, and the skin finally gives way and expels it by ulceration. If the abdomen is ruptured during extraction, or pathogenic organisms enter, this may be very severe. Treatment {Prophylaxis).—Houses supposed to be infected should be cleaned and swept, especially during rains, disinfectants used liber- ally, and sleeping on the ground or walking bare- foot avoided. When the parasite has entered it can be killed by chloroform or turpentine, but the best treat- ment is enucleation with a clean needle. Natives are most expert operators. If the abdomen is ruptured during extraction, pure carbolic acid should be used. {b) Cutaneous Myiasis.—See Myiasis, vol. vi. (c) Pani Ghao—Ground or Water Itch— Sorb Feet of Coolies.—Dalgetty describes as epidemic, during the wet months, among coolies in Assam, Sylhet, and other parts of India, a superficial vesicular dermatitis resembling scabies, and a similar disease is reported from Trinidad and British Honduras. Symptoms.—Burning and itching are followed by the appearance of vesicles, usually first be- ginning in the clefts of the toes, and spreading over the dorsum and around the outer edge and sole, but also occasionally involving the hands. The vesicles are at first distinct, but possibly coalesce later and form large blebs or proceed to pustulation or even ulceration or sloughing. Complete laming may result from involvement of both feet. Etiology.—The disease only occurs in tea- gardens after they have been opened for some years, as the ordure deposited by the coolies forms a breeding-place for the acarus found by Dalgetty in these cases. He gives an elaborate description of this parasite and its ova, and thinks that it may be carried by dung beetles. Impaired health predisposes to its attacks.^ Treatment.—Evacuation of the pustules, dis- infection of the skin, and application of lime and sulphur or coal-tar ointments, or of phenol lotion, will eff"ect a cure. For prevention Dalgetty recommends close-fitting shoes or clogs. {d) Filarial Diseases involving Skin and Connective Tissues. Filaria Medinensis—FilariaNocturna—Filaria Volvulus—Filaria Loa. See article on Filari- ASis, vol. iii. (e) IxoDiASis—Ticks.—Walking through long grass in many tropical and subtropical regions not infrequently results in the acquirement of several of these parasites, as the larvae climb grass or shrubs and await with their front legs outstretched for any passing animal. An at- tempt at forcible removal from the skin often breaks off the rostrum, and leaves it as a source of iri'itation until eliminated like a thorn. When gorged with blood the parasite will drop off by itself, but it can be removed at once by touching the ventral surface with a feather dipped in turpentine or petroleum. Powder of Pyrethrum flowers dusted over a 1 Recent investigations by Bentley not only throw doubt upon the connection of this acarus with causation, but also suggest that either the larvae of the ankylostoma or bacteria found in the soil with it are mainly responsible.