SENILE INSANITY 123 without observable cause. Hypochondriacal symptoms are very common. They believe that their organs are no longer acting properly, and that their food is not digested. This may pass into a true deliriizm of negations, in which they deny everything: " They have no body, no soul ; they do not exist." Even where dementia is present, attempts at self-destruction or self-mutilation must be guarded against. (6) Mania.—Mental exaltation may occur at any period of senility. The simplest form is that characterised by an increase of the feeling of well-being. These persons are vain, dress to appear younger than they are, and they assume the manners and engage in pursuits which have for years been laid aside. An erotic taint in the conversation and conduct is often observ- able. They may become so extravagant in their acts, and so overbearing in manner, as to necessitate their removal to an asylum. Their disposition may change completely, and the hard-earned savings of a lifetime may be spent in a few weeks. In the more advanced forms there is, after a short period of depression, great excitement. They are sleepless, the talk is rapid and incoherent, and the conversation may be obscene. They shout, sing, and are very noisy both by night and day. They tear their clothing, and their habits are often faulty and degraded. Onanism is an occasional feature even in men long past this climacteric. In the early stages the memory may be absolutely increased for short periods. Re- ligious ideas may tincture the general picture, as also delusions of grandeur. The excitement and motor energy may be out of all proportion to their physical strength, and may cause sudden exhaustion and death. In comparison with the mania of other epochs of life, there is less of the angry and vindictive type, so that attacks on others are not so frequent as a rule. When associated with dementia, the increased activity and obtrusiveness of the patient re- veals the full extent of the enfeeblement. The conduct is more childish, more foolish, and more changeable. The mania may pass into a subacute or chronic state, with noisy restless- ness and destructiveness, and it is then very difficult to treat, the night exacerbations being marked. The patients are often wanting in cleanliness, and may pay no heed to the calls of nature. Degraded habits are the rule. There is a well-recognised type, in which there are recurrent periods of this excitement lasting a few days or weeks. The periodicity is often marked, and each attack may be followed by an interval of reaction and collapse before the normal course of the dementia is again re- sumed. (c) Ideas of Persecution and Paranoia.—As in other periods of life, the rise and establish- ment of these ideas is slow and gradual. Delu- sions of persecution and of suspicion are the most common. The increasing difficulty of keeping abreast of younger and more active people is put down to unfair treatment, and the inability of their friends to assist them to animosity. There may be associated with these ideas of grandeur, that their power and talents are better than ever before. These feelings are often fostered by the persons living alone, and brooding over their imagined grievances. In many of these cases there has always been an unsociability of temperament predisposing to this condition. Delusions that their food is being poisoned, or that they are being acted on by some unseen agency, are also frequent. Illusions are also not uncommon, and errors of identity. Hallucinations of sight and hearing, and perversion of special or common sensation are often the basis of these ideas. Delusions regarding the bodily health, and often of the state of one organ, exist in some cases, and these persons may nurse this imaginary ail- ment for years without betraying any other mental abnormality. These cases do not show any marked tendency to dementia in many persons, and may exist for years. In dementia the ideas are less systematised and more ir- rational. Failure of memory often causes them to think that their property has been stolen, whereas they merely cannot remember where they have put it. In the more advanced stages the delusions are many and fleeting, and affect most of the systems. Each new fact as pre- sented to them may be misconstrued, and may influence their thought and conduct for the short period in which it is remembered, or until a fresh idea drives it from the field of attention. [d) Insane Acts and Moral Insanity.—Oc- casionally an old man who has been ideal in his conduct throughout life startles his relatives and associates by some act pointing to the loss of moral sense. He may commit adultery, or he may steal, or do some other crime. In these cases there is generally more or less un- consciousness of the gravity of the deed. They are often due to weakness or errors of judg- ment, or they may be impulsive acts. When the deed is not in itself criminal, as in the case of an old man marrying an unsuitable person, there may be difficulty in recognising and treat- ing it as due to mental aberration. When dementia is also present, the abnormality of conduct is more apparent. Violent assaults may be committed, not infrequently on old acquaint- ances, out of all proportion to the offence against them, or from groundless ideas of per- secution or jealousy. Homicide may result from a slight quarrel, or suicidal attempts made from some slight chagrin. There is in many cases a sensual nature in these acts. The climacteric may be accompanied by a degree of hjrperactivity, or the enlargement of the prostate or other local irritation may cause