167 SKIN—ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY cuticle formed of a single layer of elongated cells whose long axes being directed downwards and inwards make the cells to fit between the cells of the hair-cuticle. Hence it is almost impossible to epilate a hair without pulling out part of the root-sheath. Enclosing the epidermal sheath of the follicle there is a dense fibrous layer derived from the corium, which is known as the '■^connective tissue layer of the follicle." It is made up of collagen- ous and elastic fibres, which are externally arranged longitudinally, while nearer the hair they tend to have a circular direction. Next the epidermal layer they become so condensed and homogeneous that they form a layer which has beau described as the " hyalin or vitreous layer." (d) The Papilla.—The papilla of the hair is a differentiated conical process of the corium analogous to a papilla of the papillary layer. It is composed of connective tissue fibres support- ing a capillary loop and one or more medullated nerves. Through it the root is nourished, and any interference with its function through injury or disease causes a cessation of growth of the hair. 2. The Sebaceous Glands.—These are small saccular glands which occur usually in connec- tion with the hair-follicles, but are also found, independent of these stuctures, in the skin of the borders of the lips and the areolse of the nipples. They are generally placed on the oblique side of the hair-follicles, in the angle between the latter and the arrector pili. They vary considerably in size, from mere appendages to the hair-follicle to structures larger than the follicle itself. They are largest about the nose, scrotum, and areola of the nipple ; they may consist of a single saccule or of a bunch of twenty or more. These saccules either open into a common duct, which pours its contents into the neck of the follicle to lubricate the hair, or, in the case of the independent glands, directly on the sur- face of the skin. Histologically each saccule presents a con- nective tissue sheath, inside which there is a basement layer of flat cells surrounding a mosaic of large polygonal cells with round or oval nuclei. The latter cells have undergone a change ; their protoplasm has been converted into fat-droplets, and their spongioplasm into a substance almost as resistant as keratin. The duct has the same minute structure as the saccule. The central cells of the saccules and duct break up, and the fat-droplets become dis- charged and collect in the lumen of the duct as a whitish fatty mass which, mixed with epider- mal debris, forms the "sebum." 3. The Sweat or Coil-Glands.—These are single tubular glands made up of (1) a body consisting of two or more turns, forming a coil situated in the reticular layer or subcutaneous tissiie, and (2) a duct which traverses the corium in a spiral manner, passes through the epidermis, and opens on the surface at the sweat-pore. These are present all over the body except on the glans penis, margins of the lips, and nail-bed. In a modified form they occur at the auditory meatus (ceruminous glands), in an elliptical ring round the anus (glands of Gay), and on the eyelids (glands of Moll). Structure.—(a) The coil or body is composed of a single layer of cylindrical cells, which has a granular appearance when the gland is actively secreting, but which disappears when the gland is at rest. A layer of involuntary muscular cells encloses the cylindrical cell- layer. The muscular cells are arranged longitud- inally or spirally round the coil, and outside them there is a basement membrane and a fibrous capsule supporting blood-capillaries. The lumen of the distal portion of the coil is wider than that of any other part of the gland, and is known as the "ampulla." Towards the duct the epithelium becomes more cubical, several layers may be present, and the muscular coat disappears. (6) The duct in its spiral passage through the corium has a uniform calibre, and the lumen on section is stellate or forms a cleft. The tube is formed by several layers of cubical epithelium, inside which a cuticle and a con- nective tissue sheath have been described, but no muscular fibres. On reaching the epidermis the duct proper may be said to end, and in its further course it is represented by a spiral cleft between the prickle-cells and the horn-cells. It always passes up through an interpapillary process. The granular and horny layers, however, dip down into the Malpighian layer for a short distance to form a funnel for the duct. In its passage through the epidermis the sweat communicates freely with the inter- epithelial lymph, and the latter finds an exit with the sweat at the pores. 4. The Nails.—The nails are inelastic, trans- lucent, horny plates situated on the dorsum of the distal phalanges of the fingers and toes. The nail-plate presents a posterior concave border, two almost parallel lateral borders, and a convex free edge. Its upper surface is con- vex transversely, and to a less extent longitudin- ally. The whitish semilunar area occupying the posterior fifth of the nail-plate is known as the " lunule." The nails are bounded by posterior and lateral nail-walls, and from the former a thin crescentic membrane passes for a short distance over the lunule. The lateral walls are slightly divergent, and have a rolled appearance. The nail-plate passes for a short distance beneath the lateral walls, and for a greater distance under the posterior wall, where it is known as the nail-root, and is enclosed in