SCLEROTIC, DISEASES OF THE 78 plate or on the fluorescent screen. In this way, also, if a foreign body be present, its exact position may be definitely settled, and the extraction rendered all the more easy. In dealing with wounds of the sclerotic such examination and determination are essential preliminaries. If no foreign body be present the chances of preserving a serviceable eye will depend very largely upon the site and extent of the injury, the amount of the loss of vitreous, and the risk of septic infection. The wound should be carefully cleansed by copious douching with solution of boric acid, and the skin of the eyelids and surrounding parts of the face thoroughly disinfected. Any prolapse of the contents of the globe must be carefully cut away, and the lips of the wound in the sclerotic drawn together by sutures passed through the conjunctiva. To suture the sclera itself would be both difficult and dangerous, and is quite unnecessary. The most recent pathological researches have shown that in the process of healing the sclera may be regarded as passive, union being eifected by the reparative changes which take place both in the episcleral tissue and conjunctiva, and in the choroid opposite to the wound. If there be subconjunctival dislocation of the lens the conjunctiva covering it must be incised to allow the lens to escape, and the edges of the incision brought into accurate apposition by silk sutures. The wound should then be dusted with finely powdered iodoform and boric acid, the eye carefully bandaged, and the patient put to bed. An icebag should be appHed for the first twenty- four hours to relieve pain and subdue inflam- mation. When a foreign body is present, endeavours must be made to extract it. If it be a chip of iron or of steel, its removal will be greatly facilitated by the employment of the electro-magnet; but should it happen that the substance is one which the magnet will not attract, an attempt must be made to grasp it with forceps after its position has been accur- ately localised by means of the X-ray apparatus. After the foreign body has been removed, the wound should be treated in the manner just described as suitable for simple incised injuries. If the injury be extensive and the eyeball col- lapsed through loss of vitreous, or if attempts to extract a foreign body have been unsuccess- ful, the wisest plan is to enucleate at once, so that the patient may be saved much suff"ering, and the risk of sympathetic inflammation may be avoided. Staphyloma Staphylomata of the sclerotic are due to a disturbance between the intraocular tension and the resistance of the scleral tissue. Whenever the former is increased or the latter diminished an ectasia of the sclera gradually takes place, and the bulging may be either total or partial. Total staphyloma only occurs in infancy or early youth, and may be congenital. It leads to a uniform distension of the whole eyeball, and is usually described as hydrophthalmos, buphthalmos, or infantile glaucoma. Partial staphylomata, according to their site, are dis- tinguished as anterior, equatorial, or posterior, the last named being visible only by the aid of the ophthalmoscope. Anterior and equatorial staphylomata begin as small dark spots, which enlarge and become darker in colour as the sclerotic becomes thinner, and so allows the pigment of the choroid to shine through it. They may attain to such a size that the eyeball cannot be covered by the lids, and in conse- quence of exposure it is very liable to inflamma- tion or to suff"er from injury. Such eyes are frequently attacked by internal haemorrhage, and may occasion much pain. A slight blow or any strain consequent on any unusual effort may induce rupture, followed by escape of the vitreous and bleeding from the choroidal vessels. The collapsed eyeball may shrivel quietly, but it may become infected, and then panophthal- mitis is almost sure to occur. In the early stages, when intraocular tension is high, an iridectomy operation may arrest the progress of the disease, but whenever sight is lost and the eyeball much distended it is wisest to enucleate. Sclerotic or Sclerotinic Acid.— An amorphous substance (Cj.2Hi9N02 obtained from ergot {q.v.); it is now regarded as a mixture of sphacelinic acid and cornutine. Scleroticectomy. — The making of an artificial pupil to the eye by the excision of a portion of the sclerotic. SclerotiCO-. — in compound words sclerotico- means relating to the sclerotic coat of the eye; e.g. sclerotico-choroiditis (inflam- mation of the sclerotic and choroid), sclerotico- staphyloma (staphyloma of the sclerotic), sclero- ticotomy (incision of the sclerotic coat). See Choroid, Diseases op {Sclerotico-choroiditis), etc. Sclerotitis. See Sclerotic, Diseases OF {Sclerotitis); Gout {Irregular Gout, Eye Changes). Sclerotium. See Micro - Organisms {Hyphomycetes, Sclerotia). Sclerotomy or Scleroticotomy. —The incision of the sclerotic coat, anterior or posterior, as in glaucoma; the knife used is called a sclerotome. See Glaucoma {Treatment, Operative). Scolex.—Scolex (plur. scolices) is the name given to the head of a tapeworm (Gr. a-KwXr)^, a worm); so, by extension, inflammation of the