SCARLET FEVER 52 (ix.) Injiuenza.—An erythema may occur at the onset. (x.) Desquamative Eczema.—At the commence- ment of the illness general symptoms are fre- quently severe, and the skin red and oedematous, accompanied speedily by iiainute vesicles, which may resemble a miliary eruption or sudamina. XII. Prognosis.—The prognosis of scarlet fever is always uncertain. As a rule the disease is one of the mildest of the exanthemata; but its prognosis, even here, is dubious on account of the numerous sequelae which may supervene and jeopardise life. Alert observation of every sign, therefore, should form the physician's course, and prediction had better be avoided. The prognosis is favourable when the onset is gentle, the appearance of the rash early and diffused ; when the throat affection is not severe, the cervical lymphatic glands not seriously in- volved, the increase of temperature and pulse moderate, and when temperature and pulse fall as the eruption disappears. Slight rheumatism and albuminuria do not add materially to the gravity of the disease. Prognosis, on the contrary, is unfavourable under the following circumstances:—A sudden onset, with vomiting and delirium; severe in- volvement of the throat, the nose, and the air- passages ; a copious rash of dusky red colour passing into a livid hue ; when the temperature rises above 104° F., which continues into the third week; a pulse above 130, small and thready ; a very pronounced glandular enlarge- ment ; severe nervous symptoms, such as coma, convulsions, restlessness, sleeplessness, and con- tinued delirium; profuse vomiting and diar- rhoea ; the formation of abscesses in the cellular tissue, glands, and joints; acute nephritis, with excessive hsematuria, albuminuria, scanty urine, and dropsy; the involvement of the serous mem- branes ; severe affections of the middle ear; and the occurrence of that malignant form, with pronounced angina and intense febrile course, which proves fatal, as no other disease does, in so brief a period and with such dis- tressing symptoms. Epidemics vary profoundly, and no epidemic should be regarded as benign ; for, in certain places and in certain individuals, the reverse result is sometimes found. The season appears to exercise comparatively little influence. The only effect which poverty or opulence seems to possess depends apparently upon the medical aid and nursing which can be secured, though personal predisposition outweighs all other con- siderations. Sex shows no influence, while to age, next to idiosyncrasy, must be attributed the greatest weight. The case-mortality, pre- ceded by symptoms of septicsemia, is increased enormously, attaining over 50 per cent, if the attack occur during the puerperal state, and particularly if it occur close to the date of parturition, either in precedence or succession. Those states of health, too, which are described as " delicate " and " cachectic " exert a most un- favourable influence. XIII. Mortality.—Scarlet fever is the most uncertain of all zymotic diseases in relation to mortality. Different outbreaks widely vary in this respect. During the last fifty years the mortality has diminished by about 75 per cent, and this diminution is due to various causes. One cause, no doubt, is its lessened virulence; another the provision of isolation hospitals. But the mainly effective cause has been the increased care bestowed by many parents upon their children at the nursery age, where the mortality has proved to be 18'8 per cent. The number of unprotected children at the school age is consequently greater. Schools, accord- ingly, suffer more severely from all the zymotic diseases, though the mortality is considerably lessened, the death ratio being only .3 per cent in scarlet fever. It would be hazardous to predict that the present benign character of this disease will continue, and that a wide and fatal diffusion of the infection at some time may not occur. The mortality reaches its maximum in the third year, and the chance that an attack will terminate fatally is highest in infancy. The results of statistical inquiry clearly show—in- dependently of the fact that a large proportion of persons never contract the disease—that the longer an attack is deferred the less likely is its occurrence ; and further that, even supposing it to happen eventually, the less probable is its fatal character. In recent statistics of mortality it is proved that from one to five years of age the mortality is about 18 per cent; between five and ten years it decreases to 5'5 per cent; and from ten to fifteen years to 2'5 per cent. From this date it remains practically the same until the quinquennium thirty to thirty-five years of age, when it reattains a percentage of 6"2. From the previous description of the mild and severe types of this disease, it must not be inferred that the mortality in the former cases is insignificant, and in the latter frequent; such a deduction is quite unwarranted. In fever hospitals, where the severe cases are found, and mild attacks almost unknown, the inference may hold ; but certainly the general truth upon the subject is not thereby expressed. Some time ago, for example, an epidemic of scarlet fever occurred in a neighbouring primary school. On its cessation I asked the master how the children had fared, and whether any deaths had resulted. The answer was " five " ; and, on closer question- ing, I ascertained that in every fatal instance the attack had been so slight that the children had shown no symptoms of scarlet fever, and had accordingly attended school throughout, until it became manifest that their kidneys were seriously, and, as it proved, fatally involved. XIV. Case-Mortality.—The fatality of the