315 SPLENO- S p I e n 0-. — In compound words spleno- (Gr. a-Tr\r)v, the spleen) means relating to the spleen; e.g. splenocele (hernia of the spleen), splenodynia (pain in the spleen), sij)lenomalacia (splenic softening), splenoptosis (downward dis- placement of the spleen), and splenorrhaphy (suture of the spleen). Splenomeg'^ly- — Enlargement of the spleen (Gr. o-ttAt^v, the spleen, and iJiiya<;, large) which cannot be ascribed to leuktemia, malaria, syphilis, waxy disease, tumours, or interference with the portal circulation; when associated with anaemia and hepatic cirrhosis it is known as Banti's disease. See Spleen, Surgery of {Splenomegaly); Spleen, Medical Affections OF {Primary and Secondary Splenomegaly). Splenopexy.—The operation of fixation (by sutures) of a wandering spleen. See Spleen, Surgery of ( Wandering Spleen). Spleno-typhoid. — A variety of typhoid fever in which intestinal symptoms are absent and the spleen is the chief organ affected. See Typhoid Fever {Symptoms). Splints. See Bed-Sores {Splint Pressure- Soi-e); Fractures {Treatment); Mouth, In- juries AND Diseases of the Jaw {Fracture of Mandible); etc. Split Pelvis. — A form of pelvic de- formity in which there is non-union of the bones at the symphysis pubis ; it is usually associated with extroversion of the bladder and epispadias ; pelvis fissa. See Labour, Precipi- tate AND Prolonged {Rarer Forms of Pelvic Deformity, Split Pelvis). SpodO-.—In compound words spodo- (Gr. cTTToSos, ashes or embers) means relating to waste material; e.g. spodogenous (produced by waste material), spodophagous (destroying waste material), and spodophorous (carrying waste material). Spog'el Seeds. See Isphaghula. Spondylarthritis. —Inflammation of a spinal articulation (Gr. (nrovZvk-q or o-<^dv8vAos, a vertebra). Spondylitis.—Inflammation of a verte- bra, e.g. in spinal caries, and in rheumatoid arthritis of the spine {spondylitis deformans). See Spine, Surgical Affections of. Spondylizema. —The morbid change in the vertebral column when through the de- struction of one vertebral body the vertebra immediately above it sinks into its place (Gr. a-cfiovSvXo';, a vertebra, and t'^o), I sit down). See Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Rarer Forms of Pelvic Deformity, Pelvis Obtecta). SpondylO-.—In compound words spon- dylo- (Gr. o-<^ov8iiXos, a vertebra) means relating to a vertebra or to the spine ; e.g. spondylodynia (pain in a vertebra), spondyloptosis (displace- ment downwards of a vertebra), etc. S p O n d y I Ol ist hesiS. — Displacement forward and downward of a vertebra (especially of the fifth lumbar) into the brim of the pelvis, causing the deformity known as pelvis obtecta and constitviting a grave complication of labour (Gr. a-(^6v^v\o<;, a vertebra, and oXiaOdvu), I slip). See Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Rarer Forms of Pelvic Deformity); Spine, Surgical Affections of {SjMndylolisthesis). SpondyIOSChisiS.—Imperfect ossifica- tion and incomplete union of the outer articular parts of the vertebral arch, usually of the fifth lumbar vertebra. Spondylotomy.—Division of the spine by strong scissors as a means of expediting the delivery of the foetus in impacted shoulder cases, etc. See Labour, Operations {Embryulcia). Spong'e Tent. See Gynaecology, Diag- nosis IN {Cervical Dilatation, Slotv). Spong'es. See Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Disinfection of Sponges). Spongfing'. See Antipyretics {Uses, Recent Practice); Hydropathy {Methods, In Acute Diseases, Sponging vjith Cold or Iced Water). Spong'ioblastS. — The sustentacular (neuroglial) elements of the developing nervous system in contrast with the neuroblasts or future neurons. See Embryology' {Embryo in the Fourth Week). Spong^iopiiine.—Felted cloth coated on one side with rubber and having tufts of sponge incorporated with it on the other side (Gr. cTTToyyos, sponge, ttiXo?, felt); it has a poultice-like action when applied to the skin. Spong^y Portion.—The part of the male urethra contained in the corpus spongiosum of the penis. Spontaneous Amputation. See Pregnancy, Intra-Uterine Diseases of the Fcetus {Congenital Amputations). Spontaneous Evolution. See La- bour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Transverse Lies, Spontaneous Delivery). Spontaneous Rectification. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Transverse Lies, Spontaneous Delivery). Spontaneous Version. «S'ee Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Transverse Lies, Spon- taneous Delivery). SpOOlWOrm.—The oxyuris vermicularis. See Parasites {Ascaridoe).