34 SCABIES, OR THE ITCH This is a little severe in some cases, as it may lead to a dermatitis on its own account. Where baths can be obtained the disease can be cured in three sittings (three to make sure) in the following way :—The patient soaks in a sulphide of potassium bath at 100° (Sij.-iv. to 30 gallons) for a quarter of an hour. He is then scrubbed with a hard and sound flesh-brush, and remains in the bath for another quarter of an hour. The bath must not be a metal one, as it would be spoilt by the sulphide formed. In children, and for private cases, the follow- ing ointment is sufficient: Naphthol ji 5ss., crette prep. 3ss., adip. ad gj. It should be rubbed well in between the fingers and parts affected after soap tubbing and scrubbing with a brush, and left on all night. In the morning a plain warm-water bath should be given. This repeated three nights running, if properly done, will effect a cure. In young children a tooth- brush can be used to open up the burrows. In poor-law infirmaries the following is used : Quicklime gj., sulphur gv., water to Oj., stirred up and thoroughly filtered, made up to twenty ounces again, and then with a stiff" brush well rubbed into the parts after a soap and water bath. Many other remedies have been recommended, such as ung. sulph. 3j., bals. Peruan. 5j., adipis 3j.; Styracis liq. gj. adipis gij. (M'Call Anderson) —and so forth. The sulphur compounds are liable to set up a dermatitis. Wearing sulphur bags and sprinkling sulphur in the bed have also been recommended. Should the patient become re-infected, a little parasiticide ointment (such as naphthol ointment, vide supra) should be rubbed into the fresh papules. In many cases, because the cured patient continues to itch, the parasiticide remedies are continued. This must be avoided. When the treatment has been properly carried out as above the disease is cured, but the skin may require soothing by means of lotio calaminfe for instance. In scabies it is as great a mistake to over- as to under-treat. In connection with treatment, a few words must be devoted to those cases in which, as a consequence of the disease, the patient gets itch on the brain—a scabies cerebri. Hence one has to deal with a stereotyped delusion, and it is impossible to convince such patients that they are freed from their parasites. Others, again, have never had itch at all, but labour under the idea that they are loathsome and full of the vermin. Needless to say, that way madness lies. Where argument is fruitless, restraint becomes necessary, and to this end the relatives or friends should be informed of the true state of affairs. Dubreuilh and Maillard have ob- served scabies cerebri in several members of one family in which a case of suspected itch had occurred. {See " Pediculosis.") The other Acari which attack man are the following : — I. The Harvest Bug (so-called Leptus autum- nalis; rouget, vendangeur, aoutat; die Ernte— or Grasmilbe).—Megnin has shown it to be the six-legged larval form of Trombidium holo- sericum. In the adult condition this tracheal breathing acarus is a vegetarian, but in its larval state it is carnivorous, not only attacking man, but also various animals (dogs, rabbits, etc.). Geographically it is widely distributed. In Britain it flourishes during July and August (but in dry summers it may be found later) in gardens, on legumens, raspberry and currant bushes, etc., etc., and is especially prevalent apparently near the sea and on chalk. Maude has observed it to be absolutely limited to the chalky slopes near Westerham in Kent, but the parasite also occurs on other geological forma- tions (for instance Jurassic or Oolite). It is just visible to the naked eye as a small speck, some shade of red ; its colour has been variously described as brick red, bright scarlet, rouge orange, like Cayenne pepper, dull red, etc. Its movements are extremely active and rapid. Women and children are specially liable to its attacks, the ankles and legs being the parts most usually affected. Men wearing knicker- bockers are more liable than individuals in trousers. The parasites fix themselves to the skin, according to some at the base of the hair, but in a case recently (Sept. 1901) under my observation I could not confirm this with a lens. The fact is, the animal drops off its victim once it has gorged itself with blood, and as my patient came up to town from the south coast, my unsuccessful search may be thus accounted for. The time to look for the parasite would be when it is feeding. Trouessart has shown that the harvest bug's rostrum or haustellum is filiform. On removing the parasite from the skin, this appendage may be surrounded by a tubular-shaped dermal eschar, which Gudden had mistaken for a part of the feeding apparatus. The larva does not burrow under the skin after the manner of the female acarus scabies. At the seat of its operations it gives rise to a small vesicle, which rapidly breaks down and itches most intolerably, leading to violent scratching. Hence wheals and scabbed superficial ulcerations, to which may be added the results of pus inoculation, and sometimes eczematous complications. Other parts of the body besides the legs below the knees may be affected. I have seen scratch lesions, few in number, about the pubes, thighs, and forearms. In another case—a young girl—the scratching had been so violent, the patient remaining with- out treatment and subjected to repeated in- vasions of the parasites, that the crusted ecthy- matous ulcerations about her legs gave rise to a suspicion of syphilis, which was at once dispelled