206 ALLIED PROCEDURES SKIN GRAFTING AND furnish the most suitable soil for the skin grafts were it not that it is seldom as free from septic organisms as is desirable. Another objection to grafting on a granulating surface lies in the fact that cicatricial contraction is a necessary sequel to this form of tissue repair, whereas comparatively little shrinkage follows when grafts are implanted directly on to a fresh raw surface. The ultimate mobility of the new covering also depends to a large extent on the nature of the surface on which the grafts are placed. The more elastic tissue there is developed in the new skin the greater is its mobility; and as no elastic tissue forms in granulation tissue, it does not constitute a suitable soil from this point of view. Elastic tissue in a scar is entirely derived from the underlying and surrounding healthy tissues, but it is to be borne in mind that is naturally more abundant in some situa- tions than in others. The mobility of the new skin also depends on the plasticity of the surrounding tissues and the original extent of the gap covered in. As a matter of practice, it is found that, given an aseptic and fairly vascular surface in a patient of moderate vitality, it is of com- paratively little importance, so far as the survival of the grafts is concerned, which kind of surface is selected. The best ultimate results, however, are obtained by grafting on a fresh raw surface. Each case must therefore be decided on its own merits, having consideration to the patient's power of standing such pro- cedures as the excision or scraping of the ulcer, with the attendant loss of blood, and the nature of the cicatrix it is desirable to obtain. Preparation op the Surface.—{a) A fresh raw surface, such as results after the excision of a tumour of the skin, or the paring of tissues in plastic operations for the rectification of deformities, requires no further preparation than is necessary to ensure its asepticity and to arrest hfemorrhage. The former indication is met by the use of a moderately strong anti- septic wash,—such as 1 in 60 carbolic, 1 in 2000 corrosive sublimate, or 1 in 200 lysol,— followed by free douching with normal salt solution; and the latter by torsion or forci- pressure of the visible vessels, and firm pressure with a pad of sterilised gauze for capillary oozing. Ligatures should, if possible, be avoided as, being foreign bodies, they interfere with accurate apposition between the graft and the surface to which it is applied. (6) In the case of chronic ulcers, such as occur on the legs in association with varicose veins and other con- ditions, it has been found advantageous to excise the ulcer entirely, including its indiirated edges and a zone about half an inch wide all round. The base of the ulcer is dissected up, so as to expose healthy vascular tissue beneath it, and the dense layer of fibrous tissue which in cases of old standing underlies the granula- tions is removed. To prevent the granulations infecting the raw surface during removal, the writer has been in the habit of painting the surface of the ulcer with pure carbolic acid for a day or two before the operation. This pro- cedure is but slightly painful, and has been found efficacious in eliminating sepsis. To arrest oozing after excision of the ulcer, a pad of sterilised gauze saturated with peroxide of hydrogen (10 volumes strength) is applied all over the raw surface. This application has the further advantage that it is a powerful and penetrating, although non-destructive, anti- septic. After the bleeding has ceased, the excess of peroxide solution is washed away by a copious yet gentle stream of tepid saline fluid. (c) In ulcers resulting from bairns, especially when extensive and of comparatively recent date, it is not necessary to excise the whole ulcer. After thorough purification of the granulating surface and the surrounding tissues, the superficial layer of granulations is scraped away with a sharp spoon, the young fibrous tissue vmderneath being conserved, as it is still sufficiently vascular to afford the necessary supply to the grafts placed over it. Any young epithelium which may have formed round the margin of the ulcer should also be removed, as it is very liable to break down after the grafts have united and leave a raw ring around the newly formed cicatrix. Oozing is stopped by the use of peroxide of hydrogen or by firm pressure with a pad of sterilised gauze, a layer oiled-silk protective being interposed to prevent the gauze sticking into the surface and starting bleeding again when it is removed. While it is most important to render the surface on which grafts are to be placed thoroughly aseptic, it is undesii-able just before the operation to employ strong chemicals for this purpose, as these induce a copious oozing of serum which tends to prevent accurate apposition of the grafts. Whatever antiseptics are used, the surface should be freely douched with normal salt solution before the grafts are applied. Preparation of Surface which yields the Grafts.—The surface from which the grafts are to be taken should be prepared in the same way as for any other aseptic surgical operation, by thorough washing with soap and water, soaking for twelve hours with a 1 in 40 carbolic com- press, and finally washing, just before the operation, with lysol, corrosive, or other anti- septic. Methods of Grafting Epithelium sowing—the simplest of all these procedures — has been variously ascribed to M. See and Lord Lister. It consists in scrap- ing with a knife-edge the superficial epithelial cells from some part previously purified—