SEWAGE AND DRAINAGE 135 With the aid of the drawing and the follow- ing description the chief details of a valve closet will be easily understood:—It consists of an earthenware enamelled basin in which water is retained by the valve, the flush being connected with an in-turned rim. By means 1 ^ I'ii syphon nected. Fio. 7. FlQ. 6. of a pull, the valve closing the 3-inch outlet of the basin is depressed into the enamelled iron box, and the contents are thus discharged through the short conducting pipe into the trap with which the closet is con- A lead overflow pipe, with syphon trap, connects the basin with the valve box, which should be ventilated by a pipe carried up- wards through the wall to a convenient point where it may be cut short, the object being to guard against syphon- age of the overflow trap, and provide a vent for any foul air which may accumulate in the valve box in the event of imperfect flush- ing of the closet trap through carelessness. In case of accident a safe or tray should be provided under the closet, with a waste- pipe carried through the wall to discharge into the open, a hinged flap being fixed at the end to prevent air from blowing through the pipe, which in winter may freeze the water in the closet pan, etc. The wash-down closet requires little or no description, but it may be pointed out that the chief features in a good appliance are a large water area, a good depth of seal, and an outgo which allows of an efficient union being made with the soil- pipe. When such a closet is fixed on the ground floor the outgo should pass down to the floor, the extreme edge for about 1^ in. being free from glaze, to allow of a cement joint being made with the drain, which should be carried upwards to the floor level in an easy curve. The outgoes in the case of some wash-down closets are encased in pottery, but this arrangement is to be condemned, as it is impossible in the case of such an appliance to form a water-tight union with the drain or soil-pipe, as the case may be. In the case of wash-down closets not on the ground floor, lead outgoes are now frequently attached securely to the earthenware by various patent processes, and thus the closet can be properly connected with the soil-pipe by means of a wiped joint. Previously considerable difficulty was experi- enced in making this connection, but the above invention has entirely done away with that. The drawing (Fig. 8) represents a trough closet, which is frequently used for schools and factories. The flush in this case must be automatic, and the best tank for the purpose is Field's, which has already been described. Mention must also be made of slcyp water- closets, of which there are many varieties, the slop water being utilised as a flush by means of an automatic arrangement in the shape of a tipper. Of course, such closets can only be fixed out of doors, and as compared with privies they are cleanly appliances, but they cannot be compared with ordinary water-closets from that point of view, and it is doubtful whether their introduction should be encouraged. Lavatories, Baths, and Sinlcs.—The chief point to consider in connection with lavatories, baths, and sinks is the method of dealing with the waste. In all such cases the waste should be carried through the wall, to discharge on to a gully trap direct if on the ground floor, or into a rain-head communicating with a gully by means of a down pipe. It sometimes happens, however, that the latter plan is inexpedient, owing to proximity to windows, in which case the waste should communicate direct with the down pipe, which should be carried upwards as a ventilator. No matter which method is adopted, however, it is essential to fix a syphon trap immediately under the outgo, as merely disconnecting the waste outside is not sufficient. It frequently happens that Fig. 8. more than one lavatory, or a lavatory and a bath, has to be connected to a common waste, in which case each individual waste should be trapped, and, as the traps are likely to become imsealed from syphonage under such circum- stances, antisyphonage pipes should be carried from the crown of each trap to join a main pipe,