INSECTS 342 STINGING B. M. J. 1900, i. 1456 ; James, Indian Med. Gaz. 1900, 169 ; Manson ; Grassi and Noe, etc.). The stings of gadflies, wasps, and bees vary in intensity in different persons. Bee farmers are often notoriously insusceptible to the sting of bees. In most persons, however, there is great local pain and burning, followed by oedema, which is particularly troublesome when the sting is in the neighbourhood of the eye, or on the tongue or pharynx. When the bites are numerous, or when there is a marked suscepti- bility, there may be faintness, unconsciousness, and death from cardiac failui'e. Lastly, reference must be made to the stings of the harvest bug {Leptus autumnalis) and of spiders, though these arthropods are not really insects. Stinging^ Plants.—Certain species of plants are furnished with stinging hairs which project from the surface of their leaves, and which provide the plant with a means of defence against the attacks of herbivorous animals. The most familiar examples of plants bearing stinging hairs are the common European nettles, Urtica urens and Urtica dioica; the stings produced by the Urtica crenulata of India and the Urtica stimulans of Java are much more severe. In addition to the Urti- cacese, stinging plants are also found amongst the Malpighiacese, Euphorbiacese, Loasacese, etc. In the nettle each stinging hair is essentially a single elongated cell. The basal part of the hair is expanded and flexible; the main part of the hair tapers gradually towards the upper or free brittle end, but is here again expanded to form an apical knob. Within the hair is a fluid substance, in which formic acid and probably also an enzyme are present. When the leaf is handled, the apical knob of each stinging hair which has been touched is broken off, the sharp point of the broken hair penetrates the epi- dermis, and the fluid contents of the hair pass into the skin. The effects resulting from the wounding of the skin by these hairs are the characteristic lesions of urticaria, and though these usually take the form of wheals, there may be merely hypersemia. The lesions are as a rule transient in nature, localised to the part which has been in contact with the leaf, and do not spread to distant parts of the skin. Simultaneously with the appearance of the cutaneous lesions there is locally an intense tingling, itching, or prick- ing sensation, as in other forms of urticaria. The toxic substance, whether it be the formic acid or a special enzyme, is thought to act directly upon the endothelial cell wall of the capillaries in the true skin, causing dilatation and congestion of these capillaries, subsequent to which there is usually excessive transudation of fluid from the vessels, resulting in the forma- tion of the characteristic wheals. Stipatio Telae Cellulosse Infan- tum. See Sclerema Neonatorum. Stirrag'e.—Quickening, or the detection of foetal movements by the mother in pregnancy. See Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Symptoms, Quicken- ing). Stitch - Abscess. — Abscess forming round a ligature in an operation wound. Stitch in the Side. — Intercostal neuralgia. See Pleura, Diseases of [Acute Pleurisy, Cliiiical History); Pneumonia, Clini- cal [Clinical Features). St. Ives. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts [English). St. Leonards. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts [English). St. MoritZ. See Balneology [Switzer- land) ; Mineral Waters (Chalybeate) ; Thera- peutics, Health Resorts [Switzerland). St. Nectaire. Balneology (i^ra^ice, Alkaline Waters). Stock. See Invalid Feeding [Soup- making). StOCker'S Sig'n. *S'ee Meningitis, Tuber- culous [Diagnosis from Typhoid Fever). Stocking:, Elastic. See Veins, Dis- eases OF (Varicose Veins, Treatment). Stokes' Disease. — Exophthalmic goitre. See Thyroid Gland, Medical [Exoph- thalmic Goitre). Stokes - Adams' Disease. — Par- oxysmal bradycardia. Stokes' Pulse.—Corrigan's pulse. See Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium [Physi- cal Signs, Pulse in Aortic Incompetence). Stokes' Sig'n. — Violent throbbing in the abdomen (to the right of the umbilicus) in cases of acute enteritis. StoliditaS. — Stolidity, stupidity, or a markedly phlegmatic state. See Mental De- ficiency. Stolypin. See Balneology [Russia). Stomach and Duodenum, Dis- eases of. Anatomical and Physiological Con- siderations .... . 343 Diseases, General Etiology of . . 349 ,, Morbid Anatomy and Path- ology OF . . . 352 ,, General Symptomatology of (Gastro-Duodenal Indiges- tion) ..... 361