SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 288 meninges escape laceration, but hfemorrhage may occur between the dura mater and the cord; or, what is still more serious, it may occur into the substance of the cord—especially the grey matter—giving rise to hfematomyelia. The cord may be immediately disorganised by pressure alone, and thence ensue, if the patient live long enough, ascending and descending myelitis. Symptoms.—It is well to give those common to fracture-dislocation in any region of the spine, and then to specialise according to the region afterwards. Apart from the symptoms usually associated with fracture of a bone, immediately the accident occurs collapse and sometimes loss of consciousness result, and when the patient recovers his senses he finds himself partially paralysed. He has lost control over his sphincters, and cannot move his lower limbs. There may or may not be anaesthesia, and its level varies; sometimes a line of hypertesthesia separates the normal from the anaesthetic parts. The temperature often rises immediately after the injury, even to as high as 110° or 112°. But in the case of a fatal event it steadily falls, and records of 80° and 75° in the axilla have been noticed. The pulse as a rule follows the temperature. The effect of the shock is at first to entirely abolish reflex action; which is then regained unless the lumbar cord is involved, when it does not return; but otherwise it becomes exaggerated, and when downward degeneration sets in diminishes. The urinary organs at first suffer from shock, and complete retention occurs. Immediately after the injury, if it be above the lumbar region this retention gives place to involuntary or reflex discharges of urine, of which the patient is unaware, but if the lumbar enlargement be involved the urine continually dribbles away. At first there is no change in the urine, except the presence of a little sugar in some cases ; but it soon becomes ammoniacal, ropy, and occasionally it is discoloured with blood. When these changes occur very shortly after an accident, and if great care has been exercised in sterilising the catheter and pre- venting the entrance of bacilli into the bladder, it is quite possible that the change in the urine is of that kind which might be placed under the description of trophic. After a time the bladder walls undergo degenerative changes, becoming discoloured and ulcerated. Priapism appears immediately after the accident, and particularly in fracture of the cervical and upper dorsal regions. It is never seen when the fracture involves the lumbar enlargement, and it is seldom noticed when the lower dorsal spine is damaged. It is not per- sistent, and in a case of degeneration descend- ing into the lumbar enlargement it disappears. Defsecation is profoundly altered. The fseces may pass without the knowledge of the patient if they are firm, but if diarrhoea is present the motions run away. Distension of the abdominal parietes, vomiting, hiccough, are met with in cases when the injury is high up. One of the most fatal occurrences is the onset of acute bed-sores ; and the rapidity with which they form, together with the extreme difficulty of arresting them, seems to indicate that they are due to withdrawal of nerve in- fluence upon the nutrition of the parts. They occur most often on the sacrum and lower lumbar vertebrae, but are seen over bony prominences, such as the anterior superior spines, internal condyles, and the ankles. They may come on also at any time during the progress of the case, even when the greatest care is used; and then they are found to be associated with descending degeneration of the cord, and are often a prelude to the fatal ending. Other trophic lesions develop in the extremities if the patient live sufficiently long. Symptoms Special to various Regions op THE CoBD.—Fracture of the Lower Three Lumbar Vertebroe.—Owing to the fact that the cord terminates at the lower end of the first lumbar vertebra, or at the upper level of the second, the long roots of the cauda equina may escape injury. Complete paralysis is not necessarily present, although it may be partial, due to heemorrhage. Thus the loss of sensation is sometimes incom- plete, although movement of the parts supplied by the lumbar and sacral plexus is lost. Mic- turition—at first reflex—may after a time be-i come normal, and faecal incontinence pass off bj degrees. Fracture between the Second Lumbar and Tenth Dorsal Vertebrce.—From this part of the cord| the lumbar and sacral plexuses are given off.f Paralysis of the lower limbs and of the bladder and the rectum is common, and sensation isl partially or completely lost. At first the urinel is retained, but it afterwards dribbles away, andl the sphincter ani is paralysed. Priapism is| absent, and the reflexes are lost, not to be re- gained. If the injury occur between the second! and tenth dorsal vertebrae, in addition to the] motor and sensory loss, the abdominal walls arej distended, tympanites occurs, and breathing is carried on mainly by the diaphragm ; and the power of expelling mucus from the chest is lost. Some of the reflexes may return according to the site of injury, and priapism is seen when the cord lesion is above the sixth dorsal vertebra. Fracture in the Cervico-dorsal and Cervical Regions.—Occasionally there is an area of hyperaesthesia, due probably to the congestion and irritation of the region just above the seat of injury. Thorburn has dealt with injuries to the spinal cord in this region very thoroughly, and he gives a table to which reference may be made,i showing from which part of the cord the 1 Contribution to the Surgery of the Spinal Cord, pp. 2 and 3.