AFFECTIONS OF 299 SPINE, SURGICAL this there is lateral deviation of the spine ; and this is doubtless due to destruction proceeding- more rapidly on one side of the vertebral bodies than on the other. It is important to recognise lateral deviation, as it has been mis- taken for scoliosis, just in the same way as scoliosis with projecting vertebrte has been taken for Pott's disease. When considerable erosion of the bodies has ensued, the features of the lateral deviation are merged into and lost in those of the general deformity of the column. The extent of erosion and actual destruction of the bodies varies widely. It may be so slight that little or no deformity is produced, or it may be so severe that the upper part of the spine will be found at a right angle to the lower. True dislocation rarely occurs, but merely a bending forwards of the spine at the site of disease, and with this the spinal canal is often widened, although the space for the spinal cord is limited by the presence of granu- lation tissue, so that compression-paraplegia results. Antero-posterior deformity of old standing may be recognised by the following character- istics : The projection is rounded, and has a bursa of considerable size and density over its most prominent points. In advanced cases— especially in the dorsal region—the shoulders are elevated and droop forward, the sternum is prominent, the ribs are compressed from side to side, the scapula raised, the neck shortened, and the head is thrown forwards and the chin is unduly prominent. Alterations in the posi- tion of the viscera take place, and the writer has seen the apex beat of the heart in the third intercostal space in the nipple line. Hilton Fagge drew attention to the kinking of the anterior wall of the thoracic aorta (see Fig. 1), and with it there was associated hypertrophy of the heart. The lungs become compressed, and the abdominal viscera are pushed down- wards. It is essential to keep a record of the de- formity from time to time, and this is best effected by taking an outline of the projection with a strip of sheet lead, and then marking the outline of the curve so obtained on card- board, and cutting it out to the pattern so drawn. An increase in the degree of curvature may occur under two conditions : Firstly, when the destructive process is going on quickly in the bodies; and, secondly, when active disease has ceased and healing is taking place, the bodies settle down. And then a further de- A'elopment of the posterior projection may follow, unless the spine is properly supported. Symptoms.—The history is not as a rule very trustworthy, but careful inquiry should be made as to the presence of tuberculosis in the family. Pain is present in the majority of cases, and a characteristic of the pain of spinal caries is that it is felt not so much over the site of the disease itself as at a distance—that is to say, it is reflected pain. This is the reverse of what obtains in so-called hysterical spine and railway spine, and it is important to re- member this generalisation. Reflected pain assumes the form of headache or shooting pains in the arms in cervical disease; of sternal pain or neuralgia in the side in dorsal disease; of stomach-ache or girdle pain in dorso-lumbar, and of growing pains in the lumbar form of the affection. It is liable to increase on sudden movements, and occasionally night-starts occur. FIG. 1.—Kinking of tlie aorta in spinal caries. " Section of the spine showing extensive caries of the vertebrae with angular deformity. The last four dorsal verteln™ are greatly dis- eased, the two middle are nearly destroyed, and the portions of the upper and lower have fallen together. The other dorsal vertebne are also affected on their anterior surfaces." (Guy's Hospital Museum, 1290.) Pain may be elicited sometimes by pressure over the spinous processes, and movements of flexion and extension and rotation will also be painful. The method of jarring the spine by sudden pressure on the vertex in the erect position is a cruel and unnecessary test. A sudden increase of pain is often symptomatic of onset of abscess, increase of the deformity, or the commencement of paralysis. But when treatment is eff'ectual the first result is gradual decrease and finally loss of the pain. The general symptoms are those of loss of flesh and malaise, want of appetite, slightly raised temperature in the evening, and in addition cough. Dyspnoea and gastric disorders may be