136 SEWAGE AND DRAINAGE which is carried up outside the wall to join the ventilator of the main waste pipe above the highest connection. Such an arrangement as applied to two lavatory basins is shown in the drawing (Fig. 9). Excrement and Refuse Disposal.—Both the privy midden and pail systems must be con- FIG. 9. demned as being most insanitary in all urban districts, as well as in populous parts of rural districts, and the only remedy is the adoption of water carriage. In scattered rural districts, however, it may be necessary to recognise one or other of these systems, but in such cases the privies should be so constructed as to comply with every requirement set forth in the model Bye-laws of the Local Government Board. At the same time, however rigidly the Bye-laws may be adhered to, nuisance must arise from the storage of filth on any premises even for short periods, and, if water carriage is im- practicable, undoubtedly the best alternative is the earth closet system, provided means can be devised to insure that an ample supply of dry riddled soil is always available. As regards dry refuse, movable receptacles with, at least, weekly removal is the only satis- factory method for towns, and in some cases bi- weekly or even daily removal is desirable. In country districts, however, fixed receptacles may be allowed provided precautions are adopted to keep the contents dry, and it is well in such cases, if privies are in use, to apply the riddled ashes to the privy contents. As regards the ultimate disposal of the refuse, waste land is usually available in rural districts, or farmers are willing to remove the privy midden contents free of charge provided the ashes used are riddled ; but the proper solu- tion of this difficulty is to burn the dry refuse in destructors, a practice which, it is satis- factory to find, is becoming more and more general. Sewage Disposal.—Before dealing with the methods of sewage disposal which are now generally adopted, it may be well to indicate what must be accomplished by all methods if success is to be achieved, and it will probably suffice to set forth the essentials in the form of a table:— First Stage. Essentials. / 1. The removal of all large suspended I matters and inorganic solids, such I as road detritus. I 2. Theremovalorliquefactionof allsolid \ organic matter in suspension. / 3. The conversion of the inorganic Second ) matter present in solution into Stage. '\ more stable (non - putrefactive) V. substances = nitrification. No matter what method of disposal is adopted, the sewage must first undergo a process of screening and partial subsidence in order to hold back large floating matters and road detritus. As regards the purification process proper, both in the disintegration of the organic con- stituents and the subsequent conversion of the unstable products into stable non-putrefactive substances, bacteria are the active agents. There is no such thing as the disposal of sewage by chemical methods; all that chemicals can effect is the mechanical precipitation of the suspended solids (in large tanks), leaving the dissolved organic matter to be dealt with by land or artificial filters as the case may be. It is true, the final biological changes effected by land or filters are greatly facilitated by the removal of the solids by chemical precipitation, but the resulting sludge has to be disposed of, and this presents many difficulties. Now, how- ever, it has been established that tlie whole process of purification (unless in the case, pos- sibly, of very exceptional sewages) can be effected by bacteria, and thus the difficult question of sludge disposal has been overcome. Having regard, then, to what has to be accomplished, the following table sets forth the different methods which may be employed :— Methods. After subsidence of detritus :— /I. Cameron's septic tank. First I ^" upward-flow culti- < vation tank. * ■ I 3. Large grain filters / (a) Filters. V used as ( {b) Contactbeds. / 1. Land treat-/(a) Broad irrigation. Second J ment \{b) Downward filtration. Stage. \ 2. Small grain filters ( (a) Filters. ( used as | {b) Contactbeds. If chemical precipitation is adopted, the tank capacity provided should at least equal one-half to two-thirds the daily flow of sewage, and it is desirable in the case of large works to pro- vide a plant for pressing the sludge, other- wise the difficulty in ultimately disposing of it will be considerable. But even when pressed into comparatively dry cakes the bulk of material to be handled is considerable, and, because of its low value as a manure, it is not always possible even to induce farmers to cart it away.