STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 352 Thus some degree of gastritis is a constant associate of malignant disease of the organ; dilatation of the viscus is in a large proportion of cases due to obstructive conditions at the pylorus or in the duodenum; a connection has been traced between carcinoma ventriculi and the scar of a former ulcer, and also, perhaps, with a long-standing indigestion, although the association in these cases is not perhaps so frequent as has been supposed. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology The usual post-mortem appearances even of the healthy stomach and intestine differ considerably from those seen in the same organs during life. The normal shades of pink which the mucous membrane exhibits according to the condition of digestion and the delicate velvety look are no longer seen; the surface is pale and greyish in colour, occasionally streaked by the lines of blood-vessels, or even spotted with minute haemorrhages, and of a somewhat glairy and viscid appearance. This last is due to a softening of the epithelial cells, which become indistinct in outline, loosened and separated from the basement membrane, and mixed with the mucus resulting from the degeneration of the cells. Should death have taken place whilst food is in the stomach and digestion is in pro- gress, the extent of the softening—gastro- malacia—is much greater, and may amount to actual destruction of large areas of the mucosa and even of the muscular and serous layer, producing extensive and ragged rents in the organ, with escape of the contents, and similar invasion of the diaphragm and contiguous structures. This post-mortem digestion, which is most apt to occur in children, is most marked at the fundus, and may only be represented by quite small erosions of the surface. There is usually some, and perhaps considerable, staining of the tissues of the stomach by the blood, which has undergone change by the gastric juice. After a time putrefactive decomposition supervenes. The first part of the duodenum may be involved in the destruction along with the stomach, but on the whole this is rare. Congestion and Hcemorrhage. — As already said, the post-mortem appearance of the gastro- intestinal canal is but little indication of the actual state of its vascularity during life. Under conditions such as portal obstruction or obstructive heart disease, where the due return of blood is interfered with, the resulting con- gestion of the mucosa may persist to a greater or less extent after death, and an extreme fulness of vessels and coloration of surface may be seen, especially along the curvatures and towards the pylorus. Distinct varicosity of the veins around the cardiac orifice may occur at the junction of the coronary and oesophageal vessels—gastric haemorrhoids ; the non-persis- tence, however, of such vascular dilatations after death is not to be taken as evidence of their absence during life. It will be readily understood that, where the mechanical congestion has been intense, rupture of the small vessels is liable to take place, especially when these are so imperfectly sup- ported in the lax tissues of the mucosa and submucosa ; hence interstitial haemorrhages are common in such cases, and according to their size and extent they may reach to the surface, with consequent effusion of blood into the viscus. Grave alterations in the blood, such as leucocythemia, scurvy, etc., jaundice, or minute emboli from malignant endocarditis, may all give rise to haemorrhages into the mucous mem- brane and deeper layers. Along with recent petechias, or even without them, may be seen spots of pigmentation, the results of former haemorrhages. Inflammation—Gastritis.—^The response of the constituent tissues of the stomach to the infliction of an irritant that exceeds in degree or kind those to which it is normally subject and is yet not of that severity to cause complete destruction—in short, the process of inflamma- tion—varies much with the character of the irritant, and also with the condition of the individual. In its simplest form—catarrh—it is one of the most frequently occurring of all maladies, induced as it is by the numerous errors of diet or improper ingesta to which the stomach is exposed; or when the viscus is reacted upon by disturbances in the digestive process, that de- pend upon causes apart from structural defects in the organ itself, determining by their irritant character mild inflammatory results, which in their turn intensify the indigestion. The mucous membrane in acute gastric catarrh has been seen to become of a deeper red from hyperaemia, more marked in places and not completely uniform. At first the surface is probably drier than normal, but is soon covered with a layer of thick tenacious mucus due to an increased reaction by the epithelial cells, which rapidly undergo a more extensive mucoid degeneration than obtains in the normal state. Similar changes, and more especially those of a granular character, are found in the cells of the gastric glands—with the result, as may be men- tioned in passing, of causing a diminution or complete arrest of the pepsin and hydrochloric acid secretion. Moreover, the cells become loosened in their attachments and desquamate, their place, on recovery, being subsequently taken by the round cells which lie among their deeper ends. Meanwhile the lower layers of the mucosa and of the submucosa are oedema't- ous, infiltrated to a varying extent with leuco- cytes, some of which escape fit the surface with the epithelium and mucus. The readiness with which slight haemorrhages occur in even the milder forms of gastritis is a noticeable