TEETH 537 carbohydrates. Choquet has recently shown that recurrent dental caries can be produced in a sound tooth cavity, and below a tight filling, by placing a small metal cap of culture material on the bottom of the cavity previous to filling it, but owing to the absence of carbohydrates this secondary caries seems to advance very slowly and affects only a limited area. Neuralgias op Dental Origin Certain individuals seem to have a neuralgic tendency, the slightest cause interfering with perfect health inducing an attack, and there is nothing more certain than that conditions of debility, anemia, malaria, or exhaustion are fertile sources for originating this complaint in subjects prone to it. When it has its origin in the branches of the fifth nerve it is termed trifacial neuralgia — supraorbital, infraorbital, temporal, aural, or cervical being the regions most affected. And any tooth or teeth in a diseased or irritable condition are liable to originate an attack. Careful examination re- quires to be made of all the teeth in order to diagnose the origin of such neuralgic conditions. The teeth, one by one, should be thoroughly examined with a fine probe, and percussed by a steel instrument, while conditions of chronic pulpitis, exostosis, chronic periodontitis, or im- pacted third molars must not be overlooked. Projection of a stream of cold water against a suspected tooth may help to show up inflamma- tory conditions of the pulp. Carious, suppurat- ing, and broken-down wisdom teeth are common sources of neuralgic trouble. Neuralgic pain, when occurring in the supra- orbital or infraorbital regions, is usually due to maxillary teeth, whereas pain in the ear, neck, or shoulder indicates disease of some of the teeth in the mandible. The pain of neuralgia is of a sharp, paroxysmal, darting, or burning character, and sometimes the attacks come on at stated periods and intervals. The pathological conditions of teeth which more especially are the cause of neuralgia are : (1) irritation of the pulp; (2) chronic pulpitis; (3) chronic periodontitis ; (4) the various forms of secondary dentine found in the pulp chamber, especially that form called dentine excrescence and calcareous granules ; (5) exostosis ; (6) im- pacted third molars. It is frequently very difficult to differentiate between neuralgias of a general or dental origin. A preliminary dose or two of tincture gelsemium is sometimes of use in diagnosis, as it gives relief in most cases of dental origin, but is of no effect in systemic conditions. The treatment of the various patho- logical conditions of the teeth, in so far as this can be done, quickly allays and stops short the neuralgic symptoms, but while it lasts relief can be obtained by the administration of phenacetin or tincture gelsemiiun. Neuralgic pain may be reflected from one nerve to another, and produce pain at a considerable distance from its origin, such as the neck, the arm, or back. The usual sites of the affection are at the outlets of the main branches of the fifth nerve on the face and head. Facial paralysis is a pretty common affection, as a result of diseased and abscessed mandibular molars. The author has seen a case of muscular paralysis of the arm which was cured by the extraction of a diseased man- dibular third molar. Various affections of the eye, according to Power, are caused by the presence of suppurating teeth in the maxilla. Ant7-al Empyema. — The maxillary antrum is very variable in size; sometimes the two sinuses differ in size in the same individual. The antrum is of pyramidal shape, and is situ- ated above the roots of the posterior teeth and below the orbit. The proximity of the roots of the posterior teeth to the cavity of the antrum (which they sometimes penetrate) is frequently the origin of trouble in this sinus, by causing irritation and alteration of the normal secretion, which becomes purulent in character, and is evacuated through the middle meatus into the nose, or in some cases a sinus discharges through an opening in the external alveolar process or palate. Anti-al empyema may also have its origin as an extension of disease from the nasal cavity without any of the teeth being diseased ; but its most frequent origin is from diseased and septic roots or teeth, especially the posterior teeth, although any of the other teeth may cause it. Acute Antral Empyema.—Except as a result of scarlet fever or influenza this variety is some- what uncommon. Symptoms.—Great pain of a throbbing or neuralgic character is experienced, accompanied by high temperature and pain in the teeth. Relief for the time being is obtained by evacuat- ing the cavity. Operative measures are seldom required, as the disease ceases spontaneously. Chronic empyema is very common and often overlooked. Symptoms: slight feeling of pain or tension over the cheek, nose, or supraorbital ridge, nasal discharge of foetid pus, the frequent passage of which over the nasal mucous mem- brane irritates and inflames it; one or both nostrils may be blocked. It often requires pro- longed treatment and is difficult to cure. Treatment.— Remove thoroughly all diseased teeth, and bore a hole with a suitable instru- ment (a large trocar will do) through the external alveolar plate over the first or second molar tooth into the antrum. A good-sized opening is required for successfully treating it. The antral cavity should then be, in the first place, washed out with dilute 3 per cent solution of pyrozone to cleanse the mucous membrane from pus, etc. ; then follow this up with a hot solution of boracic acid, or a teaspoonful of hydronaphthol solution in a tumbler of water may be used. This may be done three or four