SYPHILIS 463 a surgeon or midwife knowingly inoculated in the course of their duties. Excision, cauterisa- tion, and even the most careful disinfection are useless when the primary sore has become manifest, for analogy with all other infective diseases shows that the initial manifestation is only evidence of general infection. Yet the fears of patients have led to divers experiments in the way of local removal, but without any definite satisfactory results. The treatment of primary syphilis, therefore, resolves itself into treatment of the chancre, and constitutional treatment of the disease of which the chancre is the local indication. The simplest means are usually sufficient to cure the chancre, which has indeed a tendency to undergo spontaneous resolution if it be not irritated and if it be kept clean. The sore in its simpler forms should be gently washed night and morning with warm boric lotion, a piece of dry gauze or lint being laid over it in the intervals to protect it from injury and to absorb any slight serous discharge which may be pro- duced. More active measures must be taken when suppuration occurs, the bathing should be more frequent, and a lotion of 1 in 2000 bin- iodide of mercury may be substituted for the boric lotion. Many patients have a distinct objection to the use of iodoform, chiefly on account of its smell when it is carelessly applied ; but it is often a most excellent application, and if care be taken not to spill it over the clothes it can be used with a minimum of discomfort. Black wash and lotio plumbi are also very serviceable applications whose advantages have withstood the test of time. There is great diversity of opinion as to the proper treatment to be adopted constitutionally about the time of the appearance of a sore. Every one is agreed that mercury should be given as soon as syphilis is recognised, for mer- cury is the antidote to syphilis, and the indura- tion of a hard sore disappears more rapidly when mercury is administered than when it is withheld. Every one, however, is equally agreed that the first and most important question to decide is that which is the most difficult in the majority of cases, viz. : " Is this patient suffer- ing from syphilis, or is the sore which he presents due to some local inflammation 1" The greater his experience the more does a practi- tioner recognise the many pitfalls which beset the diagnosis of syphilis in its earliest stages, and the more reluctant is he to pronounce a definite opinion in the many doubtful cases which come under his observation. It has become a rule, therefore, to adopt a temporising policy, and not to give the patient mercury until there is unequivocal evidence that he has really contracted syphilis. This appears to be a satisfactory plan to pursue until the diagnosis of syphilis is founded on some scientific basis, for at present it rests merely on clinical evidence. Mercurial treatment, to be of any service, re- quires a very prolonged course and a clear understanding of the principles involved both on the part of the surgeon and the patient. It is a waste of time and money to carry it out on a patient who has not syphilis, whilst if he has syphilis, and he knows it, he is the more likely to carry out the treatment in its integrity than if he has the lingering hope that after all he had only an inflamed soft sore. The consti- tutional treatment of primary syphilis con- sists, therefore, in the administration of mercury as soon as the evidence of syphilitic infection is irrefragable. Until this is established the patient should be given some tonic which may bring him into the best possible condition of health, with a view to the long and depressing period of treatment which is before him. Secondary Syphilis.—The appearance of the primary sore is followed after a varying period by further and more generalised symptoms, which show that the syphilitic poison has in- creased within the body, and is now affecting the entire system. The secondary symptoms, as they are called, follow the initial manifesta- tion in nearly every case. Sometimes they are so slight as to be entirely overlooked, both by the surgeon and by the patient, but in a few cases where the patient has been kept under the observation of reliable and experienced practitioners the secondary symptoms have not occurred. Indeed, there is some tendency to divide the various stages of syphilis by lines which are too hard and fast, in accordance with Ricord's classification, into primary, secondary, and tertiary syphilis. Nature rarely works by abrupt divisions, and in syphilis, as in all other diseases, the symptoms of one stage merge into and often coexist with those of another. It may be stated, with these reservations, that the secondary symptoms of syphilis occur about six weeks after the appearance of the initial mani- festation, and that the secondary stage lasts from one to two years. The patient often presents no symptoms of constitutional infection for some time after the appearance of the initial lesion, though a careful examination will show that the lymphatic glands are becoming enlarged in various parts of the body. The glands do not attain any great size, they show no tendency to suppurate, and they are freely movable in the surrounding tissues and upon each other. They do not usually cause any pain or discomfort, so that they may pass entirely unnoticed by the patient, even when their outline is clearly visible to the eye of a trained observer. The chain of glands at the posterior border of the sternomastoid mus- cles—the glandulce concatenatoe—the posterior occipital glands, and those behind the ears, are most commonly enlarged and are most easily felt. The epitrochlear glands, situated two or three fingers' breadth above the internal con-