379 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF ing the viscera, may make the tumour easier of detection. The situation of the pylorus, or of any growth connected with it, is liable to be displaced if there be much dilatation of the organ, and especially if there be any proptosis; but, when palpable, a pyloric tumour is oftenest to be seen and felt in the epigastric or umbilical regions, rather more to the right of the median line, and much less frequently in one or other hypochondrium. A very imperfect notion of the real extent of the mass is obtained by manipulation when it is palpable owing to its connection with surrounding parts; it usually feels hard, and often nodular, giving a sub- tympanitic or dull note on percussion. As regards its mobility and the range of its move- ment with respiration the widest difference pre- vails, being quite fixed or fully movable, and shifting up and down with the movements of the diaphragm, or only perceptible on the deepest inspiration, or not even then. In those rarer cases where the entire stomach is impli- cated and the organ is much reduced in size with great thickening of the walls, or where the anterior wall is only or chiefly the seat of the growth, the tumour may be easily felt in the left hypochondrium, when it has been mis- taken for an enlarged spleen, and with the characteristic alteration in the blood has led to a diagnosis of splenic leukaemia. The absence of any extension of the dulness upwards should serve to distinguish. The necessity for emptying the colon of scybala previous to examination is most important. The physical signs of a dilated stomach usually coexist with those due to the tumour, and may indeed be the more prominent. The small amount of food taken, the serious interference with the digestion of that which is retained, and perhaps also the prejudicial effects of the metabolic products of the growth itself, combine to produce a great impairment of nutrition, which is intensified by the more or less constant loss of blood and the distressing pain. Hence a progressive emaciation, which commences quite early in the illness, and great muscular weakness are characteristic of the disease. Few conditions lead to so extreme a wasting, should the patient live long enough. A profound anaemia is soon established and contributes to the intense debility, and explains the oedema of the feet and ankles usually met with, and also the thrombosis of the veins of the limbs occasionally seen. In advanced cases, especially those of the medullary form with frequent haemorrhage, the characters of the blood resemble those of the pernicious type of anaemia, though the diminution in number of red corpuscles is seldom, if ever, so great; an apparent excess of red corpuscles has been seen when the fluid of the blood has been drained by excessive vomiting or hypersecretion in the stomach; some leucocytosis is to be observed. but nothing distinctive in the presence or absence of any particular form of white cell, although megaloblasts are wanting. In patients carefully observed and kept under uniform conditions a rise of temperature to 101° or rather higher is generally to be noticed. The cause of this is not satisfactorily known, but is generally as- cribed to some toxin formed by the growth or produced in the course of the associated gastritis or local peritonitis. Shivering, with a rise of temperature to 104°, happens in a few cases. The general condition of ill-health as represented by these symptoms constitutes what is known as the malignant cachexia, the patient pre- senting a more or less characteristic appearance, of which the pallid, yellowish integuments is one of the most striking features. Patches of brown pigmentation on the face and extremities are also frequently observed. The course of the disease is invariably towards a fatal termination, usually within a year from the time that the symptoms are declared, and not seldom within three or four months when occurring in the young. The scirrhous forms are somewhat slower in progress, and death may not take place for two years, or even rather more, whilst surgical interference claims in suitable cases still further to prolong life. Transient periods of slight apparent improvement, and even a slight gain in weight, after coming under treatment, are not infrequent. The patient visually succumbs to asthenia, hastened perhaps by a severe haemorrhage ; but a perforative peritonitis, or even pneumothorax from extension into the pleural cavity, may be the termination. Within a few days or hours of death a persistent hiccough is apt to set in, and the patient lapses into a lethargic state which deepens into coma and may be marked by a mild delirium ; unable to take any nourishment beyond an occasional teaspoonful of liquid, and too feeble to vomit, life gradually slips away. The progress of the case may be complicated by perforation of the growth into the peritoneal or pleural cavities, or into some part of the intestinal canal, most frequently the transverse colon, when the vomit becomes faecal and a diarrhoea is likely to be set up. The pressure of the growth itself or of secondary nodules in the liver or lymphatic glands upon the portal vein and common bile duct may lead to ascites and jaundice ; and its extension to the liver and even the head of the pancreas, or the occurrence of secondary deposits in the liver or lungs, will give rise to special symptoms. The obstruction, both structural and functional, at the pyloric orifice tends to induce some gastroectasis ; and this will be greater in scirrhous stricture, though seldom so great as is caused by a non-malignant constriction. A rare complication is an um- bilical fistula from adhesion of the growth to the abdominal wall. This lesion is much more frequent in tuberculous peritonitis or malignant