TABES DORSALIS 501 In the later stages he may suffer from residual urine, necessitating the use of the catheter, and often this is attended by cystitis. From 70 to 80 per cent suffer from bladder troubles. Bladder crises and urethra crises have been described, but they are rare. The patients have an urgent desire to micturate, but are unable. They experience the most severe burning and cutting pains in the urethra, and these may be associated with lancinating pains throughout the lower extremities. Renal crises simulating renal colic from the passage of a calculus have also been described. Gastric crises are one of the earliest symptoms of the disease, and the attacks of pain and vomiting may be the sole cause for which the patient seeks relief. In one of my cases the patient was admitted for intestinal obstruction, and the surgeon was sent for with a view to operation. It was noticed, however, that the pupils did not dilate while the patient was experiencing severe pain, and further observa- tion showed that it was a case of tabes. In twenty-two patients suffering with tabes, out of sixty-five that I have recently seen, gastric crises were a symptom. All such cases I have found associated with complete or partial antes- thesia in the mid-dorsal region of the trunk, often with persistent girdle sensation. The attacks of vomiting may be preceded by pain or a feeling of weight at the epigastrium, some- times occipital headache and a feeling of dis- tension of the stomach, and lightning pains throughout the whole body. The patients usually complain of a deep internal burning sensation. Severe attacks may last several days. The contents of the stomach, if any, are vomited, but the retching of mucous continues just as in sea-sickness, often mixed with bile, and sometimes blood or altered blood. The pain may be agonising, and, although the symp- toms are most distressing during the attack, it is astonishing how soon the patient recovers when it is over. Occasionally the patients may suffer with in- complete gastric crises, in which only paroxysms of cramp-like pain of the stomach or eructations and vomiting without pain occur. Gastric crises may be accompanied by fre- quent purgations. Intestinal Crises.—Frequent watery evacua- tions of the bowels may take place for days, weeks, or months, and then cease as suddenly as they appeared. These are rare. Rectal crises are relatively frequent, and often a very early symptom. The patients complain of tenesmus and urgent desire to go to stool, of severe pain in the back passage compared to a hot iron being thrust up. During the strain- ing it is said that evacuations of blood and slime have been passed. Much more frequently the patients suffer with constipation and difficulty in relieving the bowels without purgatives. Often they are unable to keep themselves clean, especially when they have to start micturition by a strong voluntary effort, for fseces are then apt to escape owing to loss of reflex tonic contraction of the sphincter ani. Moreover, they cannot always tell when defseca- tion is complete. Genital Organs.—A very early symptom is increased sexual appetite—satyriasis. This is frequently followed by impotence and atrophy of the testicles. I have noticed that impotence is often associated with loss of sensibility in the genital organs. Absence of pain on compression of the testicles is a noteworthy symptom of the disease. There may be paroxysmal attacks of priapism in the male, and cases have been described of clitoris crises in the female. Some- times there is hypersesthesia and sometimes angesthesia of the vulva. Affection op Cranial Nerves.—In rare cases the olfactory nerve may be affected. The patient complains of loss of smell and of the taste of flavours. Very often they experience a foul smell like a drain or phosphorus coming on in paroxysms. Sometimes, owing to the affection of the nasal branch of the fifth nerve, there is loss of sensibility of the mucous membrane of the nose. Other affections of the fifth nerve are pains, aneesthesia, and parsesthesia in various regions of its distribution. Besides disturbances of sensibility, there may be trophic distui-bances, such as rapid falling out of the teeth and absorption of the alveolus of the jaw. In such cases there may be little or no ansesthesia or pain, this agreeing with the painless character of other bone and joint affections. A curious affection of the face, known as Hutchinson's mask, in which the patient feels as if the face were covered with a cobweb, is probably due to an affection of this nerve. Other rare condi- tions are ophthalmia neuroparalytica, corneal ulcer, tabic ulcer of the mouth, and sialorrhoea attributed to affection of the fifth nerve. Very rarely affection of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve may occur, causing loss of taste. Eighth nerve, auditory. Irritative lesions of this nerve may give rise to paroxysmal attacks of noises in the ear like rushing water, bells, or steam whistles; or symptoms resembling Meniere's disease, viz. paroxysmal attacks of giddiness; and later deafness may ensue. Affections of the Vago-Accessorius.—Laryngeal crises are a pretty frequent early symptom in tabes. Paroxysmal attacks of dyspnoea and spasm of the glottis may occur. The symptoms may in some respects simulate an attack of whooping-cough or of laryngismus stridulus, accompanied by a burning pain in the larynx and a feeling of suffocation. The attacks may be very alarming, and come on as the result of breathing cold air or the passage of a sound. They may be accompanied by epileptiform