STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 353 feature, whether they be into the tissues or an actual escape at the surface. Ordinarily these changes, which are rapidly established, are transient and quickly recovered from, with a complete return of the tissues to their normal state. But should the irritation be frequently repeated or persistent in character, a more chronic change is set up, which is recovered from with difficulty or not at all. The characteristic changes in the stomach which are associated with a chronic catarrh are, in the most marked cases, an atrophy of the epithelial and glandular elements of the mucosa, with or without a fibrotic overgrowth, and usu- ally with some, or may be much, pigmentation, causing the mucous membrane to be of a grey and slaty colour with darker spots of variable extent. According to the degree of the fibrosis will be the thickness of the membrane. In ex- treme cases this may be considerable, the sur- face being raised into irregular projections, sometimes almost polypoid, from the overgrowth in the deeper part of the mucosa and submucosa. When this condition has not developed, the re- mains of the mucous membrane largely, though irregularly, denuded of epithelium and with shrunken and wasted gland tubules, which have here and there undergone cystic dilatation, is thinner and smoother than normal and with but little of the mucus secretion that, in varying amounts, is seen in the healthy state. This condition may develop as the sequence of re- peated attacks of acute gastric catarrh, or may arise with no obvious acute commencement; it is also a constant associate of other morbid states of the stomach, such as dilatation, cancer, etc. When the irritant to which the stomach has been subjected is of an intensely severe nature, such as the concentrated mineral acids, strong alkalies, or metallic irritants (arsenic, corrosive sublimate, etc.) there will follow their ingestion a sloughing of the stomach walls, depending for its extent both in depth and area on the strength and quantity of the poison. The tissues are at once destroyed, the resulting slough presenting certain recognisable differences according to the destructive agent. Thus whilst the eschar caused by the strong acids is somewhat hard and brittle—mainly from dehydration of the tissues —those from alkalies are softer, moist, even somewhat gelatinous. As regards colour they are generally of a greyish-white appearance, being a dead white from corrosive sublimate and carbolic acid, and yellow or orange from nitric acid. The tissues immediately adjacent to the necrosed portions are in a state of violent inflammation, extensively infiltrated with blood, which is quickly altered and causes a brown to blackish discoloration, with all the other appear- ances of acute gastritis to a severe degree. If any of the irritant have passed through the pyloric orifice similar appearances will be seen in the duodenum. Should recovery follow, the VOL. IX destroyed areas are replaced by scar tissue which tends to contract, so producing great thickening and perhaps distortion of the organ. Infective Gastritis.—Owing to the inimical effect of the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice upon most of the micro-organisms that gain entrance to the stomach, gastritis of an infective character is of comparatively rare occurrence. When, however, the acid is deficient in quantity, or the microbe is unduly abundant or very virulent, it may be presumed that inflammation will result from their invasion of the mucosa. (a) Pyogenic or Phlegmonous Gastritis.—The specific form of gastric inflammation so desig- nated is of infrequent occurrence, and appears both as a diffuse and a localised suppuration. In the former the submucosa is the main seat of the process, this layer being hypersemic and infiltrated with leucocytes and a fibrino-serous eifusion, which commonly permeates among the glands of the mucosa and also invades the muscular layer, and may even extend into the subserous tissue and involve the peritoneal covering, thereby causing a peritonitis either limited or general. In this way the thickness of the stomach walls is much increased and may be dotted here and there with hsemorrhages into the tissues, the glandular epithelium being in a state of cloudy swelling. Such a condition has been compared to an erysipelatous inflam- mation of the skin. Although several organisms are doubtless responsible for this condition, the only one as yet recognised with certainty is the streptococcus. How the infection invades the stomach wall is often uncertain; as a part of a general pyjemia, the state is intelligible, and wounds, operation and other, of the organ, as well as ulcers or other breaches of continuity of surface, may be supposed to admit the entrance of such pyogenic microbes as have escaped the action of the hydrochloric acid, but such lesions are often entirely absent. In the course of the disease the pus may burst through the mucous membrane and discharge into the stomach at many points, giving the thickened, boggy walls a honey-combed and broken-down appearance, or similarly the pus may break through the muscular and serous coats into the peritoneum. Occasionally this condition has been known to extend into the duodenum. In the localised or circumscribed variety the collections of pus may form one or more abscesses, ranging "in size from a bean to thrice that of a man's closed fist" (Dr. Leith in Allbutt's System, vol. iii.), which may rupture into the stomach, or outwards into the peritoneal or even the pleural cavity or through the abdominal wall. {b) Membranous Gastritis.—In this variety, which is usually associated with scarlet fever, diphtheria, variola, or pyaemia, and more especially in children and in those whose