345 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF The pyloric valve or sphincter is formed by a circular fold of mucous membrane covering a special thickening of the circular muscular layer, which projects into the lumen of the canal, leaving an aperture that admits the finger, and is capable of being more or less completely closed. The inner surface of the first couple of inches or so of the duodenum is smooth, but at that distance the valvules conniventes commence, becoming large and of regular concentric shape beyond the papilla which marks the common entrance of the hepatic and pancreatic ducts. Minute Structure. — The most important features in the structure of the gastro-duodenal section of the alimentary canal as bearing on disease of these organs refer to the mucosa and the disposition of the muscular tissue. The MUCOUS membrane of the stomach varies in thickness with the distension of the organ, is normally thinnest over the fundus, and is covered by a layer of columnar epithelium, which sharply commences at the cardiac orifice, up to which in the oesophagus the epithelium is strati- fied. The cells have no striated border like those of the intestines, and where the surface is not secretory the cells are more granular in their deeper parts, and clearer towards their outer parts, this being due to mucigen, which is discharged during digestion. Lying among the tapering attached ends of the cells are small round or oval cells. The epithelium is set upon a basement membrane, which is composed of a layer of flattened cells; and the mucosa on the deeper side of the membrane is constructed of glands, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves packed in a delicate stroma of connective and adenoid tissues, among which are plain muscular fibre cells. The glands are of the tubular variety, and are mostly but not entirely sub- divided towards their closed ends, being disposed vertically to the free surface upon which they open. Two kinds of glands are to be recognised: (a) the pyloric glands, most numerous towards the pyloric end, open on the surface by wider mouths, the columnar epithelium being con- tinued some distance down the tubule, forming the duct portion, the deeper portions being lined by shorter, more cubical, and finely granular nucleated cells ; (6) the cardiac glands, more abundant at the cardiac extremity, are characterised by a shorter distance (duct) being lined by the columnar cells of the surface, beyond which the cells are like the distal cells of the pyloric glands, though more coarsely granular, and are known as the " principal " or " central " cells. Lying here and there among these, close to the basement membrane, are the parietal or "oxyntic" cells, which are much darker and more granular in the prepared specimen. The lumen of these glands is exceedingly fine, and still finer prolongations of it extend between the lining cells, distinct canalicular networks sur- rounding the parietal cells. In the duodenum the columnar epithelium at once assumes a striated free border; the cells are somewhat shorter, but like those of the stomach secrete mucus, and present after dis- charge of the same the characteristic " goblet- shape " appearance. The glands met with are (a) the crypts of Lieberkiihn, which run through- out the intestine, and are simple tubular de- pressions of the surface, lined throughout by columnar cells ; (b) Brunner's glands, which are peculiar to the duodenum, in the first part of which they are most numerous ; they are of the acino-tubular variety, and are more deeply placed in the submucosa, resembling in structure the pyloric glands of the stomach. Isolated masses of lymphoid tissue—solitary glands—also occur in the duodenal mucosa. Besides the extension of the mucous surface of the duodenum effected by the valvulse conni- ventes, the membrane is beset with villi, which are minute processes closely arranged, giving a characteristic velvety appearance, and consist of the various structural elements of the mucosa. The submucous coat between the mucosa and the muscular layers, being separated from the former by the muscularis mucosae, is composed of loose areolar tissue, in which the vessels and nerves ramify on their way to the mucous membrane. The MUSCULAR COAT of the stomach consists of several layers of plain fibre cells arranged some- what differently at different parts of the organ. Most externally the fibres are exposed longi- tudinally, and continuous with those of the gullet pass chiefly along the curvatures of the stomach, being much less distinct over the surfaces, to the pylorus, where they blend with the corresponding fibres of the duodenum. The middle layer of fibres are circular in direction, forming a complete investment of the organ from fundus to pylorus, where a specially thickened bundle forms the pyloric sphincter. The most internal fibres are distributed obliquely over the surfaces of the stomach, and whilst well marked over the fundus scarcely reach the pyloric end. In the duodenum, as in the rest of the small intestines, the muscular tissue forms an outer longitudinal and an inner circular layer, the latter being much the thicker. No extension of this coat into the valvulse conniventes takes place. The SEROUS COVERING, which is complete, or almost so, on the stomach, and only partial over the duodenum, allowing by its elasticity the varying distension of the organs, is an ex- ceedingly thin homogeneous basement membrane upon which is a layer of flattened endothelium, and connected by areolar tissue with the sub- jacent coat. Where the peritoneum is wanting the areolar tissue becomes continuous with the post-peritoneal connective tissue. Vascular Supply. — The arteries of the