454 SYMPATHETIC OPHTHALMITIS cases of sympathetic inflammation have been recorded arising months and years after the performance of these opei'ations. Possibly a reunion of the tracks of commvinication occurs. On the assumption that sympathetic inflam- mation is due to infecting particles travelling from a septic uveitis in the exciting eye, it was argued, that removal of the whole contents of the sclerotic, i.e. the operation of evisceration, before the infecting particles of the uveitis begin to travel, ought to prevent sympathetic ophthalmitis. Several cases of sympathetic inflammation coming on after evisceration (Mules' operation) have been recorded, but so far it seems fair to assume that in all of them it had been per- formed too late, i.e. after infecting particles had passed from beyond the uveal tract. Excision of the eye does not afford certain immunity if performed later than three or four weeks after an injury, but it probably affords a better chance of immunity at that time than evisceration, because in it the track along which the infective particles presumably travel is removed farther back. Sympathetic inflammation having once started, should the exciting eye be excised or leff? Certainly its removal sometimes seems to have no eff"ect in mitigating the severity of the attack. On the other hand, in the rare cases where sympathetic inflammation has come on after excision, it has generally been noted that the disease has been of a very mild type. If the exciting eye is blind or nearly blind it is usually well to give the patient whatever chance its removal may afford. If, however, it is likely that it will retain any useful sight, it may be that in the end it will be the better eye of the two, and it is wiser to retain it. The treatment of sympathetic ophthalmitis when once it has started is much that of any other form of irido-cyclitis, heat and mydriatics being the necessary local applications. Heat may be applied either in the form of periodic fomentations with hot lotion, or as dry heat kept up continuously by means of the Japanese hot box. As already stated, the pupil often shows a tendency to contract in spite of mydriatics; in such cases they have to be used in their strongest forms. A two per cent ointment of atropine is the strongest that it is wise to employ, and the effect of it must be cautiously watched to see that no toxic symptoms are pi'oduced. Hyoscine is more powerful than atropine in its effect on the pupil, and may be tried should the latter show signs of failure. No known internal medicinal treatment can be relied upon to produce any salutary effect on the disease. Some have thought they have seen improvement follow on the administration of mercui-y. If, as the result of sympathetic inflammation. the pupil becomes closed with an inflammatory membrane, and the iris bound down to the lens capsule, operative measures become necessary. Whenever possible it is best to postpone any operative interference in such cases until all signs of active inflammation have quite subsided, which means, generally, until a full two years after the commencement of the attack. Two or more separate operations are almost sure to be required before a permanent opening will be obtained through which the patient will be able to see. In many of these cases the damage caused by the inflammatory attack is so limited to the structures at the anterior part of the eye, that if a clear opening through which light can pass is formed, a very satisfactory amount of vision is restored. The removal of the lens is neces- sary ; this may be effected either by needling or extraction. The formation of an opening in a tough, in- flammatory, pupillary membrane, through which the lens matter may protrude, is a matter of some difficulty. It is best accomplished by Crichett's method of introducing, from opposite sides, two needles, and boring with them as with a gimlet; when they have been made to penetrate they should be separated so as to increase the size of the opening. The procedure has to be repeated from time to time until the whole lens is absorbed and a permanent clear opening obtained. If extraction be decided on, it will usually be found that the iris is so adherent to the lens capsule that a satisfactory iridectomy cannot be performed. It is then best to make an incision across the upper part of the iris and lens capsule through which the nucleus of the lens can be removed. On some subsequent occasion an iridotomy will be required, or a puncture may be made with the point of a keratome through the iris and lens capsule, into which a hook can be inserted, so as to draw^ a portion of these structures out of the eye, where they can be cut off. Symphorol. — Caffeine-sulphonic acid, which has been used as a diuretic. Symphysiotomy or Symphyse- otomy. See Labour, Precipitate and Pro- longed {Treatment of Labour with Contracted Pelvis); Labour, Obstetric Operations {Sym- physiotoviy). Symphysis.—The union or line of junc- tion of two bones, e.g. the symphysis pubis or symphysis meuti. SympieSOmeter.—An instrument for measuring pressure (Gr. crw, with or together, and TTtWts, pressing). Sympodia or Sympus.—A terato- logical type in which the lower limbs are more