7 RICKETS of 858 rickety children. Kuttner noted en- largement in 44 out of 60 cases of rickets; in 33 of these the edge of the spleen could be felt under the border of the ribs, in 9 cases the edge came two fingers' breadth below the ribs, and in 2 the hypertrophy was very con- siderable. There is no agreement among authors as to whether the hypertrophy of the spleen is an essential part of the disease, or whether it is secondary to some complication so often found in association with rickets. Whatever view may be taken of the slighter enlargements, there can be no doubt that when a well-marked anaemia is present it is constantly associated with splenic enlargement. Skin.—The profuse sweats so common in rickets are apt to give rise to crops of miliaria or intertrigo in the folds of the neck and groins, and perhaps troublesome boils. Eczema of the face and scalp is also apt to be very trouble- some in a rickety infant. During sleep the sweatings aggravate the eczema, and much weeping is the result. The exudation cakes and scabs as it dries up. In such cases con- vulsions, high temperature, and sudden death may take place. Nervous System.—Rickety children are apt to be backward in intelligence, being late in learning to talk as well as in learning to walk. They are apt to be lethargic and apathetic, and disinclined to exertion of any sort. Rickets certainly predisposes to convulsions ; these may come on as early as the fourth or fifth month, or at any time during the first or second year {see " Convulsions "; see also " Larynx, Laryngismus," and "Tetany"). Fractures.—Rickety bones are apt to break as well as bend; the fractures are usually of the "green stick" variety, i.e. the fractured ends are held together by the thickened periosteum, usually at a more or less acute angle. The ribs may kink at or near their angles, the fractures involving four or five or more of the middle ribs. Fractures of the middle third of the humerus may occur when the child is lifted by its arms, the tibia is apt to kink at the usual seat of bending in the lower third. Fractures of the femur, clavicles, and bones of the forearm are not uncommon. In some of the cases of fracture scurvy may be present. Separation of the epiphyses may take place under similar circumstances. Morbid Anatomy.—In the healthy infant of four or five months of age the shafts of the long bones are completely ossified, while the epiphyses, with one exception, consist entirely of cartilage. The bones grow in length by ossification taking, place between the epiphysis and shaft, and in girth by the formation of compact bone between the inner layers of the periosteum. The bones of the skull are also fully ossified at this time with the exception of the edges where they form the fontanelles. It is at this period, or somewhat later, that rickets is liable to supervene, and a pathological process succeeds the normal physiological process of bone formation. In making a post-mortem of a case of severe rickets, the deformed chest, bent ribs, with rows of prominences or " beads" at their junction with their cartilages, will at once strike the attention. The "beads" will be seen to be as marked or more so on the pleural as on the cutaneous side. On removing a rib it will be found that it is easily bent or kinked, and that it has lost most of its normal rigidity and elasticity ; the periosteum is thick, so that when the bone is broken between the fingers the two ends are held together by the external fibrous tissue. If a longitudinal section be made by a knife through the swollen anterior end it will be seen that the greater part of the swelling involves the cartilage (the columnar zone), while the epiphysial line which marks the boundary between bone and cartilage is deeper and much more irregular than in healthy bone. A transverse section of the rib itself shows an almost complete absence of compact tissue; only spongy bone is seen, and much red grumous material. An examination of the radius will probably show similar changes ; the bone can be bent or broken between the fingers, and section through the epiphysis will show swollen cartilage and a broad, irregular epi- physial line. The bones of the vault of the skull are abnormally soft, can be easily doubled up between the fingers, and cut with a knife. The ossifying centres, i.e. the parietal and frontal eminences, are thickened, and on cutting into them they show much soft, spongy tissue; the edges of the bones are thick and soft. Instead of or in addition to the thickening just referred to there may be atrophic changes ; the parietal and occipital bones, when stripped of their dura mater and held up to the light, are seen to be thin and transparent in places, where calcareous matter has been absorbed and left membrane only. Rickety skulls are apt to be large ones, at least in their circumference, on account of the exaggerated condition of the frontal and parietal eminences; their internal capacity, also, is at times apparently increased, as the brain is sometimes of abnormal size. There is no asso- ciation between rickets and hydrocephalus, though children suffering from chronic hydro- cephalus may become rickety. Summarising the changes produced by rickets, it may be said that rickety bones in their early stages are characterised by swelling of the epiphyses, thickening of the periosteum, decrease of lime salts, increase of the red gelatinous medullary material, with the result that the bones are softened, fragile, and stunted in growth. If death take place at a somewhat later period the bones will be found more or less curved or