SNAKE-BITE IN THE BRITISH ISLES 252 cases, where the patient was alone and found unconscious, the presence or absence of the fang punctures must decide the point. The appear- ance of these marks is that of severe pin-pricks. In a case where the patient has been struck by an average-sized adder the two points of puncture will be from three-fifths to half an inch apart. But one fang only may have been used, or the adder may have struck twice, in which case the fang punctures will show a corre- sponding arrangement. {d) Symptoms.—It is generally stated that the symptoms depend on the condition of the patient's general health at the time of the accident, and on the heat of the day or the season. The former applies to every accident that could be named, and has no particular relation to adder-bite. The latter has, in all probability, very little to do with the result. The symptoms which follow an adder-bite depend on the dose of venom injected at the time. Of course a strong man will survive a dose that might prove fatal to a weakly child, just as he would a dose of opium or any other poison. " The symptoms, which come on very rapidly, are, pain at the seat of the wound, sickness, and a feeling of extreme prostration, terminating in actual fainting and loss of consciousness. In fatal cases death occurs soon from heart failure. If, however, the dose injected was not so large, or the venom of the particular adder less potent, the patient recovers consciousness (or may not actually faint), and a set of secondary symptoms sets in. The day after the bite the vessels of the arm or leg, as the case may be, become painful, and the lymphatics stand out as dark lines. The limb becomes swollen, and the swelling may extend to the body. The patient, in fact, exhibits all the signs of severe local blood-poisoning in addition to great weakness of the heart. In some cases the limb shows considerable discoloration of a more or less green colour." i Should the case run a favour- able course all these symptoms subside gradually, but it is usually six or eight weeks before the limb recovers perfect mobility and the patient feels well. The nervous symptoms exhibit con- siderable variation in different cases. Thus there may be little or no mental disturbance, or the patient may exhibit great terror or delirium. There may or may not be marked photophobia. The pupils may be dilated. Occasionally there is slight erythropsia. The following is the most recent fatal case that has occurred in this country, reported to me by Dr. Eden Cass, under whose care the case came:— History.—On .June 8, 1901, J. Hartley, a little boy aged 4 years and 8 months, was chasing butterflies in a meadow by the side of a small stream. Walking through a patch of bog myrtle and heather, he said, "a little frog ' British Serpents (Wm. Blackwood & Sons), p. 129. jumped up and bit him on the right leg." This was between 11 and 12 a.m. He ran home all the way, and when he arrived his face was a picture of terror. On hearing the child's story his father concluded he must have been bitten by an adder, and upon removing his stocking two small punctures were seen about the junc- tion of the middle and lower third of the right leg. It was nearly 5 p.m. when the doctor arrived, he living some ten miles from the place of the accident. He found the lad curled up on two chairs, his face hidden under his arms, and away from the light. He was in great terror. Symptoms.—The patient was dull, had been violently sick 10 or 12 times soon after reach- ing the house, and the bowels had moved once. His temperature was normal, pulse slightly quickened, heart sounds normal, did not com- plain of any pain, was very thirsty, and the pupils were normal. On examining the leg there was a small round blue mark about the size of a shilling, with a well-marked puncture. The second puncture was obliterated by some tar that had been applied. The leg as far as the knee was swollen to twice its natural size, was boggy to the touch, and of a dull white colour with a dark bluish tint under the skin in places. It was very hot, but not tender. Next morning, after a restless night, the boy was half comatose. He had been severely purged, and had passed both motions and urine in bed. He was still very thirsty, temperature normal, pulse 110. He could be roused by shouting at him The swelling had extended up the limb as far as the groin, the thigh being the same colour as the leg. Bright red and blue lines were well marked at the base of the toes on the dorsal aspect. The pupils did not react well; corneal reflex present. Next day (June 10), after another restless night, he was quieter, though occasionally throwing his arms about. He lay with his legs and hips bent, head flexed slightly on his back, with mouth open. The breathing was rather quick, tem- perature normal, pulse very rapid, and heart sounds very feeble. The eyes were fixed, pupils slightly dilated, no reaction, corneal reflex slightly marked. He refused nourishment, and was distinctly moribund. The condition of the limb was improved, no heat, swelling decreased considerably. The boy died at 2 a.m. that night. Treatment. — Potassium permanganate was injected into the leg; liq. strych. given hypo- dermically ; brandy, ammon. carb., and digitalis internally. The disadvantages in this case were the great distance from medical aid, allowing time for the full absorption of venom into the system, and, secondly, the youthful age of the patient. Three adders were seen at the spot where the accident occurred a day or two afterwards when the uncle went to see it. The patient was a healthy, sturdy little fellow.