500 TABES DORSALIS Muscular tonus. be crossed over the other, or the foot may be placed on the ground with the leg at a right angle to the knee, or it may be supported on the arm of the operator in such a way that it hangs freely over. The tendon should be struck with a percussion hammer, and if the jerk be not elicited, the patient should be told to look at the ceiling and pull his clasped hands apart, when occasionally it will be found to be present, when previously not obtained. A con- dition of hypo- tonus is gener- ally present, and proportional to the degree of ataxy. If the patient be made to lie on his back on a couch, the hypotonus of the ham-string mus- cles can be de- monstrated in the following manner: the patient, lying flat on his back, is told to keep one leg extended on the couch, and the other is raised by the operator with the knee extended. It will be found that the leg, which in a normal individual cannot be raised to an angle of more than 120° with the trunk, can, owing to the laxity of the ham-string muscles, be raised to a right angle, and in advanced cases even to an angle of 60° with the body. Although there is this loss of tonus of the muscles and in advanced cases marked wasting, it will be found that all the muscles respond normally to faradism and galvanism ; yet the patient in the third stage is in a paralytic con- dition. He is paralysed because the sensory paths, essential for coordinate movement, are destroyed. Disturbances of Gait and Station.—A patient may first notice that he has difficulty in walk- ing in the dark, in going up and down stairs, or that on washing his face he has felt as if he would fall, or quite suddenly he has had a "giving way" of the legs; such conditions mark the first stage experienced by the patient of ataxy. He may be tested in the following way, for when he walks into the room in the daylight he may not show the characteristic disturbance of station and gait. Romberg symp- tom is the inability to stand without swaying when the eyes are shut; this is generally present. If it is not obvious it will perhaps be found that he cannot stand on one leg, and especially if he shuts his eyes. If he is made to raise himself on his toes with the feet close together and returning on his heels he will probably have a difficulty to retain his equil- ibrium. If asked to walk a chalk line he may thus show the disturbance, or if suddenly asked while walking to turn round he tends to lose his eqilibrium. When observing the gait it may be noticed that he walks with rather a wider base than normal ; as the disease becomes more pronounced the ataxic gait becomes more evident. He looks at his feet where he should place them; the gait is stamping, the heels being brought down first, the toes being pointed outwards and the knees extended. He throws out the advancing leg and does not bring into play the synergic muscles associated with flexion of the hip, namely the flexors of the knee and the dorsal flexors of the foot. As the disease becomes more advanced the incoordination becomes more manifest, and the patient con- stantly requires a stick or some one to assist him in walking. The gait is quite character- istic even to the layman. The shoulders are bent forward, the eyes looking to the feet, the knees hyper-extended, the legs being thrown out in a sudden, jerky manner, and the foot stamped heavily, heels first, on the ground. The steps are unequal, and he would fall if he wei-e not supported, or if his attention were taken off the feet. In the third stage -of ataxy the patient is unable to stand. The anfesthesia may be so pronounced that lying in bed he is unconscious of the existence of his legs. Usually in this stage there is a great deal of muscular wasting and some deformity, such as talipes varus, equino varus, or equinus. It is very rare that the muscular atrophy is due to degeneration of the motor nerves. In some few cases ataxy begins in the arm before the legs. It affects the finer movements first, such as writing, or sewing, or using tools in a manual occupation. The delicate movements concerned in opposition of the thumb and fingers are lost, and in writing (owing partly to the skin anaesthesia, partly to the loss of joint-sensibility and muscular sense) the patient is obliged to grasp the pen between the middle and ring fingers of the clenched fist, and the pen every now and then is jerked away from the paper by an over-action of the extensors of the wrist. Athetoid and spontaneous movements may occur in advanced cases. Visceral Disturbances.—Bladder troubles are among the most constant of the early symptoms, and may be the cause of the patient seeking advice. Sometimes it is for retention, some- times for incontinence. He may complain of a difficulty in starting the stream due to a weak- ness of the detrusor, or a difficulty in holding his water, a slight cough or exertion (owing to the loss of reflex tonus in the sphincter) allowing the urine to escape into the urethra, thus ex- citing the reflex process of micturition and the urgent desire to pass water.