486 SYPHILIS by a rash, which is fugitive, and differs from that of the hereditary syphilis in being roseolous. Snuifles and visceral affections are rare, but condylomata and gummata of the skin are common. The later skin eruptions, especially in scrofulous subjects, present a lupoid char- acter, and the following case of gummatous synovitis shows how easy it would be to mistake such a joint disease for the more common tuber- culous form :— A boy aged 14 came under my care on the last da.y of January, with an inflammation of the right knee. He had diphtheria in Sep- tember, and about a month afterwards sores appeared upon his body. He was noticed to be walking lamely about the end of December. The patient's complexion was muddy, and scattered over his limbs and scalp were patches of superficial ulceration covered with thick scales or with black and raised crusts. The voice was husky, but his teeth were healthy, and there was no evidence of keratitis or iritis, either recent or remote. The glandiilse con- catenatee, at the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle, were slightly enlarged on both sides. The right knee was affected with syno- vitis, and there was some increase of synovial fluid in the left knee. The synovial membrane in both joints seemed to be thickened, especially at the sides. The patient occasionally felt a little throbbing pain, but unless the knee was moved it had never been severe, and he had not been awakened by starting pains at night. The boy was brought by his mother, who said that his younger brother had had one ankle- joint excised for a similar condition, which had presumably been mistaken for a tuberculous arthritis ; but she presented such obvious signs of tertiary syphilis that the patient was at once ordered one-grain doses of grey powder to be taken three times a day. In ten days' time his complexion had cleared, and he was less husky. There was also a smaller quantity of fluid in his right knee, whilst the left one was normal. The improvement continued until 7th March, when the patient was allowed to go about with his right knee in a plaster of Paris case. He returned on 26th March without the case, and complaining of much pain with increased swelling in both knees. Both joints were fixed with plaster of Paris bandages, but he again returned on 2nd April with increased swelling of both knees and some synovitis of both elbows. He then confessed that he had not taken his powders for a fortnight. The boy was made to understand that medicine was necessary to his cure, and he was ordered to continue the one-grain doses of grey powder three times a day. His elbows were less swollen and painful on 9th April, though his knees still remained enlarged. He was therefore given half-drachm doses of the solution of perchloride of mercury with five grains of iodide of potassium three times a day. A week later he returned, saying that his elbows were well, his knees better, and that he had suffered no pain since he began the new medicine. He increased in weight from 64-J- lbs. on 16th April to 71| lbs. on 30th April, and he has since remained well and at work. Treatment. — The treatment of hereditary syphilis during the first year of life is easily summed up. It consists in judicious feeding and the administration of mercury, preferably in the form of grey powder or by inunction (p. 468). Cod-liver qil should also be given ia the majority of cases. The mother should a' all times suckle her own child when it is possible, and there is the additional reason in the case o' hereditary syphilis that the child is born weakened, and with its digestive and assimilat ing organs in an unhealthy condition. But if such a child has to be bottle-fed, more tha ordinary precautions must be taken to keep th bottle clean and the food sweet and free fro fermentation. Syphilitic infants react to mercury mor rapidly and much more completely than adults, and they positively thrive on grey powder given in quarter or half-grain doses three times a day. If the grey powder causes diarrhoea or digestiv disturbance a piece of blue ointment about th ' size of a pea may be rubbed into each groi every night, or the ointment may be spread o" a piece of lint which is placed over the abdomen, and is kept in place by the child's binder. Fron twenty to forty grains of perchloride of mercur; may be dissolved in the little patient's batb with excellent eftects, especially when it is suffering from a rash. The mercurial course should be continued for at least six weeks after the last signs have disappeared, and by thi means slight cases can often be cured com pletely within the first eighteen months afte: birth. The later manifestations of syphilis, whether hereditary or acquired, are best treated with a combination of mercury and the iodides, and the treatment should follow the general lines recom- mended for adults. Syphilis, Recent Advances in the Knowiedgre of. Causal Agent of 48 Serum Diagnosis of . . . .48 Causal Agent of Syphilis.—The spirochsete pallida. On 17th May 1905, Schaudinn and Hoffmann communicated to the Medical Society of Berlin their discovery in syphilitic lesions of a spirochaite, and it is at present almost universally held that in doing so they solved the problem of the etiology of syphihs. In the early part of the same year Siegel described as the specific cause of the disease a protozoon- like organism, which he called the cytorrhyctes