129 SEPTICAEMIA Clinical Features . . . .129 Pathology . . . . . .130 Diagnosis . . . . . .130 Treatment . . . . . .130 See also Aseptic Treatment op Wounds ; Bronchi, Bronchiectasis {Clinical Phenomena, Causes of Death); Colon, Diseases of {Acute Colitis, Associated Septic States); HiP-Joint, Diseases of the {Pyogenic Diseases) : Insanity, Etiology of {Microbic Toxic Agencies); In- sanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties, Toxoemic Diso7'ders); Leucocytosis ; Malaria {Diagnosis from Septic Processes); Micro - Organisms ; Nerves, Multiple Peri- pheral Neuritis {Etiology); Plague (Types); Pneumonia, Bacteriology of {Conclusions); Puerperium, Pathology {Infection, Septicaemia, Pycemia, etc.); Purpura {Etiology); Sclerema Neonatorum {Etiology); Suppuration ; Tu- mours, Inoperable {General Management, Septi- coemia); Wounds {Modes of Repair). Syn.—Septic Infection. The terms saprgemia, septicaemia, and pyaemia are in common use for designating different forms of septic infection. In saproemia the symptoms are produced by the absorption of soluble toxic substances from the site of a wound; the causal bacteria do not themselves pass into the circulation. In septicaemia the micro-organisms pass into the circulation, and the resulting clinical condition is due partly to the action of toxines produced at the original site of invasion, and partly to the action of the micro-organisms in the blood-stream. The micro-organisms do not pass from the blood- stream into the tissues. In pycemia the micro- organisms not only circulate in the blood, but are deposited from the blood in different organs and tissues. It should at the outset be men- tioned that the distinction between these differ- ent conditions is a practical one, founded largely on clinical experience, and also to some extent on experimental investigations. There is no very sharp dividing line between the different conditions, the differences being mainly those of degree. The etiology of sapraemia, septi- caemia, and pyaemia is similar. The bacteria commonly associated with this morbid state are streptococcus pyogenes, staphy- lococcus pyogenes aureus, albus, and citreus. These frequently exist in combination. Many records have also been published describing cases due to unusual bacteria, e.g. pneumo- coccus, and bacillus septicus putridus, and other forms. Much experimental investigation has been directed to a study of the toxic sub- stances which give rise to septicaemia and pyaemia, but notwithstanding this it must be admitted that we are not yet in a position to state decisively why one case becomes pyaemic while another is septicaemic. The secret of vol. IX this is probably to be found in variations in the individual reaction; no two people react precisely alike to the same toxic agent. Clinical Features.—These are best described by reference to the symptoms observed in a case of sapraemia. A few hours after a person receives a bruise or cut, e.g. a post-mortem wound, constitutional symptoms set in; there is a general sense of discomfort, chilliness, with disinclination for physical or mental work. The temperature becomes slightly raised, the appetite is deranged, the tongue furred, with constipation and headache. The urine may be diminished in amount; the skin is dry, or, more rarely, may be slightly clammy. These symptoms as a rule readily disappear, provided immediate attention is paid to the wound and careful regulation of the general health for a few days. The wound should be thoroughly cleansed with a warm antiseptic lotion and thereafter suitably dressed. The bowels should be opened by a saline draught, and the function of the kidneys and skin stimulated by the free ingestion of bland diluent drinks and the use of a warm bath. For a few days the diet should be of a light and nourishing nature. Under this regime, as a rule, the symptoms speedily subside, unless the patient's general resisting power was low at the time of the injury, in which event the case may become one of typical septicaemia or pyaemia. The general constitutional symptoms of septi- caemia are the same as those already mentioned, and it will suffice to refer briefly to some special features of septicaemia. The site of ijivasion is the first point of importance. While in a case of septicaemia following an open wound, as in the above, the site of invasion is clear, not uncommonly no source of infection can be determined. In these circumstances the source of infection is to be sought for in one or other of the free mucous surfaces of the body, and more especially the gastro-intestinal tract and utero-vaginal mucous membrane. The Rapidity of Onset of Symptoms. — In sapraemia the symptoms develop more quickly and reach their acme sooner than in septicaemia. Whereas in the former the temperature would speedily rise to 103° or 104° F., in the latter the temperature and other changes are less severe in the early stages. Duration of the Symptoms.—If the symptoms described persist notwithstanding the adoption of the appropriate measures already referred to, the case may be regarded as one of septicemia or pyaemia. Pyaemia has in addition certain characteristic features. The temperature chart is distinctive. It shows the swinging temperature of a general septic infection, but superadded to this there are at irregular intervals sudden exacerbations of temperature accompanied by rigors and heavy sweating. In both septicaemia and pyaemia there may be gradually advancing emaciation