33 SCABIES, OR THE ITCH and outweigh all the positive factors taken together. These are—itching at night, especi- ally between the fingers, the distribution of the scratch-marks, the presence of a burrow. As far as the last-named is concerned such may not be found, for the reasons given, even after careful search with a lens. The probabilities of the case being scabies must be carefully weighed, and the diagnosis arrived at even without the assistance of a burrow. A careful examination, however, may be rewarded by finding a burrow, when an attempt to secure the acarus should be made in the manner afore- said, and its capture would, of course, clinch the matter. Sometimes the fact that more than one member of a family is aff'ected will be of diag- nostic assistance. In babies an irregularly scattered pustular eruption about the hands and feet, especially between the fingers and toes, is practically bound to be scabies, and a little care will usually confirm the impression. The mother in such cases will often be found to be a sufferer herself. Animal Scabies. — In ill-defined pruritic eruptions contracted from animals the lesions are usually slight. No burrows or acari would be found. The diagnosis would be helped by the knowledge that several children, for instance, were affected, and a pet dog suffering from some skin disease (mange) kept in the house. Differential Diagnosis. —The chief diffi- culty presenting itself is the exclusion of eczema of the hands. If it be borne in mind that in eczema the vesicles are minute and grouped, whereas in scabies the vesicles and pustules are discretely scattered about without order, matters will be much simplified. Another point to remember is that an eczema or dermatitis may mask and complicate the scabies as a result of treatment (strong sulphur ointment apphed indiscriminately and for a long period). If the eczema be acute and extensive, it would perhaps have to be dealt with first before a definite con- clusion could be arrived at. Yet the history of the development and the body-distribution of the general eruption, apart from the eczema, would make the diagnosis certain. In some rare instances the patient may be suffering from other conditions simultaneously with the itch. For instance, I have seen a bad generalised secondary syphilide complicated with a marked pustular eruption arising from scabies. Its occurrence in leprosy has already been re- ferred to. Again, there may be both pediculosis corporis and scabies, and even in addition pedi- culi capitis et pubis. I saw a man at the Saint Louis Hospital suffering from severe scabies with no less than twelve indurated chancres about the penis. The virus had found twelve open doors, the result of itch. Urticaria may be a prominent feature, and quite put one off the track, unless care be taken. VOL. IX This emphasises the importance of careful ex- amination with a lens, which will often be re- warded by the capture of the acarus. The fact that other members of the family itch would be a fingerpost in the right direction. The differential diagnosis from pediculosis vestimentorum rests on the quite different distribution of the complaint, viz. the upper part of the back and about the shoulders, usually in elderly broken-down individuals (see " Pediculosis "). Urticaria papulosa {see "Lichen Urticatus "), which occurs chiefly in children, has more than once been taken for scabies. In the former condition the wheals leave behind them pale red papules with scabbed tops as a result of the marked pruritus. The absence of burrows and of lesions between the fingers would be against itch. In infants, again, scabies should not be taken for congenital syphilis. Besides the positive signs of the former, the absence of corroborative luetic symptoms would point to the true diag- nosis. Another disease, uncommon in this country, viz. prurigo (Pruritus mitis of Willan and P. ferox of Hebra), would be chiefly e.-icluded by the duration, which would, unless seen very early, extend over years, as it usually begins in the first year of life. In it, as in scabies, the lesions are multiform. They vary from pale, small pin-head papules to pustules. The eruption affects the limbs, which may be covered with red and scab-topped papules and crusted pustular lesions. The skin is rough and thickened as a result of the chronic nature of the disease. No burrows would be found, and the disease is not contagious, though more than one child of the same family may be affected {vide " Prurigo "). Barber's itch, barmaid's itch, bricklayer's itch, are not itch at all, but come under Tinea sycosis (barber's itch) or trade and occupation eczemas. Prognosis.—This is favourable. Treatment and Prophylaxis. — The first thing to aim at in the treatment of scabies is to open up the burrows that the remedy may reach the acarus. This object is attained by the use of soap and water, and a brush in good condition. A second point of importance is to disinfect the clothes and the bed linen, either by baking or boiling. Old gloves must be destroyed, and Radcliffe-Crocker insists that the trousers' pockets should be hot-ironed thoroughly to prevent re-infection. From the prophylactic point of view it is very necessary, where several members of the same family are affected, to treat them all simul- taneously, otherwise the disease will be perpetu- ated and become hydra-headed. A common and effectual method is to rub in ung. sulphuris after opening up the burrows. 3