SANTAL OIL 29 in gonorrhoea (dose, 5 to 30 m., as an emulsion or in capsules on account of the taste). Santalal.—An aldehyde (CJ5H24O) found in oil of sandal-wood. Santonin. See also Amblyopia (5"o.cic); Toxicology (Vegetable Poisons); Urine, Patho- logical Changes in [Colour).—A neutral cryst- alline principle derived from Levant worm-seed or santonica, the unexpanded flower-heads of Artemisia maritima. The crystals turn yellow on exposure to light, are insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol and chloroform. When given in moderate doses it turns the urine first greenish-yellow, then saffron, and finally purple- red ; and it may cause chromatopsia. In large doses it gives rise to dangerous toxic symptoms. Dose—2-5 grs. Preparation,—Trochiscus San- tonini, 1 gr. in each. It is a very efficient anthelmintic for the removal of the round-worm {Ascaris lumbri- coides). Its action on thread-worms {Oxyuris vermicularis) is less certain. It should be given on an empty stomach, and two hours later a dose of calomel, followed shortly by a saline purge, should be administered. In cases of thread-worm it may be given in suppository if used at all. It is said to increase visual acuity when the optic nerve is at fault. It sometimes cures incontinence of urine when other remedies have had no effect. Santorini, Cartilagres of.—The corniculate cartilages of the larynx, or the cornicula laryngis. Santorini was a Venetian anatomist of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries (1681-1737). Santorini, Duct of.—The accessory duct of the pancreas. Santorini, Fissures of.— Small fissures in the tragus and in the cartilage of the meatus of the external ear. Saphenous. — Literally the term saphenous means apparent (Gr. <ra(l>rjvr]s, plain or open), and is on that account given to certain parts which are superficial and therefore mani- fest, such as the saphenous opening of the thigh and the long saphenous vein and nerve which pass through it. Sapo.—There are three varieties of soap— hard soap, soft soap, and curd soap (sapo animalis). Sapo Durus is sodium oleate. It is pre- pared from sodium hydroxide and olive oil. Preparations—1. Emplastrum Saponis. 2. Pilula Saponis Composita. Dose—2-4 grs. Sapo Mollis is potassium oleate. In the form of "green soap" it is used largely in medicine and surgery. Preparation — Lini- mentum Saponis. Sapo Animalis consists chiefly of sodium stearate. Toilet soaps contain a large propor- tion of stearates. Hard soap is used as a basis for pills. Either hard soap or curd soap may be employed in the making up of medicated soaps containing such substances as ichthyol, tar, and sulphur. An enema of soap and water, to which may be added turpentine or olive oil if required, is the common form of rectal injection employed to unload the bowels. A small suppository of hard soap is a favourite domestic remedy for con- stipation in children. Linimentum saponis is used for rubbing stiff muscles, sprains, etc. Alcoholic and ethereal solutions of soft soap are employed for purifying the skin before surgical operations, and also in the treatment of some skin diseases. Saprsemia. See Pyemia (Definitions); Septicemia {Definitions and Distinctions) ; Sup- puration {Constitutional Symptoms, Saproemic); Tumours, Inoperable {General Management of Septicaemia and Saprcemia); Wounds {Absence of Drainage, Results). Sapro-.—In compound words sapro- (Gr. craTrpos, putrid) means connected with putre- faction ; e.g. saprophytes (plants living on decom- posing substances), saprogenic bacteria (those causing putrefaction). See Micro-Organisms (Varieties). Saprol.—A liquid disinfectant containing cresols like those of carbolic acid. SaratOg'a. See Balneology {America, Alkaline Waters). Sarcina. See Micro-Organisms {Bac- teria) ; Nose, Examination of {Bacteriological). SarCO-.—In compound words sarco- (Gr. a-dpi, flesh) has the meaning of fleshy; e.g. sarcocele (a fleshy tumour of the testicle), sarcode (cellular protoplasm), sarcoplasm (the interfibrillar material of muscle), sarcopterygium (a vascular pterygium), and sarcotherapeutics (treatment by animal extracts). SarcOCystiS MiescKieri. >S'ee Para- sites {Protozoa, Sarcosporidia, Rainey^s Tubes). Sarco fact i C Ac i d.—Hydroxypropionic acid (C3Hg03). See Physiology, Tissues {Mus- cle, Chemistry of). Sarcolemma. See Physiology, Tis- sues {Muscle, Structure, Covering Membrane). Sarcoma. See Aneurysm {Diagnosis, Pulsating Sarcoma); Ascites {Causatio7i, Local Disease, Omental Sarcoma); Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of {Sarcoma); Bone, Diseases of {Sarcoma); Brain, Tumours of {Etiology, Sar- coma) ; Broad Ligament {Tumours); Capil- laries, Diseases of {Ncevus, Diagnosis); Chor- oid, Diseases of {Sarcoma); Hip-Joint, Diseases