SPECTROSCOPE IN MEDICINE 265 by using a combination of flint and crown glass prisms it is possible to produce dispersion of mixed light without deviation for some ray of definite refrangibility. The form of this instru- ment most frequently used is a small pocket spectroscope. The addition of a comparison prism is desirable. In some of the more recent types of small direct vision spectroscope a scale for localising different parts of the spectrum is also present. Larger forms of direct vision spectroscope are also made having a collimating lens, and a telescope which may be rotated so as to view different parts of the spectrum. Pi'isms of quartz or rock salt are to be pre- ferred to those of flint glass for the study of the spectrum in the ultra-red and ultra-violet regions. Where these are used the lenses must obviously be of the same material. Classification of Spectra.—Spectra may be divided into two classes—emission and absorp- tion spectra. The emission spectra may be subdivided into continuous and discontinuous spectra. Solid non-volatile substances heated to white incandescence send out rays of all refrangibilities, and therefore yield a continuous spectrum. Gases or vapours, when at a suffi- ciently high temperature, emit light of definite wave lengths, and therefore yield discontinuous spectra, which appear to the observer as coloured lines or bands. The position, grouping, and intensity of these lines or bands are determined by the nature of the substance emitting the light, and by the temperature to which it is raised. The spectroscope has been used in this way for ascertaining the rapidity with which lithium reaches different parts of the animal organism after subcutaneous injection The study of absorption spectra has yielded results of much greater importance in medicine. The substances which show selective absorption for different regions of the continuous spectrum may be in the gaseous, liquid, or solid state. It has been found that at a relatively lower temperature vapours and gases absorb light of the same length which at a higher temperature they emit. It is to this selective absorption of rays of certain wave lengths by the atmospheres of the sun and earth that Fraunhofer's lines owe their origin. For the study of the absorption spectra of pigments in the solid form, the light reflected from or transmitted through the pigment when transparent may be examined. In the pigment granules certain rays of the white light are absorbed; while the others are reflected from the surface and determine the colour of the substance. On examining with the spectro- scope light reflected from the surface of the nail, one can observe the bands of oxyhsemo- globin (Plate, p. 264). If a ligature be then tied round the base of the digit, and after a short time the i-eflected light be again examined, the spectrum of reduced hsemoglobin will be seen. The most important application of the spec- troscope in medicine is to the study of the light transmitted through solutions of the pigments derived from the animal organism. A brief account of this subject must therefore be given. Method of Using the Spectroscope in the Study of Absorption Spectra.—The sun, a luminous gas flame, incandescent burners, th& limelight, and the electric light yield approxi- mately white light. Any one of these may therefore be used as a source of light. Before studying the absorption spectra of solutions of pigments, it is necessary to set the scale and prism in position; and secondly, to standardise the scale if it be an arbitrary one. For the reduction of the readings on the arbitrary scale to wave lengths an interpolation curve is necessary. The scale must be so placed that it extends throughout the whole length of the spectrum, and with D line (or double line) coincident with one of the lines on the scales usually marked 50; while the prism must be placed in the position of minimum deviation for the D line. The chlorides of the metals given later are then introduced into the non-luminous flame of a Bunsen burner, and the position of the bright lines in their emission spectra on the arbitrary scale ascertained. The positions on the scale of the chief Fraunhofer's lines in the solar spectrum should also be ascertained by spectro- scopic examination of a beam of sunlight. The following table gives the wave lengths of the lines in the emission spectra of some of the metals, together with the wave lengths of the chief Fraunhofer's lines. The wave lengths, A, are expressed in millionths of a millimeter {i.e. •001 ;u or 1 /x/x). For medical spectroscopy the statement of the wave lengths in Angstrom's units (• 1 /u^) is unnecessary. Potassium chloride, A. 768 ; A, A 762 ; B, A 687. Lithium chloride, A 670-8; C, A 656-3; a, A 627-3. Lithium chloride (orange), A 610-3 ; D, A 589-3. Thal- lium chloride, A 535 ; E, A 527 ; b, A 518-3; F, A 486. Strontium chloride, A 460-7 ; d. A 438-3; G, A 430-8 Potassium chloride, A 404-4 ; H, A 396-8. In order to convert the position of absorption bands on the scale into position expressed in wave length, an interpolation curve may be constructed in the following way. Along the upper margin of a sheet of paper divided into millimeter squares, the numbers of the arbitrary scale are written according to some fixed standard of measurement, varying with the dis- persive power of the instrument used ; while the wave lengths from A 400 to A 800 are marked along a vertical margin, each millimeter on the paper being made to correspond to 1 or 2 fxfx wave length. The position on the arbitrary scale of the chief Fraunhofer's lines and the lines of the emission spectra already given are marked along the upper or scale margin.