RICKETS 8 bent, and possibly evidence of fractures will be present. In a later stage the bones will be found firmly consolidated, often presenting an ebony-like hardness. The exact nature of the bone changes in rickets, whether inflammatory or not, remains for the present undecided. It is tolerably cer- tain, however, that these changes are not primary, but that they are secondary to some general disease. If a section be made through the beaded end of a rickety rib, and an examina- tion be made under a low power, it will be seen that the swollen end corresponds with the lower zone of cartilage in which the cartilage cells have undergone proliferation, and are arranged in columns. It is clear that an abnormal amount of proliferation has gone on, that the matrix has undergone softening, and there is a bulging which corresponds to this columnar zone. Next to and beneath this zone is the epiphysial layer —which normally is narrow and sharply defined —in which the provisional calcification is pro- ceeding by the deposit of earthy salts in the matrix of the cartilage ; beneath this again is the zone where true bone is being formed through the medium of the osteoblasts and blood-vessels. In a case of severe rickets this epiphysial line is very irregular, and is made up of irregular areas of uncalcified cartilage belonging to the columnar zone, patches of calcified cartilage, and osteoid tissue in which no calcification has taken place, with also medullary spaces and blood-vessels. It will be seen that the preparation for ossifica- tion is excessive and much beyond the normal, but in spite of a sufficiency of lime salts very little calcification takes place. For some reason the cartilage matrix and the osteoid tissue are unfit for the deposition of lime salts ; the forma- tion of true bone is retarded, and the net result is fragile and soft, cancellous tissue with large spaces filled with red gelatinous material. Be- neath the periosteum there is also an excessive amount of cell formation, while calcification is retarded, and instead of compact tissue a spongy mass is formed. In connection with the changes which occur in the bones in true rickets, it is interesting to compare the changes noted in the bones of young animals fed on foods poor in lime salts, and in which a sort of pseudo-rickets takes place. Stoeltzner fed a six weeks' old puppy on raw horse flesh, bacon, and distilled water, a food poor in lime salts. The animal gained in size and weight during the research, which lasted eight weeks. Ten days after the commencement of the experiment the bones appeared to be tender, there was some swelling of the epiphyses, bead- ing of ribs, and bending of the long bones of the limbs. An examination of the bones at the section showed swelling of the ends of the ribs corresponding to the columnar zone of the carti- lage, some thickening of the periosteum, and a high degree of osteo-porosis that at first sight appeared identical with rickets. A careful ex- amination showed that this osteo-porosis differed essentially from rickets, in that in rickets an excessive preparation for ossification took place, viz. a rich formation of osteoid tissue, which, however, remained almost uncalcified, while in osteo-porosis but slight preparation—much less than normal—took place, and in spite of the scarcity of lime salts this little was calcified. Also in osteo-porosis, in opposition to rickets, the cartilage matrix, in spite of the insufficiency of lime salts, became calcified. Visceral Lesions. —Various lesions are apt to be found post-mortem in children who have suffered from rickets, but for the most part they are complications rather than integral parts of the disease. Thus bronchitis, broncho-pneu- monia, collapse of lung, and emphysema may be present, and have brought about the fatal result. Catarrh of the stomach and intestines is frequent, and a considerable degree of dilata- tion of the stomach and also of the large bowel may be noted. Huguenin observed a dilated stomach in an infant suffering from severe rickets, and who died of broncho-pneumonia at the age of ten months, which reached nearly to the umbilicus, and Baginsky has related a similar case. The liver also is often notably enlarged, and in some cases fatty. Reference has already been made to the fre- quent enlargement of the spleen in rickets. Stark found the spleen enlarged in 53 cases out of 93 post-mortems on children suffering from rickets, who had died of broncho-pneumonia, gastro-intestinal catarrh, pleurisy, or antemia. He found no macro- or microscopic changes in the organ peculiar to rickets, and he believes that the enlargement is due to complications present. Sasuchin, on the other hand, who has recently examined twelve hypertrophied spleens present in rickety children, believes the changes he found to be characteristic of rickets. The largest spleen he examined weighed 51 "2 grammes (normal weight 20"4), from a child of twenty months who died of broncho-pneumonia; there were marked changes in the bones, including enlarged epiphyses and genu valgum. The changes found in all the spleens examined suggested chronic inflammation, thickening of the capsule and trabeculae, atrophy of the Malpighian bodies, and narrowing of the arteries. He made control examinations of spleens of children dying of broncho-pneumonia, etc., with- out rickets, and failed to find these changes. F(ETAL Rickets.—It maybe said with certainty that many of the cases which in times past have been reported as cases of foetal; rickets had very little in common with true rickets. Parrot first separated achrondoplasia from the intra- uterine bone lesions due to other causes. In achondroplasia or chondro-dystrophia foetalis the bones of the extremities are extremely stunted