SCURVY, INFANTILE 110 varieties disturbed ; but where severe haemor- rhage has occurred, a slight leucocytosis is observed, the increase being confined to the lymphocytes. The following figures were obtained in a case of moderate severity in a child one year old :— Haemoglobin, 34%. Red corpuscles, 3,040,000. Leucocytes, 11,000. i Polymorphonuclear leucocytes, 64%. Including < Lymphocytes, 31%. ( Large mononuclear, 5%. As a rule scorbutic infants are not wasted, but their muscles are usually soft and flabby. Some evidence of rickets is almost always present, such as beading of the ribs, gaping fontanelle, or delayed dentition. However, the clinical signs of rickets are occasionally entirely wanting, and it is exceptional to meet with rachitic changes of a severe degree in such infants. Fever is no essential feature of infantile scurvy, and the milder cases often run a practically afebrile course. When, however, subperiosteal hfemorrhages occur, there is apt to be a rise of temperature to 101° or 102°. Fever may also result from the development of complications such as broncho-pneumonia. The diagnosis of infantile scurvy seldom presents any great difficulty to those who are acquainted with the ordinary features of the disease. It is chiefly in cases in which the gum affection is absent that any difficulty arises, or in those in which one of the less common manifestations, such as exophthalmos or hsematuria, is the earliest conspicuous sign. The gum affection may be set down to an ordinary stomatitis, and the swellings of the limbs have not infrequently been mistaken for sarcomata or for abscesses in connection with acute osteo-myelitis, and incisions have sometimes been made into them, which have only revealed the presence of blood-clot. As has been mentioned, a similar tenderness and pseudo-paralysis may accompany syphilitic -epiphysitis. The prognosis is very favourable in the milder cases, provided that the disease is recognised and the correct treatment is initiated. Under such circumstances recovery is usually rapid and complete, nor is recovery unknown even apart from any obvious change in the diet. The absorption of extensive subperiosteal haemorrhages is, however, naturally u matter of some time, especially if a sheath of bone has been formed beneath the separated periosteum. Of the effect upon the later de- velopment of the limbs in cases in which frac- tures have occurred near the epiphyses, I have no evidence to offer. In severe cases, with extensive htemorrhages, in infants who are ex- tremely anaemic, and whose skin has an earthy •cachectic hue, even the most careful treatment may fail to bring about any improvement, or to avert a fatal ending, which may be hastened by bronchitis, broncho-pneumonia, diarrhoea, or some other intercurrent disorder. Nowadays the disease, when once recognised, is not allowed to run its natural course, but on the basis of the early cases Sir Thomas Barlow places its average duration, when untreated, at between two and four months. In some of the early cases relapses occurred after complete or partial recovery, and in cases in which recovery has followed a change of diet, relapses may naturally occur if the previous vicious system of feeding is reverted to. 3. Morbid Anatomy.—Of the changes ob- served post mortem in infants who have suc- cumbed to infantile scurvy, the chief pathological interest centres around the lesions in the bones and in the structures around them. The superficial muscles of the limbs which have been the seats of conspicuous swellings during life are pale, and present a sodden appearance as the result of serous infiltration, whilst in the deeper muscular layers considerable extravasa- tions of blood may be met with. The peri- osteum of the affected bone is found to be thick and highly vascular, but shows no evidences of actual inflammation; and it is separated from the underlying bone by a layer of blood-clot of greater or less thickness. The extravasation may be confined to one end of the bone or may cover the entire diaphysis, whilst in extreme cases the epiphyses may be found broken off, leaving the diaphysis completely embedded in a mass of blood-clot, enclosed in a bag of peri- osteum. The clot varies in colour according to its age, and may show a laminated structure suggestive of a series of distinct haemorrhages. In cases of long standing it may be almost com- pletely decolorised and organised, and may be ensheathed by a thin bony lamina formed be- neath the separated periosteum. Haemorrhages also occur into the bone itself, especially in the neighbourhood of the epi- physes, where also a rarefaction of the can- cellous structure is noticeable. The weakening of the bone in this region probably has an important share in determining the occurrence of fractures, for the separation of the epiphyses so often observed is usually due to actual frac- ture of the shaft at a short distance from the epiphyseal line. However, in some instances there is a true separation or lateral displace- ment of an epiphysis. Haemorrhages may also occur in the ossifying centres of the epiphyses. The rarefaction of the bones above referred to was noticed by Sir Thomas Barlow, who in one of his cases found the ribs reduced to mere thin bony shells, and formed a conspicuous feature in the bones which were submitted to micro- scopic examination by Angel Money, Naegeli, and Schoedel and Nauwerk. The German in- vestigators described a conspicuous diminution