337 STERILITY (6) Endometritis causes sterility in two ways : in the first place, the secretions act in the same way as in vaginitis, and the spermatozoa are thus prevented from reaching the ovum; in the second place, should the spermatozoa succeed in running the gauntlet, and fertilisation take place, the fertilised ovum or oosperm will be unable to become attached to the unhealthy mucosa, and even if it succeed in doing this it will be prematurely cast off as in abortion. (c) The influence of salpingitis, when this is not sufficiently intense to seal up the ostium tubee, is more difficult to predicate. Theoretic- ally it would act in three ways : the passage of the spermatozoa would be hindered (in cases in which fertilisation would otherwise occur in the tube); the progress of the ovum towards the uterus would be checked ; and, if fertilisa- tion did occur, the normal descent of the oosperm towards the uterus would be impeded. Under these circumstances either the oosperm would perish, or tubal pregnancy might result. Prognosis is more favourable in this class of case than it is when the sterility is due to other causes, because the inflammatory conditions can be cured in the majority of cases. Treatment.—With mild forms of inflammation of the vagina, uterus, and tubes, the treatment consists of rest in bed, douches, the use of glycerine tampons, and temporary abstinence from intercourse. When endometritis is more severe, or has become chronic, curetting gives the best results. 3. Defects of Structure of the Uterus.—Con- genital under-development of the uterus, hyper- plasia and new growths, and premature atrophy, are found associated with sterility. {a) Congenital Under-development.—All grad- ations are met with, from an absolutely defect- ive, rudimentary, or malformed uterus, to one that is only a little under normal size. The extreme forms are usually associated with defective development of the ovaries. Klein- wachter ^ has made an interesting analysis of the conditions found in 648 cases of sterility met with in his practice. Those that come under the present heading numbered 214, or 33 per cent. They may be tabulated as follows:— Defective, rudimentary, and mal- furmed uterus. . . . 15 cases = 2-3% Under-developed uterus . . . 116 ,, =179,, 1. Hypopjastic uterus (71)— (a) Extreme forms, 14 ; (6) Medium degrees, 22 ; (c) Transition forms to normal, 35. 2. Infantile uterus (45)— (a) Fcetal, 6 ; (6) Infantile, 13 ; (c) Transition, 26. Conical elongated vaginal portion 47 ,, = 7"3., Stenosis of OS externum . . . 36 ,, = 5'5,, Total . . . 214 = 33 ,, ^ Ein Betrag zur Lehre der Sterilitdt. VOL. IX The more extreme degrees of under-develop- ment necessarily produce sterility; in the case of transition forms, conical cervix, and stenosis of the OS externum, the bar to conception is not an absolute one. Prognosis is in no case very good ; but it will vary with the degree of under-development. The nearer the approach to normal the better the prognosis. Treatment is useless in extreme cases. In those cases in which we have said that the bar to conception is not absolute, success sometimes follows dilatation of the cervical canal. (6) Hyperplasia and New Growths of the Uterus.—Among new growths we must specially mention fibromyomata. These conditions are often found associated with sterility, but it is doubtful what part they play as causal factors : it is certain that pregnancy may occur in cases of fibromyomata. Kleinwachter found these tumours in 32 of his cases, or 5 per cent. A hyperplastic uterus was present in 5 cases. Treatment.—Hyperplasia requires to be dealt with by curetting, followed by the use of douches and tampons. When myomata are present sterility is desirable rather than other- wise, since the complication of these tumours with pregnancy is fraught with grave risk to the patient. (c) Premature atrophy of the uterus is found associated with primary sterility as effect rather than as cause. But after one or two preg- nancies a relative sterility may be produced by atrophy of the uterus, which may take place soon after a pregnancy, when it is described as superinvolution. There is no cure for sterility associated with atrophy. 4. Defects of Position of the Uterus. — In Kleinwachter's series 82 cases, or 12'5 per cent, showed backward or lateral displacement of the uterus. Here again we must make a distinction between associated and causal conditions. For, in the first place, with the displacement may be present other pathological conditions, such as endometritis and diseased appendages, which have more to do with the sterility than the dis- placement has; and in the second place, it must be remembered that conception some- times occurs when the uterus is retroverted. There is, however, a residue of cases in which the displacement is in itself an obstacle to con- ception. Treatment consists in replacing the uterus, and keeping it in position with a properly fitting pessary; if patient and repeated trials with pessaries be ineffectual, ventrofixation of the uterus is indicated. 5. Functional Defects.—Under this heading we may consider conditions which lead to ster- ility by preventing intercourse, although no anatomical cause for sterility is present. These include vaginismus, that is, a spasmodic, painful 22