427 SUNSTROKE induced physical and mental fatigue are com- mon consequences, which may persist for months or years, but sometimes yield to time, prolonged rest, and residence in temperate latitudes. Irritability of temper, excitability and flighti- ness, emotional manifestations, altered habits, loss of self-control, and moral decadence are not infrequent results of severe seizures, and in persons of unstable nervous organisation intel- lectual or emotional insanity may ensue. Epi- lepsy is another of the graver sequelae, and various disorders of sensibility, motility, and the special senses have been described. Per- sistent and incurable headache has been attri- buted to meningitis. A defect of articulation resembling that which is characteristic of general paralysis of the insane is occasionally met with, and this may be associated with a considerable degree of general muscular paresis. In such cases, of which the writer has seen several examples in the Netley Hospital among soldiers invalided from India, there is no exaltation, morbid euthanasia, or other indication of dis- ordered intellect. From these various condi- tions, which affect mainly the higher neuron, incapacities of a serious and permanent kind may arise. Morbid Anatomy.—Cases of heat exhaustion and syncope are seldom fatal, and the post- mortem appearances observed are said to be the same as in cases of syncope due to physical or mental shock of any description, namely, flaccid, dilated heart, distension of the abdominal veins, and perhaps some venous congestion of viscera possibly arising at or after death. The right heart is more dilated than the left and full of soft clot, and the arterial side of the circulation is comparatively empty. In fatal cases of heat fever characteristic and fairly uniform appear- ances are met with. The excessive temperature subsides slowly; after, perhaps, having under- gone slight post-mortem rise. The surface is livid, and there is suggilation of dependent parts. Post-mortem rigidity sets in quickly. The body is prone to early decomposition. The heart is firmly contracted, and the arterial system empty while the veins are distended. Venous congestions are seen everywhere. The blood is dark and fluid, clotting imperfectly, deficient in oxygen, and inclined to acidity. The corpuscles are crenated and do not run into rouleaux ; destruction of red corpuscles and phagocytosis have been described. The lungs are engorged to a degree not met with in any other disease. In cases of sudden death from exposure to great heat it is surmised that coagulation of the cardiac myosin has occurred before death, as has been observed by Claude Bernard, Sandes, Brunton, Wood, and others in animals subjected to excessive solar or arti- ficial heat. Wood considers that coagulation of myosin in the heart, diaphragm, and other muscles is a post-mortem occurrence and associ- ated with hyperacidity. No organic brain lesions, except signs of chronic meningitis in old cases, have been described. Von Giessen has observed a parenchymatous degeneration of the ganglion cells of the brain and spinal cord, which he attributes to the action of a toxin. Congestion, inflammation, and hfemorrhages are very rare, and if present are probably accidental or secondary. The brain tissue, as shown by Arndt and Nothnagel, is rather anaemic than hypersemic. Etiology.—Little if any advance has been made in our knowledge of the pathology of sunstroke since Dr. H. C. Wood wrote in 1872. The theories which have been advanced on the subject may be classed as dynamic, chemical, toxic, and microbic. The dynamic theory, which Wood advocates, recognises that the uniform temperature of the animal body is maintained by an adjustment of the balance between heat production or reception and heat dispersion— thermogenesis and thermolysis ; and the nervous system, general or special, is the agent of ad- justment— thermotaxis. Hyperpyrexia may result from increased thermogenesis, impaired thermolysis, or deranged thermotaxis, or from a combination of these. Healthy subjects have a high power of adaptation to great heat, but this power may undergo strain and fatigue, and the thermotaxic mechanism thus get out of gear. The theory obtains support from the fact that those conditions which produce susceptibility of the vulnerable minority are precisely such as increase production, impair dispersion, and derange the nervous balance; also from the impaired power of resistance established by one attack. The chemical theory postulates a change in the composition and structure of the solids and fluids, more especially of nervous tissue, wrought by heat. No organic or struc- tural change has been demonstrated, with the exception of the acidity and coagulation of myosin of muscles, the ante-mortem occurrence of which is held to be rare. The toxic theory, which is expounded by Maclean, assumes an alteration in nutrition, metabolism, and excretion, produced by thermic influence, which loads the blood with poisonous waste products, to the operation of which the hyperpyrexia is due. No doubt humoral impurities are produced in thermic and other fevers, but they are obviously of secondary rather than primary origin. Experience and experiment indicate that sound subjects may, imder sufficient provocation, undergo the worst forms of heat attack without warning or ante- cedent ill-health. The microbic theory, advanced by Sambon, in the absence of discovery of any special micro-organism or toxin, is grounded chiefly on a priori assumptions and other logical arguments. Geographical limitations, specific phenomena, lesions, and sequelae are held to indicate special causation; and comparison