SYRINGOMYELIA 489 Symptomatology Diagnosis Morvan's Disease Prognosis Treatment 490 492 494 494 494 See also Acromegaly (History); Chest, De- formities of (Shape of Chest in Syringomyelia); Deformities (Deformities arising from Spinal Paralysis); Hand (Appearances in Syringo- myelia) ; Joints, Diseases of (In Syringomyelia); Nails, Affections of the (Diseases of the Nervous System); Osteo - Arthropathies (In Syringomyelia); Paralysis (Chronic Nuclear Bulbar Paralysis, Diagnosis); Spinal Cord, Medical (Anatomical, Central Canal); Spinal Cord, Medical (Pathological Considerations, Congenital Cavities in Cord); Ulcers and Ulceration (Perforating Ulcer of the Foot). Definition.—The term syringomyelia is applied to a chronic progressive affection of the spinal cord, which is characterised by the presence of cavities and by proliferation of the glial tissue in the neighbourhood of the central canal. The origin of the disease finds its almost certain explanation in some anomaly of development, although it seems probable that additional factors are necessary for its pro- duction. The most striking clinical features of the disease are:—(1) A peculiar disorder of sensation, in which there is loss or diminution of the perception of painful and thermal sensa- tions, with little or no impairment of the tactile sense; (2) various vasomotor and trophic dis- turbances in the bones, joints, and skin ; and (3) progressive muscular wasting, most frequently affecting the upper extremities. Not unfre- quently there is some degree of spastic para- plegia ; scoliosis and kyphosis are often present; bulbar symptoms are not uncommon, and may be unilateral; diminution in the size of the pupil and narrowing of the palpebral fissure on one or both sides are frequently met with ; the deep reflexes are almost always altered; dis- turbance of the functions of the bladder and rectum seldom occurs, excepting in the later stages of the disease. Historical.—Ollivier (1827) introduced the expression syringomyelia (o-Opty^ = pipe, tube) to denote all canals or cavities in the spinal cord. The presence of cavities in the cord had, however, been noted from time to time for many years previous to this. The occurrence of symptoms, muscular atrophy, etc., in cases presenting the anatomical condition of syringo- myelia was first drawn attention to by several observers in the middle of last century. Kahler and Schulze, working independently, pointed out in 1882 that it was possible from the character of these symptoms to diagnose syringomyelia during life. In consequence of this discovery great attention has been paid to the disease, and contributions to its literature have been very numerous. Of these, the monographs of Blocq (1890), Hoffmann (1893), and Schlesinger (1894) are probably the most important. A second and greatly enlarged edition of the latter work has recently appeared (1902). F^'equency of the Disease.—In this country syringomyelia is a rare disease. On the Con- tinent it appears to be much more common. Schlesinger has personally observed 120 cases, and has had more than 30 post-mortems. This author makes the following remarkable state- ment (Syringomyelie, 1902, s. 266):—"In my opinion syringomyelia, or central gliosis, is one of the most common of the spinal cord diseases, and ought, as regards frequency, to follow closely tabes and the syphilitic and pressure paraplegias." A few lines lower down he adds that the disease is more often met with than multiple sclerosis, a statement which does not hold good in this country.^ Pathological Anatomy.—A reference to some facts connected with the development of the spinal cord will aid the elucidation of this subject. At a certain stage of foetal development the central canal of the spinal cord exists as a fissure-like cavity between the posterior columns. At a later date the posterior columns coalesce anteriorly, forming by their union the posterior commissure which separates the ti-ue central canal from the rest of the cavity lying posterior to it. As development proceeds, the latter cavity is gradually obliterated by a fusion of the posterior columns from behind forwards. But an arrest of development may take place before this obliteration is complete, in which case the cavity persists into adult life. Should development have been arrested before the for- mation of the posterior commissure, this cavity will be seen to include what would ultimately have become the true central canal. The neuroglia of the adult spinal cord origin- ates from embryonic cells which surround the central canal of the foetus, and which in post- natal life lose their propagating qualities. Where development has been arrested, the embryonic cells which surround the foetal central canal do not disappear, but are to be found as a thick sheath surrounding a dilated canal produced in the manner already described. This is the condition which we term hydro- myelia, a pathological state unaccompanied by symptoms. Under certain circumstances the persistent embryonal tissue above referred to possesses the property of proliferation. By its prolifera- tion a new formation is produced which may caiise considerable local enlargement of the ' During the years 1896-97-98 there were admitted to the National Hospital, Queen Square, W. C, 2568 cases of "nervous disease," of which 159 were diagnosed as disseminated sclerosis, 11 as syringomyelia (cf Registrar's Annual Reports).