222 SMALLPOX Symptoms and Course . . . .223 Variations and Modifications . . 226 Illustrative Cases . . . .227 Prevention. Isolation .... 233 Treatment ...... 239 See also Bronchi, Bronchitis {Etiology); Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Exanthematous Con- junctivitis) ; Disinfection (Incubation Periods); Epidemiology (Seasonal Fbictuations); Heart, MyocardiUiM and Endocardium (Simple E7ido- carditis, Etiology); Joints, Diseases of (Pyo- genic Diseases); Kidney, Surgical Affections OF (Perinephritis, Etiology); Leucocytosis (Causes); Measles (Diagnosis); Mental De- ficiency ( Varieties, Post-Febrile); Nails, Affec- tions of the (Diseases of the Skin, Acute Ex- anthemata) ; Nephritis (Etiology); Nerves, Peripheral (Neuritis, Causes); Nose, Acces- sory Sinuses, Inflammation op (Etiology); Pleura, Diseases op (Acute Pleurisy, Causes) ; Pregnancy (Intra-%iterine Diseases); Purpura (Symptomatic, Infectious) : Skin Diseases of the Tropics (Infective Diseases); Vaccination. Definition.—Smallpox is a highly contagious specific fever, attended on the third day of illness by a characteristic inflammation of the skin, becoming first papular and ultimately pustular; resulting frequently in death, but often in recovery, the lesions of the skin com- monly leaving permanent scarring or disfigure- ment. One attack, as a rule, protects from recurrence. History.—Smallpox is known to have been indigenous in Eastern countries for nearly two thousand years, its earliest records coming from India and China. The first appearance in Europe seems to have been in the sixth century, Avhen fatal epidemics broke out in Southern France and Northern Italy. England appears to have been first severely visited about 1241, and at this time the disease was widely spread throughout Europe. From Europe smallpox was conveyed to the American continent, first to Mexico in the year 1527, where it raged to a fearful extent, destroying millions of victims, and spreading thence to other parts of America, which it gradually overran. Smallpox has been one of the greatest, if not actually the greatest, of the scourges of mankind: no form of disease has been more destructive of life, none has brought more misery in its train. In Europe not a decade passed in which the disease did not overrun great tracts of country, decimating the inhabitants in its progress. In England in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries a large proportion of the medical literature bears upon the treatment of small- pox, showing that that disease was the common form of illness which the physicians of those days were called upon to treat. The records of the mortality from smallpox in the eighteenth century show that it accounted for nearly one- tenth of the total mortality, that neither age nor sex nor social conditions aff"orded protection, and that of those who recovered from it, the number permanently scarred or disfigured formed so large a proportion of the population that iinmarked persons were comparatively few. Escape from smallpox was regarded as so improbable, that in the East, from a remote period, the practice had been in vogue of in- tentionally inoculating persons from a mild case of smallpox, in the hope that the inocu- lated person would also contract the disease in a mild form; and this hoped-for result appears to have been frequently realised, but yet it was attended with the grave difliculty, that any one so inoculated was liable to impart the disease to a susceptible person in an unmodified form, and each inoculated person was a new focus of in- fection. Inoculation was introduced into Eng- land in 1721, and, notwithstanding the dangers and grave objections attaching to it, was con- tinued until the introduction of vaccination, which put an end not only to it, but exercised an influence upon smallpox which constitutes the most remarkable of all triumphs over disease ever achieved by medical science. Causation.—Smallpox differs from most other infectious diseases in being apparently uninflu- enced by conditions of soil and climate; it breaks out wherever predisposed individuals are exposed to it, independently of geographical conditions. The poison of smallpox is eminently contagious, perhaps more so than that of any other form of infectious disease. Natural sus- ceptibility to it is almost universal, but children are even more liable to it than adults. Negro races are said to suffer more severely than others. There is no ground for supposing that existing diseases of any kind, acute or chronic, lessen the susceptibility to smallpox. The writings of physicians, more especially of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, show that individual insusceptibility did occur, though rarely, and it is equally plain from these writers that mild forms of the disease were by no means uncommon. One attack of smallpox usually confers an immunity for the rest of life, but instances occur, relatively rare no doubt, in which a second attack takes place, or indeed even a third may be possible; in most authenticated examples of second attacks the first one has usually been mild in character, and many years have elapsed between the two attacks. The case of Louis XV. of France is the best-known instance of a second infection ; that monarch first suff"ered from smallpox at the age of fourteen, and again at the age of sixty-four, the second attack causing his death. Although the exact nature of the smallpox contagion is not definitely known, the results of inoculation conclusively prove that the poison is contained in the skin eruption. The manner in which smallpox spreads by contagion