490 SYRINGOMYELIA cord. We apply the term syringomyelia to this condition, i.e. the occurrence of cavities in the cord associated with a iiew fovmatiom de- rived from the embryonic glial cells. ^ Syringo- myelia is a further stage of hydromyelia ; it is a progressive as opposed to a stationary condi- tion. Whether a hydromyelia is capable at any time of taking on active growth and be- coming a syringomyelia, we cannot say. The spinal cord in cases of syringomyelia usually presents very obvious pathological changes to the naked eye. The membranes generally appear healthy, but there is some- times considerable thickening of the dura, especi- ally in the cervical region. W^here there is extensive cavity formation, which is often the case, especially in its upper part, the cord is flattened from before backwards and feels soft and fluctuating. In places it may be greatly reduced in calibre, and may be no larger than that of a young child, while in regions where there is true tumour growth it may be consider- ably increased in size. Similarly, the medulla is sometimes much flattened. It, too, may appear smaller than normal. The diminution in size is often more pronounced in one half of the organ than in the other. The aqueduct of Sylvius is sometimes greatly dilated. A condition of internal hydrocephalus, with thin- ning of the surrounding brain substance and flattening of the convolutions, is occasionally present. The spinal cord on transverse section may present very different appearances according to the level at which the section is made. The presence of one or more cavities in the sub- stance of the cord is often the most striking feature. It is most usual to find one cavity, more or less centrally situated, and lying posterior to the central canal, with which it is sometimes seen to be in direct communication. The cavity may be so large as to occupy the greater part of the transverse section, in which case it is surrounded merely by a thin tube of tissue ; it may, on the other hand, be so small, that it is only recognisable with difficulty by the unaided eye. All gradations exist between these extremes. In some cases the cavity ex- tends out through the whole length of the cord, from the filum terminale into the medulla; in others it is much more limited in extent; not uncommonly it is confined to the lower cervical and upper dorsal regions of the cord. The wall of the cavity is usually smooth, and is composed of a layer of translucent embryonal glial tissue. It varies greatly in thickness, and its inner surface is covered by epithelium. The contents of the cavity vary; sometimes they consist of a clear fluid ; in other cases the fluid 1 Some authorities hold that this new formation is produced by proliferation of the normal adult glial tissue, which is es])ecially plentiful in the neighbourhood of the central canal. is turbid, and it may have a brownish colour from recent haemorrhages. The embryonal glial tissue, which has been above referred to in describing the wall of the cavity, consists of a network of neuroglial spindle cells and fine fibres in varying proportions. It may extend through the whole length of the cord. Its transverse extent varies at different levels. In some sections it is seen to surround a central cavity. It sometimes forms distinct tumours, causing considerable enlargement of the cord, and surrounded merely by a narrow ring of cord tissue. Cavities are often to be seen in the substance of this new formation; they have been produced by a breaking down of the tumour tissue. From what has been said regarding the development of the central canal, these various appearances will be readily understood. In some cases an increase of the blood-vessels of the cord has been described; thickening of the vessel walls has been noted in a few in- stances. Ascending and descending degenera- tions are often to be seen in the white matter of the spinal cord. Degenerative changes in the peripheral nerves have been described by Hoff'mann and others. Etiology.—Syringomyelia is essentially a dis- ease which owes its origin primarily to a develop- mental defect, and it is of interest to note that developmental defects of other parts of the body are not uncommon in individuals suffering from this affection. Syringomyelia sometimes occurs in association with spina bifida. The disease is almost twice as common in males as in females. The first symptoms most frequently appear during the second, third, or fourth decade, and especially between the ages of twenty and thirty. Trauma appears to be a definitely related etiological factor in some cases. Occasionally the symptoms of the disease have first attracted attention during convales- cence from one of the exanthemata: several cases, for example, appear to have developed during recovery from typhoid fever. Syphilis is believed by some authorities to play a part in determining the morbid process, but its influence in this respect is certainly not great. The comparative rarity of syringomyelia in this country is of interest from an etiological point of view. Symptoms.—The symptoms of syringomyelia depend upon the damage done to the spinal cord by the growth of the new formation, and to some extent possibly by the pressure pro- duced by the distension of the cavity or cavi- ties. Their incidence is determined by the part of the cord which is involved, and since this is usually the lower cervical or upper