483 SYPHILIS full, and whose existence excited so great a horror amongst our ancestors that no baby was left unattended for a moment until it had been safely christened, a ceremony which was thought to place it out of the power of the good people. Snuffles is one of the earliest signs of in- herited syphilis. It is caused by a swelling of part of the mucous membrane of the nose, and is often considered to be merely a cold in the head. The condition is only important from a diagnostic point of view if other signs of syphilis appear, for it is easy to attach undue import- ance to this sign, and there is some tendency to put a baby on a course of grey powder when it has really only suffered from a nasal catarrh. The snuffles in syphilis lasts for a long time, and may cause some broadening at the root of the nose which may persist throughout life, but more often disappears with the growth of the face. SMn.—A rash appears soon after the snuffles have been observed. It may be erythematous, papulo-squamous, or more rarely roseolous like that which is common in acquired syphilis. Dr. Radcliffe Crocker describes the rash in the following words:—"It consists of erythematous patches of various sizes, which usually commence on the buttocks and round the anus. They may be well- or ill-defined at the edge, bright coppery or yellowish-red, tending to coalesce into large sheets of eruption, but generally patchy at the borders. This erythema may extend uniformly on the back and inner sides of the legs, quite down to the feet, including the soles, which are bright red and peeling. On the front and outer side it is still generally patchy, upwards it often extends to the loins and abdomen, and in a few cases all over the body in patches which coalesce; the whole I surface is then red and desquamating on the dry ; parts, while on the buttocks, or where it is !exposed to moisture, the scales are soaked off and the surface is left raw or brightly glistening. These generalised cases are very likely to die." The papulo-squamous rash consists of round superficial patches, slightly raised, with a pink or reddish brown colour at first, which soon becomes of a pale fawn tint. It may be limited to one or more regions, such as the limbs, forehead, or round the mouth. But sometimes it occupies the whole surface of the body, usually in discrete patches, and occurs on the buttocks, where superficial ulceration is apt to occur. Dr. Crocker also describes a crescentic squamous variety of this eruption as well as a vesicular form. Any of these rashes may become pustu- lar, and bullge are not uncommon on the palms f and soles. Bones. — The bones show various changes during the first six months in the life of a syphilitic baby. The most important and fre- quent are the epiphyseal changes in the long bones, which occur most often at the lower end of the femur, in the bones of the legs, forearms, and ribs; more rarely in the phalanges of the fingers and toes, where the condition is known as syphilitic dactylitis. The earliest epiphyseal change occurs in several bones, and is due to a proliferation of the cartilage cells with an in- creased calcification but delayed ossification. The proliferation of the cartilage cell interferes with the blood-supply, and the cells therefore undergo degenerative changes which result in the formation of a yellow or oi-ange line in the intermediary cartilage, sometimes with separa- tion of the epiphysis. This yellow degeneration may occur within the first week or two of life, and is often associated with periostitis. A little later, a child who has been born apparently healthy may show, within the first three months of its life, a gelatiniform degeneration of the intermediary cartilages. This form of degenera- tion affects the arm more often than the leg, and, unlike the rickety deformity, is asym- metrical. It is sometimes associated with a condition of pseudo-paralysis, in which one or more of the limbs lie cold, wasted, and flail-like. The pseudo-paralysis is due to a myositis in some cases, and to a peripheral neuritis in others. The bones of the skull are peculiarly liable to local periostitis during the earlier months of life in syphilitic children, the inflammation being often symmetrical, and occurring on the frontal and parietal bones close to the anterior fontanelle, where they form Parrot's nodes, and cause the skull to be described as " natiform " or "hot cross bun-shaped." Syphilitic children are often rickety, but there is no reason to think that the nodes here described are syphilitic rather than rachitic in origin. They usually disappear during the first year, and leave no trace of their existence. Viscera.—The viscera are early affected by syphilis, and Dr. Coutts says that in 100 cases of inherited syphilis under his care the spleen was enlarged in 62, and in 19 others its size was probably above the normal. The splenic enlargement, he thinks, dates from birth, and may certainly exist before any other symptom of inherited syphilis has manifested itself. It is due to a simple multiplication of the normal cellular elements, and not to the formation of gummatous tissue. The liver is also affected in many syphilitic babies, the changes being those of an interstitial hepatitis. The jaundice is not usually a marked feature of the condition. The mucous membranes are not markedly or early affected in the subjects of hereditary syphilis, though specific ulcers and mucous tubercles are found in the mouth and about the anus. The Eye.—Iritis occurs in an early stage of inherited syphilis, and it is very likely to be overlooked, partly because it is rare, and partly because it does not cause any very acute