181 SKIN—TUBERCULOSIS gained by promoting too rapid healing of the ulcers of the skin. Indeed, the longer the part is kept open and discharging, the longer does the benefit seem to last. Dry iodoform or a pretty strong iodoform ointment may be rubbed into the part; probably the iodoform destroys some of the bacilli which still exist. By several courses of this plaster the nodules may be so reduced in number as to be open to individual treatment. They may similarly be reduced in number by another less painful method, viz. the very thorough application of oleate of mercury. The formula recommended by Allan Jamieson is— R Hydrarg. oleat. 5% . . 5j. Ichthyol . . . ^\xx. Acidi salicyl. . . . grs. xx. This must be thoroughly rubbed into the part for at least twenty minutes eyery night, and ten minutes every morning. The results are usually very satisfactory. When by one or other of these means the nodules have been reduced to a manageable number, methods such as the thermo - cautery are applicable. The ordinary Pacquelin point is too broad to be of any benefit at this stage. The point must be so fine as to enable one to pierce the individual nodules, and the best instrument for this pur- pose is Unna's " microbrenner," in which a copper point is fused on to the end of the platinum. With this any visible nodule is pierced and immediately destroyed. The gal- vano-cautery is more useful, mainly because the burn is followed by a greater amount of reaction than that of the thermo-cautery, but it is, of course, not always available. Another and a simpler method is the puncture of each nodule by a pointed wooden match dipped in some caustic. The favourite caustic for this purpose is the acid nitrate of mercury, and the simplicity of the method is a strong recommendation. The operation must be repeated and repeated until every single nodule has disappeared, and only then should the patient be released from observation, with orders to report himself at the first sign of recurrence. The fact that this preparation loses its strength when kept must be borne in mind, and the fresh preparation should be used with great caution, for it often produces a serious amount of destruction. The disease may also be attacked indirectly. Probably the two methods, the direct and in- direct, are always more or less combined, though the one usually predominates over the other. The indirect method aims at setting up such a reactionary hypersemia in the skin that the tuberculous material is destroyed indirectly. When the disease affects the limbs, the con- gestive method of Bier may be tried. This consists in applying a ligature so as to produce prolonged congestion of the part, and is in some cases as useful in lupus as it is in tuberculosis of the joints. More commonly the reaction is produced by the application of some irritant. The action of carbolic acid is almost entirely indirect. The slough produced by its destructive action is so superficial that it notoriously hardly leaves any scar, and therefore its chance of penetrating- down to the diseased nodules is very small indeed. It sets up, however, a considerable reaction, and under its application the nodules grow less in number and size. The acid nitrate of mercury may be used in the same way. Kaposi used a solid stick of nitrate of silver, ploughing furrows in every direction through the disease. This method is only available in the catarrhal form of the disease, in which other means of treatment are preferable. The Liquor antimonii chloridi is another valuable application. It does not produce such severe immediate results, but after a few days' application, it being painted on daily, the part generally becomes so tender that it must be intermitted for a few days. There is no better application to entrust to the hands of a patient of only ordinary common sense than the liquor antimonii chloridi, and it has the further advantage that it may be applied to the fibroid form, and thus remove both the complication and the disease at once. Pyrogallol is another useful remedy. It is best used in the form of a ten per cent ointment, which should be continuously applied. It sets up a considerable reaction, but as the effects of that are beneficial, it should not be stopped on that account. It may also be applied in collodion, but the effects are not nearly so satisfactory. In the selection of any of these methods one must be guided by a variety of considerations. The cosmetic effect is one of the most important. If the disease is on the face of a girl, one is bound to be more considerate of the resulting appearances than in the case of a male. In a working man, vigorous scraping with the sharp spoon may be used. While this often results in somewhat unsightly hyper- trophic scars, the rapid removal of the disease is in such cases of most importance. In the case of a girl the spoon should only be used lightly, and be directed to the removal of the diseased products rather than to the removal of the disease itself. Arsenious acid, too, though thorough, is often followed by unsightly scars, and should not be used when appearance has to be considered. The applications which are followed by the best cosmetic results are salicylic acid, liquor antimonii chloridi, and pyrogallic acid, probably in the order named. If the disease is very extensive, of course the possibility of the absorption of any drug must be considered, as must the painful effects which they each produce. If the patient is very sensitive, probably antimony is as good as any other treatment, different parts being painted in