SYRINGOMYELIA 493 cervico-dorsal region of the cord is much the most common seat of the disease, cases occur in which the lower part of the cord is also, or it may be alone, affected. In such a case the sensory changes, muscular atrophy, etc., are located in the lower limbs. Cases of bulbar syringomyelia also occur. These atypical cases are probably often unrecognised. It is import- ant to realise this, in other words, to dispel the misconception which appears to be very prevalent that syringomyelia is essentially a disease which manifests itself in the upper extremities. Bearing in mind that the character of the symptoms is of greater diagnostic import- ance than their distribution, in considering the differential diagnosis it will be convenient to refer especially to the cervico-dorsal or common type of the disease. A number of different conditions may closely simulate syringomyelia, especially in its early stages. The classical case in which there is wasting of the hands is often diagnosed as progressive muscular atrophy. More than once I have seen this mistake occur. The explana- tion is that the latter disease is much more generally recognised, and its symptoms more widely known than those of syringomyelia. In every supposed case of progressive muscular atrophy syringomyelia must be excluded before a positive diagnosis is arrived at. The hands, arms, shoulders, and thorax must be most carefully examined for any trace of dissociated anaesthesia, the existence of a patch of which, often of very limited extent in early cases, will determine the diagnosis between the two dis- eases under consideration. Trophic changes in the skin, whitlows, bullae, etc., arthropathies, spinal curvature, and sym- pathetic paralysis will, if present, confirm the diagnosis of syringomyelia. Stigmata of degen- eracy, such as defective formation of the pinna of the ear, extra digits, an abnormally high palatal arch, an asymmetrical head, etc., are signs to which one is inclined to attach some weight in diagnosis, for they occur in quite a considerable proportion of cases. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is another disease for which syringomyelia may be mistaken. The points of differential importance are similar to those which we have considered under pro- gressive muscular atrophy. In addition, spas- ticity of the upper limbs with increased arm- jerks, a markedly exaggerated jaw-jerk, an in- crease of the excitability of the muscles on mechanical stimulation, are usually present in this disease, and will serve to distinguish it from syringomyelia. The diagnosis of syringomyelia from an intra- medullary spinal tumour is always difficult and may be impossible, for these tumours not unfre- quently arise from a pre-existing central gliosis. Cervical pachymeningitis is commonly associ- ated with wasting of the upper extremities and anaesthesia; it may, however, be usually dis- tinguished by the severe shooting pains which are commonly present in the arms. Further, the anaesthesia is not of the characteristic syringomyelic type, while vasomotor and trophic changes and spinal curvature do not occur. It must be remembered that the two conditions— syringomyelia and pachymeningitis—are some- times associated. An extra-medullary tumour may also produce muscular wasting and anaesthesia, with para- plegia. If situated in the cervico-dorsal re- gion pains in the arms are usually com- plained of. Severe pain in the back is a common symptom. Brown-Sequard's paralysis, if present, affords strong support to the prob- ability of a tumour. Other symptoms of syringomyelia above referred to are commonly absent. Dissociated anaesthesia is sometimes produced by an extra-medullary tumour. In a case of extra-medullary tumour, which was under the care of Dr. Byrom Bramwell, this symptom was present. The tumour, which was of small size, pressed on the cord in the upper cervical region. The absence of pain in the back and of root pains in this case, and the presence of wasting of the upper limb, dissoci- ated anaesthesia, etc., suggested syringomyelia, a diagnosis which was shown post-mortem to be erroneous. The cervical region of the cord and cervical root may be pressed on in spinal caries, but in this case, if the symptoms have persisted for any length of time, signs of disease of the vertebrae (irregularity, rigidity, pain on move- ment, tenderness on pressure) usually coexist. Brachial plexus neuritis may simulate syringo- myelia, but the signs of irritation (pain, etc.), the history, and the strictly unilateral distribu- tion of the symptoms usually permit of a diagnosis being made without difficulty. Occasionally disseminated sclerosis is resembled by syringomyelia, but the absence of anaesthesia, the speech affection, giddiness, and frequency of optic atrophy in the former disease, together with the history, usually place the diagnosis beyond doubt. Hysteria and syringomyelia have been con- fused, and—strange though it may seem—the possibility of such a difficulty arising is not remote when it is remembered that the two diseases are not uncommonly associated. Definite signs of organic disease, such as local muscular atrophy, etc., must be sought for in determining this question. An acute central myelitis or haemorrhage into the cord may produce symptoms identical with those of syringomyelia. The history of onset is in such a case the chief guide to the diagnosis. The possibility of pre-existing syringomyelia should ahvays suggest itself ivhere the history appears to indicate spinal haemorrhage. Careful inquiry must be made as to the existence of