RODENT disease. Discovered more or less accidentally by Sequeira, their use has spread, and the benefit resulting from their use is everywhere acknowledged. Exposures of ten minutes daily at a distance of four inches will often destroy a rodent the size of a shilling in six or eight weeks, with a resultant scar which leaves nothing to be desired in appearance. Even cases which have spread beyond the reach of the surgeon's knife cicatrise in a perfectly wonderful manner. The X-ray apparatus, how- ever, is not in every one's hands, and thorough excision still remains the most dependable treat- ment for rodent ulcer. Roe. See Invalid Feeding {Fish, Roe). Roe Bodies. See Mycetoma {Pathology). Roederer's Obliquity.— The fact that at the beginning of labour the fa3tal head lies at the brim of the mother's pelvis with its occipital end lower than its sincipital; com- mencing flexion. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Presentations of the Vertex). Roentgren or Rontgren Rays. See X-Rays. See also Eyeball, Injuries of {Re- moval of Foreign Bodies); Lung, Tuberculosis OF {Diagnosis, Rontgen-ray Illuminatioti); Nails, Affections op the {Injuries, Rontgen Rays) ; Osteo - Arthropathies {Diagnosis); Sclerotic, Diseases of {Injuries); Teeth {Exostosis, Diagnosis). Roger's Disease.—Congenital malfor- mation of the heart, consisting in the presence of a perforation in the interventricular septum. Roger's Symptom.—The presence of a subnormal temperature in the third stage of tubercular meningitis. Rokitansky's Disease.—Acute yellow atrophy of the liver. Rolando, Fissure of. See Brain, Physiology {Cerebral Cortex) ; Physiology, Cerebrum {Cortical Centres, Rolandic Area). Roller Bandage. See Bandages {Varieties). Rol let's Stroma.—The insoluble net- work supposed to constitute the sustentacular part of a red blood corpuscle. Romberg's Disease.—Progressive facial hemiatrophy. Romberg's Sign. —The swaying of the body when the eyes are closed and the feet placed together; it is characteristic of tabes dorsalis {q.v.) and of hereditary cerebellar ataxia. Romberg's Spasm.—Trismus, or the masticatory spasm of Romberg, seen in afFec- ULCER 1.5 tions of the fifth nerve. See Fifth Nerve {Spasm of 3/uscles of Mastication). RoncegnO. See Balneology {Austria, Chalybeate). Rontgen Rays. ^SeeX-RAYs; Rontgen Rays and Cross References. Roof Nucleus. — The nucleus fastigii. See Physiology, Cerebellum {Structure). Rosacea. See Acne ; Skin Diseases op Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Rosacea, Treat- ment). Rosse Gallicse Petala.— Red rose petals are got from Rosa gallica, and contain a volatile oil {q.v.), with some tannic and gallic acid ; there are three official preparations : Con- fectio Rosce GalliccB (dose, 30-60 gr.), Infusum Rosoe Acidum (dose, ^ to 1 fl. oz.) which con- tains sulphuric acid, and Syrupus Rosce (dose, ^ to 1 fl. dr.). Oleum Rosce, the oil or otto of rose, is obtained, not from Rosa gallica, but from Rosa damascena; it contains geraniol (CjgHjgO), an alcohol; and it has two official pi-eparations : Aqua Rosce (dose, 1-2 fl. oz.), and Unguentum Aquce Rosce or Cold Cream. The preparations of rose are employed, not so much for their own medicinal properties, but rather as vehicles for other drugs more active and less pleasant. Rosaniline. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Drugs). Rosary, Rachitic. See B,ickets {Clini- cal Features, Chest). Rose Cold.—A form of hay fever; June cold. See Hay Fever. Rosen bach's Disease. See Heber- den's Nodes. Rosen bach's Sign.— Loss of con- traction of the abdominal muscles in inflam- matory disease of the intestines; also tremor of the eyelids when the attempt is made to close them, as seen in neurasthenia. Rosenmiiller, Organ of. — The parovarium. See Broad Ligaments ; Genera- tion, Female Organs op {Organ of Rosen- miiller). Rosenthal's Canal. — The canalis spiralis modioli of the cochlea, containing the iranglion of Corti. Roseola. See Rubella. Rose rash. See Rubella. Rose's Position. — The position in which the head hangs over the end of the table or couch ; e.g. in operations on the respira- tory passages, to prevent the passage of blood into the trachea.