SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF 151 also be detached, but I have not yet seen a case. Some surgeons treat both these injuries by wiring the detached fragment of bone to the humerus. Separation of the Coracoid Process.—The entire epiphysis of the coracoid process may be separated, or only the small apical portion which has a separate centre of ossification. The whole coracoid process cannot be separated as an epiphyseal injury after the seventeenth year. The accident is usually the result of very severe violence applied directly to the front of the shoulder. Symptoms.—The symptoms are pain over the coracoid process, inability to raise or adduct the arm in consequence of interference with the attachment of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles, abnormal mobility of the detached process, and mufHed crepitus. The injury may be complicated with dislocation or fracture of the humerus, or with dislocation of the outer end of the clavicle. The treatment consists in keeping the arm and forearm fully flexed to relax the muscles attached to the coracoid process, whilst the elbow is supported and the whole arm on the injured side is bound to the chest. Inflammatory Conditions.—The shoulder is not especially liable to inflammation, and the war in South Africa has shown that it may be very severely injured without great or per- manent interference with its function. Simple Inflammations.— Wounds.—My col- league, Mr. Bowlby, lately surgeon to the Port- land Hospital, says that most of the bullet wounds involving joints healed without diffi- culty in the South African campaign, and gave rise to but little synovial effusion. Thus, a gunner shot through the right shoulder joint from front to back was able to return to his battery in five weeks' time, passive movements having been commenced about fourteen days after the injury. The results in civil life, how- ever, are somewhat less satisfactory, for a wound involving the joint usually suppurates. Simple Synovitis.—Cold, overuse, and direct injury are the common causes of simple syno- vitis of the shoulder. The painful eff'usion is easily controlled in a healthy person by resting the joint and avoiding the cause. Sprains.—The game of hand fives is some- times responsible for a peculiar sprain of the shovdder which involves the supraspinatus, the infraspinatus, and the triceps muscles, causing a good deal of pain down the arm. Infective Inflammations.—The inflamma- tions of the shoulder due to micro-organisms and their products are numerous, and may be severe. Rheumatism, scarlet fever, and more rarely typhoid, cause synovitis of the shoulder, which is either serous, plastic, or suppurative. Acute osteomyelitis sometimes begins near the epiphyseal line of the head of the humerus. It occurs in delicate children often after a slight injury, and when they have recently recovered from one of the exanthemata. The symptoms are pain, loss of function in the joint, a high temperature, and a sudden onset. The actual nature of the illness may be overlooked until the formation of an abscess enables the surgeon, after opening it, to demonstrate the presence of dead or carious bone. The treatment consists in cutting down upon the inflamed bone as soon as possible, when, if pus has already found its way into the joint, there need be no hesitation in thoroughly drain- ing its cavity, for even prolonged drainage is not inconsistent with a useful joint afterwards. Acute arthritis in children is considered under the heading syphilitic disease of the shoulder. Tuberculous Disease. — Pathology. — The shoulder is affected with tubercle in about 25 per cent of tuberculous joints. As is usual in joints, the cancellous bone of the head and the synovial membrane are affected, the stress of the inflammation seeming sometimes to fall more upon the one than upon the other, and without adequate reason. When suppuration occurs the abscess usually tracks along the tendon of the biceps or opens into the bursa beneath the deltoid. More rarely it appears in the axilla, or it may point behind in the supraspinatus or infraspinatus fosste. Enlarged bursse and pro- longations from the synovial membrane some- times appear at a distance from the joint, with which they may have no obvious connection. Such enlargements are known as Baker's cysts, and are always indicative of tuberculous disease of the joint. The head of the femur in ad- vanced cases may be reduced to a mere shell of bone, or it may die and lie loose as a sequestrum within the capsule. There is also an inter- esting group of cases in which tuberculous inflammation of the shoulder may run its entire course to anchylosis without sufficient symp- toms to draw attention to the joint, so that a completely fixed shoulder may be found in a child who hardly seems to have been ill. Symptoms.—The most prominent symptoms are wasting of the deltoid and scapular muscles, with internal rotation and adduction of the arm. The joint is stiff, and the inferior angle of the scapula moves coincidently with the humerus when the arm is rotated, when the elbow is moved backwards or forwards, or when it is drawn away from the side. Pain is not usually a marked feature in the disease, but if it occurs it is referred to the middle of the arm near the insertion of the deltoid. Prognosis.—The prognosis is better than in tuberculous disease of other joints. Treatment.—The joint should be put at rest by applying a plaster-of-Paris bandage after a pad dusted with oxide of zinc powder has been placed in the axilla to produce a certain amount