177 SKIN—DISEASES OF SWEAT AND SEBACEOUS GLANDS generally indicated, but the application must vary with the form of inflammation with which the skin reacts. Thus if the eruption is moist, powders or pastes are to be preferred to oint- ments, and if the eruption is very widespread a lotion may be used. As already indicated, the smooth skin will not stand the same strength of application as will the scalp, and from ten to twenty grains of each of the preparations is probably as much as is generally useful. In the drier forms of the eruption sulphur does not seem to suit so well, and should be omitted from the prescriptions in such cases. Treatment must be kept up for a consider- able time after the disease has apparently dis- appeared, otherwise relapses will occur. In alopecia seborrhoica the treatment already recommended for seborrhoea is generally the most efficacious. The cure of the disease which is producing the baldness is of much greater importance than the stimulation by mild counter-irritants often advised, for the skin is already sufficiently stimulated by the disease. In rosacea the treatment of the scalp is of primary inportance. Indeed it is even possible to leave the face altogether alone and yet get a good result. Recovery, however, is hastened by simultaneous treatment of the eruption on the face by a lotion containing sulphur and some bland powder, such as calamine and oxide of zinc, made up so as to form a pretty thick lotion. Glycerine is sometimes added to this, but it does not suit all cases, and really is not an urgent necessity in the prescription, for the bottle containing the lotion can be shaken vigorously before each application. Recently the chloride of adrenalin has been recommended as a remedy for rosacea. It is administered internally and applied locally, but in the writer's experience it only produced tempor- ary improvement in cases which subsequently rapidly improved under the treatment already recommended. Diseases of the Sebaceous Glands.—The sebaceous glands vary in size in different parts of the body. They are specially large upon the face, and in this situation their mouths are occasionally inhabited by a parasite, the acarus foUiculorum—a parasite entirely harm- less, though at one time it was looked upon as the probable cause of acne vulgaris. Ab- scesses occasionally occur in the glands, which, however, soon extend beyond their confines, and spread into the tissues around. They may be occasionally the starting-point of new growths, and the similarity in structure between them and certain rodent cancers has misled many observers to the conclusion that that disease is a carcinoma of the sebaceous glands. The disease known as adenoma sebaceum is certainly not in every instance correctly named. It is a disease which occurs in children whose mental development is restricted. There is VOL. IX often a history of fits in infancy, and there are some who have suggested that the disease may possibly be in some way produced by the bromide of potassium usually administered in such cases. The disease consists in the development of a number of papules varying in size, spread all over the face, but particularly in its central division. They also occur upon the trunk, where they are not infrequently associated with small fibrous tumours. In many cases the growths are of the type of lymphangioma, in others they are fibrous, and it would seem that their frequent occurrence upon the face, where the sebaceous glands are normally large, has been overlooked in the estimation of the size of these structures found in the sections of the lesions. The only successful treatment is by destruc- tion of the nodules, either individually by electrolysis, or by ironing the affected region with the thermo-cautery, so as to destroy them wholesale. Tuberculosis of Skin Lupus— Clinical Features and Varieties . 177 Diagnosis . . . .178 Prognosis . . . .179 Treatment . . . . .179 Catarrhal Lupus . . .179 Fibroid Lupus . . . .180 Warty Lupus . . . .180 Lupus Vulgaris Simplex . .180 Scrofuloderma . . . . .182 Treatment . . . . .183 Erythema Induratum Scrofulosorum . 183 Lichen Scrofulosorum . . . .183 Lupus.—Clinical Features. — The tubercle bacillus may reach the skin by more than one route, and according to this and the reaction of the patient to the germ, the appearances pro- duced vary. Lupus vulgaris may be looked upon as the typical tuberculosis of the skin. It is by far the most common, and it is the chief in import- ance and gravity. It presents many clinical varieties, all having in common the presence of the tubercle bacillus, along with those pathological changes which we are familiar with as characteristic of the re- action of the tissues to that organism, and dif- fering according to various complicating and secondary changes. The simplest and the most typical form of Lupus vulgaris is that where there are found in the skin those elements which are described as the " apple-jelly " or " barley-sugar " nodules of Hutchinson. These are yellowish-brown areas about the size of a hemp-seed; they may be found discrete, or they may run together to form irregular areas. They are evidently in the skin, and the epidermis runs unbroken over 12