SCLEROTIC, DISEASES OF THE 76 ocular tension is reduced. A subacute or chronic iritis supervenes, the aqueous becomes turbid, and dirty, greasy-looking spots form on the posterior surface of the cornea. The patient's sufferings are usually acute : he shuns the light, the eye waters copiously, and vision is seriously impaired. The inflammation spreads in surface extent as well as in depth. Milky white opacities form on the cornea as if its circumference were, at different points, being overlapped by the sclerotic. These opacities are usually sector-shaped, and the cornea in their neighbourhood is always more or less in- flamed. After an acute attack passes off the transparency may be so far recovered that vision improves, but the sclerotic has changed consider- ably in appearance, and patches of a dark-blue slate colour are visible round the cornea. The pupil becomes contracted and is occasion- ally displaced, the base of the iris is pushed against the posterior surface of the cornea so that the anterior filtration spaces become ob- literated, and the eye is liable to attacks of acute glaucoma. The increased intraocular tension reacting on the weakened sclerotic, causes it to bulge forward to form a staphyloma. This (in the first instance usually partial) is situated immediately behind the corneal margin, around which are elevations—multiple staphy- lomata—blue in colour, owing to the pigment of the choroid shining through. These ectasite may be situated over the ciliary processes (when they show as dark streaks), but more usually they lie a little farther forward, their site corresponding to the zone between the cornea and the root of the iris. In the former case they are spoken of as ciliary staphylomata ; in the latter, as interciliary staphylomata. A further stage in the progress of the disease is marked by increased secretion of fluid into the vitreous. This gives rise to still greater tension, which the parietes of the globe already weakened are unable to withstand, and consequently the eyeball becomes distended in all its diameters, and a certain amount of exophthalmos is pro- duced. In most instances the cornea is by this time opaque and enlarged, and its curvature so altered as to make it seem almost continuous with the attenuated sclerotic. A somewhat similar condition of things occasionally develops during the early years of life, and gives rise to buphthalmos, though the earliest stages of this disease probably always occur in utero. Sclerotitis may go on for many years—being thus one of the most tedious of ailments—and, unfortunately, little can be done in the way of treatment. While the distress incident to acute attacks may be, to a great extent, relieved, remedies are of little avail in arresting the steadily downward course of the disorder. Under favourable conditions a remission in the symptoms may be obtained, but the improve- ment is I'arely permanent, and a very slight cause serves, in predisposed subjects, to deter- mine a relapse. After each recurrence vision deteriorates more and more, and owing to the appearance of acute attacks of secondary glau- coma, the sufferings of the patient are, especi- ally in the later periods, very severe. In the early stages in particular, care must be taken not to adopt any routine method of treatment. Every case must be carefully ex- amined on its own merits, in order to find out not only the amount of damage which has been done to the eye, but also, if possible, the cause of the inflammation. Probably in every in- stance sclerotitis primarily originates in some morbid constitutional state, but it is often ex- ceedingly difficult to determine the true nature of the dyscrasia. Where cases are undoubtedly due to scrofula, rheumatism, gout, or syphilis, the all-important indication in treatment is to prescribe remedies directed against the parti- cular diathesis from which the patient is suffer- ing. Naturally one thinks of iodides, mercury, alkalies, iron, cod-liver oil, maltine, etc., and occasionally the prolonged administration of these does much to hold the disease in check. In other cases, however, such a line of treat- ment seems to do harm, by disordering digestion and interfering with the proper assimilation and metabolism of food. It is always of the first importance to maintain nutrition at the highest possible level, and hence the value of careful dieting, and of placing the patient in the best hygienic surroundings. Even when, however, I by these means an improvement in general I health lias been effected, the eye-condition often 1 shows no signs of improvement, because the ocular changes have advanced so far, and are of such a nature as of themselves seriously to im- peril the nutrition of the eye. Acvite symptoms nearly always arise from increased intraocular tension, brought about by the blocking of the anterior filtration spaces ! through pathological changes occurring in the iris and ciliary body. One of the most reliable guides, therefore, in the treatment of an indi- vidual case is the careful estimation of the tension of the eyeball. In the early stages acute symptoms must be met and dealt with in the manner previously described when speaking of episcleritis; but in the later stages, when severe complications have occurred, leeches, fomentations, myotics, and morphia may all fail to afford any permanent relief, and then surgical treatment becomes necessary. One of the simplest, as it is one of the safest methods of operating in such cases, is to puncture the sclerotic as far back as possible with a broad needle, so that some of the contents of the eyeball may escape. This has the effect of immediately lowering the tension, and relieving the pain, and the respite thus gained is often of considerable duration. When the cornea is seriousljf implicated, and blood-vessels are seen