317 SPRUE advanced. Normand, in 1876, found in the stools of French soldiers who had returned from Cochin-China to Toulon, suffering with chronic diarrhoea, two nematodes to which he ascribed the disease. Bavay named the larger of these worms the Anguillula infestinalis, and the smaller the Anguillula stercoralis. Leuckart subsequently showed, however, that the former of these, the A. intestinalis, was the parent, and that the A. stercoralis was the embryo of the same species. Leuckart renamed the parasites the Rhahdomenas trongyloides. That this para- site, however, has anything to do with the causation of sprue is more than doubtful, for sprue occurs without the parasites being present, and the geographical distribution of the parasite is much wider than that of sprue. Begg, from the fact that santonin in his hands gave good results in the treatment of sprue, believes that an intestinal worm, probably the round- worm (Ascaris lumhricoides), is the cause of the disease. The writer is of opinion that food in some form is to blame, especially in persons whose digestive functions are impaired by pro- longed climatic influences. Of these foods the crude and acrid vegetable oils used especially by Chinese and Malay cooks are the most likely to cause gastro-intestinal catarrh. In India ghee, or some one of the many adulterations of or substitutes for ghee, may serve as a cause. As sprue does not occur amongst recent arrivals in the tropics, but usually after ten or fifteen years' residence, the writer's opinion is that the prolonged irritation of the alimentary canal by the use of such oils is a possible cause of the ailment. The oils used by these native cooks are the oil of the rape plant, which, however, is freqviently adulterated with hemp oil, rosin oils, or even mineral oils. The Chinese use also the oil from the ground (pea) nut, from the tea-oil- plant, a species of camellia, and even vegetable tallow derived from the Stillingia sebifera, as a substitute for animal fat. A bacterial origin of the disease has been many times believed to have been found. Thin found a rod-shaped bacterium in the faeces of sprue cases and in cultivation experiments; a similar bacterium is described by Wethered. The writer believed he had in 1893 isolated a bacterium, but abandoned the conclusion on further investigation. Europeans are more liable to sprue than are natives. Of 203 cases collated by Van der Burg in Java and Sumatra, 171 were Europeans and but 32 natives. Long residence in a warm climate favours the development of sprue. It is seldom that Euro- peans until after a residence of ten years in a hot country contract the disease. Sprue may, however, defer its appearance until after a tropical environment has been changed for a temperate. Women are more often attacked than men. Middle-aged persons are more liable than the young or the old to acquire the disease, but no age is exempt. Chronic ailments, more especially those of an intestinal origin, predispose to sprue, so also does a lowered vitality from almost any cause. As usual in a disease arising from a scientifically undetermined cause, there are many theories as to origin in addition to the above, such as bad food, chronic dysentery, frequent confinements, miscarriages, and other feminine ailments, chills, curry, cold drinks, the exhibition of mercurials, more especially calomel, and the abuse of alcohol. In regard to alcohol opinions are divided, but it would appear that the disease occurs amongst total abstainers as well as heavy and moderate drinkers, but in what proportion is unknown. Clinical Features.—Sprue commences so insidiously, and its early stages run their course with so few distinctive featiires, that it is im- possible to date exactly the period of invasion. Premonitory signs and symptoms of sprue consist of attacks of sore tongue and tender gums, with the formation of follicular ulcers on the several parts of the oral cavity. The attacks last about three weeks, increasing during the first week, reaching a climax of mouth tenderness, with aphthse, during the second, with gradual subsidence during the third week. During the attack the patient is easily fatigued, becomes irritable and dyspeptic, and may or may not have an attack of diarrhoea. Recurrences of sore mouth may be frequent, as many as five or six in the year; they may con- tinue for several years, only to disappear when the patient takes up residence in a temperate climate, or they may end in sprue. It is usually stated that the patient suffers from gastro-intestinal catarrh before the mouth tenderness. This may be the case, and probably is the fact, but the former is less troublesome, and attended by less discomfort than is a sore mouth, so that the soreness is remembered, whereas an evanescent dyspepsia or intestinal flux is neglected and forgotten. In the writer's opinion irregular and recurrent mouth tender- ness unattended by intestinal flux precedes the establishment of the actual disease. As sprue gains a hold on the patient the symptoms complained of are diarrhoea, tenderness of the tongue and mouth, and dyspepsia. Diarrhoea may commence quite insidiously, a slight looseness of the motions by its persistence attracting the patient's attention. On the other hand, the diarrhoea may be acute at the onset, and after a week or two develop into an established intestinal flux of a less severe character. The most frequent form, however, is that in which the patient is called out of bed in the early morning by a desire to go to stool. Before breakfast a second stool may be passed, and soon after the meal a third. Up to about