SKIN—PARASITES 200 occurring in Nicaragua. It is said to be con- tagious and identical with carate (Jackson). Animal Ringworms.—It can merely be said here that various ringworm fungi have been found in dogs, horses, cattle, cats, and birds. Pigmentary Affections of the Skin Introduction ...... 200 The Nature of Pigments . . ■ 200 Correlations of Epithelial Pigmenta- tion . . . ■ . . . . 201 Classification of Pigmentary Anom- alies ....... 201 Pigmentary Anomalies of the Hair . 203 Treatment 203 Spurious Pigmentation op the Skin . 204 The great variety of tints displayed by the cutaneous surface of the body can be arranged in three classes. In fair complexioned persons the pigmentation of the blood may be said to control the complexion, and every pigmentary change in the red corpuscles adds some colour effect to the skin. In persons of swarthy com- plexion, and still more so in the coloured races of mankind, the innate pigment of the skin masks the colour of the blood. In other cases the skin is pigmented by foreign pigment de- posited in the horny layer of the epidermis. These three kinds of pigmentation may be named respectively the hsemic, the parenchy- matous, and the spurious. Of these the par- enchymatous alone constitutes the true physio- logical pigmentation of the skin. The cutaneous tissue elements which convey colour effects to the eye are keratin, lipro- chromes, and melanin. Keratin in itself is colourless or slightly yellowish; but in ich- thyosis it acquires a blackish colour which is highly characteristic of the disease. The lipro- chromes are the pigments associated with the cutaneous fat. Very little is known as to their nature. In the disease known as seborrhoea nigricans the pigment may be black; more rarely it is yellow or blue (S. flavescens, S. cserulea). Melanin is an amorphous granular pigment varying in tint from golden brown to black. Owing to its extreme insolubility, no exact chemical analysis of it has been obtained. It probably consists of more than 50 per cent of carbon, with an uncertain quantity of hydrogen, oxygen, and sulphur loosely combined. It is free from iron—a fact which serves to dis- tinguish it from haemoglobin. Melanin may therefore be regarded as a carbon pigment. In moderate pigmentation the basal, or germinal layer of the epidermis alone is coloured, the superficial epithelium and the underlying cutis being colourless. In deep pigmentation the whole of the epidermis is coloured, while some pigment granules may be seen in the superficial lymphatics of the cutis, in the connective tissue corpuscles, and even, as in some cases of Addi- son's disease, in the lymphatic glands. Two views are maintained as to the mode of origin of the pigment. Ehrmann, from his in- vestigations of amphibians and reptiles, concludes that the epithelial colouring matter is elaborated in special connective tissue corpuscles (chromato- blasts or melanoblasts), from material derived from the red blood corpuscles, and he believes that it is conveyed by direct protoplasmic cur- rents flowing through the branches of the melano- blasts into the interior of the basal epithelial cells. Ehrmann's observation of branched pig- ment cells in the cutis of fishes, amphibians, and other animals, has been confirmed by List. Riehl has observed branched pigment cells in the human hair. In the scalp of a human embryo (five months) Meyerson found the basal epithelial cells in the region of developing hairs devoid of pigment, but other pigmented cells, some of them branched, were observed lying in the epithelium. The same observer has seen branched pigment cells in the hair-bulbs of adults. While it must be admitted that Ehr- mann's view rests on the broad physiological analogies which render this mode of origin at least possible, there are many facts relating to the pigmentation of the human skin which cannot be explained on this assumption. Jarish long maintained that the origin of melanin is located in the epithelium, and cited the facts that in the embryo of the frog the formation of pigment takes place before the development of red blood corpuscles, and that the papillae of coloured hair are usually free from pigment themselves. The researches of Prof. Delepine entirely confirm Jarish's view. According to this authority, melanin is a secretory product of the young epithelial cells, and when formed in excessive quantities passes partly into the lymph spaces of the cutis and partly into the superficial epithelial cells. In cases of obstruc- tion of the lymphatics of the skin " the melanin may accumulate in the lymphatic spaces exist- ing between the point of obstruction and the epidermis." Delepine cites cases of marked pig- mentation in which blocking of the lymphatics occurs, such as leprous tubercles with obstruc- tion of lymphatics by bacilli, tuberculosis of the skin, syphilitic gummata, margin of ulcers, irritation of epidermis, cicatricial contraction of corium, the nipple constricted at its base by cicatricial contraction due to irritation of the galactophorous ducts, leading to accumulation of pigment in the core of the papillae. In all these cases the pigment was chemically tested and found to be of the nature of melanin. These and many other facts which cannot be here cited render it highly probable that melanin is a pigment precipitated from the protoplasm of the epithelial cells. According to Delepine, the pigment is the final term of a metabolic process in which at least one ante-