STAMMERING 326 which the affection may lead in after life; and (2) those who do not fail to recognise the desir- ability of treatment, yet are unwilling to have their child removed from school in order that the treatment may be effectually carried out. In the case of a boy at a public school, there can be no doubt that it is much better and really a saving of time to have the boy kept from school for a term, or for such longer period as may suffice to get rid of the stammering and establish a habit of correct speech. Stammerers as a rule, if the habit has per- sisted for any length of time, are deficient in initiation and in tenacity of purpose, and they may be roughly divided into two classes, viz. : those who are anxious to be cured, and those who are totally indifferent. With the latter class, of course, nothing can be done. But many boys who have not got to an age to be able to appreciate the importance of being cured, and are unwilling to submit to treatment if carried on during their holidays, are yet willing enough learners if they be kept from school and treated during term time. This difficulty, which the writer has experienced several times, does not occur with girls, perhaps because they have not got such a keen sense of justice in regard to the proper employment of their holiday time. In the case of a very young child a successful cure may often be obtained by gently but firmly insisting on the repetition of the letter or letters over which the child has stumbled, until they can be pronounced quite smoothly. This can easily be carried out hj the mother or gover- ness. In treating a person old enough to reason for himself it is difficult to lay down any general rules, as each case must be dealt with individually, and much depends on the aptitude of the pupil and on the ability of the teacher. The teacher must, however, first succeed in gaining the complete confidence of the patient, without which it is useless to attempt the cure. For this reason, therefore, it often happens that one teacher may succeed where another has failed, even though both are teaching on the same lines. The fundamental fact which the stammerer must grasp before any progress can be made, is that his voice sound must be made as far as possible a continuous one. The method of treatment which will now be shortly explained is based on that fact. It has proved successful in numerous cases, but at the same time, for the reasons above stated, the writer does not set it forth as a universal panacea. It has been stated by several writers on the subject that most cases of stammering are due to a faulty method of respiration. Unfortun- ately this is seldom the case. If it were, the remedy would be so simple that no case would remain uncured. The fallacy of such a state- ment is also shown by making the stammerer sing or intone, when, although the method of respiration is the same during singing as it was during speaking, the stammer disappears, since during singing the demand for vowel sound in contradistinction to consonantal sound is para- mount. In the few cases in which the breathing alone is at fault, the patient tries to speak without sufficient air in the chest to set the vocal cords into vibration, or to keep them vibrating for more than a few seconds. This may be due to the fact either that he has not taken in enough air, or that he does not know how to control its exit, so that on the formation of the first vowel it escapes with a rush. The attempt is then made to speak while the chest is empty, and as no voice is forthcoming, the energy is then misdirected from the laryngeal into the oral mechanism, and stammering ensues. The cure of such a case can usually be effected by teaching the stammerer how to breathe and how to con- trol the exit of the breath. But though in a few cases the respiration is primarily at fault, nevertheless it will be found that few stammerers know how to breathe properly or how to control the exit of the breath. It will be observed, on testing with a spirometer, that their breathing capacity is small, and further that they cannot hold their breath for more than a few seconds. When the breathing capacity is small the chest is usually small also. It is a very widespread but mis- taken idea that a large chest measurement means a correspondingly large breath capacity, but nothing could be further from the truth. Most gymnasts have a large chest measurement, but this is often chiefly due to development of muscles outside the chest, while the bony frame- work itself may be small and comparatively useless as a breathing machine. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the stammerer should increase his breathing capacity, not merely to supply the motive power which throws the vocal cords into vibration, but also to enable the chest to act as a resonating cavity, and so lessen the strain put upon the throat during voice production. Exercises, such as running, skipping, and hopping, which make use of the lower limbs, tend to increase the internal ca- pacity of the chest more than ordinary gym- nastics or wearisome exercises with dumb-bells, ;j because in the former the ribs are free to move, whilst in the latter they are fixed so as to afford a point of resistance for the muscles which move the upper limbs. Physiologists have usually divided breathing ', into two types: "ordinary," and "extraordinary" 'I or forced. For the purposes of proper voice production, however, the breathing should be more than the "ordinary," which suffices to supply the need for oxygen when the body is quiet, and less than " extraordinary " or forced.