SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 95 specific treatment generally shows marked effect in those cases which are due to syphilis. In cases in which the vas is enlarged, examinations should always be made as to the existence of stricture ; but there are certain rare cases in which the vas and the epididymis are enlarged, and without any evidence of urethral disease. The vas behind the testis may become greatly thickened and convoluted without any tendency to abscess or any formation of gumma, and may so remain for months or even years together. In a general way it is not in the least difficult to diagnose between syphilitic and malignant disease of the testes. In the latter the growth is rapid and steadily progressive, its rate of progress, indeed, always increasing with its size. There is almost always in some parts of it pseudo- fluctuation, and it is more or less nodulated. To the above symptoms we may add that the scrotum becomes adherent, and shows a dusky tint with enlargement of superficial veins ; and, lastly, that the cord itself is often thickened. In all these features malignant tumours of the testis differ from what we find to be the usual condition of syphilitic disease. It is far more common to find both testes complicated at once in syphilis than in cancer, whilst the cord almost invariably remains free. Treatment of Syphilitic Testis.—This should be both local and constitutional. The local consists of removing any hydrocele fluid by tapping, and then strapping the testicle with mercurial plaster. In the interstitial form mercury should always be carefully and per- severingly given, but where a gummatous affec- tion is present, iodides of potassium, sodium, or ammonium are indicated. These are best given with spiritus ammon. aromat. and liquid extract of sarsaparilla, freely diluted with water, and taken by preference half an hour before food. The doses of iodides must be increased weekly until the swelling shows signs of lessen- ing ; should the drug disagree with an empty stomach it may sometimes be given immediately after food without inducing discomfort. Obstin- ate cases in elderly men, particularly if fxmgat- ing, are often best dealt with by castration. Tuberculosis of the Testis and Epididymis. —Primary or hgematogenic tuberculosis is very rare in the testis, the disease almost always commencing in the epididymis, and spreading to the body of the testicle as a secondary pro- cess. This greater liability of the epididymis to tuberculous infection may be due to the fact, that in descending tuberculosis from the urinary tract the epididymis is first exposed to infection, but clinical experience points to the epididymis as the seat of primary trouble in about 50 per cent of urogenital tuberculosis. It is most common between 20 and 30 years of age, but may occur at any period between early infancy and advanced old age. The disease usually commences on one side, but the other is liable to become affected. Whether a previous gonor- rhoeal epididymitis is apredisponant is uncertain, but many cases occur without a past venereal history. The disorder usually commences as a small nodule in the globus major, followed at times by similar nodules in other parts of the epididymis. By degrees these nodules may coalesce until the whole epididymis is converted into an irregular, hard, boat-shaped swelling. At a later stage the tuberculous mass softens and breaks down in one or more places, and, after ulcerating through the tissues of the scrotum, it may heal and break down again, or a fistulous opening or a hernia testis may result. At the periphery of these young nodules younger grey miliary tubercles de- velop, and when the testis itself becomes involved its substance may be thickly studded throughout with them. Tubercular disease extends from the epididy- mis along, thickening the cord, to the prostate, seminal vesicles, and bladder. It is important always to bear in mind that tuberculous dis- ease often begins in the prostate or seminal vesicles, and in every case of testicular tubercle, therefore, these structures should be carefully examined. The progi-ess of the affection may be rapid or slow, just as we see in tuberculous joint diseases, and may terminate at any stage by complete resolution or complete destruction. It has been much disputed whether the exact starting-point of tuberculous disease of the testis is in the tubes or in the connective tissue of the organ, but it is probable that the process starts in the walls themselves of the seminal tubes—usually in those of the epididymis first. At certain circumscribed spots the connective tissue of the tubes proliferates, and thus becomes infiltrated with masses of round cells, which tend to break down and become caseous. Nearer the interior of the tube the epithelial cells become swollen and fused together into irregular foci, which become detached into the lumen of the tubes, and fusing with the caseous products which are produced by the cell pro- liferation of the masses in the walls of the tubes, the characteristic white nodules are produced. The vitality of the immediately surrounding tissues being much impaired, inflammation is set up around these masses, and thus the neighbouring intertubular tissue, which is also infiltrated in the round cells, becomes invaded, and takes a share in the formation of caseous nodules. Usually the nodules increase in size, and then fuse to form larger masses, which break down into cavities containing pus and form fistulous openings. More rarely the process is arrested, the masses becoming encap- sulated as in the lung by an interstitial inflam- mation. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—Tuberculosis of the testis and epididymis is often a very