TEETH 539 that the opposing teeth may keep up pressure on the cork, or a piece of softened guttapercha may be moulded and applied in like manner. The capillary ooze from the gum is sometimes more troublesome to control than the alveolar. Local antesthetics used in tooth extraction are— Chloride of ethyl, which is sprayed on the gum from a tube, and is sometimes of use, especially for the removal of loose teeth. Eucaine.—-k. solution in water is greatly used, hypodermically applied ; it has little or no toxic effect, and is preferable to cocaine. If several teeth have to be extracted, three or four dif- ferent injections at various points over the roots of the teeth should be given, and in five or seven minutes the teeth can be removed. Nitrous oxide gas as a general anaesthetic is very extensively used by dental practitioners, but the author prefers a mixture of NjO, 1 part, to 1 part of 0. The anaesthesia is more pro- longed than with NjO alone; there is no stertor nor cyanosis, and no spasms of the muscles. NgO anaesthesia may also be kept up by the application, after removal of the face-piece, of a nose-piece through which the gas is ad- ministered, and it can thus be prolonged so that nearly the whole of the teeth in the jaws can be extracted at one sitting. It is of no use, however, in cases where there is nasal obstruc- tion. NgO and ether for prolonging anaesthesia is greatly used and gives very good results; along with ether it forms the principal anaes- thetic agent now employed at the Edinburgh Dental Hospital for dental operations. Kelene, a form of pure ethyl chloride, inhaled through a special face-piece, is sometimes employed, and is both very simple and efficient, and is useful to employ for outside cases where the taking about the gas apparatus is troublesome. No disagreeable effects seem to be caused by its use, and from two to eleven teeth can be ex- tracted under the anaesthetic. Mechanical Dentistry Dentistry is a very old profession, and was practised by the Romans at a very early period, as we learn from the Twelve Tablets promul- gated about 450 B.C. In it mention is made of the fixation of loose teeth by means of gold wires, a common proceeding in those days. In the Museum of Corneto, Italy, there are two plates with artificial teeth attached, which were got from an Etruscan and Roman tomb respec- tively, dating back to the fourth or fifth century B.C. The teeth, which are carved out of ivory, are fixed upon a thin flexible ribbon of gold. Owing to the great destruction of teeth from caries in the present day, immense quantities of porcelain teeth are required yearly to meet the demand. Artificial teeth in the present day are all made of porcelain. Fifty or sixty years ago natural teeth, or teeth carved out of walrus or other tusks, were largely used, but had the fault of becoming carious, and so did not last any time. Porcelain teeth are mainly made up of a mixture of kaolin, silica, feldspar, and oxide of titanium, the glazed enamel surface being made with feldspar and various colouring matters to produce the shades. The teeth are made in moulds and then fired ; each tooth has two platinum pins baked into it for fixing them to the various base plates they may be put on. The mouth should be prepared for the inser- tion of artificial teeth by the removal of all useless or diseased roots, and the treatment and filling of all savable teeth, to prevent caries and abscess ; the six front maxillary roots should be treated and filled if possible, as their retention does not alter the mouth so much, and does not necessitate an artificial gum. After preparation of the mouth the model is taken. The best material for this purpose, especially in edentu- lous patients, is plaster of Paris ; but modelling composition made up of gum-kowrie, stearin, chalk, and colouring is also extensively em- ployed. Everything depends on the model being accurate, otherwise the plate will not fit. After the model is cast it is dried and boiled in liquid bees'-wax or stearin to harden the surface, and if a metal plate has to be made casts of the model in zinc are taken in sand, and a counter of lead made to fit it, between which the metal plate is swaged and struck up till it fits the model perfectly; it is then filed up to shape, and the teeth, backed with platinum or gold, are fitted to the gum, waxed into position on the plate, and articulated; then the plate and teeth are embedded in a mixture of plaster and diatomite, leaving the backs of teeth and palate of plate exposed. When hard the wax is re- moved, and the whole gradually heated up till red-hot on a fire or gas-burner, and each tooth soldered to the plate with gold solder by means of a blowpipe ; after which the plate is finished and polished. For the retention of partial dentures the teeth are fitted with clasps of springy gold, but as these sometimes act in- juriously on the teeth it is better, if possible, to retain the plate with flexible gold wings, carefully adapted, high up on the external alveolar border, and running from behind forwards. When a vulcanite denture is made a wax plate is prepared to fit the model, then the teeth are ground and fitted to the gum, waxed to plate, and articulated to the bite; after smoothing and finishing, it, along with the model, is embedded in plaster in the lower half of a flask, all the teeth being covered with plaster up to their inner surfaces, but leaving the palatine surface of wax-plate exposed. When the plaster has set it is smoothed and greased, and the other half of flask put on and filled up with plaster; when hard the two halves are separated, the wax-plate all removed