TENDON-JERKS 551 sudden plantar movement of the foot follows the stroke on the tendon. If the patient is confined to bed, ask him to turn on the side to be examined and to flex the knee, allowing the limb to rest on its outer side on the bed. Take hold of the toes in the fingers of one hand and with the hammer tap the side of the tendon. Ankle clonus (L. 5-S. 1) is best obtained by flexing the limb at the knee, and suddenly dorsiflexing the foot; when the pressure against the sole is maintained a clonus is set up in the calf-muscles. Where the clonus is well marked it continues so long as the pressure is maintained (persistent clonus); it may cease, however, after a few movements (imperfect ankle clonus). The Achillis-jerk is constantly present in health in children, and adults up to fifty years of age. Its absence affords definite evidence of organic disease, for it is never lost as a result of hysteria or functional conditions. Absence of the Achillis-jerk is of especial im- portance for diagnosis in cases where the knee- jerk is unaltered. Thus in some cases of tabes, and occasionally in peripheral neuritis, it may be lost while the knee-jerks are still present. After syphilis it is sometimes absent, the knee- jerk being normal, and it is usually absent on the affected side in a case of sciatic neuritis. True ankle clonus is never present in health. It has been stated by some authorities that it never occurs in hysteria. Although it is true that the pseudo-clonus of hysteria can often be distinguished from that of organic disease, the fact remains that in some cases in which every- thing points to functional disease alone an ankle clonus occurs which it is impossible to differen- tiate from that of organic disease. The pseudo- clonus of hysteria is commonly more irregular and often faster than that of true clonus. Dr. Charles Beevor points out that in cases of false clonus, if the foot is very slowly dorsiflexed, before it reaches the point of maximmn dorsi- flexion, a plantar movement of the foot on the part of the patient usually starts a clonus, whereas in true clonus a sudden movement of dorsiflexion on the part of the observer is neces- sary to produce it. Teneriffe. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Islands of South Atlantic). Tenesmus.—Painful straining at stool, with the passage of small motions. See Dysen- tery {Sym/ptoms). Tennis Arm or Elbow.—Pain in the elbow-joint due to rupture of muscular fibres occurring during the playing of lawn-tennis. TenO-. — In compound words teno- (Gr. TfvcDv, a sinew) means relating to a tendon; e.g. tenodynia (pain in a tendon), tenontitis or ten- ositis (inflammation of a tendon), tenorrhaphy or teno-suture (stitching together the divided ends of a tendon), and tenophyte (a bony or cartilag- inous growth on a tendon). Tenonitis Anterior.—Inflammation of Tenon's capsule of the eye. See Sclerotic, Diseases of {Episcleritis). Tenon's Capsule. — A fibro-elastic membrane covering the eyeball, and separated by a lymph space {Tenon's space) from the underlying sclerotic coat. Tenosynovitis. — Inflammation of a tendon and its sheath. See Hand {tenosyn- ovitis) ; Malingering {Tenosynovitis); Urethra, Diseases of (Gonorrhoea, Complications); Wrist Joint, Diseases of {Tenosynovitis, Pyogenic, Acute, and Serous). Tenotomy.—The cutting of tendons, e.g. in operations on deformities such as clubfoot. See Deformities {Clubfoot, Treatment); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Paralysis, Treatment); Strabismus {Operative Treatment). Tension. See Physiology, Respiration {Pressure of Gases in the Blood); Physiology, Circulation {Blood Pressure); Pulse {Blood Pressure); Children, Clinical Examination of {Head, Fontanelles, Tension of). Tensor.—The name given to such muscles as by their contraction tighten a part or put it on the stretch ; e.g. the tensor palati, the tensor tarsi, and the tensor tympani. See Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-Suppurative Disease {Treatment to Relieve Tension, Section of Tensor Tympani); Palate {Anatomy, Muscles); Tinnitus Aurium (Varieties). Tenth Nerve. See Vagus Nerve. TentigO Venerea. — Nymphomania. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Insane Defects of Inhibition). Tentorium.—The membranous partition between the cerebrum and the cerebellum (Lat. tendere, to stretch). Tents.—Conical bodies made of sponge, sea-tangle, or tupelo, which expand in the presence of moisture and are used to dilate the cervical canal of the uterus, the opening of a fistula, and other narrow passages. See Gx'SA> cology. Diagnosis in {Cervical Dilators, Tents). Tepidarium. See Balneology {His- torical). Teplitz. See Balneology {Austria); Mineral Waters {Thermal). TeraS.—A monstrosity (pi. terata). See Teratology.