476 SYPHILIS Syphilitic inflammation of the middle and internal ear runs a chronic course, and the prognosis is not very good. Mercury combined with the iodides, as well as the ordinary local treatment, may help the patient. The Nose.—The tertiary lesions of the nose are very offensive and disfigui'ing. The septum nasi becomes ulcerated, and may eventually be perforated ; the cartilages are especially liable to share in the inflammatory process; but in many cases the bones are widely involved, and if the vomer be deeply implicated the bridge of the nose may fall in, causing a characteristic flattening, whilst if the cartilaginous portion is involved the tip sinks and becomes flattened. Occasionally the whole substance of the nose is disintegrated, so that the nostrils are only re- presented by cicatricial openings. The destruc- tion is usually a carious change ; but the bone may undergo necrosis, and may be exfoliated in large pieces. The syphilitic inflammation some- times extends to the superior maxilla, the ethmoid, sphenoid, the lachrymal bones, and even to the basi-occipital. The carious process is associated with a most stinking and abundant discharge, and with the formation of dark- coloured crusts, whilst the absorption of the poisonous products in the more severe cases leads to much cachexia. The prognosis is fairly good in the slighter cases of syphilitic rhinitis, as the symptoms are often relieved by constitutional remedies; but it is more serious when there is evidence of caries. Treatment.—A spray consisting of sod. bicarb, grs. XV., acid, borici grs. xv., acid, carbol. grs. iv., glycerini Tn.45, et aquam ad will often be found useful in the slighter cases of ulceration ; but for deep and spreading ulcers the applica- tion of solid nitrate of silver is necessary, whilst an insufflation of iodoform powder will often assist in the healing process. Any dead bone which is loose should of course be removed, and in the worst cases careful scraping with a sharp spoon is advantageous. Mouth and Throat.—The mouth and throat are both subject to various manifestations of late syphilis. The tongue in particular is affected more in men than in women, and more in smokers than in those who do not smoke. The surface of the tongue presents numerous patches of altered epithelium which are at first separate, but which in time fuse together. The altei-ed epi- thelium may either be thrown off, leaving the papillae bare and raw, or it may increase in thickness, and form dry patches which become fissured. A similar condition of leukoplakia is found on the buccal mucous membrane. The treatment consists in the administration of potassium iodide, the absolute prohibition of smoking, and a careful attention to any irregu- larities in the teeth which may cause irritation. The local application of chromic acid grs. x. ad 3j., or of hyd. bicyan. grs. xv. ad 5j. is service- able. There is some reason to believe that the epithelial changes may progress or may be con- verted into epithelioma of the tongue in persons who are otherwise predisposed to cancer, and it is wise therefore to arrest the irritative process as soon as possible. Gummata occur on the tongue and palate in a considerable number of cases, and may lead to extensive destruction by the degenerative changes which they undergo. Gummata on the tongue may be small, numerous, and super- ficial. They break down readily, causing small ulcers which show a serpiginous tendency. More usually the gumma is single, and lies in the connective tissue between the mviscular fibres. It is usually situated far back on the dorsum of the tongue ; it is painless at first, but it soon breaks down to form a small ulcer with well-defined edges. The gummatous ulcer must be distinguished from an epitheliomatous ulcer, which is fre- quently grafted upon it, and from tuberculous ulceration of the tongue. The epitheliomatous ulcer is usually situated at the edge of the tongue, and the ulcer is not excavated whilst the neighbouring lymphatic glands are affected. A simple gumma heals when iodides are ad- ministered, whilst an epithelioma only improves for a few days under this method of treatment. Tubercle affects either tlie base or the tip of the tongue, and the ulceration is much more ex- tensive than either the syphilitic or cancerous form. Gummata of the palate ulcerate with extreme rapidity, and a perforation is soon formed. When the hard palate is attacked, the anterior portion is generally affected ; in the soft palate the pillars of the fauces often bear the brunt of the ulceration. The treatment consists in the administration of iodides, with the addition of mercury if the patient has not already had a course. Larynx.—The later manifestations of syphilis in connection with the larynx are ulceration, gummata, and subsequent cicatrisation with its attendant evils. The epiglottis suffers most, and the upper surface is more often attacked than the under aspect. The ulceration may occur on any part of the laryngeal mucous membrane, however, for the aryteno-epiglot- tidean folds, the arytenoid cartilages, and the vocal cords, true and false, are affected. The ulceration is usually deep and destructive, in- volving the muscles, the perichondrium, and the cartilage ; but it sometimes remains superficial, with a remarkable tendency to relapse. Symptoms.—The patient complains of hoarse- ness, dyspnaa, and perhaps pain shooting up to the ears. There may be great dysphagia with symptoms of oedema of the glottis, which may be so urgent as to require immediate trache- otomy or laryngotomy.