333 STATUS LYMPHATICUS tissues—nervous, muscular, etc. Such secretions have been supposed to act by producing intra- vascular clotting (Spencer) or by action upon the vagi. Intravascular clotting has not been found by other observers. Blumer strongly sup- ports the toxsemic theory, and regards lympha- tism as the result of lymphotoxins. Flexner's work on lymphotoxins has shown that lesions somewhat resembling those of lymphatism can be produced experimentally in animals, but the organs in lymphatism do not show the necrotic and degenerative areas present in the experi- mental lesions. A complete theory of lymphatism must ac- count for the abnormal growth of lymphoid tissue, the changes in the bone marrow, the degeneration of the viscera, the constitutional disturbances, as well as for the sudden death. One of the most striking and constant changes in my series of cases was connected with the thyroid. It has long been known that lympha- tism is often, if not invariably, associated with exophthalmic goitre, and indeed it has been sug- gested that lymphatism is a larval form of that disease. These changes have been described above ; either they must be regarded as primary and the changes in the lymphoid tissue as secondary, or both are common results of some unknown toxin. In exophthalmic goitre, as Kocher has pointed out, there is constant swell- ing of the lymph glands in the neighbourhood of the thyroid, and an increase of lymphocytes in the blood even up to 60 per cent; and Nageli has shown that there are alterations in the bone marrow. We know that the abnormalities of thyroid secretion in exophthalmic goitre are attended by a risk of sudden death under certain conditions, such as ansesthesia; and it is plausible to think, in view of the constant changes in the thyroid, that sudden death in lymphatism has a similar origin. At any rate, in future in- vestigations on lymphatism attention should be paid to the thyroid gland. Treatment.—When these cases are diagnosed the children should be placed in proper hygienic surroundings and errors in diet corrected. Anae- mia should be treated with iron, and gastro- intestinal troubles need attention. Procedures such as general ansesthesia, cold packs, cold bath- ing, likely to produce syncope must be avoided. In some cases the enlarged tonsils and adenoids have been removed without ansesthetics and improvement has followed, but such operation is not free from risk. When urgent dyspnoea is present tracheotomy should be performed, and a long cannula extend- ing nearly to the bifurcation of the trachea inserted. No patient should die of asphyxia from this cause if a surgeon is at hand with a long tracheal cannula. This can only be a temporary measure, and later the gland must be exposed and either drawn up and sutured to the sternum or completely extirpated. Seven cases of the latter operation have been reported with complete relief to the dyspnoea and no ill effects upon the nutrition or the blood. Friedlander has recently treated one case with the X-rays (five minutes every two or three days for ten applications). This produced a diminu- tion in the size of the thymus and bronchial glands, relief of the dyspnoea, and considerable general improvement. Status ThymiCUS. See Status Lym- PHATICUS. Statutory Nuisance.—A statutory is distinguished from a common nuisance as " something which either actually injures, or is likely to injure health, and admits of a remedy, either by the individual whose act or omission causes the nuisance, or by the local authority " (Wynter-Blyth); a commoii nuisance is " any- thing which worketh hurt, inconvenience, or damage to any one" (Blackstone). Stavesacre. See Staphisagri^ Semina. St. Catharine's Well. See Balne- ology (A^nerica and Canada). Steam. See Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations {Treatment) ; Balneology (Va- pour Baths). Steaming. See Invalid Feeding {Pre- paration of Food, Stea?nin(/). Steapsin.—A ferment existing in the pancreatic secretion, and aiding in the saponi- fication of fats. See Pancreas, Physiology of {Chemistry); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Intestinal, Pancreatic Secretio7i, Lipase). Stearic Acid.—A fatty acid (C^gllggOg) from which the fat stearin (CjjHjjQOg) is pro- duced. See Physiology, Tissues {Fat Cells). Stearrhoea or Seborrhoea. See Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Seborrhoea.) Steatopyg^ia or Steatopygra.— An extraordinary degree of adiposity of the buttocks, seen especially in certain races, e.g. in the women of the Hottentots or Bushmen ; spondylolysis (separation of the last lumbar vertebral body from the sacrum) may be associ- ated with steatopyga. Steatorrhoea.—An excessive amount of fat in the faeces {see Jaundice, Obstructive, Symptoms) ; also seborrhoea {see STEARRHOiA). Steel Wine.—VinumFerri. *See Ferrum {Metallic Iron). Steg:omyia Fasciata.—The mos- quito which is believed to carry the poison of yellow fever. See Yellow Fever {Pole of the