418 SUBSTITUTION replacement of one drug or form of drug by another in the preparing of a medicine. SubSUltuS.—A jerky movement, e.g. of muscles and tendons {subsultus tendiniim), such as occurs in the late stage of the grave form of typhoid fever. Subtota,!.—Incomplete ; especially used in relation to incomplete or partial abdominal hysterectomy as opposed to complete hysterec- tomy or panhysterectomy. See Uterus, Non- malignant Tumours of (Fibroids, Treatment, Hysterectomy). SuCCedaneum.—-Supplying the place of another, a substitute (Lat. succedaneus, that which follows after); e.g. the caput succedaneum or cedematous swelling on the head of the foetus which forms during labour as a result of the pressure to which the head is subjected, and which gives the sensation to the examining finger of another head. Succenturiate.—Accessory (Lat. suc- centurio, I receive as a recruit, as a substitute), e.g. a succenturiate lobe of the placenta. SuCCi.—The expressed juices of plants, with alcohol added for preserving purposes; there are six officinal succi, viz. the Succus Bel- ladonnse, S. Hyoscyami, S. Conii, S. Scoparii, S. Taraxaci, and S. Limonis ; the dose of the Succus Belladonnse is small (5 to 15 m.), that of Succus Hyoscyami is 30 to 60 m., while that of the others is 1 to 2 dr. and that of Succus Limonis is ^ to 4 fl. oz. In the singular, succus is also used to designate some of the secretions of the body; e.g. the succus entericus, succus pancreaticus. SuCCi'S Fast. See Physiology, General Metabolism {During Fasting). Succursal Asylum. —A provincial asylum " appropriated to one particular class of lunatics, namely the insane poor who are in- curable and tranquil" (Hack Tuke) ; it is de- rived from Lat. succitrsalis, subsidiary. Succus. See Succi. SuCCUSSion. — A method of physical diagnosis of very ancient origin, consisting in tlie shaking of the thorax to produce splashing sounds due to the presence of free fluid in the thorax {e.g. in hydropneumothorax) or in the stomach (dilatation of the stomach); clapotage (Fr.). See Pleura, Diseases of {Pneumothorax, Clinical History). Sucking^ Pads.—Localised collections of fat in the cheeks of the infant which prevent the drawing in of the tissues of the cheeks into the mouth in sucking. Suckling'. See Infant Feeding {Nurs- ing) ; Puerperium, Physiology {Lactation). Sudamlna.—A vesicular eruption due to disturbance of function of the sweat glands (Lat. sudor, sweat). See Miliaria {Miliaria Crystallina); Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Sweat Glands, Sudamina). Sudatorium. — A hot-air bath. See Balneology. Sudden Death. See Angina Pectoris {Prognosis); Heart, Myocardium and Endo- cardium (Effects of Cardiac Disease); Pleura, Diseases of (Acute Pleurisy, Prognosis); Status Lymphaticus ; Thymus Gland ; Typhoid Fever (Prognosis). SudoriflCS.—Drugs or methods of treat- ment inducing free perspiration ; diaphoretics ; e.g. pilocarpine, ipecacuanha, camphor, warmth, etc. See Pharmacology. Sudoriparous. — Sweat-producing, e.g. the sudoriparous glands of the skin. See Skin, Anatomy and Physiology. Suet. See Sevum Pr^eparatum. SufTocatio Hysterica.—The globus hystericus. See Hysteria. Suffocation. See Asphyxia ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (General Path- ology, Morbid Processes); Medicine, Forensic (Death from Asphyxia, Various). Sugar. See Beriberi (Nomenclature, Sugar - Works Sickness); Diabetes Mellitus (Sugar in Blood, Test); Diet (Food Constituents, Non-nitrogenous); Infant Feeding (Cow's Milk, Addition of Sugar); Glycosuria ; Liver, Physi- ology OF (Functions, Carbohydrates); Menin- gitis, Tuberculous (Symptoms, Sugar in Urine); Milk ; Pancreas, Physiology of (Excretion of Sugar); Pregnancy, Physiology (Changes in Urine); Saccharum Lactis ; Saccharum Puri- FICATUM. Suggestion. See Hypnotism. Suggilation or Sugilation.—A bruise or ecchymosis of a livid, black and blue colour (Lat. sugillo, I beat black and blue). Suicidal. See Suicide. See also Hypno- tism (in Insanity); Insanity, Its Nature and Symptoms (Suicidal Melancholia). Suicide. Introduction . . . . . .419 Statistics ...... 420 Sex, Age, Occupation .... 420 Season of Yeae . . . • .421 The Alleged Increase of Suicide . 421 Legal Relations . . . . .421 See also Lunacy (Increase of Insanity, Stiicides); Malingering (Suicidal Attempts) ;