491 SYRINGOMYELIA dorsal region, they are commonly referable to the upper limbs and thorax. Persistence of the centi'al glial tissue and cavity formation may be unassociated with symptoms: it is only when the glial tissue takes on active growth that they become evident. Dissociated anaesthesia, loss or diminution of the sensibility of the skin to thermal and pain- ful impressions with preservation of the tactile sense, constitutes a most characteristic symp- tom of the disease. The explanation which is advanced to account for this dissociation assumes that the fibres which carry painful and thermal impressions are more centrally situated (they probably cross in the posterior commis- sure) after entering the cord than those which conduct tactile impressions, and are therefore involved at an earlier date by a lesion which extends from the centre of the cord towards its periphery. The areas of cutaneous anaesthesia to painful and thermal impressions are not always co- extensive : the latter may be lost over a greater area and to a greater degree than the former. Similarly, the limits of anaesthesia for heat and cold do not always exactly cori'espond.^ Very often a careful examination of the skin where there is thermal and painful analgesia will demonstrate a slight degree of tactile anaesthesia. In other regions the tactile anaesthesia may be complete. The dissociated anaesthesia usually makes its appearance in the upper extremities or thorax. The head and face are not uncommonly in- volved : the lower limbs are rarely affected until the disease is far advanced. The anaes- thesia is rarely symmetrical: it is almost always more extensive on one side than the other. When the face is anaesthetic a central mask, which includes the eyes, nose, and mouth, very commonly escapes. The anaesthesia is usually sharply limited. The frequency with which dissociated anaesthesia occui-s as the first mani- festation of the disease, and its greater extent as compared with other symptoms, e.g. muscular atrophy, are accounted for by the central posi- tion occupied by the fibres which conduct painful and thermal impressions. Subjective sensations, such as pain in the back, feelings of heat and cold or of formication, etc., in the extremities, are not uncommonly complained of. Shooting pains in the arms and neck constitute a troublesome symptom in some cases. The muscular sense, sense of position, and stereognostic sense are not usually affected to any great extent. Muscular atroj^hy is one of the most im- ^ Very occasionally there is ansesthesia to cold, heat being well felt. The reverse condition is sometimes met with. A few cases have been described in which the temperature sense has been alone impaired, there being no defect in the perception of pain. portant symptoms of syringomyelia, occurring in at least 50 per cent of the cases. The wasting has a distribution very similar to pro- gressive muscular atrophy, commencing usually in the small muscles of the hand and causing flattening of the thenar and hypothenar emin- ences with sinking in of the interosseal spaces. The forearm may also be aflected, especially the muscles on its ulnar aspect. The hand may assume a claw-like appearance, the so-called main en griffe. The muscles of the shoulder and upper arm are sometimes first aflected, as in the scapulo-humeral type of progressive muscular atrophy. The wasting is usually much more advanced on one side than the other. As the disease spreads the muscles of the trunk and neck become involved, and later the lower limbs may waste. Occasionally the atrophy is first seen in the muscles of the lower limbs; it may be that these cases are more common than is generally supposed, for they certainly often escape recognition. Gradual loss of power accompanies the atrophy, and fibrillary tremors are seen in the affected muscles, while changes in their electrical excitability, such as are met with in progressive muscular atrophy, more especially a diminution in the faradic response, occur. Weakness in the legs, depending upon a certain degree of spastic paraplegia, is some- times seen early in the disease, but is more common in the later stages. Increase of the knee-jerks and an extensor response may afl'ord evidence of involvement of the pyramidal tracts long before there is any marked degree of weak- ness of the lower limbs. A variety of vasomotor and trophic changes occur in the skin and its appendages. Thus the hands are often blue and cold ; they may be swollen and cedematous. The skin in some places is thick and horny, sometimes it is thin and smooth. The nails are often cracked and fun-owed; they may be much thickened. Bullae, which vary in size, are often developed, especially on the upper extremities. They are filled with clear fluid, which may become puru- lent. Sometimes they dry up and disappear, but they may leave an ulcerated surface which heals slowly. ! Painless whitlows may develop on the fingers. ! The finger becomes swollen and cedematous, I and suppurates. The swollen tissue necroses, and the necrotic process may involve tendon, muscle, and even bone. These sores heal slowly and may leave considerable deformity. They are very apt to recur. Changes in the joints are often met with— in 20 to 25 per cent, according to Schlesinger. The trophic joint condition which is known as Charcot's disease is the same moi'bid process that is met with in tabes. It usually develops suddenly. The joint swells, and there may be considerable swelling of the limb in its neigh-