SACK'S DISEASE 22 idiocy. See Mental Deficiency {Amaurotic Variety). Sa.Cra.lg'ia..—Pain in the sacrum or small of the back, common in gynaecological complaints. See Gynecology, Diagnosis in {Symptoms). Sa,Cro-.—In compound words sacro- means relating to the sacrum; e.g. sacro-coccygeal (belonging to the sacrum and coccyx), sacro- dynia (pain in the sacral region), sacro-iliac (belonging to the sacrum and ilium), sacro-puhic (belonging to the sacrum and pubic bone or region), etc. See Hip-Joint, Diseases op (Diagnosis of Hip Disease); Pelvis, Perineum AND Pelvic Floor (Sacro-puhic Hernia). Sacro-Lumbar Angle.—The pro- montory of the sacrum; the projection formed by the first sacral and the last lumbar vertebral bodies. Sacrum. See Fractures (Pelvis); Heart, Myocardium and Ej^TiOGARmiSM{Symptomatology, Dropsy over the Sacrum) ; Rectum, Diseases of {Stricture, Symptoms). SactOSalpinx.—Distension of a Fal- lopian tube with retained secretion (serous, hsemorrhagic, or purulent) from obstruction to the lumen. See P'allopian Tubes {Salpingitis, Closure of Ostium and Results). Saffron. See Crocus ; Toxicology {Abortifacients, Saffron). Sagittal.—Shaped like an arrow ; e.g. the sagittal suture of the cranium, which, along with the anterior and posterior fontanelles, has the shape of an arrow. Sago. See Invalid Feeding {Diet during Convalescence). Sago Spleen.—The spleen affected with amyloid degeneration is so called on account of its appearance. Saint Anthony's Fire. See Ery- sipelas. Saint Gothard's Disease. Anchy- lostomiasis and resulting anaemia. See Anchy- lostomiasis ; Parasites {Strongylido}). Saint Martin's Evil.—Alcoholism (q.V.). Saint Vitus's Dance.—Chorea {q.v.). Sal.—Salt or a salt-like substance; e.g. sal volatile {see Morphinomania and Allied Drug Habits). Sal Alembroth.—A non-official pre- paration consisting of ammonio-mercuric chloride, acting as a powerful antiseptic, and used as gauze, as wool, or as a solution for the purposes of antiseptic surgery and in syphilis. Sal Ammoniac. See Ammonium and its Salts {Ammonium Chloride). Sal Volatile. See Ammonium and its Salts (Ammonii Carbonas). Salaam Convulsions. See Head- Shaking (Clinical Features). Salactol.—A preparation containing the sodium salts of salicylic and lactic acids dis- solved in a 1 per cent solution of hydrogen per- oxide ; it has been recommended, in solution, for painting the throat in diphtheria. Salicin. See also Rheumatism {Treat- ment) ; Psoriasis {Treatment).—A bitter, colour- less, crystalline glucoside obtained from willow bark. It is soluble 1 in 30 of cold water, 1 in I of boiling water. Dose—5-20 grs. It is used as a substitute for the salicylates in acute articular and muscular rheumatism, and is spoken of very highly by some authorities. It has also been employed in chronic rheumatism and in influenza. It is best administered in cachet. Salicylic Acid and Salicylates. See also Aspirin ; Drug Eruptions (Salicylic Acid); Pharmacology ; Purpura {Toxic); Rheumatism, Acute {Treatment); Tinnitus AuRiUM (Causes); Toxicology {Salicylate of Soda); Urine, Pathological Changes in (Drugs).—Acidum Salicylicum occurs as colour- less crystals or in fine white powder, odourless, and with a sweet taste. It is derived from carbolic acid, or from the natural salicylates found in plants. It is soluble 1 in 500 of water, 1 in 4 of alcohol, and 1 in 55 of chloro- form. Dose—5-20 grs. Preparation—Unguen- tum Acidi Salicylici, 2 per cent. Sodii Sali- CYLAS is derived from the acid. It is in the form of white scales or shining crystals, with a sweetish saline taste; soluble 1 in I of water, and 1 in 6 of alcohol. Dose—10-30 grs. Salicylic acid is powerfully antiseptic, and is used externally for this purpose, and also as a stimulant and mild caustic. In the treatment of wounds and in the preparation of dressings it has been discarded in favour of more suitable antiseptics. It is still employed, however, for venereal sores and small burns as an ointment or dusting powder. It is of great service in some skin diseases, such as acne, seborrhoea, and eczema. Applied locally it inhibits sweat- ing, and a powder containing salicylic acid with chalk or starch checks profuse perspiration of the feet or armpits. Corns are treated by lint soaked in a solution of the acid, or 10 per cent salicylic acid in collodion may be painted on with a brush. As an internal antiseptic, salicylic acid is of doubtful value, and is absorbed into the blood as sodium salicylate. In rheu- matic conditions the sodium salt is almost always preferred to the acid, as it is more soluble