579 THERAPEUTICS: HEALTH RESORTS many of its benefits here and fiind excellent accommodation. Ireland Ireland, whilst affording many spots much frequented by sportsmen and tourists, cannot be said to possess any well-known health resorts. It is for the most part too damp and uncertain a climate for invalids, and in all except a very few places the accommodation is limited and apt to be rather rough. Foreign and Colonial Health Resorts Space will not admit of more than a very brief notice of the main health resorts outside the British Isles, and only those will be men- tioned which are fi'equented by English visitors. In Europe the principal are—(1) the highlands of Switzerland, i.e. the Engadine, Davos Platz, Arosa, and a few in Germany and Austria; (2) the Riviera, Italian lakes, and Mediterranean resorts, such as Algiers, Tangier, Malta, and finally, Egypt, which, geographically, is better classed with Europe than with Africa, the only other health resorts of that continent being in the extreme south. Outside Europe and the Mediterranean there are not a great number of places visited by English people habitually, but there are many districts to which they frequently emigrate in the hopes of settling or finding employment in a good climate. The most important of these are South Africa, and especially the highlands of the interior of Cape Colony and the Orange River Colony; the great plateau of the North American continent, particularly Colorado, and the coastal state of California; certain districts of Australia, such as the Riverina and the Darling Downs; a good part of New Zealand (with the exception of the extreme north and south); and the islands off the north-west coast of Africa : Madeira and the Canaries. The West Indies are hardly a health resort, though a good many people now go out there in the winter partly for the sake of the voyage. Switzerland It will be best to begin with those nearest home, and we may therefore take first the high- altitude resorts of Switzerland, of which Davos Platz is the oldest and perhaps, on the whole, the most frequented. It is situated in the Canton Orisons, about 5000 feet above the sea, and well sheltered from the winds, so that the air is particularly still. It enjoys some 1800 hours of sunshine during the year, or rather more than any place in England, and the climate is especially delight- ful in winter, when clear, bright, still days are the rule. It can now be reached by rail from Zandquart and Coire. Arosa in a neighbouring valley and St. Moritz in the Upper Engadine are resorts of a similar character, but about 1000 feet higher. The latter is not so well suited for the more delicate consumptives, as it is less sheltered and windier than Davos or Arosa. Les Avants, above Montreux, on the Lake of Geneva, about 3500 feet, has less snow than Davos, and is suitable for cases which require less elevation. Less known and more modern resorts are Leysin, near Aigle, in Canton de Vaud, and Montana, above Sierre, in the Rhone valley—the former at an elevation of 4700, and the latter of 5000 feet. All these resorts are open summer and winter, the worst time being the late spring, when the snow is melting, and great care has to be taken to avoid chill. Davos may be said to be exclusively for consumptives, but St. Moritz is frequented largely even in winter by those who merely want a bracing climate and the enjoyment of winter sports, such as tobogganing and skating. The remaining very numerous resorts of Switzerland, including such well-known places as Zermatt, Belalp, Grindelwald, Murren, Pont- resina, and the Maloja, are all summer places, and are chiefly frequented by holiday-makers and climbers. Grindelwald is now open in winter, but is not siiited for invalids. Of the lower resorts, which are much fre- quented by visitors in autumn and spring, and invalids on their way to or from the higher places, the best known is Montreux, on the Lake of Geneva, at an elevation of 1200 feet; but there are many others too numerous to mention. Italian Lakes There are numerous places on the Italian lakes which are visited extensively by English people, but few of them are much frequented by invalids. Of these Locarno and Lugano, on the Lago Maggiore and Lago di Lugano respec- tively, are among the best known; they are both in Switzerland, though belonging to the Italian lake district, and both are used by in- valids as temporary resting-places in the spring and autumn. In fact, most of the places in the lakes, such as Varese, Cadenabbia, on Lake Como, and Gardone Riviera, on Lago di Garda, are of the same character and only have a com- paratively short season. The same applies for the most part to the resorts of Southern Italy, such as Castellamare, close to Naples, Sorrento, on the Bay of Naples, Capri, and Amalfi. A few invalids go there to winter, but the majority are birds of passage. In Sicily, with the exception of Palermo, which is a good deal frequented by pulmonary sufferers, the accommodation is not sufficiently good for invalids, and is rough even for ordi- nary visitors. There are good hotels at Sorrento and Amalfi, and, of course, in Naples, but Naples is not to be recommended for invalids. A good many