202 SKIN—PIGMENTARY AFFECTIONS include freckles, lentigo or ephelides, also the formation of pubic hair pigment. It is usual to divide freckles into sun freckles and cold freckles, under the assumption that the former are due to the action of the sun. From the fact that they rarely appear before the eighth year, and that they are the almost invariable congeners of red hair, although they may occur in association with dark brown and black hair, that they do not disappear in winter, and that they are limited to sharply circumscribed spots, we may conclude that their formation is deter- mined by some " freak " of development. 2. Actinic Bronzing of the Exposed Parts of the Body.—From the brilliance of colour displayed by animals and plants in the tropics, we may gain some notion of the powerful influence exerted by the actinic rays on the pigment function. Dr. Robert Bowles has drawn atten- tion to the fact that snow-reflected light has greater burning power than direct sunlight. This would appear to be due to the reflection of ultra-violet light from the snow. Bronzing may follow exposure to the electric arc light. Bowles showed that red or orange coloured objects had the power of absorbing the ultra- violet light and so preventing sunburn. Since then, more extended experiments have been carried out by Finsen and others, showing the powerful stimulating action of ultra-violet rays on epithelium. The pigmentation provoked by mechanical and chemical stimulation has already been referred to. " Vagabond disease," or phtheiriasis, is an instance of general pigmenta- tion following prolonged scratching, and is generally associated with malnutrition. 3. Emotional Pigmentation.—As might be expected, women are more subject to this form of pigmentation than men. (1) Pregnancy.—The commonest example of this is the darkening of the colour of the nipples in women when they become pregnant. Marlio records a case in which the greater part of the body of a woman became pigmented during her first pregnancy. The liver-coloured patches known as chloasma are frequently met with on the temples and elsewhere in women who have been pi-egnant. (2) Hysteria. — The general tendency to pigmentation, especially marked under the eye, is pronounced in hysterical women. (3) Chlorosis.—Pigmentary anomalies of the blood are largely responsible for the colour of the skin in these cases, but chloasma is com- monly observed in these patients. (4) Fright or Terror.—M. Rostan, quoted by Laycock, records the case of a woman who was condemned to death by a Parisian mob during the first French Revolution. She escaped death, but a few^ days after her skin became as black as that of a moderately black negro. (5) Exophthalmic Goitre, Chorea, and Epi- lepsy.—In these diseases, which are associated with changes in the emotional character of the individual, pigmentary anomalies have been observed. F^re records more or less universal pigmentation coinciding with the attacks of apathy and mental confusion. The pigment disappeared in about one month after the man had recovered from the attack. 4. Toxaemic Pigmentation.—Under this head I include the pigmentation which accompanies syphilis, tuberculosis, leprosy, diabetes, alco- holism, arsenical poisoning, Addison's disease, cancerous cachexia, and especially cancer of the abdominal organs. The histological character of the pigmented skin has been described by Brooke and Leslie Roberts. 5. Neoplastic, or Pigmentation with Erratic Developments of the Germinal Layer.—(1) Noevi. —Under this head I include all those embryonic anomalies which take the form of sharply circumscribed hard or soft wart-like tumours, and in which excess of melanin is a striking feature. It has been shown that the melanin is not confined to the epidermis, but may be found extensively in the cutis even to tlie deepest parts. (2) Xerodermia Pigmentosum (Syn. Kaposi's disease. Atrophoderma pigmentosum (Crocker)). —This disease, which usually, but not always, begins in the earliest period of childhood, affects only the parts exposed to sunlight, namely, the face, neck, breast, forearms, and the backs of the hands. These parts become the seat of numerous freckle-like pigment spots. Even in a very early stage spots of capillary congestion with slight scaling can be seen. As the disease slowly advances, signs of degeneration starting in the epithelium and papillary body become more and more apparent. The skin becomes thinned and shrivelled, the lower eyelid may be drawn down, the orifices of the ears and mouth contracted. Red specks, consisting of dilated capillaries, are scattered all over the affected area, intermixed with dark freckles and pearly white spots. About the sixth or seventh year warty formations begin to appear in the pig- mented epithelium, and slowly these are con- verted into fungating carcinomatous tumours. The prognosis is absolutely unfavourable. The extraordinary sensitiveness to actinic rays is not necessarily congenital, although usually so. I have seen the disease in a woman aged sixty- four in Kaposi's clinic in whom the affection began about sixty years of age. (3) Acanthosis Nigricans. — Cases of this disease have been described by Unna, Janovsky, Pollitzer, C. Boeck, Collan, and others. The pigmentation affects several parts of the cutaneous surface, but more especially parts which are naturally inclined to pigmentation, e.g. the axillae, neck, groins, genito-anal region, and abdomen. The deposit of melanin in the epithelium is followed by an enormous ovei'- growth of the prickle layer, imparting to the