419 SUICIDE Medicine, Forensic (Wounds, Accident, Suicide, or Murder). The extent to which suicide prevails in any country will largely depend on the social organi- sation and the ethical and religious opinions of the people. From the medical point of view, however, the most important question is its relation to soundness or unsoundness of mind. In every country it is resorted to both by the insane and by persons who are sane, as the word is usually understood. Attempts have been made to estimate the proportion which persons recognised as insane contribute to the total numiaer. Wynn Westcott, deputy coroner for Middlesex, estimates it as 20 per cent, and Professor Kraepelin of Heidelberg estimates it as 30 per cent. It is certain, however, that a large proportion of the reputedly sane persons who commit suicide are not, strictly speaking, of sound mind. The only persons with really sound mental organisation who commit suicide are those who do so by deliberate and reasoned choice, preferring death to some evil, such as dishonour, which they consider greater than death. In the great majority of cases where no pronounced insanity is recognisable, suicide is committed by persons burdened with the neuropathic inlieritance, and having more or less of the mental defects and the imperfect nervous organisation of the degenerate. These are the persons who yield to such causes as disappointed hopes, disappointed affection, feel- ings of shame, anger, jealousy, injured vanity, and also to the influence of suggestion. In these persons the mental organisation is often in a state of such unstable equilibrium that very slight causes are sufficient to produce a morbid impulse. Examples of the ease with which they yield to the suggestion of suicide are furnished by the succession of imitative acts which have followed certain suicides of startling and appalling character, such as those committed by leaping from well-known heights like the Monument in London, the Suspension Bridge at Clifton, the Dean Bridge at Edinburgh, and the Campanile of Giotto at Florence. A singular example occurred in the Hotel des Invalides at Paris, when fifteen of the inmates hanged them- selves in the coarse of a fortnight from a hook in a dark lobby of the Hotel. On the removal of the hook the hideous sequence came to an end. Another remarkable instance occurred at the camp near Boulogne in 1805, when several soldiers successively blew out their brains in the same sentry-box. The fashion did not cease until the sentry-box was burnt. Closely related to the effect of suggestion is that of opportunity —that is, the existence of facilities for commit- ting suicide. The absence of such facilities may prevent a passing impulse to suicide from being carried into effect; while the handling of lethal weapons or poisonous substances may both suggest such an impulse, and present the means of giving effect to it. The practical im- portance of recognising such considerations is illustrated by the statement of Mr. W. H. Millar of the Army Medical Department: " In the eight years," he says, "preceding the order in the year 1869, which took away ball cartridges from the soldiers, the suicides were 122, whereas in the eight years following that order they fell to 63." It is in cases of one or other of the forms of melancholia that the insane most frequently commit suicide ; but there are few of the clini- cal groups into which insanity is divided in which states of depression leading to suicide may not occur. The suicidal tendency is often strongest in the early stages of melancholia and in the states of depression which occur at the commencement of the insanities of advanced life. Not infrequently an attempt at suicide is the first recognisable indication of an attack of insanity. Among the insane the emotional factor is much more powerful in producing suicide than the intellectual. In some cases, often in the most suicidal, there is little appreci- able intellectual disorder. There is depression unaccompanied by any definite delusion. There is a loss of interest in the outer world, the con- sciousness, which becomes almost entirely sub- jective, is shrouded in inexplicable gloom, and the dejection is increased by the inability to account for it. When delusions are formed they take their colour from the emotional at- mosphere in which they are developed ; and such delusions, as self-accusations, are often the result of efforts to find an intellectual basis for the previously existing depression. Suicide among the degenerate may also be the result of definite suicidal obsession; a beleaguering, im- perative idea impelling to self-destruction, often seizing hold of the mind suddenly, and therefore specially dangerous. These obsessions do not become part of the personality, and the patient often strives hard to resist them. In both acute and chronic alcoholism the suicidal ten- dency is frequent, especially when it is im- planted on the neuropathic constitution. It is useful to take note also that suicidal acts have been known to occur in automatic conditions such as are associated with epileptic seizures. It is often said that the impulse to suicide is strongly hereditary, apart from the mere trans- mission of a mental organisation specially liable to sombre obsessions. The belief is founded chiefly on remarkable instances that have occurred of the descendants of suicidal ancestors killing themselves, often at the same age and in the same manner as their ancestors did. It is difficult, however, in such cases to determine how much should be attributed to heredity, and how much to the influence of suggestion. The prevalence of such a belief tends to bring about its own realisation, as the following case given by Falret shows. A young woman who