SKIN DISEASES OF THE TEOPICS 187 deterioration and the suitable local conditions, while their prevalence in ships again suggests salt water as an etiological factor. Symptoms.—Pain, tenderness, and localised swelling are the prominent features, but the con- dition must be distinguished from the diffuse in- flammation sometimes complicating otomycosis. Treatment.—Cleanliness, careful drying of the ear, and avoidance of salt water constitute the best means of prophylaxis with boils as with otomycosis. The most satisfactory treat- ment of the developed boil is early incision, followed by instillation of some antiseptic to prevent the production of others by auto- inoculation. A very good anodyne and anti- septic is as follows:—R Carbolic acid, cocaine, aa gr. 10; glycerine, 3ii. Instil a few drops. (6) FuRUNCULus Orientalis.—See vol. iii. (c) Veldt or Natal Sores.—Although hardly a tropical ailment, this seems a suitable oppor- tunity for mentioning a form of ulcer to some extent allied to furunculus orientalis, but apparently peculiar to South Africa, and frequently encountered during the recent campaign. One or more, rarely exceeding the size of a shilling, may be present, and generally involve the exposed portions of the body. The sore usually commences as a blister with serous contents and with ill-defined margins, fading gradually into healthy skin. When this bursts it leaves a red, irritable - looking ulcer, sur- rounded by a halo of redness, and which in- volves the true skin and extends marginally. The discharge is either serous or purulent, and sometimes forms crusts over it. Lymphangitis is an occasional complication. Etiology.—There is little doubt that the entry of some organism, probably inhabiting the soil, determines the occurrence of these sores, and Ogston has found a micrococcus I'esembling the gonococcus in large numbers in the fluid. Mounted men have been said by some to be specially liable, and ticks or horse flies may possibly influence causation by pro- ducing cutaneous lesions or by carrying infec- tion. The sores occur all the year round. Natives of the country appear to be immune. Treatment.—Ogston recommends cutting away the dead skin around, and the application of some good antiseptic dressing. {d) Tropical Phaged^ena. — Synonyms.— Donda Ndugu, Yemen, Cochin China, or Mo- zambique ulcer. A rapidly spreading, necrotic ulceration of skin and subcutaneous tissue, common in the tropics. Geographical Distribution.—There is probably hardly a tropical country free from this disease. Especially frequent upon East African and Red Sea shores, and in Cochin China, Cayenne, and Fernando Po, it is also common in the Western Hemisphere in such parts as the West Indies and Mexico, and occurs in even comparatively temperate climates like Algiers or Egypt. Etiology.—-The disease chiefly attacks those debilitated by climate, enfeebling disease, star- vation, over-exertion, or unhealthy surroundings. For this reason, badly fed and feeble natives subject to exposure are the principal sufferers, and for long it has been the scourge of exploring expeditions and of slave-gangs. It is principally found in low, damp jungle lands with hot, de- bilitating climates, such as sea-coasts and shores of rivers and swamps, and is less common in dry, elevated localities. Doubtless some micro-organism is the essen- tial cause, and Le Dantec has found in the exudation swarms of non-motile bacilli, straight or curved, and 7fi to 12yLi in length. He has not, however, succeeded in either finding them in the blood, cultivating them, or obtaining any positive results from inoculation. He believes that the organism is contained in damp soil, and is carried by flies, but his investigations are incomplete. The virus probably effects an entry on all occasions through some abrasion, insect bites, or skin eruption. To some extent the disease resembles hospital gangrene, both etiologically, clinically, and, according to Le Dantec, bacteriologically, hut it is far less infectious and tends to self-limitation, while experiments to transmit it have failed. Symptoms.—Generally, though not always, the legs below the knee are the parts most affected. Where there is no pre-existing wound, the first appearance is usually that of a puffy swelling, giving a boggy, fluctuating sensation, and presenting one or two whitish blebs with sero-sanguineous contents. Although it causes lameness, it is, as a rule, unattended by pain or heat, but there may be a painful reddish marginal zone. The swelling sv;bsequently ruptures and leaves exposed a large, pulpy grey mass of slough, which extends with wonderful rapidity from auto-infection with the discharge, and the surrounding parts become infiltrated with greyish exudation. Not only may this necrotic condition involve skin and subcutaneous tissue, but also muscles, tendons, nerves, vessels, or even periosteum of bones. When the slough is exposed there is a foetid odour, and pain may be intense and constitu- tional disturbance of an adynamic type marked. Pre-existing wounds if attacked become dry, dark-coloured, and rapidly necrotic. Provided the health is fair, the ravages of the disease may be checked and chronic ulcers result, but with debilitated patients it may make rapid strides and cause death by open- ing a large vessel or from septic absorption. Usually, however, the process is sooner or later checked, but lifelong deformity not infrequently results from the extreme destruction of tissue. Treatment.—Prophylaxis resolves itself into the care of the general health, particularly of native camp followers in expeditions, insistence upon proper care of skin lesions, and protection