5 RICKETS defective, that it becomes flattened in by the pressure exerted by the weight of the head resting on the pillow. Elsasser took an exag- gerated view of the importance of cranio-tabes, and attributed some of the nervous symptoms occurring in rickets, as laryngismus, to the thinning of the bone, but this is very doubtful. While cranio-tabes is not pathognomonic, in all cases of marked thinning of the occipital or parietal bones rickets should be suspected. More certainly characteristic of rickets is the square head and the natiform skull. The former is much the more common, and may often be noted before the infant is six months old. It is the result of an excessive formation of spongy bone at the centres of ossification of the frontal and parietal bones. The result is a flattening of the superior surface, a certain squareness in appearance as well as an increase in the circumference of the head. The edges of the bones bordering on the fontanelles can be felt to be thickened, though perhaps abnor- mally soft, and the fontanelles are widely open for the age of the infant. The natiform skull is often present in severe rickets, and indeed only appears in severe cases. There are two broad grooves on the top of the head corre- sponding with the longitudinal and transverse sutures, and therefore at right angles to one another, giving the upper surface of the skull a sort of "cross bun" appearance, while the four quarters of the upper surface are raised as bosses (Parrot's bosses). The edges of the bones forming the grooves are mostly mem- branous, and often cranio-tabes is present. Many believe the natiform skull is a sign of syphilis (Carpenter). Dentition is mostly delayed, and the appear- ance of the teeth through the gums may be out of their usual order. In some cases the two lower central incisors may appear at the normal time, then rickets may supervene, and there is a long delay before others show themselves. In some cases of i-ickets the milk teeth quickly become carious, but this is not constant. The fontanelles are slow in closing, and the edges of the bones which form their borders are apt to be thickened and softened from deficient calcification. The fontanelles may be found widely open at two years old, or indeed at times as late as four years old ; whenever there appears a delay in these openings closing up, rickets may be suspected. Chest.—In marked contrast to the large head and rounded abdomen of rickets the chest is narrow and constricted. At the junction of the ribs with their cartilages, especially the fourth to the ninth, there are enlargements which form a row of prominences, the so-called rickety rosary. Both ribs and cartilages lose their rigidity in a more or less marked degree, and as a result of this, part of the chest wall is sucked in during inspiration, and shallow, broad grooves are formed on both sides of the sternum; the latter is more or less thrust forward, and thus the so-called "pigeon" chest is formed. The typical rickety chest, however, is not the true " pigeon chest" ; in the rickety chest the sternum and cartilages are thrust forward from falling in of the ribs, and the protuberance is rounded. The pigeon chest with the keel-like ridge is due to softening of the cartilages in later childhood. In other cases the groove is horizontal and corresponds with the attachment of the diaphragm, the chest wall is pulled inwards, and the lower edge of the chest wall everted. This groove is sometimes known as Harrison's sulcus. Should the infant suffer from bronchitis the chest deformity will tend to become aggravated, and it is certain that the deformity and want of rigidity of the chest wall greatly adds to the danger of an attack of severe bronchitis or broncho-pneumonia. As the child gets older the chest deformity tends to become less marked, the ribs become more firm, but usually more or less deformity remains for life. Limbs.—The deformities of the bones of the limbs mostly occur at a later date than those of the head and chest. They consist for the most part of an exaggeration of the normal curves, and they are brought about by the child using its limbs for some purpose or other such as locomotion. The commonest is a curving inwards of the tibia and fibula in their lower thirds, and this is most commonly produced by the child sitting up in bed or on the floor with its knees flexed and perhaps the feet crossed. Almost any movement of the feet in raising itself or in progression will tend to curve the tibiae inwards. If the child habitually supports itself in the sitting position with its arms, both the bones of the arm and forearm will tend to be bent with the convexities outwards. The curve assumed by the femur is mostly forwards and outwards; bending of the neck of the femur is also apt to take place (coxa vara), (see De- formities, vol. ii. p. 295). Enlargement of the epiphyses of the long bones is sometimes very noteworthy, especially at the wrists and ankles. Irregular outgrowths of bone are apt to take place in various places, as, for instance, the rickety tubercle often present on the inner side of the head of the tibia, and the outgrowth of the inner condyle of the femur in knock-knee. Muscles and Ligaments. — The malnutrition and weakness of the muscles is as constantly present in rickets as the deformities and soften- ing of the bones. The voluntary muscles are all poorly developed, so that perhaps at a year old, or even later, the infant makes no attempt at sitting up or even holding up its head. For long after it can sit up in a sort of fashion, its back is likely to be weak on account of the laxity of the ligaments and the erector spina; group of muscles. There is usually a general