SCUUVY IN ADULTS 114 Ecchymoses of various extent appear, chiefly on the lower limbs, which present a bruised ap- pearance, especially evident in the region of the knees; and brawny indurations, often painful and tender, arise in the hams and calves, and may be so dense and abundant as to fix the limbs in a semiflexed position. Node-like swellings are often observed over the tibia, owing to effusion between the periosteum and the bone. The breath has a peculiar offensive odour, which may be aggravated by sloughing of the gums, or even necrosis of the jaw ; the bowels are constipated, but the appetite is maintained, and there is no thirst. Scurvy is less frequently met with in an un- complicated form than in association with other diseased conditions. The most frequent com- plications are probably dysentery, malaria, and syphilis. Probably some of the symptoms which the older physicians attributed to scurvy were really due to complicating diseases, but owing to the infrequency of scurvy since the more searching methods of modern diagnosis have become general it is difficult to speak positively on this point. The tissues seem to lose their normal reparative powers, ulcers will not heal, fractures will not unite, and old scars may break down, and even fractures which have healed may become disunited. Morbid Anatomy.—As might be inferred from what has been said of the infrequency of scurvy in recent times, it does not appear that any searching investigations have been made into its pathological anatomy since the more modern methods of histological research have come into use. The obvious naked-eye appearances are such as might be expected from what we know of the clinical features of the disease. Decomposition sets in rapidly, ecchymoses ob- served during life persist after death, and are speedily merged in post-mortem staining, and blood-stained serum, or actual effusions of blood, are formed in the subcutaneous areolar tissue. The brawny swellings observed during life are found to consist of firm clots of blood, more or less decolorised and organised according to their age. These hsemorrhagic effusions may be numerous and of various extent, and may occur either in the substance of the muscles or out- side their sheaths. Similar effusions may be foimd under the periosteum or in the substance of the bones, and there may be large serous effusions, more or less stained with blood, in the great serous cavities of the body. No satisfactory explanation of the htemorrhagic tendency so characteristic of the disease has been offered; investigations carried out more especially with regard to the blood-vessels seem to show that they are free from morbid change. Various lesions have been described in connec- tion with the viscera, but there was nothing distinctive about them, and they were probably due to some associated morbid conditions. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of scurvy in the adult can only present difficulties when it arises under unusual circumstances, in which the existence of the dietetic antecedents is not obvious, or when, as has been known to happen, it comes on insidiously in the course of some other disease. The presence of tender gums and subcutaneous ecchymoses should at once arouse the suspicions of the physician, and the disappearance of the symptoms when the diet has been changed will speedily confirm them. Prognosis.—The prognosis in uncomplicated scurvy is always favourable provided the appropriate treatment can be carried out at once, but in severe cases it is necessary to guard against any sudden exertion on the part of the patient, the assumption of the erect posture having been known to induce a fatal syncope. Treatment.—The treatment is almost purely dietetic, but in the cases of severe exhaustion, which are now seldom seen, the greatest care must be taken to avoid syncopal attacks, the patient being forbidden to exert himself in any way or even to sit up in bed. Fresh food, animal and vegetable, must be administered in small quantities and at frequent intervals. In uncomplicated cases recovery is uninterrupted and complete, but the presence of complications, more especially of dysentery, may call for the exercise of much care and judgment in the management of the patient. Etiology and Prophylaxis.—For more than a century the opinion has been all but univers- ally held that the essential cause of scurvy is the absence of fresh vegetables from the diet, and much ingenuity has been spent in the endeavour to ascertain what is the special constitutent of fresh vegetable food the want of which gives rise to this disease. The freedom from scurvy enjoyed by children and others who live chiefly or exclusively on fresh milk or fresh animal food makes this view quite untenable, but if for absence of fresh vegetables we substitute absence of fresh organic food, whether animal or vege- table, there is much to be said for it. On the other hand, it has lately been main- tained with much show of plausibility, especially by Mr. F. G. Jackson and Mr. Vaughan Harley, that scurvy is not a deprivation disease, but a toxtemia arising from the ingestion of decom- posing food. That the withholding of vegetable food is by itself incapable of causing scurvy is shown by the immunity enjoyed by those tribes who are unable to obtain vegetable food in any form, by the immunity enjoyed by children and others who subsist for long periods on fresh milk alone, and more particularly by the experience of Arctic explorers, such as Nansen and Johansen, who subsisted for nine months on walrus and bear flesh preserved only by the cold. On the other hand, there are plausible grounds for the