SHOCK 140 fracture compound; but as the alcohol is eliminated, sensations travel better, and the symptoms and signs of shock appear. Generally, however, " deferred shock" must be looked upon as indicating concealed haemorrhage, internal complications, or sepsis. Pathology.—At a post-mortem examination of a fatal case of shock there is nothing character- istic. The heart may be arrested in diastole and the veins found fuller than usual. We must seek rather the aid of the experimental physiologist for an explanation of the phenomena of shock. Interference with the relation of the nervous system to the circulation of the blood offers the best explanation of most of the phenomena of "shock." Tlie performance of the functions of the body depends on an efficient blood-supply, controlled by the vaso-motor system, under the guidance of a centre in the medulla. Repeated slight or severe afferent nerve impulses—in other words, a succession of nerve shocks—• seriously inhibit the higher centres, the vaso- motor arrangement is readily disturbed, and the hold the nervous system has on the blood- vessels is temporarily suspended (reflex par- alysis), leading to a general dilatation of the arterioles, particularly in the splanchnic (portal) area. A large influx of blood takes place into the abdominal viscera, draining the other parts of the body, producing anaemia of the systemic area and a general fall of blood pressure. Anaemia of the brain will be indicated by a failure of the higher faculties, will power, and temporary loss of consciousness, while deficiency of supply to the heart will bring about feeble action of that organ, or even arrest. That this effect is produced through the central nervous system is well illustrated in Goltz's well-known experi- ment of injury to the abdomen of the frog : marked cardio-inhibitory effect is brought about; but if the pneumogastric nerves be previously divided, the heart goes on beating normally. In shock as produced in an animal, the circula- tion becomes sluggish, blood pressure falls, the specific gravity of the blood becomes higher, and the interchange of oxygen and carbonic acid in the tissues is interfered with, hence the fall of temperature. Recuperative power is great, and if the irritation be removed and the body of the animal kept horizontal, or the head kept lower than the abdomen, the blood pressure quickly recovers and the symptoms and signs pass off. On the other hand, placing the animal in an upright position leads to a fatal issue by causing cerebral anaemia and heart failure. Loss of blood will exaggerate the shock and interfere with reaction. Severe afferent currents produce molecular change in the nerve cells, inhibiting their function and leading to fatigue or even exhaus- tion. A powerful nerve current acts on the delicate nerve cell in a manner analogous to the effect an electric discharge of high voltage has on a delicate electrical instrument, com- pletely disorganising it. This element of fatigue, exhaustion, or molecular destruction of nerve cell has to be largely reckoned with in shock, and must be borne in mind in the treatment. To produce spinal shock it is essential that the cerebrum shall be in normal relationship to the spinal cord. The following interesting com- munication of Professor C. S. Sherrington demonstrates this:— "Transection of the spinal cord of a dog at the lower cervical level causes a great fall of blood pressure. If this be not fatal, the blood pressure in the course of a few days regains its value to about three-quarters of what it was. In the course of a few weeks the pressure is gradually restored to normal height. If the animal is kept alive for three months, and then a fresh transection is made a segment or two below the previous one, the blood - pressure tracing now taken reveals no second fall of blood pressure at all, nor is the knee-jerk even temporarily depressed. Hence spinal transec- tion per se does not produce spinal shock by mere trauma, the trauma being the same in the second as in the first section." To sum up, the following factors contribute to the production of shock :— (1) Refiex paralysis, acting (a) on the heart through the medulla, leading to a slowing or even arrest of the heart's action, (b) on the respiratory apparatus similarly. (2) Interference with the action of the vaso- motor apparatus, leading to great fall in blood pressure, inspissation of the blood, and inter- ference with the interchange of oxygen and carbonic acid in the tissues, and loss of animal heat. (3) Molecular change in the nerve cells, bring- ing about fatigue or exhaustion of the nervous system. (4) Hcemorrhage. Complicating the above we must remember that in most surgical in- juries haemorrhage occurs, influencing all the above changes. Treatment.—In slight cases, without serious trauma, rest in the recumbent position and the administi-ation of a diffusible stimulant is gener- ally all that is required. A sniff of smelling- salts and a dose of brandy quickly bring about reaction. In severe cases we have to consider the treat- ment of (1) the injury, and (2) the effects. (1) We must endeavour by "first aid" to prevent further loss of blood, to remove the patient from the exciting cause; to extinguish the fire, if the clothing is aflame, and to promptly fix broken bones by any means at our disposal. The establishment in large cities of horse ambulances, which are immediately dispatched to the scene of an accident on receipt of a telephone message, has done much to diminish