SUPPURATION 445 In the case of the accidental infection of operation wounds, the temperature and consti- tutional symptoms gradually subside till the third or fourth day, when they disappear. It is said that because the abscess wall is gradu- ally forming during this time the constitutional signs gradually disappear. This looks at first an important reason, but it must be borne in mind that when the temperature ^rsi begins to fall the defeat of the micro-organism or its toxins has probably begun, and at that stage there is no abscess wall. The gradual sub- sidence of temperature in typhoid fever is not supposed to be the effect of a barrier forming round the lesions, and the sudden fall of tem- perature in pneumonia cannot be due to the formation of a protecting membrane. Then again, even in the presence of a very thick fibrous abscess wall severe hectic temperature can last for months : this does not look like protection. Many experiments have been made to sup- port the protection theory of the abscess wall. Prominent among these are the experiments of Afanassieff. This observer inoculated vari- ous micro-organisms on to granulation tissue carefully protected from injury, and found, among other veiy interesting facts, (a) that no general infection took place, (b) that the animals so inoculated were not susceptible to subsequent infection with virulent culture of the same micro-organism even when applied to fresh wounds. Immunity had thus been induced. Afanassieff states that these experiments prove the specific protecting property of granu- lation tissue (or abscess wall). Let the results of the experiments for a moment be granted. As far as the writer is able to construe these results, he would say AfanassiefFs second state- ment (b) directly negatives his assumption, and proves a general immunity, and not a local one ; and further, that the abscess wall shares its property of resistance with the rest of the animal's body, part of which it undoubtedly is. The writer of this article had been inocu- lating animals with cultures of staphylococcus pyogenes aureus with a view of testing the same question ; and after a series of experi- ments the results left him with the impression, that when an abscess has well formed (after six or seven days), it may require more than double the dose of a tested virulent culture to provoke an abscess elsewhere in the subcutaneous tissue of the same animal. This increased dose often induced no obvious local changes. In a few cases the same dose induced a serous effusion that disappeared without rupture. Further, this capacity of resistance was quite temporary, and disappeared in probably less than fourteen days, leaving the animals as susceptible as ever. Perhaps the protecting value of an abscess wall has been over-estimated. With some justification an observer may be pardoned for looking upon it as a membrane through which highly toxic products can leak into the system. And instead of protecting the host, it may really hinder the evacuation of these products by closely encircling them. The fact that boils constantly occur in uninterrupted sequence seems at first sight to negative the argument of immunity or protection, but even here either immunity or protection—it may be but of a transitory nature—is probable, since the pro- cess eventually ceases. Our present knowledge of the relation between the causes of suppura- tion and immunity is so scanty that a dis- cussion of the subject is of little value, but there are facts which point to intimate relations between them. Fehleisen showed, in experi- menting on the value of streptococcic infection in the treatment of cancer, that his patients were rendered immune to that micro-organism for from three to five weeks. It is also found that abrin applied to the conjunctiva confers local immunity against abrin, but not general immunity. Whatever may be the value of these and other experiments, clinical observa- tions lead one to the inevitable conclusion that the healing of an acute circumscribed abscess will remain inexplicable until the vexed ques- tions of immunity and acquired immunity rank among those problems that are solved. Acute Diffuse Abscess An acute diffuse abscess is the result of an inoculation which rapidly provokes an accumu- lation of pus within a cavity resulting from the process, the excitant of which is infiltrating. The etiology and pathological anatomy vary in degree only from those of acute circumscribed abscess, the variation being an increased in- tensity of the process, which may be due to— (1) A comparative increase of the capacity for action on the part of the micro-organism. (2) A comparative decrease of the capacity for resistance on the part of the host. (3) A combination of these phenomena. The result is a burrowing, ramified cavity containing pus. The spread of the micro-organism occurs chiefly in the soft connective tissues, and is at first limited by the mechanical resistance offered by the dense connective tissues—fascise and bone ; but the natural cessation of the process of diffusion in soft connective tissues depends upon the more profound changes that take place in the relation between micro-organism and host—changes to which reference has been made in the article on " Acute Circumscribed Abscess." Death of the host may occur before the final arrest of the process of diffusion. Multiple acute diffuse abscess may be (a) Primary, the result of immediate generalisation of the initial dose; {b) Secondary, the result of infective emboli {pyoemia). However caused,