544 TEMPERATURE by injuries to the cerebral cortex are incon- clusive, the high temperature being probably due to muscular movements of the animals, or to the epileptiform attacks induced by cortical stimulation. Aronsohn and Sachs, Ott and Hale White found that in animals lesions of the corpus striatum are followed by a rise of temperature to 107" F. or more. Both clinical and experi- mental evidence indicates, however, that there are no specific thermogenic centres or centre within the central nervous system. A cerebral lesion associated with hyperthermia is probably in every instance an irritative lesion, but whether the hyperthermia be the result of increased chemical activity in the muscles or glandular organs, or be dependent on diminished loss of heat, is still unascertained. In man hyper- thermia is seen in ass<;ciation with injuries to the cerebral cortex, corpus striatum, or crus cerebri, with lesions of the pons and medulla, and also sometimes with hysteria, epilepsy, and general paralysis. In hysteria the temperature may rise to 106* F., being in some instances associated with convulsive attacks. In diseases associated with a febrile elevation of temperature there is in some instances a rise of temperature to 107° F. or more, constituting the condition known as hyperpyrexia. The hyperpyretic temperature is by some regarded as representing the joint res\ilt of the febrile temperature and of a hyperthermia of nervous origin. Fever.—In fever there is a general disturbance of metabolism with elevation of the temperature (pyrexia), disturbance of the circulation and respiration, alterations in the blood and urinary secretions, and changes in the parenchyma of the internal organs. The functional and struc- tural changes are due to the exciting cause of the fever, and are not the result of the rise of temperature. Elevation of the temperature is the most im- portant and characteristic sign of fever. The rise of temperature is probably not in all cases induced in the same manner, though this is a point on which different investigators do not agree. It is usual to describe three stages in the course of the febrile temperature :— (1) The initial stage of rise, pyrogenetic stage, or stadium increments In this stage the cutaneous blood-vessels become contracted in consequence of the action of the exciting cause on the vaso-motor centre, and the vascular constriction becoming more pronounced, there is diminished loss of heat from the body, and the temperature commences to rise, and con- tinues to do so the more markedly the cutaneous blood-vessels become constricted. The initial rise of temperature is therefore dependent on a diminution in the loss of heat. If this constric- tion of the cutaneous blood-vessels be rapidly induced the general temperature rises rapidly, as in scarlet fever or acute lobar pneumonia, whilst there is a fall of temperature in the per- ipheral parts, pallor of the skin, a sensation of cold, and a rigor which ceases before the tem- perature has attained its maximal point. If the exciting cause of the fever induces a gradual constriction of the blood-vessels, the initial rise of temperature is not sudden and is not associated with a rigor, but is gradual, slow, and more or less insidious. It is either a gradual but steady rise, or there are several more or less well-marked remissions, after each of which the temperature rises to a higher level than it had previously attained. The best illustration of such a step- like rise is seen in the temperature during the first week of typhoid fever. (2) The stage of acme, or the fastigium, during which the temperature remains elevated, though varying according to the exciting cause. During this stage of fever there is an increase both in the production and in the loss of heat, an increase which, according to Krehl and Matthes, is on an average equal to 20 per cent. But even though there be, as compared with the normal, an in- creased loss of heat, the loss is insufficient to entirely compensate the excess of heat produced, and the temperature is consequently above the normal level. In many instances the skin is dry, and evaporation of moisture from the sur- face of the body is diminished, and the loss of heat is, in comparison with the production of heat, relatively diminished. During this stage the height to which the temperature rises, and the general course of the temperature, are dependent on the exciting cause; but the same cause may not induce an identically similar reaction in every case, as different individuals may react to the same cause in a different manner. There are a number of " clinical types " of febrile temperature according to the course of the latter. Thus the temperature may remain at a high level for a short period, varying from some hours to a few days, after which it rapidly falls. This type is termed accuminated, and is observed in many acute infective diseases of short duration. Again, the temperature for a prolonged period may remain persistently high, with diurnal variations. This is the continuous type of temperature, examples being the tem- perature of typhus fever, acute lobar pneumonia, and acute suppurative meningitis. Again, there may be during this stage marked fluctuations in the course of the temperature. Thus there may be a remission of the temperature in the morning and an exacerbation in the evening. In this remittent type of temperature, as in typhoid fever, for example, the temperature during the remissions does not fall to the normal level. In the true intermittent type the tem- perature at each successive fall reaches the normal level, examples of this type being the temperatures in malarial fever, the fever of septic origin, and advanced pulmonary tuberculosis when there is mixed infection with streptococci. In the relapsing type of febrile temperature