382 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF may at the same time be felt to harden under the hand applied over it. These movements occur at frequent and irregular intervals, and may be excited by gentle irritation of the sur- face ; they serve to indicate the limits of the distended viscus, and are most apparent when it contains food or gas. The lower margin of the dilated stomach may be felt on careful palpation, unless the parietes be unduly thick, but this is a sign that is on the whole less certain than are the other results of physical examination. Far more reliable is the evidence to be ob- tained by percussion, for by that means the outline of the stomach may generally be satis- factorily ascertained. Allowance must be made for the presence of food or liquid in the organ. The characteristic " stomach note " may be ob- tainable upwards into the axilla as high even as the fourth rib, and in that situation it is at once detected. The lower limit, however, may be very difficult to distinguish from the colon, which lies just below; but Sir William Broad- bent has pointed out that the distinction may be made by auscultation, " the cardiac sounds, especially the second, being heard all over the area of resonance proper to the stomach, with a characteristic tympanitic consonance, which is lost the moment the stethoscope passes from the stomach to the colon." One of the most distinctive signs of gastro- ectasis is a splashing sound audible on disturb- ance of the stomach contents, as by sudden pressure on the gastric region, or by shaking the abdomen ; from time to time the sound is elicited in the course of the peristaltic move- ments of the organ. The physical examination of the patient should be made both in the upright and re- cumbent position, and the several facts may be more precisely ascertained by the passing of an oesophageal bougie, and the position of the tip recognised by palpation through the abdominal wall; or the extent of the distension may be better defined by inflation of the stomach by gas such as may be liberated by swallowing in successive portions the constituents of a seidlitz powder suitably dissolved. Symptoms.—-The severity of the symptoms is not always proportionate to the degree of dilatation as shown by the physical signs. A considerable distension may exist with but little symptomatic disturbance. It is convenient to distinguish the manifestations directly referable to the stomach lesion from those which depend on the perversion of digestion and consequent malnutrition. Of the former, vomiting is the most signifi- cant and the most constant. It usually occurs at intervals of twenty-four hours and longer, and frequently at the latter part of the day. The amount brought up is considerable, amount- ing to several pints, and contains a large pro- portion of food taken many hours previously. The material is extremely acid in reaction, and of sour odour, from the organic acids derived from the decomposition of the gastric contents ; the bulk is largely increased by an excessive secretion from the glands. Sometimes the vomit is of a brownish colour, and it may contain altered blood as well as abundant micro- organisms, of which sarcinae and torulse are the most numerous. It may continue to ferment after being voided if kept in a warm place, and forms a yeasty scum on the surface. The ejec- tion of the material is commonly very sudden and forcible, and unaccompanied by retching or much nausea. Gastric flatulence and gaseous eructations, chiefly of C0.„ derived from the fermentation process, is another marked symptom. The enormous formation of gas increases the dis- tension of the organ, and though fluctuating in its intensity, adds considerably to the distress which its condition entails. The extent to which discomfort or pain in the stomach is complained of varies much; sometimes they are scarcely existent, and they bear but little relation to the taking of food. Rather is it that pain is felt before vomiting occurs, and is relieved by the emptying of the stomach. Owing to the inadequate passage of food onwards into the intestine, whether from the vomiting, or the pyloric stenosis, or from both, the patient tends to deteriorate in general health, and to lose weight from want of suffi- cient nourishment, however much may be actu- ally swallowed. For the same reason constipa- tion is complained of, there not being enough bulk of material to excite intestinal peristalsis. The excessive drain on the blood by the hyper- secretion determines a thirst, the relief of which only adds to the distension of the stomach. The urine is generally scanty and concentrated, and contains an abundance of ethereal sulphates derived from intestinal decomposition. Vomit- ing of large quantities of fluid may be followed for some hours by anuria. In some cases certain cardiac symptoms, especially palpitation, irregular action of the heart, and even pain of an anginous character and breathlesness, are very distressing. They are mainly due to slight displacement of the heart and interference with its action by the dilated stomach, and the relief of the distension by eructations of gas or by vomiting removes the cardiac distress. The retention of the ingesta in the stomach and the abnormal fermentation resulting there- from may reasonably be supposed to lead to the formation of substances which are irritant and toxic. A catarrh more or less persistent is established in the mucosa, and the tongue becomes coated and the breath foul. Foremost among the symptoms which may be ascribed to the absorption of toxic substances