SPECULUM 266 SpeCUluiri.—A mirror, or, more particu- larly, an instrument, usually made of a re- flecting metal, by which the interior of body canals or cavities (nose, rectum, vagina, bladder) can be rendered visible, e.g. the Sims' or duck- billed speculum for inspecting the vaginal canal and cervix uteri. See Ear, Examination of (Aural Speculum); Gynecology, Diagnosis in (Vaginal Specula); Nose, Examination of (Anterior Rhinoscopy). Speda.lsked. See Venereal Diseases {Allied Diseases, Norivay). Spee'S Embryo.—An early ovum and embryo described by Graf von Spee ; the embryo is 2 mm. long, and its age is supposed to be the second week after impregnation. See Embryology. Speech. See Aphasia ; Brain, Physio- logy OF {Functions of Cerebral Cortex^); Brain, Cysts of {Porencephaly, Clinical Features); Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Tumour, Symptoms, Speech); Children, Development of {Speech); Chorea {Symjxtoms, Articulation); Cretinism {Childhood, Sjxech); General Par- alysis {Symptoms, Disorders of Motor Control); Hemiplegia {Motor Symptoms, Speech Defects); Myasthenia Gravis (Symptomatology); Palate {Cleft Palate, Effects); Paralysis {Cerebral Diplegia, Speech Defects) ; Pharynx, Examina- tion OF {Neuroses of Motion, Paralysis of Soft Palate); Physiology, Respiration (Voice); Senile Insanity {Dementia, Speech); Stammer- ing ; Voice. Spencer'sOpe rat ion. See Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries {Operations, Amputa- tions). Sperm.—The semen, containing the spermatozoa {spe7-m cells). Spermaceti. See Cetaceum. Spermatic.—Belonging to the semen or sperm, e.g. the spermatic cord {see Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of, Torsion of the Spermatic Cord). Sperm at O -. — In compound words spermato- {Gr. o-Tre'p/xa, that which is sown, seed) means relating to the semen or to the organs and parts concerned in the production or transference of the semen ; e.g. spermatocele (an encysted hydrocele containing spermatozoa, see Fluids, Examination of Pathological), spermatocystitis (inflammation of the seminal vesicles, see Vesicule Seminales), sjxermato- genesis (formation of spermatozoa). Spermatorrhoea. See also Mastur- bation; Neurasthenia {Visceral, Sexual); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Sterility); Vice {Sexiial System).—The term connotes the escape of seminal fluid when involuntary and incontroUable, as distinguished from the escape of seminal fluid which results from masturbation or coitus. In many instances, the escape of seminal fluid is a physiological event. Thus in men who practise continence, the nocturnal escape of seminal fluid at variable intervals of time is a perfectly normal occurrence, but it is a matter of difficulty to state what should in general be the shortest period of time inter- vening between the nocturnal emissions. If the intervals be not less than ten or twelve days, nocturnal emissions should not be regarded as pathological unless there be definite reasons to lead one to form a contrary opinion. In other cases there may be an escape of seminal fluid during the act of deffecation, consider- able pressure being exerted upon the seminal vesicles during this act, jjarticularly if the individual suffer from constipation. Seminal emissions are to be considered as pathological when they recur at brief intervals of time, especially when the escape of seminal fluid takes place with little or no erection associated therewith, and when the individual at the same time experiences no sensation of pleasure. The most frequent cause of such abnormal seminal emissions, in other words of true spermatorrhoea, is undoubtedly a long-continued habit of mastur- bation iq.v.), as a result of which debility of the nervous system is induced. A man addicted to this habit may consequently be said to suffer from sexual neurasthenia {q-v.), and in such individuals seminal emissions are induced by slight and trivial stimuli. In certain cases of spermatorrhoea, the condi- tion is aggravated by some localised source of chronic irritation—phymosis, chronic gonorrhoea, chronic prostatitis, chronic cystitis, and in- testinal parasites. In other cases spermatorrhoea is merely a symptom of some organic disease of the central nervous system, transverse myelitis for example. The ill effects of spermatorrhoea are mani- fested by enfeeblement of muscular and mental power; by inability to undertake arduous or prolonged mental work; by mental depression, lassitude, dyspepsia, and ill-defined pain in the lumbar region. Treatment.—The most satisfactory results are obtained by treating the psychical and general condition of the patient. Benefit is likely to result if one can induce the patient to desist from masturbation, and can impress on him the fact that his trouble is curable and of no grave significance. The patient should lead an active life, taking a considerable amount of outdoor bodily exercise, so that at the close of the day he experiences a well-marked sensation of muscular fatigue. Gymnastics provide a sub- stitute for outdoor exercise when the latter is not obtainable. The patient should be in-