SKIN—TUBERCULOSIS 180 In using the sharp spoon in this way it is not necessary to use much force. The catarrhal tissues are exceedingly soft and rotten, and can be removed with the greatest of ease. At the edge of the patch the spoon may be used a little more vigorously, but at this stage one cannot really hope to eradicate the disease by any amount of scraping. If for any reason the patient objects to the operative treatment, a similar result may be achieved, though much more slowly, by the application of antiseptics. Brooke's ointment— R Zinci oxidi Pulv. amyli. . . . aa Vaselini albi . . . ^ss. Hydrarg. oleat (5 per cent) §j. Ac. salicyl. . . . grs. xx. Ichthyol ... ITl^xx. 01. lavendulse . . . q.s. enjoys a wide reputation in this connection, but any antiseptic constantly applied will produce almost as good results. So, too, will another method of treatment, popular in certain quarters, namely, the administration of thyroid substance. Fibroid Lup^is.—Here the complication is the excessive growth of fibrous tissue, which must be got rid of before it is possible to attack the lupus directly. Scraping is useless. No surgeon with any ordinary instrument is vigorous enough to scrape away the tough fibrous tissue. The best method by which it can be dissipated is counter-irritation. Probably blistering fluid is as suitable an application as any other, but carbolic acid, the acid nitrate of mercury, and many other caustics may be used. The reaction often does more than dissipate the fibrous thickening, for a large amount of the disease proper is also removed, and what is left is now open to direct treatment. Warty Lupus.—In this, as already indicated, the warts are rather to be looked upon as an addition than as a complication. They are best removed by the knife or scissors, although they may also be removed by various applica- tions, such as acetic or salicylic acid. If they are present over a large surface, the best treat- ment is to level the part with a razor. Lupus Vulgaris Simplex.—In dealing with the simple form of the disease (whether it has always been simple or has been reduced to this from another form) our aim is the destruction of the tubercle bacillus. The first method of treatment which may be considered is that of excision. Theoretically, excision is the best method, but, unfortunately, the practical ap- plication does not coincide with the theory. Lang, of Vienna, apparently treats all his cases, however severe or extensive, by this method, but he seems to attain a degree of success which is not even distantly approached by any other operator. Cases are often made worse by excision, the disease returning in the scars or grafts, often apparently with redoubled activity. The only form of the disease in which excision seems justifiable is the fibroid form, and in that the prognosis is so generally good that, unless in special circumstances, it is rarely necessary. If excision is to be done, it must be thorough. The line must extend well beyond the external evidence of the disease, and the entire thickness of skin must be removed from the part. If it occurs on the face, the fact that the hair follicles often extend very deeply must be borne in mind. The next method of treatment may be de- scribed as the directly destructive method. In this we apply to the skin drugs which have what is called a selective action, because they act very much more vigorously on the weakened, diseased lupus tissue than on the healthy sur- roundings. Of these the most demonstrative is arsenious acid. This is made into a paste— R Acidi arseniosi . . grs. x. Cinnabar . . . 3ss. Ung. rosse . . . iss. and applied night and morning for three days. The pain is excessive, and it is often necessary to administer morphine. The whole region swells up, often to an alarming extent, and at the end of the third day the lupus nodules are seen as little black sloughs, dotted here and there in an intensely hypersemic, swollen skin. Under soothing remedies this swelling goes down, and so much of the disease is removed. Nicholson recommends a paste of equal parts of arsenious acid, powdered acacia, and ortho- form, the latter ingredient almost annulling the pain of the arsenic. The disadvantages of the method are, the pain and swelling which it causes, and the unsightly scars which often result unless very great care is bestowed on the management of the resulting granulating sur- face. Salicylic acid has a similar action. In no form is it so efficacious as in Unna's salicylic creasote plaster. Ointments with a similar composition are not nearly so satisfactory, and the plasters should always be preferred. They are made in different sti'engths, and the strongest which the patient can stand should be selected. The 30-40 formula is a fair average one. The plaster should be applied night and morning, and in a few days the lupus nodules stand out in the form of whitish sloughs, which can be wiped away with cotton-wool. Now comes up the question of what is to be the further treat- ment. Many at this stage apply soothing ointments, as in the arsenical method, but if the patient has the fortitude to persevere in the use of the plaster until healing take place under it, the results are much more thorough, lasting, and satisfactory. Often, however, the pain is so great that he refuses to continue, and some other application must be used. Nothing is