255 SOMNOL notic effects (dose, 2 to 4 dr.), and consisting of a " synthetic product of chloral-urethane with a polyatomic alcohol radicle." Somnolence. See Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Morbid Somnolence). SomnOne. — A proprietary preparation believed to contain opium, lupulin, and lactu- carium, and to produce hypnotic effects. Soor. See Stomatitis {Parasitic or Thrush). Soot-Ca.ncer.—Chimney-sweep's cancer. See Tumours {Carcinoma). SophoniciniSl.—A monomania of wis- dom ; a form of megalomania ; the patient boasts of possessing superior wisdom. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Monomania of Exalta- tion). Sopor. — The condition of deep sleep; lethargy or stupor (almost). Soporific. See Hypnotics. Sorby-Beck Microspectro- SCOpe.—An instrument which can be placed in the tube of the microscope in place of the ordinary ocular and used for the spectroscopic examination of the blood; the blood may be conveniently placed in what is called a Sorby tubular cell for this examination. SordeS.—The crusts which form on the teeth in diseases {e.g. typhoid fever) accom- panied by great exhaustion (Lat. sordere, to be foul). Sore. See Delhi Boil ; Furunculus Ori- ENTALis ; Natal Sorb ; Benjdeh Sore ; etc. Sore Mouth. See Stomatitis. Sore Nipples. See Puerperium, Path- ology {Affections of Breasts and Nipplei). Sore Throat. See Diphtheria; Pharynx {Acute and Chronic Pharyngitis). Sore, Veldt. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics (Veldt or Natal Sores). Sores, Soft. See Venereal Disease {Soft Sores or Chancroids). Sorrento. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Italian). SorroCCO. — Sickness (resembling sea- sickness) occurring in South America (higher parts); also called puna. Souffle.—A blowing sound heard on listening over the veins of the neck in anaemia, over the uterus in pregnancy and some cases of fibroid tumour {uterine or pilacental souffle), and over the spleen in malaria and leukaemia; the funic souffle is said to be the sound of the blood passing through the compressed umbilical cord of the foetus, but its occurrence is doubtful. See Pregnancy, Diagnosis (Uterine and Funic Souffle). Sound. .See Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Hearing, Qualities of Sound); Physiology, Circulation {Sounds of the Heart). Soup. See Diet {Animal Foods, Soups); Invalid Feeding {Soup-making, Varieties of Soup, etc.). South Africa. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {South Africa). Southey'S Tubes. — Small drainage tubes for carrying off the fluid from the sub- cutaneous tissues in cases of anasarca, etc. See Hydrocephalus {Surgical Treatment); Para- centesis. Soxhlet's Steriliser.—An apparatus for sterilising milk for infant feeding; the bottles of milk stand in boiling water in a metal chamber with a water jacket. See Infant Feeding {Sterilisatioii). Soy Biscuits. 'S'ee Invalid Feeding {Cookery in Diabetes, Soy Flour). Soya Beans.—The beans Soya hispida can be made into a flour which contains very little sugar or starch, and is on that account useful in the dietetic treatment of diabetes. Sozoiodol. — An antiseptic powder, having the formula CgH.2l2(S03H)OH, and used commonly in the form of the sodium, potassium, or lead salt; iodoparaphenol sulphuric acid or di-iodoparaphenol sulphonic acid. Spa. See Balneology {Definition, Spa Treatment); Gout {Treatment, Spa); Mineral Waters {Chalybeate). Space.—A term used in descriptive and regional anatomy for more or less closed-in places inside or on the outside of the body; e.g. the subarachnoid space, the rectovesical space, and the axillary space. Spain. See Balneology {Spain and Portugal). Spansemia or Spanemia.— Hydraemia (Gr. o-Travos, scarce). Spanish Fly. See Cantharides. Spanton's Operation.—A method of treating hernia radically, by passing a sort of corkscrew instrument through the canal. Sparag^muS.—A convulsive seizure (Gr. cTTrapay/xos, a rending); epilepsy. Sparteina.—Sparteine (CisHjgNg) is a