SEWAGE AND DRAINAGE 134 FlQ. 3. yard drainage or for receiving the discharge from down spouts, and the wastes from sinks, lavatories, baths, and laundries. It will be noticed that the one represented is provided with a bucket, which facilitates the removal of any deposit which may take place ; but this, although a useful, is not an essential addition. Fig. 3 represents a syphon trap which is used for disconnect- * y^k. terminal ■ V/X drain from the sewer or cess- pool. It will be noticed that on the house side of the trap an opening is pro- vided, and this should be connected with a surface grating by means of pipes, so as [to act as an inlet for air to pass along the [drain and up the ventilating shaft or shafts at the top end of the system. A better arrange- ment, however, is to construct a manhole at this point (Fig. 4), with which all the tributary drains may be connected as shown, this be- ing the only man- hole in the system which should have an open cover to act as an inlet for ven- tilation. It is Fig. 4. not always pos- sible to obtain a self-cleansing gradient, in which case artificial flushing should be resorted to by means of an automatic flush tank holding from 80 to 100 gallons, which should be adjusted to discharge, say, twice a day. The best tank for this purpose is Field's (see Fig. 5), which discharges by syphonic action even with a drop supply. Cesspools should be avoided where possible, but in rural districts a sewer is not al- ways available with which to connect, and in such cases they may be the only alternative. They should be constructed in brickwork set in cement, and without overflows, a chain pump being provided to allow of the sewage being FIQ. 5. pumped on to land periodically. If suitable land is available, however, and the fall allows of it, the cesspool may be constructed on the principle of the " septic " tank, to be presently described, the effluent being applied to land; or—as an alternative to land—a small biological filter may be constructed in the manner set forth later, the area necessary in the case of a household of from ten to fifteen persons being 2 superficial yards, and the depth 5 to 6 feet. Water-Closets.—In constructing a water-closet attention should be paid to the following points: —(1) At least one wall of the closet should be an outside wall, in which there should be a window, and preferably the apartment should be separated from the house by a short passage with cross ventilation. (2) The apparatus it- self should be provided with an ample water flush, which should not come direct from the service pipe, but from a special cistern connected with the service pipe by means of a ball tap. (3) The soil-pipe should be placed outside the house, being connected with the drain below without the introduction of a trap, and carried up full bore to above the eaves of the house as a ventilator. Between the closet and the soil- pipe there should be an efficient trap, and to avoid the risk of its becoming unsealed by syphonage, an anti-syphonage pipe should be carried from the waste beyond the trap to join the soil-pipe ventilator above the highest junction—a precaution which is specially indi- cated if more than one closet discharges into the same soil-pipe. (4) The soil-pipe, which should not be more than 4 inches in diameter, may be constructed of drawn lead with proper " wiped " joints, or if iron is used the pipe must be sufficiently strong to allow of the joints being caulked with lead, as if putty is used sooner or later the joints will become defective. As regards the apparatus itself, several varieties are met with—good, bad, and indif- ferent. The valve and wash-down are good types; the pan and wash-out are bad types; while the plug closet is not good enough to be classed in the first category, nor bad enough to be included in the second. As space will not allow of a detailed description of each of these types of closet, only the valve and the wash- down will be considered in detail. All things considered, perhaps the valve closet (Fig. 6) is to be preferred to the wash-down (Fig. 7), but if economy has to be considered the latter has the advantage. There is a good deal of mechanism connected with the valve closet, and unless the workmanship is good throughout, sooner or later the apparatus will get out of order; it is important, therefore, in purchasing such a closet to select the very best, which is usually the most expensive; the simplest wash-down closet, therefore, if the design is good, is to be preferred to a cheap valve closet.