SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 291 without any definite injury, such as a sprain, and it seems to be due directly to nerve shock. To quote Mr. Page again, he remarks a very singular fact, namely that " in those cases where severe injury, such as fracture or crush of a limb, has been sustained, followed by the usual signs of shock, it is not nearly so common to see the evidences of general prostration after- wards, as in those cases where there was no physical injury, and the immediate signs of collapse were only slight. The explanation of this anomaly lies in all probability in the fact that, in the one case the collapse is dependent on the injury sustained; and in the other the signs of shock are likely to be delayed in their manifestation, being warded off by the excite- ment of the scene." Thus a patient after a collision may be able to extricate himself, and finding he is uninjured, attends to the wants and hurts of others, and feels nothing until he goes home, when he suddenly collapses. After a day or two he feels better, and then attempts to attend to his work, with the result that he finds that he cannot do it as well as he did. So that, whether there is a definite sprain of the muscles of the back or not, a man may pass into a general condition of hypochondriasis and even melancholia with all its attendant symptoms. And he becomes the subject of "auto-sugges- tion," or, as Charcot terms it, "traumatic suggestion," and lives in the belief that he is physically incapacitated. And finding that his business is being improperly attended to, and thinking that his nervous system is hopelessly shattered, he drifts steadily downwards. Traumatic Hysteria.—As an immediate result of the railway accident—even without injury and due entirely to the fright—the patient has a definite hysterical attack, or he may be re- duced to a condition of semi-unconsciousness, or be dazed, and may persuade himself that certain things have happened to him which onlookers know not to be the case. Either the hysterical attack or the state of unconsciousness may be followed immediately or at a later period by paresis, or definite paralysis of hysterical origin, and these symptoms are entirely of cerebral origin. Difficulties may and do arise in the diagnosis of this condition, and unless the diagnosis is quite clear, very serious errors may be made in the treatment. It is essential, too, to be quite clear that the paraplegia is of an hysterical nature and not organic, and if with the para- plegia there be combined hemiansesthesia, with loss or diminution of the special senses on the same side, the diagnosis is fairly clear. In some cases, too, there will be anaesthesia of a limb terminating abruptly at a definite level. Such an ansesthesia is entirely different from that which obtains where the loss of sensation is due to involvement of the spinal nerves, either at their origin or in their course. Severe sensory dis- turbances come on immediately after an injury, and may disappear with equal rapidity ] but there can be no doubt that to the patient they are extremely alarming, and then the phase of auto-suggestion comes into play, and we have the clinical picture of hysteria. But it must not be supposed that the patient is a malingerer because he is thus affected. To him the symp- toms are very real, and his exact condition is that he cannot will to carry out functions which are only temporarily in abeyance. Since the question of compensation almost invariably comes to the front in these matters, the patient often feels worried as to the amount he is legally entitled to. He is often appre- hensive of the publicity of an action, while the necessary examinations by surgeons concentrate his attention on his condition. Therefore, it is not to be wondered at that a very fair propor- tion of such patients get well immediately the question of compensation has been arranged, and the kindest form of treatment is that which will induce the patient to come to as speedy a settlement as possible of his claims. It will be gathered from what has been said, that it would be very unfair to suppose that because the symptoms improve after the settlement of the claim the patient is a malingerer; for cases are recorded where such patients have steadily gone down hill, and death has supervened from ex- haustion. Such a case is recorded by Thorburn.^ At the same time the possibility that an unjust or excessive claim is being made on insufficient grounds should always be borne in mind by the medical expert, and much acumen and wide experience are needed to detect attempted frauds. The treatment of so-called railway spine is readily summed up. Sprains of the back should be treated on the lines usual for sprains, while if nerve symptoms supervene soporific and narcotic drugs, such as bromide of potassium and morphia, are best avoided. Change of scene, fresh air, abundance of good food, and massage, a proper amount of rest, together with the removal of the worry incidental to the question of compensation, often work wonders. The Lumbar Plexus.—The lumbar plexus is formed by the anterior primary branches of the first, second, third, and half the fourth nerves, and they do not interlace, but arise by two roots from two neighbouring spinal nerves. It may be irritated or compressed by injuries of the psoas, severe sprains of the back, and by tumours of the vertebrae, and its upper part by an aneurysm of the descending aorta. It may also be irritated by a psoas abscess. Its branches may be injured in fracture of the pelvis, by bullet-wounds, sprains, contusions, and fractures of the lower extremity. They may be compressed by pelvic tumours, and the obturator nerve by an obturator hernia. If ^ Contribution to the Surgery of the Spinal Cord, p. 223.