492 SYRINGOMYELIA bourhood. There is no pain, redness, or fever. Enlargement of all the tissues of the joint occurs, and often an extensive formation of new bone takes place in an irregular manner in this newly formed tissue. The ends of the bones in the neighbourhood of the joint may remain enlarged ; commonly, however, atrophic changes take place, there is erosion of the cartilages, and wasting with, it may be, dislocation of the head of the bone. The following table, which is taken from Schlesinger's work, illustrates the frequency with which the different joints are affected in tabes and syringomyelia :— Syringomyelia. Tabes dorsal (Biidinger). Shoulder . 52 38 Elbow . . 39 9 Wrist . 22 ? Thumb . 2 (fing er joints) 8 Hip . 6 59 Knee . 10 110 Ankle . . 8 25 Jaw . 4 2 Sterno-clavicular . 6 ? Acromio-clavicular . 1 ? Total . . 148 (150?) 251 It is interesting to note that whereas in tabes 80 per cent of the arthropathies occur in the lower extremities, in syringomyelia the relative frequency is almost exactly reversed. In syringomyelia trophic changes in the hones sometimes occur, and spontaneous fractures, in- volving usually the bones of the upper limbs, are occasionally seen. The healing process in these spotitaneous fractures is often very slow. Scoliosis and kyphosis in the dorsal region of the spinal column are very frequently met with in syringomyelia, and although often of slight degree the deformity thus produced may be con- siderable. The spinal curvature may be in part due to weakness of the dorsal muscles, but trophic changes in the vertebrje are prob- ably concei-ned in its production. Marie and Astie have drawn attention to a not uncommon deformity of the chest—the thorax en bateau, in which there is a sinking in of the anterior thoracic wall. Enlargement of the hands and feet similar to that seen in acromegaly is some- times met with. Bladder symptoms and disorder of the rectal sphincter seldom occur until the late stages, except in those rare cases in which the lumbo- sacral cord is first affected. The sexual functions ai-e very rarely inter- fered with. In quite a number of cases there are signs of paralysis of the cervical sympathetic on one, often on both sides. There is a diminution in the size of the pupil on that side, with commonly some impairment of the light reflex, narrowing of the palpebral fissure, and retraction of the eyeball. The pupil fails to dilate with cocaine or when the eye is shaded. The sweat secre- tion is diminished on that side of the face and neck. Bulbar symptoms are not uncommon and are often unilateral. Paralysis of one-half of the palate and tongue and of one vocal cord is a common association. Facial paralysis is some- times seen. Alterations in articulation depend- ing on these various paralyses may be present. Nystagmus is fairly frequent, and occasionally some of the external ocular muscles are para- lysed. Vision is not usually interfered with. The optic discs are almost always normal. The fields of vision rarely show pathological changes. In most of those cases where there has been peripheral contraction an hysterical element has been present. The symptoms in syringomyelia vary ac- cording to the position of the lesion. Thus Schlesinger recognises four types: (a) cervical, (6) dorso-lumbar, (c) sacro-lumbar, and {d) bulbo-medullary. Further, great differences occur in the clinical picture of the disease, according to the pre- pondei-ance of individual symptoms; thus in one case the muscular wasting, in another sensory changes, while in another trophic al- terations form the most striking feature. Diagnosis. —• There is no single symptom which is absolutely pathognomonic of syringo- myelia. The form of dissociated anaesthesia which occurs in this disease and constitutes its most constant and characteristic symptom may be met with in hysteria and occasionally in a peripheral neuritis. A pure dissociated anaesthesia of the syringo- myelic type accompanied by a slowly progressing muscular atrophy can only depend upon a pro- gressive intra-spinal lesion, sj'^ringomyelia, or other central new formation. If in addition there are characteristic vaso- motor and trophic changes, the diagnosis of central gliosis (syringomyelia) is practically assured. Further evidence is forthcoming if the distribution of the symptoms is such as to point to the cervico-dorsal region of the cord being the seat of disease, for it must be remem- bered that this is the region most commonly affected. Such symptoms are wasting of the hand muscles, anaesthesia of the upper limbs and thorax, sympathetic paralysis, spinal curva- ture, spastic paraplegia, etc. Great differences occur both as regards the nature and the distribution of the symptoms. In one case muscular atrophy, in another sensory changes, or again trophic lesions, pain- less whitlows, cutaneous bullae, etc., may con- stitute the most striking feature at the time the case comes under observation. It must not be forgotten that, although the