287 SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF itself, but on account of the likelihood of damage to the spinal cord in severe cases. Contusions which appear to be of little import- ance have been followed by cord symptoms in the course of a few days, and in some instances of severe contusion, where death has followed, the cord has been found completely disorganised by hiemorrhage into its substance. If the cord be not involved, the contusion follows the ordinary course of such an accident elsewhere, except that frequently there are complaints of considerable stiffness in the back extending over a long period. If sensory or motor dis- orders appear, especially if the action of the bladder or rectum be interfered with, then the case demands a correct diagnosis and additional care. Sprains of the Spine.—These vary very widely in their severity. Thus in the mildest degree the muscles and their tendinous attachments are involved, and then there is merely a little stiffness and tenderness over the affected area. In severer cases the ligaments may be torn and an extra-dural haemorrhage may follow, espec- ially if the ligamenta subflava be torn; and many cases of so-called concussion of the spinal cord followed by grave nervous symptoms are due to a temporary crush of the cord at the time of injury, accompanied by some displace- ment of the bones, these immediately after the accident recoiling to their normal position.^ The symptoms are pain (aggravated by move- ment), stiffness, often localised tenderness and discoloration from effusion of blood. The tenderness on pressure is generally found over several vertebrae, and patients complain that they feel extremely weak in the back. Some affirm that it is impossible to stand up. The prognosis of the case depends largely upon whether the cord and nerve roots are injured. In cases of slight sprain the symptoms pass off after a few days. When the injury has been more severe, symptoms of cord-mischief may make their appearance. The treatment, both of sprains and contusions when uncomplicated, is summed up by rest, frictions or rubbing with sedative liniments, massage, and when the patient gets about, the support of a bandage or strap is useful to him. If there be evidence of injury to the cord absolute rest from the first is essential, and every attention must be paid to the condition of the lungs, the bladder, the rectum, and the prevention of bed-sores. The patient should not get up until the symptoms have passed off. It must not be forgotten that a large proportion of sprains of the spine, especially those occurring from railway accidents, are followed by symp- toms of a neurasthenic or hysterical character, and the condition is known as "traumatic hysteria" or "railway spine," but it is better called "railway brain," as in many cases it is a 1 Thorburn, Surgery of the Spinal Cord, p. 12, functional affection of the higher cerebral centres. Fracture and Fracture-Dislocation of the Spine.—Fracture of the Spine. — Fortunately this severe accident is of comparatively rare occurrence. About two-thirds of the cases are fracture-dislocation, and the remaining third are made up of pure fractures and dislocations. The cervical and dorsal spines are almost equally affected by fracture, but in the lumbar spine it is much less common. It is stated that the vertebrae most frequently injured are the fifth and sixth cervical, the last dorsal, and the first lumbar ; but in the cervical spine pure dislocation is more common than pure fracture, while the reverse is the case in the dorsal and lumbar regions. Fracture is more common in males than in females owing to the former being more exposed to injury. It is due to direct and indirect violence : direct, such as a blow on the back by the impact of a falling body, or by a bullet; indirect, by forcible flexion or ex- tension of the spine. In about one-eighth of the cases fracture of the arches is found, and this occurs more often than is supposed to be the case. It is important to recognise this, bearing in mind the possibility of the theca vertebralis being punctured by fragments, and of relieving pressure on the cord by laminectomy. In fracture we find:— (a) Fracture of the spinous processes, as- sociated with pain on movement, local tender- ness, mobility, crepitus, and alteration of the direct line of the processes. {b) Fractures of the laminae, in which both laminae may be separated or only one. In the former event the laminae may be driven on to the cord and cause compression. The condition is recognised by crepitus, pain, and depression at the site of injury. Separation of one lamina may be caused by a fall on the shoulder or side of the head, and is difficult to diagnose. (c) Fracture of the transverse processes is largely due to gunshot wounds. (d) In some cases of sprains and contusions, in which there are signs that haemorrhage has occurred in the canal, it is supposed that a fissure of a vertebral body has occurred. (e) The same remark applies to a partial separation of the intervertebr-al discs. It is possible that one vertebra starts from its place, causing damage to the cord, and then recoil of the vertebra takes place. (/) The bodies of the displaced vertebrae are splintered or partially crushed. Fracture-Dislocation.—In this injury there is also great damage to the soft parts. Muscles and their attachments are torn, ligaments ruptured, the intervertebral discs partially severed, and much haemorrhage takes place into the extraspinal structures, and when the antero-posterior common ligament is ruptured into the vertebral canal. As a rule the