320 SPRUE beef, raw meat, beef jelly, calf's-foot jelly, or even plain jelly. As a drink, plain hot water in considerable quantity may be given with benefit: as alternative drinks, whey, made b}-- precipitat- ing the curd of milk by rennet; rice water, the water in which rice is boiled (conjee) ; rice tea, made by roasting rice until it is brown, and then making an infusion by pouring boiling water over it. As the patient's strength improves, as in all probability it will, the intervals of diet may be increased, and raw meat sandwiches given occa- sionally. Soon finely minced beef, passed thrice or oftener through the mincing machine, beaten up into a thick cream with a little water and with salt added, is to be gradually " warmed " in a saucepan, and given in small quantities according to the strength of the patient. As the condition improves a baked apple may be added to the diet, and the simplest form of diabetic bread. Subsequently the patient is to be kept on underdone meat, chicken cream, steamed chicken, game ; and, if the diarrhoea is in abeyance, rice, well steamed and dried, is tolerated when the simplest form of milk pudding will cause diari'hoea or flatulence. Should the patient not be alarmingly feeble, he may be placed on meat, thorovighly minced, and care- fully " warmed " at once, giving 5 oz. at a time and thrice daily. Between meals the patient is to have beef jelly, chicken jelly, or plain jelly to satisfy the cravings of appetite, for he must never be allowed to be hungry. When the patient wakes at night he must be fed system- atically. The very first meal of a " meaty " nature will bring down a bile-stained motion. Pent up so long, there is a tendency for bile at first to cause looseness, which, however, must not induce the practitioner to change the diet, or to administer drugs whereby to check the diarrhoea. It is an axiom in the treatment of sprue that astringents, given with the purpose of arresting diarrhoea, are a mistake. When the diarrhoea increases, or the stools show signs of fermentation, the writer invariably administers a teaspoonful or two of castor oil, with the object of sweeping away the offending material, instead of attempt- ing to retain it in the bowel to work further mischief. The shrunken liver will, by this treatment, be found to increase rapidly in size, the disten- sion or retraction of the abdomen will subside, but the cure will not be effectual until the liver regains its normal size. As adjuncts to this system of diet the patient must be kept in bed, it may be for a few days only. A wet pack, warm at first, but used cold as soon as possible, should be applied to the abdomen night and morning for two hours at a time. The "pack" must be kept firmly in place, so as to exercise some compression, by a large bath-towel wrapped round the body, pulled tightly, and secured by safety-pins. Between the applications of the wet pack a pad of flannel or cotton-wool, also tightly supported by a body-bandage, should be placed over the abdomen. The Fruit Cure.—The good obtained by Van der Burg in Java by freely administering such fruits as strawberries, apricots, peaches, apples, pears, bananas, grapes, and even such fruits as mangostenes, melons, etc., peculiar as it may seem, is commendable as a reserve method of treatment. Thin found strawberries efficacious. The rationale of the treatment may consist in the fact that a scorbutic element is present in sprue, a condition by no means unlikely. Drugs play but a small part in the treatment of sprue. Bael fruit has been tried in British India and in Siam. The fruit must, however, be recently prepared from perfectly fresh fruit; it is doubtful if the preparations made from the dried fruit, or that have been long kept, are of value. Santonin, in the opinion of Begg, in Hankow, China, holds a high place as a remedial agent in sprue. He insists that the santonin should be of the yellow (impure) variety, or rendered yellow by exposure to light. Begg first administers a dose of castor oil, and then gives six doses of santonin of three grains each. Other drugs, such as bismuth, papain, mercurial salts, sulphuric acid, opium, vegetable charcoal, have all been employed, whereby to treat symp- toms as they arise, but with no specific intent. The local condition of the mouth is at times so troublesome as to require relief. Painting the tongue with 1 to 10 per cent of solution of cocaine before taking ^food is rational and efficacious in allaying pain and allowing food to be taken. Rinsing out the mouth when there is much buccal ulceration with 1 per cent solution of carbolic acid affords relief and pro- motes asepsis. In place of carbolic acid, mouth washes of alum, chlorate of potash, and even common salt may be tried. Van der Burg recommends rinsing the mouth out with a tincture made from the rind of the Heterocarpus indicus. When ulcers are troublesome, touching their surfaces with sulphate of copper favours a return to a healthy action. Hill Diarrhcea Observations made in many parts of the world point to the prevalence of an intestinal flux when a high altitude is reached. At the hill stations in India this phenomenon has been more frequently observed than elsewhere. This is, in all probability, owing to the fact that more Europeans seek the hill stations in Northern India than in any other country ; and, perhaps, the fact that the heights are quickly reached from plains where intense heat prevails, serves to increase the tendency to the complaint in this part of the world. The etiology of hill diarrhcea is not known.