STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 375 milder cases in which perhaps the hfemorrhage is quite absent. To some of these cases the name gastralgia is possibly more applicable, especially since some of the pain and vomiting even with definite ulcer are probably due to a hyperfesthetic state of the gastric mucosa. If the pain be relieved by food the condition is most likely to be one of hyperchlorhydria. Much reliance may be placed on the strictly localised character of the pain and tenderness, for though this is not invariable it scarcely if ever char- acterises the pain of other gastric affections or of lesions of neighbouring parts. It is specially serviceable in helping to distinguish ulcer from cancer of the stomach, together with due con- sideration for the age of the patient, the excess of hydrochloric acid in the stomach contents in ulcer, and that the blood brought up is oftener " coffee-ground" than bright in character in cancer, and is seen late in the disease and not at the outset. But these features are less distinctive when the ulcer is one of long dura- tion in a person over middle life, and the diagnosis becomes exceedingly difficult when an epigastric tumour is to be felt, such as a dense inflammatory thickening might give rise to. This is the more important as much benefit may result from operation in the one case, and harm rather than good in the other. It is needful to consider the whole bearings of any particular case, especially its duration, the mode of onset, the development of a cachexia or otherwise, as well as the special points of difference to which attention has been directed. The differentiation of gastric from duodenal wlcer will be more conveniently referred to under the description of the latter condition. Prognosis.—The uncertainty of the course and termination in any case presenting the symptoms of gastric ulcer will be apparent from the foregoing account. The greater number recover completely, although there may be recurrence before good health is fully established ; very many exhibit symptoms more or less severe for many years, and finally suc- cumb to one or other of the complications which may be associated with the ulcer or even follow on its healing; and lastly, a minority die within a short time, days or weeks, from the recognised onset of the disease. Statistics of these several groups are very various, and afford but little help in forecasting the probable course of any particular case. It has been estimated that 5 per cent of the entire popiila- tion suffer from ulcer of the stomach, and that in 80 per cent of these haemorrhage occurs, about 7 per cent of which are fatal, and in nearly 3 per cent death is due to perforation. But too much importance must not be attached to these figures. Of the proportion of recovered cases, and of those which remain chronic in- valids, statistics are wanting. The most definite assertion that can be made is that the severest case of htemorrhage may recover, and the ap- parently mildest case may be rapidly fatal from perforation, though surgery is doing much to reduce the risks of both these accidents. The deteriorated health induced by the malady may favour the invasion of tuberculosis. Duodenal Ulcer Although of commoner occurrence than is usually supposed, this affection is less frequent than ulcer of the stomach, which it closely resembles in its clinical features, as it also coi-responds in anatomical characters and patho- geny. Mention has been made of the singular difference in respect to age and sex incidence ; and the disease is far less frequently associated with chlorosis than the stomach affection. Symptoms.—As with gastric ulcer, not a few cases exhibit no symptoms until the occurrence of a fatal htemorrhage, or more often perforation, which is followed by death within twenty-four or forty-eight hours; and the frequency of these "latent" cases is further demonstrated by the not uncommon occurrence of cicatrices in the duodenum found post-mortem, with no history of any symptoms pointing to the exist- ence of an ulcer during life. Sometimes, no doubt, such cases have exhibited vague and indefinite dyspeptic trouble, pain, discomfort, a sense of fulness, impaired appetite, etc., which have been attributed to a mild, subacute, or chronic gastritis (dyspepsia), and have been paid but little attention to, and in the absence of more definite indications it could not well have been otherwise. When, however, symptoms are well marked they follow, as said, those manifested by a gastric ulcer, with such differences as serve as grounds, often far from certain, for a differential diagnosis. Pain which exhibits all varieties of character and severity, from a very moderate dull ache to being severe and agonising, is less constant in its occurrence than when the stomach is affected, and as a rule is experienced one to three hours after food is taken. It is seldom very definitely localised in situation, and is felt more generally over the right hypochondrium rather than in the epigastrium, extending into the right loin, and is certainly less often referred to the back, though it may be felt in the right shoulder. Pressure over the painful region may increase the discomfort or the reverse. Vomiting is much less frequent than in gastric ulcer, nor does it afford any special relief to the pain, and like that symptom occurs several hours after food. It may be altogether absent, or only occur once or twice in the course of the malady, hence its diagnostic value is of much less importance. The vomit may contain traces of altered blood, possibly also of bile, and there is said to be no such constant excess of hydrochloric acid as is met with in the stomach affection.