TALMA'S OPERATION 510 Talma's Operation.—An operative method of treating cirrhosis of the liver; omentopexy or omentosplenopexy. See Drum- MOND-MORISON OPERATION. TalO-.—-In compound words talo- (Lat. talus, the heel or ankle) means relating to the ankle or to the astragalus; e.g. talo-calcanean, talo-tihial, etc. TaiTiar Indien.—A favourite prepara- tion of senna (confection) coated with chocolate, and easily taken by children as a purgative. See Senna Indica {Confectio Sennce). Tamari nd US.—The fruit of Tamai-indm indica is a constituent of the Confectio Sennce mentioned above and of the Tamar Indien; it contains citric, acetic, and tartaric acids, potas- sium tartrate, and sugar, and it acts as a mild purgative, suitable for children (dose, 1 dr.). Tambour. — A drum-like instrument forming part of the recording apparatus in many physiological experiments, e.g. cardiog- raphy. See Physiology, Circulation {Changes in the Position of the Heart). Tampon.—A plug or pledget consisting of cotton-wool, marine lint, or other material saturated in an astringent, sedative, or anti- phlogistic drug, and inserted into one of the cavities {e.g. the vagina or nose). See Uterus, Inflammation of {Treatment). Tannalbin.—A tannic acid preparation {tannin albuminate), forming a yellowish, odour- less, and tasteless preparation whose action is on the intestine {e.g. in chronic intestinal catarrh); its dose is 15 grains as an intestinal astringent, Tannic Acid.—Acidum tannicum, or tannin, or digallic acid (Cj^HjaOf,, SHgO), is a markedly astringent acid obtained from galls; it consists of glistening brownish scales, is soluble in water or alcohol, has an astringent taste and an acid reaction; its dose (when given internally) is 2 to 5 grains; there are three official preparations — glycerinum acidi tannici, suppositoria acidi tannici, and trochiscus acidi tannici; it is used both externally and internally as an astringent (coagulating albu- men) and haemostatic in many inflammatory and relaxed conditions (tonsillitis, pharyngitis, diarrhoea, ulcers, piles, skin diseases, urethritis, etc.), and as an antidote in poisoning by alkaloids and tartar emetic ; its incompatibles are mineral acids, alkalies, alkaloids, gelatin, salts of anti- mony, lead, silver, and per-salts of iron. See Astringents ; Prescribing {Incompatibility). Tannig^en.—Diacetyl tannin, an astrin- gent, acting like tannalbin on the intestine below the level of the stomach, and used (dose, 10 grains) in chronic diarrhoea. Tan n i n. See Tannic Acid. Tanning.—An offensive trade (leather- making), regulated by the Public Health Act of 1875, by the Pubhc Health (London) Act of 1891, by the Public Health (Ireland) Act of 1878, and by the Public Health (Scotland) Act of 1897. Tan n of or m.—A condensation product of gallotannic acid and formaldehyde (CjgHjoOjg), which differs in its action from tannin by not uniting with the albuminoids in the stomach ; it is used in intestinal catarrh (dose, 4 to 8 grains), and externally in burns, skin diseases, etc., as an ointment or dusting powder. Tan none.—A condensation product of tannin and urotropin {Q^^^^l:ii^02-j), used in intestinal catarrh, etc., in doses of 15 grains. TannOSal. — A combination of tannin and creosote, which is believed to be decom- posed in the intestine into these two drugs and to have their effect Tansy. See Toxicology {Abortifacients). TapeinOCephaly. — The anomaly in cranial formation in which the vault is low and flattened (Gr. raTreii/ds, lying low). Tapetum Nigrum.—A layer of pig- ment cells in the retina. See Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Sense of Sight, Anatomy of the Eye). Tapeworms. See Parasites {Cestodes). Tapliephobia.—Morbid fear of being buried alive (Gr. ra^os, burial, (f>6fios, fear). Tapioca. See Diet {Roots ajid Tubers); Invalid Feeding {In Convalescence). Tapote ment.—A form of massage or manipulation in which tapping of the skin is performed in various ways. See Massage. Tapping. — Aspiration or paracentesis; drawing oft' fluid from a cavity, e.g. in ascites. See Ascites {Treatment); Meningitis, Tuber- culous {Treatment); Ovaries, Diseases of {Ovarian Cysts, Treatment); Pleura, Surgical Affections of {Paracentesis Thoracis); Scrotum AND Testicle, Diseases op {Hydrocele, Treat- ment). Tar.—There are two official forms of tar. (1) The first is Pix Liquida or wood tar, which is obtained from various species of Pimis; it is a semi-liquid, brownish black in colour, and with a strong odour; the residue after distillation is pitch, a black solid ; tar has many constituents, e.g. oil of turpentine, creosote, phenols, pyro- catechin, xylol, toluol, resins, etc.; if given internally, the dose is 20 to 60 m. (in pill form); there is one official preparation, Unguentum Picis Liquidce. (2) The second form is Ptx