SNAKE-BITES AND POISONOUS FISHES 243 are distinguished by their triangular-shaped head and constricted neck ; the scales on the head are generally small, the loreals (scales between the nasal and anterior ocular) are almost always wanting. The pupil is vertical; the fangs are tubular, large; reserve teeth being present, but no others are found on the short maxillary bones; the tail is rapidly attenuated. The " pit vipers " have triangular heads, but with large scutes on the top; otherwise, as in the true vipers, the poison fangs are very large, the maxillary bones are small and very movable, and the tail ends in a rattle or hard spines. The poisonous Colubrine have smaller heads of regular shape ; the scutes on the top are generally well marked and regular; the "loreals" are usually absent; the maxillary bones are longer, less movable, and the fangs smaller than in the vipers, and they are grooved along the anterior border and not tubular. The pupil of the eye is generally round, and the tail gradually tapers to a point. The Hydrophidoe, or sea snakes, have small heads, with the nostrils on the upper surface. The anterior frontal scutes and loreals are absent, the pupils are round, the ventral shields are usually absent, and the tail is flattened from side to side, the tongue is short, and the poison fangs are small and grooved. The great distinction between non-venomous and poisonous snakes is that the former possess two complete rows of small ungrooved teeth on either side of the upper jaw, the outer row, twenty to twenty-four in number, being attached to the maxillary bones, the inner to the palatine ; when they bite they leave characteristic marks. In poisonous snakes the outer row is repre- sented by one or more tubular or grooved fangs, firmly ankylosed to the maxillary bone, which is freely movable; this mobility allows the erec- tion and depression of the fangs. The anterior is always the largest, the others, if present, being reserve teeth. When these snakes bite, they leave usually two punctures only. The Venom is secreted by a compound race- mose gland, which Gtinther describes as being homologous with the parotid glands of mammals, having large alveoli which act as receptacles for the fluid; these glands are placed behind the orbit above the angle of the mouth; they are invested with a dense fibrous sheath, being also covered by the masseter muscles. The excretory duct passes forwards, opening into the base of the sheath of mucous membrane covering the fang, being here bent at an acute angle, so as to face the front border of the tooth, thus allowing the fluid to flow freely down the tube or groove as the case may be. When the snake opens its mouth to bite, the muscles act on the maxillary bones and erect the fangs; as the jaw closes on the part bitten the masseter and pterygoids compress the poison glands so that the venom is forced down the duct into the tooth and injected into the wound. The firmer the hold obtained, the greater the quantity of venom injected, and the greater the danger. Non-poisonovis snakes also have rudiments of this gland, which secretes a poison not in suffi- cient quantities to be harmful, but sufficient to render them resistant to the toxic eflects of other poisonous snakes when bitten. (Eraser.) In 1896 Prof. Eraser asserted that the serum of poisonous snakes possesses antitoxic powers, and presumes that this was acquired by the snake swallowing its own venom. Cunningham later disproved this, showing that the natural immunity of the snake is quite distinct from the artii^cial immunity which is established in other animals as the result of continued cumula- tive treatment by cobra venom, and that it is unconnected with any material of the nature of an antitoxin. He found that cobra serum had no antidotal effect on Daboia venom ; he does not therefore believe that the immunity of snakes is due to the swallowing of their own venom. The fact, however, remains, that most reptiles and amphibians possess a high degree of resist- ance as a natural property, quite independent of any process of self-protection. One of Cun- ningham's snakes readily resisted an amount of cobra venom enough to kill one hundred fowls, yet its serum had no protective power; its blood indeed was highly toxic for one week after, enough to rapidly kill a fowl when injected. The immunity of snakes to venom of other and the same species is not absolute, though general, for I have seen a Daboia russelli in captivity attack a second in the same cage, which was found dead soon after. Also any one who has seen a fight between a hamadryad and a rat snake " Dhamin " of equal or larger size will remember the gradual poisoning of the latter, which nevertheless meanwhile inflicts much local injury on the less powerfully toothed but successful adversary. A species of Bungaras or " krait" of Scinde will kill and swallow the very venomous " fursa" or Echis carinata. Cunningham further believes that the degrees of susceptibility to some extent run parallel with the respiratory acquirements, the slow-breath- ing, hybernating reptiles and lizards having the greatest resisting power. The mongoose is re- markably resistant to cobra poison, requiring from 10 to 25 times as much venom per kilo as a rabbit to produce lethal eff'ects Elliot believes that the success of this animal in fighting cobras depends on (1) its great agility; (2) its habit of "setting up" its fur, thus deluding the snake as to the vulnerable part. Its immunity is due to the habit it has of seizing the snake by the head, and often by so doing incising the gland with its sharp teeth, causing the venom to escape and be swallowed by the mongoose; this would also reduce the