194 SKIN—PARASITES rhoeic conditions are diffuse, and so are some ringworms, but in the latter the diseased hairs, and so forth, would put one on the right road. Eczema of the scalp may sometimes compli- cate and mask a ringworm. In such a case the microscope will be found invaluable. In psoriasis the examination of other parts of the body, especially the elbows and knees, would prevent mistakes. Alopecia areata is in smoothly bald circular areas, or in the form of a band round the head, either without a vestige of hair, or in recovering cases with a very fine lanugo growth. The characteristic point of exclamation hairs (!) of alopecia areata should be looked for in active spreading patches, especially at the borders. Trichophyton megalosporon endothrix.—In this form the patches are not always so well defined, and develop more slowly. As a rule they are smaller, vary more in shape, and are but slightly scaly. The stumps are few and far between, and require careful looking for. They are brittle, and, as a rule, break off" short very near or at the level of the scalp, in the latter case looking like black dots. But stumps one-fourth of an inch may occasionally be found. There is no powdery sheath as in the microsporon form. The patches are sometimes quite bare (bald ringworm); in others the denudation is incomplete, with a certain amount of ill-nourished hair still present. Again, patches may be some- what reddened and slightly crusted in neglected, dirty cases. Very small, bare satellite patches are sometimes observed. The chief microscopical character oi this parasite is the arrangement of the very short segments (not strictly spores) of the mycelial filaments in chains, situated inside the hair (hence endothrix). This sharply diff"erentiates it from microsporon Audouini. In the former the "spores" are somewhat larger (hence megalosporon), but the difference in size is not a point to lay much stress upon in practice. The "sporulated" mycelial filaments run more or less parallel to the hair-shaft, and when plentiful they are closely applied to one another. The ladder-like appearance or squareness of the "spores" (or short segments) has been insisted on as opposed to the barrel-shaped form of corresponding structures in the ectothrix tricho- phyton, but this is no doubt merely a matter of position due to the situation of the endothrix within the hair. In advanced disease of a stump the fungus may break through and come to be situated partly outside the hair. The parasite in such cases is sometimes called trich. meg. endo-ectothrix. But, according to Sabouraud, the endothrix fungus is only met with in man, the endo-ectothrix being of animal origin. Cultural Appearances.—On maltose agar the growth is circular, radiating, white, and raised in the centre at first, but with age becoming yellowish in tint and subsiding in the centre, giving rise to a crateriform appearance. Occa- sionally the growth has a violet hue, which Bodin says is of frequent occurrence in Italy. He gives this fungus the name of trichophyton violaceum of Sabouraud. Differential Diagnosis.—In this kind of ring- worm the bald patches, which are sometimes seen, must be distinguished from alopecia areata. The points in favour of the former would be the brittle short stumps or dots, exhibiting the endothrix fungus, and the absence of point of exclamation hairs (!). Kerion.—In this condition the reaction caused by the fungus is very marked. It is really a pustular folliculitis, usually due, in my experi- ence, to trichophyton megalosporon ectothrix, giving rise to a well-defined suppurating patch, sometimes very large, markedly raised, more or less convex, occasionally dome - shaped, with fluctuation, but there is no surrounding indura- tion. The stumps and hairs are loose in the follicles, and can be readily removed. Pressure gives exit to thick, glairy sero-pus. Trichophyton megalosporon ectothrix is the parasite of this form of ringworm. Microscopic- ally, the mycelial filaments are situated outside the hair, and are " sporulated" in a chain-like manner, the individual short segments being somewhat barrel-shaped. The fungus, by dis- integrating the shaft, may penetrate into the hair. Trich. meg. endothrix and microsporon have been described as occurring in kerion. Cultural Characters.—On maltose agar the growth of trich. meg. ectothrix is of an opaque dead white, with a small raised button-like centre, from which the fungus radiates outwards in a stellate manner, presenting a sprinkled powdery appearance at the periphery. Differential Diagnosis.—A kerion has a super- ficial appearance to a carbuncle, but the absence of an indurated border and of the purplish hue would prevent a mistake which has been made. The fact that the patient is a child is of im- portance. Nor must it be taken for an abscess. Attention to the details given above should make an error impossible. Etiology.—Kingworm of the scalp is a con- tagious disease due to parasitic fungi, hypho- mycetes. In families and schools it may spread in a most discouraging manner, either from child to child, or through contaminated head- gear, brushes, and so forth. Ringworm may also be contracted from animals. Age.—Tinea tonsurans usually aff'ects children, but very exceptionally it may occur in adults. It is important to bear the latter point in mind, and in a doubtful case of the kind a microscopical examination should never be neglected. Treatment and Prognosis.—Ringworm of the scalp is a very difficult disease to treat, and requires much care and patience on the part of