SYPHILIS 462 has been acquired at the same time as a soft sore (see art. Venereal Disease), and it is by no means an infrequent lesion. The soft sore runs its usual course as an ulcer, secreting pus until about the third week, when the ulcer begins to look less deep, whilst the secretion diminishes in quantity and becomes thinner and more viscid. The floor of the ulcer loses its irregular appearance and becomes flatter, whilst the edges are no longer undermined. This lessening in the depth and circumference of the ulcer is due to the development of an induration beneath it and around it, for such a sore can readily be raised from the underlying tissue, and feels of gristly hardness if it be pinched up between the finger and thumb. If the ulcer be kept clean its surface becomes smooth and glistening, the discharge gradually diminishes, and scarring takes place, often without any diminution of the induration. The induration usually disappears after a longer or shorter period, but it may persist owing to the conver- sion of the inflammatory tissue into scar tissue. The indurated or sclerotic oedema is a rarer form of initial lesion, which is found in women on the labium majus, and in men as an infect- ing balanitis. The condition is due to a slow and painless swelling of the part involved until the labium or the prepuce is uniformly thickened and indurated. The dry scaling papule is another rare form of primary lesion which has been most often seen as a result of experimental inoculation with syphilis when care has been taken to keep the part free from irritation. A sharply defined papule appears at the seat of inoculation at the end of the incubation period. It is dark or reddish brown in colour, round or oval in shape, and elastic in consistence. The induration is slight, it does not ulcerate, and gradually sub- sides, leaving a slight violet-coloured or brown spot without any cicatrix. The silvery spot has been described by Dr. Eobert W. Taylor of New York as a very un- iisual initial manifestation of syphilis. He says that it generally occurs on the glans and on the lips of the meatus, and at first it looks as if a spot of mucous membrane no larger than a pin's head had been touched with carbolic acid or with nitrate of silver. This peculiar staining of the superficial epithelial cells is alone evident even when the tissue is closely examined with a magnifying glass. The silvery lesion increases slowly but visibly day by day, and preserves its integrity of surface, whilst its base becomes more and more indurated until it reaches a maximum, when it gradually disappears, giving place to a smooth shiny surface like that of the chancrous erosion. Any form of hard chancre may become gan- grenous, may slough, or may be attacked by phagedsena in unhealthy or uncleanly persons. The appearance of a hard sore is always followed in a week or ten days by an enlarge- ment of the neighbouring lymphatic glands, and this infection of the lymphatic system is often a valuable help in diagnosis, for it shows that the disease is no longer local. In genital chancres the inguinal glands on the affected side are first affected, but the inflammatory condition soon spreads to the opposite side; in extra- genital chancres the lymphatic gland physiologi- cally nearest the seat of inoculation is the first to become enlarged. The enlargement of the glands has to be inquired for and felt, because there are no symptoms of inflammation, and the patient is often ignorant of its occurrence. In simple cases the enlarged glands remain freely movable both upon themselves and beneath the skin, and one gland of a group is often larger than the rest, but if the chancre is suppurating they are readily converted into abscesses. Many observers have studied the microscopic appearances of a hard sore, and have shown that the characteristic induration is due to a proli- feration of small round cells which occupy the interstices of the true skin beneath and around the seat of inoculation, whilst in some places the deeper layers of the epithelium itself are invaded. Some of the cells, as might be ex- pected, when they are so numerous and compact, undergo degenerative changes similar to those seen in the gummata developed at a later stage of the disease (p. 472). The blood-vessels, both arteries and veins, surrounding the chancre, as well as those at some distance away, are affected uniformly and at a very early stage of the inflam- mation, for the endothelial cells are swollen and proliferating, whilst the walls are infiltrated with the small round cells always found in syphilitic inflammations. The perivascular lymphatics soon become crowded with similar round cells, whilst the lymphatic vessels themselves are enlarged and thickened. It appears, therefore, that the initial inflam- matory lesion of syphilis spreads along the lymphatic spaces in the outer coats of the blood-vessels — the perivascular lymphatics— until the nearest lymphatic glands are reached, and from these glands the inflammation spreads to other glands more remote from the seat of inoculation. The general glandular enlarge- ment, however, is evidence of constitutional in- fection, and is not the result of inflammation spreading from one chain of lymphatics to another. Treatment of Primary Syphilis.—It is prob- able that in the case of syphilis, as in all other inoculable diseases, the virus takes some short time to enter the tissues, and that if any abrasion or sore could be disinfected shortly after inoculation, the fvirther spread of the disease would be arrested. The circumstances under which syphilis is contracted, whether genitally or extra-genitally, are prohibitive of such disinfection, unless perhaps in the case of