11 RICKETS During the second year we have a greater variety of foods at our disposal, such for instance as eggs, scraped raw beef, maiTOw of bone, chicken, and beef tea, as well as cream and whey, light puddings, and thin gruel. It is very possible that the rickety child at this age will digest milk badly, and the tendency of nurses is to give more than it can digest, or, on the other hand, too much thick, starchy food, as bread and butter. Scraped raw beef is of undoubted value, but the quality of the beef should be daily carefully examined, as the risk of tape-worm is considerable, and the writer has seen more than one case in which tape-worm was introduced in quite young children by the use of infected raw beef. Thin sandwiches made with cooked bone marrow are very readily taken by young children. In prescribing a diet for a severe case of rickets in a child eighteen months to two years of age, it should be borne in mind that it cannot digest milk any better than say a healthy infant of four to six months. Mixtures of milk and whey are useful, as the latter contains nearly all the lime and phosphates of the milk. Diet for a Child of Eighteen Months. Rickets severe (no solid food, 20 oz. of whey with 10 oz. of milk)—■ 7.30 A.M.—8 oz. of milk and whey, with the addition of rusks, bread-crumbs, or a table- spoonful of well-boiled oatmeal porridge. 10.30 A.M.—8 oz. of whey and milk. 1.30 P.M.—Beef tea, with shredded underdone beef added, or egg with strips of toast, or finely pounded underdone beef, or mutton and fruit juice, or baked apple pulp. 4.30 P.M.—8 oz. of milk and whey, with some cereal added. 7.30 P.M.—Milk and whey or beef tea. In milder cases, or as improvement takes place, give cream, bacon fat, light puddings, and bread and butter. Of medicines the most important are those which assist digestion and help to secure a daily thorough evacuation of the bowels. Of the former, nitro-hydrochloric acid dil. 1 to 3 minims, liq. euonymin et pepsin 15 to 20 minims, aq. laurocerasi 5 to 10 minims, sp. chloroformi 2 minims, syrup and aq. to 2 drachms, form a useful combination. " Mist, rhei. co." given in conjunction with a dose or two of hyd. c. cret. every week answers well in many cases. For regular and long-continued use as a tonic laxative the syrup cascara sagrad. is the best drug that can be used. Glycerine and oil enemata may at times be necessary, but they are not good for continual use. Cod-liver oil, especially in the form of emulsion, is of unquestioned service, but pei'haps more so in the second year than earlier; and when the digestion is not greatly impaired, lipanin, i.e. olive oil with 6 per cent of oleic acid, is recom- mended by Freyberger instead of cod-liver oil, as it emulsifies better. Iron, arsenic, and iodine are usually given in the anjemic cases with enlarged spleens; or Levico water may be given (blue label) in doses of two to four tablespoonfuls daily; iron somatose, or Hommel's hsematogen, are also useful when iron is indi- cated. Phosphorus has been strongly recommended, especially by Kassowitz, Wegner, and Jacobi, in the treatment of rickets, but it is compara- tively little used in this country. Wegner and Stoeltzner have shown that in animals it produces a sclerosis of bone tissue. Freyberger claims for phosphorus that it is useful in laryngismus in doses of gr. once or twice a day. The following combination may be given : Phosphor. gr., ol. limonis 2 minims, lipanini 3 oz., half a teaspoonful twice daily for a child of two years (Freyberger). The elixir phosphori (B.P.C.) may be given in 10 to 15 drop doses, two or three times daily. Von Mettenheimer has recommended extract of thymus gland in the treatment of rickets, and used it with apparent success, but his success has not been confirmed by others. More recently, Stoeltzner has claimed for the extract of suprarenal gland a specific action in rickets; according to this authority it exerts a marked influence in checking the sweating, influencing favourably the eruption of the teeth, as well as the calcification of bone. In some of the post-mortem examinations made by him on rickety children that had been treated by this extract and had died of some complication, he has, he believes, found evidence of its action in modifying the course of the disease as far as the bone formation was concerned. The dose he uses to commence with is half a five-grain tabloid (B. W. and Co.) daily for a child of 18 lbs. weight. Stoeltzner found the suprarenal extract was of no use in laryngismus ; for the latter he uses phosphorised cod-liver oil. During the second year of life, and sometimes later than this, much difficulty may be ex- perienced in preventing deformities of the limbs and spine. The bones are soft in severe cases of rickets, and the ligaments readily stretch and deformities ensue in spite of much care. In children in hospital confined to their cots, the tibise will bend inwards in their lower thirds from the legs being flexed under them as they sit up in bed. When the child is able to crawl or stand with help, it will want a great deal of looking after and amusing if deformities are to be prevented. In the milder cases seen in private practice the deformities are not usually so severe as those of the hospital class. While splints and cutting operations belong to the domain of the surgeon, and are often required in severe deformities, a good deal can