SKIN—PAEASITES 197 by cultivation on maltose agar, a pure culture being obtained from the first. This shows decisively that trich. meg. ectothrix is a pus pro- ducer on its own account without the interven- tion of pus cocci, and supports Sabouraud's opinion. Etiology.—Tinea circinata may be contracted from children suffering from tinea tonsurans, or from animals. The kerionic cases can often be traced, especially in country districts, to calves, which frequently suffer from ringworm. Diagnosis.—In addition to the above clinical features, a microscopical examination of the scrapings will generally be rewarded by the discovery of fungus. I have examined a number of tinea circinata lesions, and I have come to the conclusion that the kind of fungus, whether rnicrosporon or trichophyton megalosporon, can be made out in the majority of cases by a microscopical examination, the two varieties of trichophyton, endothrix and ectothrix, requiring, however, further differentiation by cultivation. But even in the case of the trichophytons the clinical features of the lesions, together with the microscopical appearances, would help to arrive at a pretty accurate conclusion. The rnicrosporon Audouini appears in the scrapings as coarse and irregularly branching mycelium, varying but slightly in diameter, more so in length, but as a rule running short. The branching occurs laterally at right angles to the main filament, and these branches are usually terminated in a spheroidal manner at their free end. The mycelium exhibits small refractile dots, which are not "spores," but probably fatty particles; and it is generally unsegmented. On the other hand, the megalosporon is found as long, jointed, usually straight, dichotomously branching mycelium, which is here and there sporulated, or more correctly, divided up into very short segments. As to the dichotomous branching, I have seen the two daughter branches spring respectively from divisions of a short mycelial segment (or " spore"), itself longitudinally segmented. The segments vary in length, being shorter the nearer they are to the chain-like or rosary stage. The width varies also, the filaments being at times very slender and plain, or with long segments. As to the above distinctions which I have drawn between rnicrosporon and megalosporon, I have confirmed my observations by cultiva- tions, and also by the examination of tinea circinata scrapings from patients who were also suffering from tinea tonsurans of either undoubted rnicrosporon or trich. megalosporon origin. Differential Diagnosis.—The diagnosis as a rule offers little difficulty, but I have seen the primary patch of pityriasis rosea taken for and treated as a ringworm. Moreover, pityriasis rosea in the generalised eruptive stage some- times occurs in rings scattered about the body, which look something like a multiple tinea circinata. Indeed, Hebra and Kaposi called it herpjes tonsurans maculosus et squamosus, and attributed it to a fungus, but which, as far as I know, they never demonstrated. In pityriasis rosea the eruption about the trunk and upper segments of the limbs, consisting of little finger- nail sized, rosy, very delicately scaly, oval patches distributed in the lines of cleavage about the ribs, with their long axes parallel to the latter, wovild differentiate that disease from multiple ringworm, which occurs in irregularly scattered rings. There is no fungus in pityriasis rosea, which in its development resembles an acute exanthem. There should be little difficulty, with a little care, in distinguishing tinea circinata from a well-defined patch of eczema, and the fact that a fungus was present would clear the matter up at once. Seborrhoea papulosa vel circinata affects the inter-scapular and inter-mammary regions, and it is associated with seborrhoea capitis. The rings are made up of small papules, but they are very small and delicate, and do not spread peripherally after the fairy-ring manner of tinea circinata. On the palms and soles tinea circinata may occur, but it is extremely rare, as dry scaly lesions, which have been mistaken for tertiary palmar and plantar syphilides or a dry eczema. The assistance of the microscope has in such cases cleared up the diagnosis. In the case of multiple small rings, altered by treatment, and especially about the face, the idea of syphilis has also occurred, but the absence of corroborative luetic symptoms and careful examination would prevent such a mistake. Tinea BARBiE.—{Tinea Sycosis; Barber's Itch; Trichophytie sycosiqiie; parasitdre Bartfinne.)— In addition to tinea circinata about the beard, above described, ringworm of this region more frequently presents itself as an irregularly lumpy, swollen, boggy lesion, with distinct pustules scattered about the primary focus ; but discrete pustular and small nodular lesions may also occur in other parts of the beard. This condition corresponds to kerion of the scalp. The brawny inflammation may at times be very marked. The hairs can be readily removed when suppuration has occurred. Diagnosis.—This will usually be assisted by an examination of some of the hairs, when the fungus may be found. In some cases the trich. meg. ectothrix is readily discovered, after a little soaking in liq. potassee, at the first shot as it were, but in others several hairs require to be examined, and repeatedly, before success is attained. Differential Diagnosis. — It differs from coccogenic sycosis (the non-parasitic sycosis, as