SENILE INSANITY 121 recurring, parsesthesiee, ansesthesise, ataxic signs in the lower limbs, and transitory paresis or loss of power over the sphincters, all belong to this class. Epileptoid seizures, and even true epilepsy, may develop, and are always of grave import. There is a third group probably due to toxic absorption : slight fever accompanied by loss of appetite and even refusal of food, confusion of ideas passing gradually into a mild degree of stupor or hebetude. The condition lasts only for twenty-four to forty-eight hours. It is probably a milder degree of the toxic con- dition which forms the third group in the delirium of collapse. Dementia.—Dementia, or senile dotage, is the termination of life in most individuals. So common is it that its lesser degrees are accounted almost normal by the large proportion of people, and those who have retained their mental power unabated are considered fortunate and to be congratulated. Verga even speaks of the "fatal psychical heritage of longevity." In the majority of cases the person affected is able to pass through the few remaining years of life without exciting attention or comment, and it is only when the degree becomes marked that the pathological basis of the condition is suspected by most. The dementia is due to the involutionary processes setting in either precociously, or with irregularity, or with so great depth and rapidity that the individual ceases to keep pace with his fellow-men. {a) Simple Dementia.—The onset may be ex- ceedingly gradual and no exciting cause may be noticed, or it may be determined by a slight illness or change in the habit and mode of life. The memory is affected early. The more recent events are in particular soon forgotten, while more ancient facts are often vividly recalled. Names of friends, of places, or of articles in daily use are with difficulty remembered when required, though they may be used freely and correctly when no special thought is directed to them. This loss of memory for names varies greatly from day to day. Each new fact may be correctly perceived and appreciated at the time, but forgotten at once. The memory trace of any recent event seems to be readily erased from the mind tissue, whereas older ideas run in deeper and more passable nerve channels. Those facts with many groups of associations present a greater force of resistance to the decay. Disassociation follows the usual law of degeneration, and passes progressively from the unstable to the stable, from the less organised to the more organised, and from the less to the more automatic. Old histories and tales of past-time events are repeated again and again without the person being aware of the repetition. The man or woman comes thus to think and to live in a past age. The value of any recent advance in science or art may be recognised by them when first learned; but soon forgotten, it ceases to mould their actions and thought in the future. Intellectual and scientific knowledge and business instincts little by little disappear. Ideas of time and space are lost as the dementia deepens; morn- ing is mistaken for afternoon, or spring for autumn, and they arrange their plans and their movements accordingly, following a routine which lifelong practice has rendered automatic. They may wander from home and lose them- selves in surroundings which were formerly well known to them. In the earlier stages the judgment may be fairly sound, but the energy is lacking to carry out the chosen plan. Atten- tion has become a reflex. The affective instincts and feelings become weaker. They cease to take any interest in events, and family happen- ings such as formerly influenced their conduct pass more and more unnoticed. They may, on the other hand, become emotional, grave or gay on the slightest or no provocation. They may continue to be able to dress themselves, to feed themselves, and to go in and out in their old daily manner, without perceiving the changing times and fashions around them. In this second childishness they may reveal long preserved secrets to a stranger, while there is a tendency to reticence regarding their own symptoms, so that grave bodily ailments may be long concealed from their friends. Speech, in the early stages slow, hesitating, and paretic, becomes more disconnected and unintelligible, until it passes into an incoherent jargon with perhaps automatic repetition of some meaning- less phrase. Sleep at night becomes more broken and unquiet, and the night may be spent in wandering about the room. This is due frequently to the rise of hallucinations of sight and hearing, or to feelings of anxiety or vague oppression, which may be associated with cardiac weakness. During the day, on the contrary, they may sleep for long periods, with drowsy and apathetic intervals. The appetite in the early stages is often good, and the food well digested. The acts of defsecation and micturition may be easily performed. When these reflexes cease to act normally, and when the old routine habits are no longer performed, dissolution is rapidly approaching. Concurrently with these mental changes there has been progressive loss of the physical powers, so that it is only in rare exceptions that a comparatively healthy body exists with marked dementia. Some people as they grow old become small and withered, lean and dried up, with sharpened features and shrill voices; others show a tendency to the deposition of fat, an increase of bulk with imperfect texture, and they become stout and flabby, slow in move- ment, and gruff in voice. The bones become more fragile from atrophy and increased deposit of calcareous salts, and the body assumes the incurved attitude with bowed shoulders. The