306 SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF have had a severe accident. Some cases seem to be associated with pregnancy. The symp- toms are lessening of the obliquity of the pelvis, combined with lordosis, and Neugebauer states that these are characteristic signs. A vaginal examination reveals a bony prominence and the lessening of the conjugate diameter. As the neural arch is not displaced there is no irregu- larity in the outline of the spinous processes. Occasionally symptoms arising from bony pres- sure on the viscera occur. The treatment con- sists in supporting the lumbar spine until reunion of the affected vertebrte has taken place. Acute Osteomyelitis of the Spine.—This is a similar condition to that which affects the long bones, and it is directly due to the streptococcus and staphylococcus pyogenes aureus following an injury or secondary to sup- puration elsewhere. It is particularly prone to affect adolescents at the time of most rapid growth. The symptoms are those generally due to osteomyelitis and the local signs of acute in- flammation of the vertebrae. Subsequently pus forms, and paralysis is said to have been present in one-third of the recorded cases. The mor- tality is very high, and the only treatment is evacuation of the pus when possible and sup- porting the spine. Typhoid Spine.—Gibney of New York has described an inflammation of the perivertebral structures, accompanied by excessive pain and stiffness coming on after typhoid fever, and the writer has himself seen two interesting cases— one in a child of six, and one in a young woman of seventeen. The symptoms are excessive pain and stiffness of the back, but the prognosis is good. Syphilitic Disease in the Spinal Column.— The balance of clinical evidence seems to show that syphilis affects the spinal column in the form either of caries or gummatous deposits. And in the cervical region, which is most fre- quently affected, the disease appears to originate in a specific ulceration of the pharynx. Such a case is recorded, and a specimen is figured by Hilton.1 Other instances are quoted by Howard Marsh, and Reeves mentions a case of syphilitic caries in a boy who coughed up portions of his vertebras which had penetrated the lung. Fournier's classical case of syphilitic disease of the lumbar spine is quoted by Barker.^ The diagnosis is difficult, and rests largely upon the history of infection, the presence of specific deposits elsewhere, and the results of anti- syphilitic treatment. But in spite of these tests it is difficult to exclude tubercle as a contribu- tory or exciting cause of the disease in the vertebrae, and records of post-mortem examina- tions are peculiarly wanting. ' Rest and Pain, p. 111. 2 Holmes, Srjstem of Surgery, 2nd edition, vol. 11. p. 421. Malignant Disease op the Spine.—The forms of malignant new growth are sarcoma and carcinoma. These are rarely primary, but are commonly secondary to neoplasms else- where. The disease begins by a deposit of malignant cells in the vertebral bodies, and the bone is gradually replaced by the diseased soft tissue, so that deformity results. Occurring as it does most usually in the lumbar vertebrae, the deformity is less than it would be in the dorsal vertebrae, and if pain is absent—as occasionally happens—the disease is not recog- nised during life. But in by far the majority of cases the pain is so extreme and agonising, and is referred so constantly to the back, that this in itself is diagnostic. Paralysis due to pressure on the spinal nerves often complicates the case. Hysterical Spine.—The diagnosis of this con- dition is very difficult, and we must remember that many cases are thought to be hysterical which by subsequent history are proved to be due to distinct disease. Before a patient is said to have hysterical spine a careful examination should be made. It frequently follows a minor injury, such as occurs in slight railway accidents. The pain is most acute over certain vertebrae, unlike the pain in Pott's disease, which is rarely severe over the diseased vertebrae, but is mainly felt at the periphery. The pain is subacute, increased by fatigue, and there are local areas of hyperaesthesia. The more attention is given to the back the greater the pain, and some patients hold their backs very stiffly while being observed, but when off their guard they will move their backs with freedom. But it should be noted that there is no deformity, and even if hysterical paraplegia supervenes the absence of a localised posterior projection will be a point in favour of hysteria, since it is rare for para- plegia to occur without some deformity in Pott's disease, although it is not quite unknown. The treatment consists in improving the general health, careful feeding, massage, and exercises to strengthen the spinal muscles. Lumbar Puncture Lumbar puncture, or puncture of the spinal I canal, was introduced by Quincke in 1891 for i the relief of excessive intracranial pressure in hydrocephalus, and has since been extensively ^ used both for purposes of diagnosis and treat- ] ment. The method of performing it is as follows : the skin of the patient over the lumbar spine and its neighbourhood is thoroughly sterilised, and a'sterilised trocar is introduced 5 to 10 millimetres on one side of the middle line between the third and fourth lumbar verte- brae, and passed for 2 centimetres in children, and from 4 to 6 centimetres in adults, slightly inwards. In elderly subjects the point is directed upwards as well as inwards, until the point of the trocar is felt to be in the subarachnoid