STOMACHICS 398 gastric mucous membranes, others reflexly by stimulating the buccal mucosa. Stomatitis. Catarrhal 398 Aphthous ...... 398 Ulcerative ...... 399 Mercurial ..... 400 Gangrenous (Cancrum oris) . . .401 Parasitic (Thrush) . . . .402 See also Children, Clinical Examination of (Mouth and Throat); Foot and Mouth Disease {Local Symptoms); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Alimentary); Mouth, Diseases OF {Inflammatoj^y Lesions); Mumps {Symptoms); Nursery Hygiene {Mouth and Teeth). Stomatitis or inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of the mouth occurs at all ages, but is much commoner in infancy and childhood than at any other period of life. Several forms of stomatitis can be distinguished, and perhaps the most convenient classification is into five varieties : (i.) Catarrhal; (ii.) Aphthous ; (iii.) Ulcerative ; (iv.) Gangrenous, or Cancrum Oris ; and (v.) Parasitic, or Thrush. This classification is based chiefly on clinical appearances, and therefore cannot be regarded as final: it may be that wider knowledge may enable us to arrive at some more accurate classi- fication on a basis of etiology, but at present we know so little of the factors which determine the particular variety of stomatitis in individual cases that it would be premature to attempt any such classification. Probably the commonest of the five forms of stomatitis is the parasitic, or thrush, and next in order of frequency would come the aphthous ; but as the catarrhal variety represents perhaps an earlier and simpler con- dition pathologically, it is convenient to consider this first. Catarrhal Stomatitis A simple catarrhal inflammation of the mouth is common as an early manifestation of any form of stomatitis, but the condition to which the term is usually applied, and in which the in- flammation does not pass beyond the catarrhal stage, is by no means common, at any rate amongst children. As an occasional occurrence it is seen at any period of childhood or adult life. Some ob- servers have described it as being particularly frequent during the first dentition, but the writer has been unable to verify this statement from his own observations. Its causation in some cases is obscure, the local condition appears to be the expression of some general constitutional disturbance; in other cases it is associated with the exanthemata, particiilarly with measles ; in others again it is due to some local irritation, be it the eruption of teeth, the presence of foul or broken stumps, scaldingly hot substances, or the overuse of tobacco. Symptoms.—The inflammation affects only a portion of the mucous membrane, not the whole mouth. The part affected becomes at first redder than normal, and feels stiff and dry, causing considerable discomfort; at this period the mucous membrane may have a finely granular appearance, but in many cases, after a few hours, or perhaps a day or two, the mucosa becomes greyish white and opaque, almost as if it had been rubbed with silver nitrate. Rarely there is some very superficial excoriation or ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane, and in a severe case the inflammation may spread to the deeper tissues, giving rise to some swelling and induration. In infants and young children there may be some constitutional disturbance, the temperature being slightly raised and the child looking pale and ill. Some degree of salivation may be present where the stomatitis is extensive, and the discomfort which attends sucking and eat- ing sometimes prevents the child from taking its food. But in most cases a catarrhal stomat- itis is not a condition of any serious import, and it usually disappears in a few days with very simple treatment. Pathology.—To whatever causes catarrhal stomatitis may be due, the histological changes are probably the same, to wit a dilatation of the blood-vessels supplying the mucous membrane, a prolifei'ation and shedding of the superficial cells of the mucosa, and a small round-cell infil- tration of the deeper part of the mucosa. No particular micro-organism has been associated with this condition yet, but it seems highly prob- able that some at least of the cases have a bacterial origin. Treatment.—All that is necessary in most cases is to use some mild antiseptic application locally. For infants and young children, the mel boracis, or glycerine of borax, is suitable; for older children and adults, a mouth-wash may be used. Perhaps as good as any is the common combination of borax and potassium chlorate, which may be used in the following formula: R Pot. chlorat. gr. vijss., boracis gr. x., glycerin. 3SS., aq. roste ad gj., as a mouth-wash. For the discomfort and hot smarting which are sometimes present the sucking of ice may be found useful. Care should be taken to avoid any food, liquid or solid, which may irritate the mucous mem- brane, and in some cases it may be advisable to keep the patient on "slop-diet" for a day or two. Any gastro-intestinal or constitutional disturbance must be treated according to the indications in the individual case. Carious teeth or other sources of local irritation must also receive attention. Aphthous Stomatitis Aphthous stomatitis, sometimes called " ves- icular" or "herpetic" stomatitis, is extremely