168 SKIN—ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY a structure analogous to the hair-follicle, called the nail-fold. The nail-fold is split horizontally by the root into (1) an upper portion^ forming a roof com- posed of the various layers of the epidermis, in which the continuation of the stratum corneum is in contact with the nail; and (2) a lower portion named the nail-matrix. The nail-matrix is an important structure, as it is from it that the nail grows. It extends from the posterior extremity of the nail-fold as far forward as the anterior margin of the lunule. It is composed of a prickle-cell layer continuous behind with that of the roof of the nail-fold, and in front with that of the nail-bed. Above the prickle-cell layer there is a layer of several rows of flat granular cells with shrivelled nuclei, above which the true nail-cells begin to appear. It is the presence of these granules which gives the whitish opaque appearance to the lunule. Beneath the prickle-cell layer of the matrix there is a well-developed papillary layer in which the papillae are arranged on parallel ridges suggesting cockscombs. The nail-bed extends from the matrix almost as far as the free edge of the nail, and on it the nail-plate rests. There is, however, no organic connection between the nail-plate and the nail-bed. The latter is composed of a prickle-cell layer, beneath which is a papillary layer consisting of about sixty ridges parallel to the long axis of the nail. Under this there is a rich subpapillary vascular plexus, in which large venous sinuses are present, lined with endothelium, and forming an erectile tissue. The nail-plate^ though not in organic con- nection with the nail-bed, is in close contact with it, since on its under surface there is a series of parallel ridges which fit in between those of the nail-bed and so bind the two structures together. It is made up of flat cornified cells which diff"er from those of the stratum corneum in that the nuclei persist. These cells are arranged in superimposed lamellae, which can only be distinguished near the nail-matrix, since further forward they become knit together to form an almost homo- geneous plate. Growth of the Nail.—If left uncut the nail does not grow indefinitely, but at a variable distance beyond the finger it becomes thin and desquamates, so that a natural free border is formed. As a rule the matrix only produces one nail, which during life is constantly growing at about the rate of 0-8 mm. in twenty-four hours on the fingers, while on the toes the growth is slower (0'4 mm.). Blood-Vessels op the Skin.—There are the following systems of blood-vessels in the skin, which begin in the subcutaneous tissue, and pass towards the surface :— (o) Blood- Vessels of the Subcutaneous Tissue.— Small arteries are present in the trabeculse between the fat-lobes ; certain branches from these (1) course in the septa between the lobules, to end in capillaries between the fat-cells, and (2) others pass up more or less vertically into the corium. Veins and venous capillaries correspond to these arteries. {b) Blood- Vessels of the Corium.—Two some- what horizontal vascular plexuses are generally described in the corium : a deep one situated next the subcutaneous tissue, and a superficial one in the subpapillary layer. Fi-om these plexuses branches are given off to the sweat- apparatus, pilosebaceous follicles, and the papillary layer. In the papillae the capillaries form loops by the junction of a single or double arterial capillary with a venous capillary several times greater in diameter. Throughout the corium the blood-vessels are of the nature of capillaries since they possess only an endothelial layer, and it is in the subcutaneous tissue alone that small arteries and veins occur in which a muscular wall and a tunica extima are present. The veins of the corium are considerably larger than the arteries. Lymphatics.—In the skin there are compara- tively few true lymphatic vessels with a distinct endothelial lining, but there are numerous spaces between the fibres of the corium and the cells of the epidermis which serve the purpose of lymphatics. (a) The lymphatic vessels begin as blind ends in the papillae, pass down to a lymphatic plexus in the subpapillary layer, and then course obliquely through the corium, accompanying the blood-vessels, to be collected into the larger lymphatics of the subcutaneous tissue. The lymphatic vessels of the papillae are most easily seen in the large papillae of the fingers and toes. The lymph from the tissue-spaces gains en- trance into the vessels either through stomata or between the endothelial cells. (6) The lymphatic spaces are not lined by endothelium. They are present between the fibrous bundles of the corium, around the coils and ducts of the sweat-glands, between the epidermal cells of the hair-follicles and sebaceous glands, around the arrectores pilorum, and between the prickle-cells of the epidermis. They pour their contents partly into the lymphatic vessels and pai-tly into the veins. Nerves.—Both meduUated and nou-medul- lated nerve fibres are present in the skin : (a) The medullated fibres form plexuses in the corium, from the most superficial of which fine non-meduUated fibres pass between the prickle- cells of the epidermis, forming the interepithelial plexus. Medullated fibres also pass to the con- nective tissue coats of the hair-follicles; there they lose their sheaths and split into fibres which form a plexus between the epidermal cells of the external root sheath. A few of the medullated fibres terminate in special end- organs.