SCARLET FEVER 57 (y) The body linen and the bed linen should be changed as often as may be requisite for cleanliness. It should be received into vessels containing a disinfectant as soon as removed from the patient, and before it leaves the room. (S) The nurse's linen and clothes should be subjected to similar treatment to that adopted for the patient's. (e) The room should be rubbed over daily with a damp cloth wrung out in a disinfectant. B. Disinfection after Illness. (a) Disinfecting baths are necessary for many days before the patient is allowed full liberty. (y8) Fresh clothes should be worn before this liberty is granted. But where a disinfecting chamber is available that plan of disinfection may be safely adopted. The patient should enter a bath-room for the purpose of disinfecting his body, and his clothes can meanwhile be passed through the steam disinfector, and come out on the other side into a fresh room where the patient can receive and assume them, taking his departure thence. (y) But I do not regard any disinfection to be sufiGiciently safe to enable the patient to be dis- charged when, up to the time of his discharge, he has been in communication with recent cases of scarlet fever. In my opinion, it is under such circumstances, unless gross carelessness has occurred in the disinfecting arrangements, and a want of scrupulous conscientiousness in their execution, that return cases of scarlet fever arise, besides those where discharges from the ears, nose, mouth, and vagina are still proceeding. (5) The whole of the bedding of patient and nurse should also be passed through the steam disinfector. (e) The infected room requires efficient dis- infection. The paper should be stripped, the ceiling whitewashed, and the paint, floor, and furniture washed with carbolic solution. Sulphur should also be burnt, as it permeates into every crack and crevice, or formalin sprayed. After this process has been completed, and no articles of clothing have escaped the disinfecting chamber, the room should be exposed, day and night, to a cross draught of fresh air for several days. Scarpa's Triangle. See Arteries, Ligature op {Superficial Femoral); Groin (Anatomy of). Scars. See Cicatrices. Scelalgia.—Pain in the leg (Gr. a-KeXos, the leg, aAyos, pain). ScelO-a—In compound words scelo- (Gr. o-keXos, the leg) means relating to the leg; e.g. scelocambosis (genu varum), scelodesmus (a bandage for the leg), and scelodidyrmvs (ischiopagous monster). Scelotyrbe.—A nervous disorder char- acterised by weakness and by irregular move- ments of the legs (Gr. cr/ceXos, the leg, and Tvp^T], disorder), as in chorea and paralysis agitans. Schafer's Method. — A method (postural and manual) for the restoration of the apparently drowned. See Asphyxia (Be- suscitation, Methods). Schatz'S Method.—In obstetrics the term Schatz method is given to a form of external manipulation or version by whose means a face (or brow) presentation is changed into a vertex; the foetal head must not yet be engaged, and, as a rule, the membranes must not be ruptured if this manoeuvre is to be successful. See Labour, Management op {Face Presentations). Schede's Method.— A method of dealing with caries and other diseases of bone, in which the diseased tissue is scraped away, the resulting cavity allowed to fill with blood- clot, and the latter kept aseptic till healing occur. Sc heel e*S G ree n. — Cupric arsenite (CuHAsOg); Brunswick green or Schweinfurth green. See Toxicology {Arsenic). Scheele's Method.—A method of inducing premature labour by tapping the membranes and allowing the liquor amnii to escape; rarely applicable. Scheiner's Experiment.—An ex- periment for demonstrating that near and far objects cannot be distinctly seen at the same time. See Physiology, Neuro - Muscular Mechanism {Vision, Positive Accommodation). Schelnesa Wodsk. «S'ee Balneology {Russia). Schematic.—Of the nature of a schema or outline of any subject; diagrammatic; according to a formula. Schenck's Method.—A method by which it was expected that the sex of the child before birth might be determined ; it consisted in altering the diet of the mother so as to prevent the slightest trace of sugar in the urine, if a male infant were desired. Schering'S Lamp.—A lamp in which formaldehyde is heated in the presence of water vapour in order to produce formic al- dehyde gas for purposes of gaseous disinfection. Scherlievo. See Venereal Disease {Scherlievo or Mai de Fixmiee). Scheurlein's Bacillus.—A micro- organism once believed to be connected with the origin of cancer.