583 THERAPEUTICS: HEALTH RESORTS The atmosphere is exceedingly clear, and the amount of sunshine very large—considerably greater than that in the Swiss resorts. The temperature rarely falls very low, perhaps touching zero two or three times in the winter, and owing to the dryness the cold is little felt unless there be a wind. The chief health resort is Colorado Springs, about seventy miles from Denver, the capital of the State. It is a bright, cheerful place with a good hotel, but little other accommodation, unless a house be taken. American boarding- houses are not comfortable according to English ideas, and the smaller hotels are, as a rule, unsatisfactory. Rooms can be got in some private houses in the town, but there is not a very large supply of them. Denver is a town of 150,000 people, the centre of many railways and a busy industrial city. It has an elevation of 5300 feet, or some 700 less than Colorado Springs, though really built on the plain, about 15 miles east of the foothills of the Rocky Mountains. It has about 315 sunny days during the year, and a very large percentage of sunshine. It has, of course, a large number of hotels, some of the first class, and some boarding-houses ; and there are natur- ally greater possibilities of employment in such a large city than in Colorado Springs. It is interesting to note that nearly one-fifth of the population are credited to the class that come for climate and health. Besides Denver and Colorado Springs there are one or two other places in the same region which may be mentioned. Manitou, about 5 miles from Colorado Springs and nearer the mountains, is more sheltered but gets much less sun. Pueblo, some 30 miles south of Colorado Springs, is a manufacturing city with 35,000 inhabitants, at an elevation of 4700 feet. It has a good winter climate, but is very hot in summer. It is not in itself a very attractive place, and has very little accommodation for invalids. The summer all over this region is hot, and many people go up into the high mountain valleys or parks, as they are called, at eleva- tions of 8000 to 10,000 feet: the best known of these are Manitou Park, Middle Park, and Estes Park. Some of them have hotels which are only open in summer. As compared with the Swiss resorts, the great advantages of Colorado are the great range of country over which it is possible to move, the greater amount of sunshine, and the greater warmth ; the draw- backs are the dust and wind. The western slope of the Rocky Mountains is much moister than the eastern and much less bracing, but there are many places where an invalid would find a very fair climate. Salt Lake City, with an elevation of over 4000 feet, is an attractive place and a prosperous town, to which a good many invalids resort. In New Mexico and Arizona there are many spots which are well qualified by their elevation, dryness, and sunshine to be health resorts, but they are wholly undeveloped; and Santa Fe, the capital of New Mexico, or Phoenix, in Arizona, would be intolerably dull for a prolonged stay. Turning to Southern California, we find a very different climate, modified by the presence of the Pacific ; it has a very mild winter, a hot but bearable summer, and a considerable amount of sunshine. A large number of invalids go there who are unable to bear the cold of the mountain regions, and sufferers from chronic bronchitis, from heart or kidney troubles, and from irritable nervous systems derive consider- able benefit. The chief resorts are Montery, Santa Barbara, and San Diego on the coast, and Riverside, Los Angeles, and Redlands inland. Los Angeles is the capital of Southern California, and has 60,000 inhabitants. Just above it is Pasadena with a very large hotel, filled with invalids in winter. The sea-fogs are at times rather bad on the coast and for some distance inland ; the best residence for invalids really is in some of the smaller places on the foothills, but the accommodation outside the recognised resorts is rather rough. A con- siderable number of English are settled in South California engaged in farming or fruit- growing, but any intending settler is strongly advised to make full inquiries before embark- ing on such projects. Florida, like Madeira, has lost most of its reputation as a resort for consumptives owing to the distinctly enervating character of its air and the fact that malaria is not uncommon, but it still attracts a large number of visitors and semi-invalids in winter, and has very good hotels. British Columbia has a climate with many advantages for invalids — bright, clear, dry, bracing, yet not cold ; but, with the exception of Kamloops, 1100 feet, and Calgary, in Alberta Province, 3500 feet, it has no provision for visitors. It is a much less rigorous climate than that of the North-West United States. South Africa Now that South Africa has become an ex- clusively British possession, and the tide of emigration seems likely to set in strongly towards it, there can be little doubt that the many possibilities which it offers to the health- seeker will have more attention paid to them than heretofore. The days are long past when Cape Colony was regarded as one of the sanatoria of India, before the Suez Canal was opened ; but its climate nevertheless is delight- ful in summer, i.e. during the northern winter, the heat never being excessive, whilst thei'e is a large amount of sunlight with a clear sky and dry atmosphere. The chief rainfall is in May, June, and July. Cape Town is not itself