119 SENILE INSANITY important factor, holding them to be merely the expression of a gradual decay and failure of energy. Others maintain that the nerve-cell degeneration is secondary to a general auto- intoxication, caused by the atrophied and altered state of internal organs leading to perverted metabolism, and the formation of toxines, which, acting as irritants, cause the mentioned changes in the neuroglia and vessels. From these changes, they hold, result the atrophy and degeneration of the nerve-cells. There is no doubt that pathological processes run more closely parallel in senility to the physiological than at other periods of life, and age, in itself, may thus predispose to patho- logical change, but this cannot become actual without the influence of some other factor. A man's years are merely the index of this modification of his relationships to disease. Normal Old Age.—Generally the first signs of the mental decadence in old age are a gradual loss of memory, a weakening of the imagination and of the affective faculties. The powers of assimilation and of reaction to new stimuli become much slower. The attention is less prompt and more difficult to concentrate on one issue. The judgment, strengthened by a long experience of life, often remains sound, and the old man is able to direct his juniors with that wisdom which has always been accredited to age. The loss of the reproductive functions has restricted the mental horizon and has lessened the intensity of a great group of associations, but it has also rendered the physiological old man free from the impulses of passion and of vice. He is neither apathetic nor subject to outbursts of anger. The imagina- tion no longer aids so briskly in dealing with new combinations of circumstances; where the younger man reacts to his environment, the old man conforms to his past life. The natural longing is now one for rest, and the more active position is often ceded voluntarily to the younger generation, whose enthusiasm is still not disillu- sioned. The facility of expression in speech is diminished, and the articulation is slower and less distinct. The gait and attitudes betoken diminished vigour. Though the power and elasticity of the psychical and physical processes may be weakened, yet they are in no way abnormal. As one writer has it, the normal old man is comparable to a millionaire, who, having lost one hundred thousand pounds, is still abundantly solvent. Especially in the ranks of the very highly educated and cultured, there have been in all times examples of grand old men who have conserved their mental powers almost at the high level of their prime of life—men famous in literature, in science, and in politics who live past the allotted span and still do valuable and original work. In them it seems as if involu- tion has been arrested at a very early period and has remained stationary. It is probable that an active and wide exercise of the mental tissues may increase their force of resistance to degeneration. One practical point is that the cultivation in earlier years of any hobby or pastime, which can be continued after the person has retired from the more serious business of life, is of great value in conserving a physiological senility. It provides the means for mental exercise and recreation at a period of life when new associations are with difficulty formed. There is an infinite series of gradations be- tween the old man who has retained his mental faculties almost unimpaired and those who are passing to the confines of dementia. A varying degree of mental dotage may represent the termination of the greater part of humanity, but it must not be looked upon as necessary and unavoidable. Pathogenesis.—In the causation of departure from the normal type we find that the chief factors are hereditary predisposition, vascular disease, and toxic processes. Statistics show that while there is a much larger actual number of persons insane between sixty and seventy years of age than in the later decades, yet, taken in proportion to the living population in the same periods, the diff"erence in ratio is by no means great. The incidence in the sexes gives a slightly greater proportion of females. Social state and occupation act only as they do in other forms of insanity. As regards hereditary predisposition, we may assume that even where this is present, the inherited brain weakness cannot be so marked or so potent as in those who are afflicted in earlier years with mental disorder. There must have been a considerable degree of stability, otherwise the brain tissue would have been unable to resist the changes during adolescence and the climacteric and the stress of active life. As Dr. Clouston puts it: "To have survived, therefore, the changes and chances, the crises and perils of life, with intact mental function until after sixty, means slight neurotic heredity or great absence of exciting causes of disease." The statistics given by the various writers diff"er considerably. Dr. Clouston gives 13 per cent. Dr. B. Lewis states his figures at 22 per cent, while Verga gives a still higher proportion, but in all cases the percentage is lower than the average for all cases of insanity. A tendency to early in- volution appears in certain families unassociated with any exciting cause, and evidently due to an inherent brain weakness. Closely related to hereditary proclivities are those peculiarities which constitute the insane temperaments. In these cases suspicion, egotism, diffidence, or avarice is present throughout life, but may be kept in restraint while the person has the power of normal reaction to his environment. As this, however, weakens in old age or by an unrela-