TABES DOESALIS 509 may not be eventually affected in this disease ; and the name of Tabes best expresses its char- acter, and implies also that the treatment is symptomatic rather than curative. Tabes Mesenterica. -S'ee Mesen- teric Glands {Tuberculosis of). Tabetic.—Relating to or affected by tabes, or, specially, with tabes dorsalis. See Amblyopia {Diagnosis, Tabetic Blindness); Audi- tort Nerve and Labyrinth {Nerve-Deafness, Seat of Lesion, Tabetic Auditory Neuritis); OsTEO - Arthropathies {Tabetic Foot) ; Tabes Dorsalis. Table.—in Surgery, the name given to the article of furniture on which the patient is placed for operation; in Anatomy, the name refers to the flat bone of the skull. Tablespoon. See Prescribing {Weights and Meastores) ; Metric System ; etc. Tablets.—Small, solid, disc-like bodies ; lozenges or troches. Tabloid."—The form in which drugs are made up by Burroughs, Wellcome, and Co. ; they may be plain, or sugar coated (when the drug is unpleasant), or coated with keratin (when the action of the drug is to be postponed till it reaches the intestine). Tache.—A spot or freckle or discoloration (Fr.); e.g. the taches cerehrales or red lines left when the finger-nail is drawn over the skin in cases of meningitis, and the taches bleudtres seen in typhoid fever. See Meninges of the Cere- brum {Acute Simple Meningitis, Symptoms); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Symptoms); Mor- phinomania {Diagnosis, Needle Marks); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelae, Cutaneous System). Tachiol.—A preparation of silver fluoride, a solution of which has been used as an anti- septic in surgery and in eye work. Tachy-.—In compound words tachy- (Gr. Tabu's, swift) means rapid, e.g. tachyphrenia (rapid mental action). Tachycardia. —Rapid action of the heart. See Diphtheria {Complications, Car- diac) ; Gout {Irregidar, Circulatory System) ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Path- ology, Hypertrophy); Heart, Neuroses op {Tachycardia); Nose, Nasal Neuroses (Vaso- motor) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthal- mic Goitre, Symptoms). Tachyphrasia. — Great rapidity or volubility in speech ; logorrhoea. Tachypnoea.—Abnormally rapid res- piration. See Hysteria {Disorders of the Res- piratory Organs). Tactile.—Relating to or belonging to the sense of touch; e.g. tactile corpuscles or cells {see Physiology, Nburo-Muscular Mechanism, Tactile Sense), tactile aphasia {see Aphasia, Clinical Features, Tactile Variety), and tactile fremitus {see Chest, Clinical Investigation OF, Palpation of Chest Wall; Lung, Tubercu- losis of. Physical Signs of Consolidation ; Lungs, Emphysema of. Physical Signs; Pleura, Dis- eases of, Acute Pleurisy, Signs; Pneumonia, Clinical, Physical Signs). Tact US.—The sense of touch, especially from the diagnostic point of view ; e.g. tactus eruditus, the trained sense of touch developed by the specialist or experienced practitioner. Tsenia. — in Descriptive Anatomy, the term ttenia is given to any band-like structure ; e.g. the tcenia fornicis of the brain, and the taenia coli of the large intestine. See Parasites {Cestodes, Tapeworms); Hydatid Disease. Tsenicide and Taenifuge. — De- structive to tapeworms; e.g. certain drugs, known also as vermifuges. Tagrliacotian Operation. — The Italian rhinoplastic operation, the flap for the formation of the nose being obtained from a distant part, e.g. the arm. Tailed Infants. See Homo Caudatus. Tailor's Spasm. See Neuroses, Oc- cupation {Etiology). Tait'S Law. —The rule enunciated by Lawson Tait that in diseases of the abdomen and pelvis destructive to health or threatening- life (except cancer), exploratory abdominal sec- tion should be performed. Tait'S Operation. — Lawson Tait's method of repairing the perineum; also, the removal of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes for other diseases than cysts. See Pelvis, Perineum AND Pelvic Floor {Perineal Tears, Ojieration). Takadiastase. See Malt; Enzymes {Hydrolysing, Diastatic). Talaig^ia.—Pain in the heel. Tal i pes. — Club foot. See Deformities {Club Foot, Congenital, Acquired). Tallerman Method. See Hydro- pathy {Hot Air Applications). Tallquist's Method.—A method of determining haemoglobin percentages by com- paring the colour of a blood spot on filter-paper with a series of standard tints. Talma's Disease. — Myotonia ac- quisita, a non-hereditary disease characterised by tonic muscular spasm.