446 SUPPURATION these abscesses vary in size from isolated collec- tions of a few leucocytes to cavities containing pints of pus. Clinical Signs and Symptoms.—Local.—In the case of a superficial diffuse abscess the skin covering it is painful, red, hot, and (Edematous, and the part is swollen. The margin is diffuse. Evidence of suppuration and the approach of pus to the surface is indicated by the detection either of a soft spot in the otherwise brawny tissue or of definite fluctuation. A rapid and extensive accumulation of pus produces gangrene of the skin by destroying its blood-supply. The presence of a deeply situated, diffuse abscess is marked by pain, increase in size of the part, and oedema of the superjacent skin. Crepita- tion, caused by the presence of gas, is a sign only rarely met with in abscess, but it is commoner in the diffuse than in the circum- scribed form. It is due to one of two causes: the gas may have been generated by decom- position of the abscess contents, or it may have gained entrance to the abscess cavity by means of a communication between it and the respira- tory or digestive tract. The constitutional signs are the same as those of acute, circumscribed abscess: they vary in severity; they may be hectic, pytemic, or septicsemic; or, even in severe and fatal cases, marked disturbances of temperature may be altogether wanting. Treatment.—Local.—The general principles of treatment are similar to those described in the article on " Acute Circumscribed Abscess." The incisions must be free and extensive; this is especially desirable in those cases in which the skin is likely to become gangrenous; if extensive gangrene occurs, skin-grafting is necessary after the separation of the dead tissues. Dependent incisions and drainage — with the largest tubes—are essential where putrefaction exists. In spite of these measures diffusion may extend and necessitate further incisions combined with local antiseptic baths, or hot antiseptic poultices frequently changed. In desperate cases, such as rapidly spreading glanders, the application of pure carbolic acid, of nitric acid, or the actual cautery to the internal surface of the cavity is indicated. Constitutional treatment calls for special atten- tion, particularly with regard to fresh air, change of air, nourishment, stimulants, etc. Subacute Abscess The term subacute abscess is applied to a condition in which the accumulation of pus occurs in about two to four weeks ; it may be induced by a slowly acting micro-organism of acute suppuration or a rapidly acting micro- organism of chronic suppuration, hence the pathology and treatment are the same as of acute suppuration and chronic suppuration respectively. Chronic Abscess The term chronic abscess is applied to sup- puration slowly provoked within a cavity formed by the process, the excitant of which may be localised or locally diffusing. Etiology.—The almost constant excitant of this condition is bacillus tuberculosis; indeed, chronic abscess and tuberculous abscess have become almost synonymous terms, and this too in spite of the fact that the tuberculous process is not a true suppuration: the tuberculous process is rather a caseation of newly formed chronic inflammatory tissue. True suppuration may occur in a tuberculous abscess if the in- fection become mixed by the entrance of one of the micro-organisms of acute suppuration. It must, however, be stated that slowly forming abscesses can be induced by oospora bovis (actinomycosis), bacillus typhi, and even bacillus mallei. Some recent experiments by Kocher and others show tliat micrococci, usually capable of provoking acute or subacute suppuration, may in certain circumstances cause semiquies- cent conditions that can only be termed chronic abscesses. Pathology.—Dr. Whitfield and the writer have been studying the cellular flora of chronic inflammatory lesions. It is out of place here to enter thoroughly into our I'esults, but it may be said that the emigrated leucocytes appear to us to be lymphocytes chiefly, and there is present a great number of plasma cells together with a great amount of organised and degener- ated connective-tissue elements. Diagnosis.— A slowly formed abscess when of tuberculous origin is distinguished by the com- parative thickness of its walls. The diagnosis of the tuberculous origin of an abscess may be assisted by the reaction of the individual to tuberculin; of course this means is only to be resorted to in isolated and obscure cases. Leuco- cytosis in tuberculosis is uncommon; on the contrary, eosinophile leucocytes are often either absent or diminished in number. The presence of a hectic temperature and amyloid disease are not signs of tuberculous infection, but they are signs that the condition is either non-tuber- culous, or tuberculous with a mixed infection superadded. Amyloid disease must be very rare in pure tuberculous infection : the writer has never seen it. Confirmatory evidence is pro- vided by a bacteriological examination of the abscess wall, which is more likely to give definite evidence than the pus. With regard to typhoid and actinomycotic abscesses the reader is re- ferred to the article on these diseases. Treatment.—The ideal treatment of a chronic tuberculous abscess is complete excision without disturbing the contents. When the abscess is connected with bone—as it often is—such a procedure cannot be carried out unless it be practicable to remove the bone as well—as in