TETANUS 564 death, contained in the central nervous system (Asakawa, 1898; Pasquini, 1902; etc.), but the presence of the toxin in other organs, in the cerebro-spinal fluid and urine, is very inconstant. The incubation period varies according to the amount of toxin administered and tlie site of injection, but is always present even after very large doses. On subcutaneous injection of moderate doses the incubation period in man is foin- to seven days; in the horse, five days ; in the guinea-pig, two days ; in the rabbit, two to four days; in the mouse, two to three days. Courmont and Doyen explained this incubation period by supposing that the substance formed in vitro which one injects is not really the toxin, but merely an enzyme, the action of which on the organism results in the formation of the true toxin. They found that the blood of a tetanic dog produced immediate tetanic symp- toms when injected into healthy dogs, and con- cluded that in such a case the true toxin, the eflf'ect of which was manifested without any incu- bation period, had been injected. We now know, however, from the investigations of Buschke and Oergel (1893), of Blumenthal (1897), Waring, Andrewes (1902), and others, that extracts from the spleen, liver, and other organs of animals or persons who have died of tetanus may cause tetanic symptoms within five to thirty minutes of injection, the probable explanation being that the toxin has combined with the cellular elements of the organs, and thereby acquired the capacity of inducing tetanic phenomena without any, or with only a very brief, incubation period. Action of the Toxin.—It has been proved to produce the tetanic spasms by acting on the motor cells of the spinal cord and medulla oblon- gata so as to increase their irritability. The toxin has no action upon the muscular fibres or peripheral nerves; curara inhibits the spasms, and section of a motor nerve causes the spasms to cease in the region it supplies. After injection of the toxin into animals, e.g. mice, the spasms occur first near the seat of injection. This fact has been interpreted in a variety of ways: ac- cording to Maria (1897) and many subsequent writers it indicates that part of the toxin is carried away by the peripheral nerves. The toxin does not induce any characteristic change in the central nervous system. The various appearances, ha;morrhages in the anterior horns, degenerative changes in the motor cells of the spinal cord, etc., are not constant, and have been observed after injection of other poisons (Goldscheider and Flatau, 1897 : Kossel and Westphal, 1898). The most satisfactory and most commonly accepted explanation of the action of tetanus toxin on the nerve cells is afforded by Ehrlich's side-chain theory (1897, etc.). According to this theory, the toxin possesses two groups of molecules : (1) a hapto- phoric group which has an aftinity for similar groups of molecules—side chains—in the nerve cell, the toxin becoming thereby anchored or fixed in the cell; and (2) a toxophoric group which, subsequent to the fixation of the toxin in the cell, increases the irritability of the cell- protoplasm. The fixation of the toxin in the nerve cells is a gradual process, requiring some time for its completion, and consequently there is an incubation period before tetanic symp- toms arise. The nerve cells liberate or cast off those side chains which have combined with the toxin, and there is then a regeneration of side chains. If this regeneration be excessive the newly formed side chains pass from the nerve cells into the blood, still retain their power of combining with toxin, and now represent the antitoxin. The presence of preformed tetanus antitoxin in the spinal cord and brain of animals and of man has been proved by Wassermann and Takaki, Metchnikoff, Maria (1898), Danysz (1899), and others, and Babes (1899) has shown that brain substance also contains preformed rabic antitoxin. Yet although tetanus toxin is rendered innocuous by admixture in vitro with brain substance, the presence of preformed antitoxin in the nerve cells of an animal does not render it immune to tetanus toxin. Natural immunity to the toxin is due to the absence of cells possessing a haptophoric group of mole- cules with an affinity for tetanus toxin ; whereas acquired immunity to the toxin is obtained only by the presence of the antitoxin in the blood (vide "Immunity," vol. iv.). When given by the mouth the toxin is in- nocuous (Ransom, 1898; Carriere, 1899; Cano- Brusco, 1901, etc.); its direct introduction into the cerebrum is followed by " cerebral tetanus " characterised by epileptiform attacks, polyuria, and psychical symptoms (Roux and Borrel, 1898). Binot (1899) states that the introduc- tion of the toxin into the uterus, testicle, bladder, or kidney, induces not the ordinary tetanic spasms, but a peculiar condition which he terms "splanchnic tetanus"; and Metchnikoff has found that the ovary of the hen contains substances which combine with the toxin in vitro. These facts show that there are cells, other than those of the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, with an affinity for, and capable of combining with tetanus toxin. In tetanus due to natural infection or to subcutaneous or intra- venous injection of toxin, however, the toxin is mainly, if not entirely, fixed in the motor cells of the spinal cord and medulla oblongata. Clinical Features of Tetanus.—The dis- ease is more frequent in men than in women. The incubation period varies from about four days to four weeks, but is rarely longer. Ac- cording to Rose, the earliest tetanic symptoms appear during the first week in 33 per cent of cases, during the second week in 45 per cent. The tetanic spasms commence in the muscles of mastication, the earliest symptoms being stiff- ness of the jaws (trismus) and of the neck. The