SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL CHILDREN, MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF 65 Schedule of Medical Inspection—continvM I. 11. 111. IV. 1. II. IIL IV. 1. Date of Inspection 2. Standard and Regular- ity of Attendance ■* . 3. Age of Child 5 . 4. Clothing and footgear [III.—General Conditions.^ 5. Height' . 6. Weights . 7. Nutrition 9 8. Cleanliness and condi- tion of skin.^" Head . Body . [IV.—Special Conditions.^ 9. Teeth" . 10. Nose and throat ''^ Tonsils Adenoids Submax. and cervi- cal glands . 11. External eye disease 12. Vision" . R. L. 13. Ear disease 14. Hearing 15. Speech 17 . 16. Mental condition ^s [V.—Disease or Deformity. 17. Heart and circulation 18. Lungs 21 19. Nervous system-'■^ 20. Tuberculosis 23 . 21. Rickets 24 . 22. Deformities, Spinal Disease, etc.25 23. Infectious or contagi- ous disease 26 . 24. Other disease or de- fect 27 . Medical Oilicer's initials. General Observations. Directions to Parent or Teacher. 4. Results of Medical Inspection.—It is as yet premature to classify British results, because, up till now, the results have been mainly sectional and experimental; but in the re- ports and books given below much concrete information will be found. On the Continent, notably in Berlin, Charlottenburg, Wiesbaden, Nuremberg, Ziirich, Breslau, and several other places, much material has been accumulated as the result of medical inspection. Much of this is available in annual reports. In this article it has been thought best to treat fully the ad- ministrative aspects of medical inspection. 5. Duties of the Medical Officer of Schools, OR School Doctor.—Doubtless, the duties of medical officers of schools will vary considerably according to the locality, type of school, industry, population, etc. Further, the relation between the medical officers of health and the medical officers of schools will vary according as the Local Authorities for Public Health are, as in England, also the Local Authorities for Educa- tion. But, in general, the duties will be much the same. The following regulations, prepared by the Edinburgh School Board for the Medical vol. IX Officer of Schools, may be taken as a general type, capable of adaptation to special circum stances. They may be extended according to circumstances ; but it is not probable that, in any large School Board area, they can be dim- inished. They show that the work of a medical officer of schools has already become so import- ant and exacting that we may now say that a new Medical Service has been created. What developments this service may undergo, no one can foretell; but that the developments will be great is beyond doubt. A new type of " clinical medicine " has thus arisen on the borderland between gross disease and perfect health. This new specialism is determined by the needs of educational practice, which can no longer pro- ceed on the assumption that every child is normal and every mind equally fitted for in- struction. But the need of thus at once adapt- ing education to the child and the child to education elevates on to a higher plane all the minor ailments and defects. The result will be an enormous expansion of the preventive functions of the medical profession. No doubt, also, the question of hospital and private treat- 5