442 SUPPURATION tion of pus is impossible without soiling the upper part, and so setting up connection that may lead to the contamination of the contents. To eliminate this source of contamination he uses a simple apparatus consisting of two parts— a long-necked flask within which is a piece of glass tube open at the ends, kept from move- ment by means of the cotton-wool plug with which the flask is stopped. This precaution of fixing the tube is of importance, for if it is movable it will shake about while travelling. The apparatus is then sterilised. The cavity containing the fluid is opened at an accessible spot by means of an incision conveniently directed, and the walls are held apart by blunt hooks. The inner or conducting tube is then drawn half-way out of its host, and by means of a pair of forceps is held in the cavity of the abscess at an angle which permits the pus to gravitate through it to the bottom of the receiving flask. When a sufficient quantity has been collected the inner tube is carefully and perma- nently removed; then the flask containing the fluid must be plugged again. A portion of the actual wall is at the same time removed. In order to eliminate the possi- bility of contaminating the pus it is very essen- tial that no skin is included in the portion removed. Treatment.—The first object in all treatment is to determine the possible sources of infection. After a careful attempt to purify these soui'ces an efficient dressing should be applied to them. By this means further infection will be excluded, and the very rare event of the continuance of suppuration after an acute abscess has been opened under all proper precautions may be avoided. The management of acute abscess may be described as local and constitutional. Local.—Abortive.—By some surgeons it is considered possible to abort an acute abscess. Unna's No. 88 plaster has the reputation of being able to abort boils and carbuncles. Wadding soaked in alcohol applied to the part and covered by mackintosh has been granted the same property. Squeezing the threatened spot has been said to act in this direction. Rest should also be part of this doubtful treat- ment. Preventive.—Mr. Watson Cheyne has pub- lished cases in which he considers that antistrep- tococcic serum may have prevented infection. These were injected with serum previous to the radical removal of extensive cancer connected with sources of all sorts of possible infection, including that of streptococcus pyogenes. It should be observed that antistreptococcic serum is specific only for streptococcus pyogenes, and, as far as we know, disregards the toxins of other micro-organisms. Palliative.—This treatment consists in first shaving the part, then purifying the skin. covering the abscess and the area for a wide space around it, and then keeping it poulticed with boracic lint that has been wrung out of boiling water solution of either perchloride of mercury (1-8000) or carbolic acid (1-40); ap- plications of fresh fomentations must be con- tinually made. The part must also be rested, and if possible elevated. Of course the situation of an abscess will necessarily regulate the treat- ment. Rest in the case of a limb is attainable by careful splinting, by placing the limb in the position in which there is least pain, and by carefully padding all the natural hollows that will otherwise exist between the limb and the splint. There seems no doubt that hot poultices hasten suppuration, heat apparently being the stimidating factor. If the dressings into which the pus discharges and the skin with which it comes in contact are both rendered sterile, then the pus remains uncomplicated with any other infection. As a rule, rupture of an abscess under these conditions will not be followed by any further escape of thick white pus, the pus being replaced by a diminishing discharge of serum that practically ceases in twenty-four to forty-eight hours. The use of poultices of bran, bread, linseed, carrot, charcoal, etc., is inadvis- able, and should on no account be employed. Operative.—Directly the sui'geon is sure pus has formed, he should proceed to open the abscess. The skin, instruments, hands, etc., require as perfect sterilisation as in any other surgical operation. The seat of the incision \isually selected is at that part of the abscess at which the skin is thinnest—in other words, where the abscess is " pointing." There may, however, be reasons for opening elsewhere. For instance, an abscess may be pointing on the margin of a cheek; in this case it would be wise to make an attempt to save the thinned epithelial covering by evacuating the pus by means of an incision below the jaw, so that the subsequent scar will be hidden. Again, it is necessary to make the incision as far away as possible from any source of sepsis. The direction of the incision will also vary with the case, and when near them, it must be in the direction of vessels, nerves, ducts, and tubes, to avoid wounding these important struc- tures. The length of the incision must always be sufficient to admit a small sponge, which should be used gently to break down septa that may separate recesses from the main cavity. In justice to his other cases a surgeon should not put his finger into a septic cavity unless absolutely obliged to do so. After all the pus has escaped, the inside of the abscess cavity should be carefully wiped out with a sponge wrung as dry as possible from a watery solution of 1-20 carbolic acid or 1-2000 perchloride of mercur'y; this procedure will take away some necrotic tissue left behind after the evacuation of the pus, and also most of the inner layer and some