SCARLET FEVER 53 disease varies in different epidemics, and at the various stages of the same epidemic. It shows a range of 3 to 30 per cent of attacks, with a probable average of 8"5 per cent. The isolation hospitals not only limit the extension of an epidemic, but concurrently reduce the case- mortality. For instance, the case-mortality in the isolation hospitals of the Metropolitan Asylums Board in 1890, with a total number of 10,343, amounted only to 2'97 per cent. XV. Pathology.—In this zymotic disease the tissues mainly involved are those of the skin, the throat, and the kidneys; but it is not clear whether the true nidus of the streptococcus is the blood or the tissues mentioned. That the organism develops freely in the throat is evi- dent ; but as scarlet fever may exist without an eruption or sore throat, and may become fatal, as in scarlatina maligna, prior to the appearance of either of these symptoms, it would seem to be more probable that the streptococcus attacks the blood itself. 1. The characteristics of the eruption on the skin are hypersemia and cedema of the super- ficial layers of the corium. The hyperaemia causes a rapid growth of the cells of the epi- dermis in the rete Malpighii, and their con- tinued reproduction entails the desquamation, which is, of course, most copious where the rash has been most intense. 2. In the throat the mucous membrane is deeply hypersemic, which leads at first to an increased secretion of the follicles, afterwards to an exTidation of lymph, and at a later stage the mucous epithelium gives way, owing to the oedema, or to the intensity of the inflam- mation, with the formation of an ulcer. As the inflammation progresses and the tension increases, small foci of pus arise in the substance of the tonsils. Decay of the mucous membrane, with sloughing, follows, the lymphatics and submaxillary glands become involved, and abscesses ensue. 3. In the early period of involvement of the kidney there usually occurs a fibrous and hyaline degeneration of the minute arteries and Malpighian tufts of the cortex; while the nuclei of the epithelium covering the tuft and lining the Malpighian capsules are augmented and produce the condition known as glomerulo- nephritis. There also appears a parenchy- matous nephritis in consequence of the epi- thelial cells lining some of the convoluted uriniferous tubules becoming swollen, granular, and opaque. The kidney is hypersemic, the capsule strips easily, leaving a bleeding surface ; and usually, in the next stage, this viscus assumes the form of the large white kidney. The kidney subsequently diminishes in size, especially the cortex, and the capsule becomes more adherent. As the disease progresses interstitial nephritis ensues with a correspond- ing degeneration of the parenchyma. Con- traction then takes place, and gradually the contracted granular kidney is developed. Other changes occur in the liver, pancreas, spleen, salivary glands, and intestines; these modifications are observable in all diseases accompanied by high fever, and consist in inflammatory hypersemia and proliferation. XVI. Treatment.—In a disease exhibiting so infinite a variety of types, attended by ever- varying symptoms, and involving such endless complications, it will be readily understood that the treatment must be equally diverse. No treatment is at present known that invariably disarms the poison at its onset. We can only entertain the hope that an antitoxin may be discovered that will prove equally efficacious in this fell disease as the antitoxin in diphtheria ; or preferably still, that preventiori may be secured by inoculation. The precepts of our great master Hippocrates should especially guide our treatment when he enjoins: "To my mind he is the best physician who knows beforehand what is going to happen. By penetrating into, clearly de- scribing the present and the future maladies of his patients, and explaining symptoms which they omit to state, he will gain their confidence." The substantial diff'erences of symptoms and severity manifested in scarlet fever must indicate its treatment. At one time the attack is exceedingly mild, requiring care and fore- thought rather than treatment; at others, terribly malignant, with a fatal result before any effective treatment can be adopted; while every variety of description may present itself between these two conditions. The treatment must therefore depend upon the nature of the disease itself, the constitution of the epidemic, and the idiosyncrasy of the individual. (i.) Prophylactic.—1. Quarantine.—The first essential requirement in legislation dealing with infectious diseases should be the provision of single rooms where doubtful cases can be quarantined \intil a definite decision upon the nature of the attack is possible. In scarlet fever an accurate diagnosis is frequently im- practicable until the fourth day. The retention of such cases in their homes for this period is unwise; while their ti-ansfer to a scarlet fever ward on mere suspicion, excited by fear of the Notification Act, is iniquitous. 2. Isolation.—The stringent isolation of an accurately diagnosed case is the next important step, both on account of the patient's own welfare and the protection of the community. This isolation of the sick should extend to his nurse and attendant. In a private house the most suitable place for the patient is usually the highest story. The isolation should be as vigorous and complete as possible ; and no visitors should be permitted