SLEEP, NORMAL AND MORBID 214 brain. Psychologically speaking, as the sen- sory organs retire from action, the intellectual faculties lose their equilibrium. First the power of volition ceases, then the logical associ- ation of ideas comes to an end, the reasoning faculty disappears, and judgment is suspended. During sleep, when the subject-matter sup- plied for the exercise of the faculties of percep- tion and judgment, and the operations of the will, are withdrawn, the ideas that still arise are chiefly dependent for their origin and association upon the automatic and endogenous activities of the brain. Undisturbed by impulses from the external world, the brain seems then to become more sensitive to impressions having their origin within the body. In a condition of deep sleep due to exhaustion, or the influence of hypnotics, where the return to consciousness is comparatively sudden, hypnagogic illusions and hallucinations seldom occur. This is also fre- quently the case in persons with uric acid dia- thesis who recover consciousness through a com- paratively short period of extreme drowsiness. In infancy the occurrence of an overloaded stomach, or irritation of the gastro-intestinal tract due to some indiscretion of diet, readily induces dreams, and in some instances terrifying hallucinations. It is in the nervous individual, however, that the vagaries of memory and of imagination give those disorderly pictures dur- ing the prolonged stage of imperfect sleep. This may be further enhanced by an enfeebled heart, an irritable or turgid sexual apparatus, or by an irritable nervous ganglion. As the result of a terrifying hallucination, the indivi- dual may, during partial consciousness, commit crimes in self-defence. Sometimes the sensory perversions are mainly illusory, and it has often been demonstrated that dreams may be suggested to the sleeper by stimulation of the special senses. Thus, on hearing the rustling of a newspaper an indivi- dual has dreamt of the sounds of waves on the seashore, and conjured up with vivid intensity the visual picture of its accompaniments. The impressions produced by the dream may be so vivid that a belief in its reality may exist even some time after waking. Taine {Ou In- telligeyice, p. 61) mentions that Baillarger dreamed one night that a certain person had been appointed editor of a newspaper ; in the morning he believed it to be true and mentioned it to several persons. The effect of the dream persisted all the forenoon as strongly as that of a real sensation; at last, about three o'clock, as he was stepping into his carriage, the illusion passed off and he knew that he had been dream- ing. The instances where some bodily sensation forms the stimulus to set up an illusion are innumerable. Gaudin on one occasion read him- self to sleep over an account of the race between the Valkyrie and the Defender. While in the hypnagogic state he imagined that he had one foot on each boat, and that as they passed each other he suffered some discomfort. On awaken- ing he found his ankles tender, swollen, and temperature 103°. I have elsewhere (^Mental Physiology, p. 288) pointed out the similarity between the phen- omena of dreams and those of insanity. Many of these phenomena are identical in every re- spect. There is in both a partial displacement of the ego, by which the " I" which perceives the abnormal is not the " I" which was wont to perceive the noritial. In artificially induced states of unconsciousness (e.g. by chloroform) I have seen an insane patient who, whilst under the anaesthetic, gave vent by speech to the same delusion and the same train of ideas as when in his ordinary state of insanity. This fact alone was significant that the ego bore a corre- sponding relationship to the actual cerebral activities in both states. In the fully awake person the judgment perceives the nature of the events which are manifested to the mind; in sleep, and in in- sanity, on the other hand, the judgment is weak and there is inability (the " negative lesion" of Hughlings Jackson) to perceive the absurdity and impossibility of the events which appear to happen. One point in which the dream state differs from the insane state is to be found in the fact that in the former a large part of the memory is blotted out, and the mind is unable to compare present facts with the experiences of the past; whilst in the insane the memory for remote events is often unimpaired. In the insane the dreams are often morbid exaggerations of the waking thoughts, and I have observed many instances in which insane persons have dreamt that they had the usual forms of sensory persecution during sleep as during the wide-awake state. Hack Tuke {Diet. Psych. Med., p. 413) records the case of a lady, the subject of melancholia, who was entirely free from her troubles during the night. It is common, however, for the melancholiacs to have dreams of a dismal and depressing character. Savage believes that the prognosis as to re- covery is good in those insane melancholiacs who have pleasant dreams. In mania the phantasmagoria is very varied, and on awaking the insane person confuses his dream states with actual experiences. In alcoholics especially is this noticeable, and gives rise to the condition known as paramnesia. Such patients will frequently assert they have undergone actual experiences, whereas they have been in reality dreamed. In puerpei-al insanity we sometimes find that the attack has commenced with a particularly vivid dream occurring in the early morning, and it is not uncommon to meet with other forms of insanity which have been an actual continuation or outcome of the hypnagogic state. In a similar manner an insane hallucinatory