473 SYPHILIS gives rise to a fibrous myocarditis and to an endocarditis which may attack the lining mem- brane of the heart, to a thickening of the valves, or to an inflammation of the coronary arteries. The pericardium is rarely affected without coin- cident inflammation of the heart itself. The symptoms are broadly those of myo- carditis due to the more usual causes. The patients often die suddenly, and the syphilitic lesion may only become manifest at the post- mortem examination, for the heart is affected late in the course of syphilis when no history of the disease is attainable. The diagnosis, there- fore, is rarely made, but in a few cases recovery is said to have occurred under appropriate treatment. The arteries are affected by syphilis in several ways. There may be a general arteriosclerosis, which is either diffuse or nodular; an endarter- itis, which may be obliterating or gummatous ; a hyaline or amyloid degeneration of the arterial walls; or an aneurysm. It is probable that many syphilitic manifestations in the arterial system as well as in other parts of the body are parasyphilitic (p. 480), that is to say, they are only due indirectly to syphilis. These tissues have shared in the general syphilitic poisoning to which the whole body has been subjected. They have been weakened, and they have thus become more liable to disease, which in the ordinary course of events would have affected them, but perhaps to a less extent or from which they might have wholly escaped. The aorta, the cerebral arteries, the radial, the temporal, and the popliteal are the vessels most often affected ; and in the smaller arteries the proliferation of the endothelial cells may be so great in syphilitic endarteritis as to cause com- plete obliteration of the lumen, but without any atheromatous degeneration. Veins.—The veins are subject to a syphilitic phlebitis or periphlebitis which may attack the superficial veins of the arms and legs, or may even involve so large a vein as the common femoral. The plugging is not painful, and there is rarely evidence of acute inflammation. The result of these syphilitic changes in the blood-vessels is to produce marked disease of the brain when they occur in the cerebral arteries, and to cause gangrene when they in- volve the vessels of the limbs. The prognosis is not very good, because the symptoms are often indicative of advanced dis- ease of the vessels in which they occur. Bones and Joints.—Syphilitic lesions of the bones and joints are numerous and characteristic, and they occur during each of the three main stages into which syphilis is divided for descrip- tive purposes. Neuralgia over the large joints relieved by mercury is of no uncommon occur- rence during primary syphilis, especially in those who live in damp and warm climates. Bone pains known as osteocopic are of frequent occurrence during secondary syphilis, but it is not until the tertiary stage that the full force of the disease falls upon the osseous system. Bone is divided for pathological purposes into an inorganic poi'tion of no interest, and a living organic part, which includes the marrow and endosteum, extends through the whole thickness of the bone, and terminates with the outer layer of the periosteum. This living tissue is alone capable of inflammatory changes, and the whole of it is involved, though the changes may be more marked at one part than another, so that the inflammation can be divided clinically into periostitis, osteitis, or osteomyelitis. Local periostitis, especially as it occurs on the shins, is so common and well recognised as a sign of syphilis that its old name node has passed into folk-speech. But nodes are not confined to the tibia, for they may be found on all bones lying subcutaneously, and thus ex- posed to injury. Both long and flat bones are attacked, so that nodes are found upon the skull as well as on the bones of the arms and legs. The tumours formed by this form of syphil- itic periostitis are ill-defined swellings, adherent to the bone, over which the skin moves easily unless they are inflamed. Nodes are tender and are often more painful at night than when the patient is following his occupation during the day. Treatment with iodides causes the localised periostitis to undergo resolution; but in some cases when the patient is unhealthy, and when the inflammatory process becomes infective, the nodes suppurate, an ulcer is formed, and there may be some necrosis of the affected bone. Osteitis and Osteomyelitis.—It is impossible to distinguish pathologically between osteitis and osteomj'elitis, though the periostitis is often sufficiently localised in syphilis to enable it to be classed separately. In long bones the gummatous inflammation may be either localised or diffuse. When it is localised it may cause sufficient rarefaction of the bone to allow of its being broken by .a slight injury—"spontaneous fracture." More usually, however, the inflammation affects the entire bone, which, in process of time, may become thickened, heavier than usual, and bent, so that it may be mistaken for a case of osteitis deformans. Suppuration is rarer in syphilis than in tubercle, and necrosis is consequently less common. Dactylitis is one of the less common forms of syphilitic osteomyelitis. The affected phalanges increase in size and the skin becomes glazed, but it does not ulcerate unless the inflamed tissues become infected with pyogenic organisms. There is another form of syphilitic dactylitis in which the inflammation appears to start in the subcutaneous tissue rather than in the bone itself. Bones containing an abundance of cancellous