SYPHILIS 478 Isolated gummata are sometimes a more marked feature of hepatic syphilis than the cirrhosis just mentioned. They are found either as elevations beneath the capsule, or deeply in the substance of the organ ; in the latest stages depressed scars may show where they have been replaced by fibrous tissue. The symptoms are often obscure, especially if the gummata are few and small. Ascites is some- what less marked than in other cases of hepat- itis, and there is sufficient evidence of syphilis in other organs to warrant the diagnosis. The prognosis is not very good, but the administration of iodides must be persisted in, and they may be usefully combined with sarsaparilla. The spleen is aiTected in the same manner as the liver, but much less often. The inflamma- tion is either difl^use or localised. In the early stages of the diffuse forms the spleen is enlarged, and in this stage I have seen it become movable ; in the later stages it shrinks and becomes denser than usual. The gummata vary greatly in size and number. They may go on to cicatrisation, and may cause the spleen to be- come adherent to the diaphragm. The splenic inflammation does not give rise to any symptoms of importance, and in the absence of other evidence of syphilis it would probably pass imrecognised. The Genito-Urinary Organs.—The kidneys have been found to contain gummata from time to time, and syphilitic people sufiBr occasionally from the symptoms of large white kidney, but very little is known of the relation of syphilis to renal disease. The genital organs of both sexes may be subject to gummatous inflammation during the later stages of syphilis. In the male, gummata are found on the inner surface of the prepuce, and in the urethra close to the meatus ; whilst in some cases a small induration is observed in one of the corpora cavernosa, which slowly and painlessly increases in size until it seriously interferes with the function of the penis as an erectile organ. In women gummata occur in the labia, and near the inferior commissure of the vagina. More rarely they have been recog- nised in the vagina, where they may cause much ulceration, and have produced a recto-vaginal fistula. The ovaries are subject to diffuse inflamma- tion, leading to the formation of fibrous tissue. Very little is known of uterine disorders as a result of syphilis. The testes are especially liable to inflamma- tory attacks as a result of syphilis. Two forms of orchitis are easily recognised during the later stages of syphilis, the smooth oval swelling and the craggy sarcocele. Either form of inflamma- tion may be associated with a hydrocele, in some cases of the tunica vaginalis, and in others of the seminiferous tubules. The testicle enlarges slowly and painlessly in the diffuse inflammation, maintaining its shape, but early losing sensation. The enlargement is succeeded in process of time by contraction of the newly formed fibrous tissue, with eventual atrophy of the gland. The vas deferens remains unaffected, the prostate and the vesiculee semi- nales are not enlarged, and the differential diagnosis is thus made between syphilitic and tuberculous orchitis. In the craggy sarcocele the testis is the seat of gummata which lead to an increase in the size and irregularity in the shape of the testicle. The gummata may break down to form an abscess which opens by one or more openings through the scrotum, and in some cases leads to the formation of a hernia testis. The prognosis is good in cases of syphilitic disease of the testicle. The reproductive power is not lost in the early stages, even when both glands are affected; but when atrophy has occurred the patient is sterile. Local and con- stitutional treatment is of the utmost benefit even when the inflammatory changes have advanced to a marked extent, for testicular inflammations appear to be more amenable to mercury and the iodides than those of any other organ except the skin. The treatment consists in putting the patient at once upon a thorough course of iodides and strapping the affected gland with Scott's dress- ing. No operative measures should be recom- mended, for even in the worst cases the con- ditions rapidly improve under appropriate treat- ment. Skin Eruptions.—Rupia is the name given to a characteristic eruption on the skin which appears late in the secondary or early in the tertiary stage of syphilis in people who from any cause are broken down in health. A red spot, marking an infiltration of the cutis, first appears, which afterwards suppurates, and a round pustule is formed, the superficial layer of which dries up into a scab. The suppuration continues beneath the scab, and involves more of the surrounding tissue, which in turn scabs, so that a series of concentric rings are formed, of which the central ones are thicker and higher than the outermost. The accumulation of scabs thus resembles a cone with a flat base, which has been aptly compared to a limpet shell. The treatment is by the internal administra- tion of mercury combined with the iodides and the local application of iodide of starch, which is made by boiling together one ounce of powdered starch, two ounces of glycerine, and six ounces of water, an ounce of solution of iodine being added when the mixture is nearly cold. The true tertiary skin eruptions in syphilis consist of an infiltration of the skin and deeper subcutaneous tissues with gummatous material, which afterwards softens, suppurates, and