STOOLS 405 of severe abdominal pain, recurring at variable intervals of time, and lasting usually for some hours, the pain being general throughout the abdomen, or more intense in some particular region, such as the right or left hypochondrium, the epigastrium, or the region of the caecum. The pain may be accompanied by vomiting and flatulent distension of the abdomen. The condition has to be diagnosed more especially from biliary and renal colic, ap- pendicitis, and gastric ulcer. The passage of gall-stones per rectum may lead to error in diagnosis; but gall-stones, if numerous, are facetted and differ in composition from true intestinal concretions, which contain both organic and inorganic material, the latter being mainly calcium and magnesium salts. On microscopic examination, true intestinal sand is readily differentiated from that form of pseudo-enterolithiasis in which the so-called sand consists of sclerenchyma. Sclerenchyma cells—hard, thick-walled vegetable cells—are present in abundance in pears, and the in- dividuals who are reported to have passed " sand " consisting essentially of sclerenchyma cells have usually been in the habit of eating this fruit in more than moderate quantities. Cases of this nature have been recorded by Eichorst, Fiirbringer, Delepine, Naunyn, Shattock, and others. The " sand" in these cases consists of small, irregular, pale yellowish or greyish-brown, exceedingly hard particles, and these when examined microscopically are seen to be thick-walled vegetable cells. The amount of sand passed in these cases is often considerable. In Shattock's case the patient would, after an aperient, " frequently pass as much as two ounces of the sand." The formation of larger intestinal stones or enteroliths is likewise of rare occurrence. Of these it is usual to distinguish three forms:— (1) Concretions composed chiefly of phosphates, and formed around a foreign body such as a fruit-stone, dead parasite, or gall-stone, which constitutes the nucleus of the concretion. It is to ingestion of much indigestible vegetable material, or of earth or sand, that the formation of such enteroliths is mainly ascribed, and we may note that phosphatic stones, consisting mainly of ammonia magnesium phosphate, together with hair, bran, or other foreign sub- stance, are of common occurrence in the in- testine of the horse. (2) Fsecal concretions, consisting mainly of undigested vegetable material or dried ffeces, partially impregnated with phosphates of calcium and magnesium. (3) Concretions resulting from ingestion of medicinal substances. These stones are usually composed of calcium or magnesium carbonate. The patient has as a rule previously suffered from hyperchlorhydria, and calcium and mag- nesium salts have been taken in large quantities over a prolonged period of time, and remaining in the intestinal canal have formed a solid mass of large size. In such cases of pseudo-entero- lithiasis, calculi consisting of sodium bicarbon- ate, calcium carbonate, and magnesium carbonate are recorded by Langenhagen, and calculi of magnesium carbonate by Spillmann. Calculi of this nature may, moreover, be in part com- posed of salol (Leo), bismuth, etc. The treatment of enterolithiasis must be directed to the relief of pain and to the cure of the causal condition. Dieulafoy recommends opium, intestinal lavage, appropriate diet, and mineral water such as that of Vichy. Eichorst's first patient was successfully treated by regula- tion of the diet, by abdominal massage, laxatives, and rectal injections of warm saline solution. Stora.g'e. See Water {Supply, Cisterns, etc.). Stora,X.—Prepared storax {Styrax Proe- paratus) is a purified balsam got from the trunk of a tree {Liquidamhar orientalis) growing in Asia Minor; it contains styrene, cinnamic acid, styracin, etc. ; it acts in the same way as the balsams of Tolu and Peru ; it is used externally (mixed with olive oil) to kill pediculi, and rarely internally; its dose is 5 to 20 grains, and it enters into the composition of Tinctura Ben- zoini Composita. Storer'S Method.—A method of ex- amining the rectal mucous membrane (by in- spection) : the finger is placed in the vagina, and the posterior vaginal wall is pressed back- wards and downwards until the rectal wall is inverted and extruded through the anal aper- ture. See Gynecology, Diagnosis in {Rectal Examination, Methods). StOVcline.—The hydrochloride of alpha dimethyl-aminopropanol benzoate, a salt which has been used instead of cocaine, from which it differs in being a vaso-dilator and not a vaso- constrictor, and also in having a tonic effect on the heart. As a local antesthetic to mucous surfaces it may be employed in a 5 or a 10 per cent solution; it may also be given hypoder- mically as a 0-5 per cent solution in distilled water (with the addition of adrenalin), and it is also of value for intraspinal injection. See AN/ESTHESIA. stoves. See Ventilation and Warming {Stoves). Strabismometer. See Strabismus {Measurement, Strabometry). Strabismus. Introduction 406 True Strabismus ..... 406 Paralytic 406 Non-Paralytic ..... 406 Latent Strabismus .... 407