290 SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF Dislocation.—Dislocation of the spine nearly always occurs in the cervical region. A few dislocations affecting the twelfth dorsal vertebra are recorded, and three or four cases of disloca- tion of the lumbar vertebrae without serious fracture have been confirmed by autopsy. It may be complete, incomplete, or unilateral, the upper vertebra being dislocated forward over the lower one, although backward disloca- tions have been recorded. The commonest site is at the junction of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. If the dislocation be complete, on examining the pharynx an unnatural prominence may be felt, and there are the usually associated nerve lesions, with rigidity, and a peculiar atti- tude of the head and neclc. If the dislocation be incomplete there may be irregularity of the spinous processes, and there will be stiffness of the neck and partial paralysis. Naturally, dislocation affecting the first and second cervical vertebrse is followed by death, and dislocation about the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrse is soon fatal. So that it is proper in the majority of cases to attempt to replace the parts by means of traction aided by gentle movements of flexion. The friends should be warned that there is a risk of immediate death during the procedure, but it may conscientiously be carried out by the surgeon, who is well aware of the fatal effect of the injury if left untreated. When the dislocation is unilateral there is stiffness, irregularity of the spinous processes, radiating pain, and the head is flexed and turned to the shoulder on the sound side. The cord symptoms vary in degree according to the amount of pressure and of htemorrhage. If an attempt at reduction for partial dis- location be made, rotation should be used in addition to extension and counter-extension. The head should be carried still further in the direction of the injured side, and then gently rotated and bent towards the opposite side, extension and counter-extension being kept up during the whole time. Railway Spine, or Traumatic Neuroses.— For our knowledge of this subject we are mainly indebted to the writings of Erichsen, H. W. Page, and Thorburn. By railway spine is meant a functional dis- order of the nervous system, or some part of it, in which there is no gross lesion of the spinal cord, but the symptoms simulate organic disease. It should be clearly stated that in the so-called railway spine the injuries to the soft parts do not differ from injuries to similar structures elsewhere, but they are coloured and are markedly influenced by the fact that they are sustained under exceptional circumstances, such as a railway accident—circumstances which are often extremely horrifying to those concerned. The conditions which are included under the term railway spine are by general agreement the following:—!. A simple sprain of tlie muscles of the back, which may get entirely well; but more often it is followed by, 2. A general prostration or a condition of neurasthenia. It is to be noted, however, that this neurasthenia may come on either with or without the his- tory of definite injury. 3. A state known as traumatic hysteria. Conditions 2 and 3 are functional disorders of the nervous system, and they must not be confused with symptoms due to inflammatory conditions and degeneration of the spinal cord. The terms railway spine and concussion of the spinal cord are not synonymous, because con- cussion of the spinal cord is one of the rarest of injuries, and railway collisions do not appear to be in any way specially productive of it. The expression traumatic neuroses seems to cover |m fairly exactly the disturbance of function occur- ^ ring in these accidents. To go more fully into these points: 1. A simple sprain of the back gives rise to apprehensions on the part of the patient, because his mental balance is somewhat disturbed by the collision, and to the lay mind the symptoms of a sprain of the back are easily confounded with those due to nerve lesions. For instance, after such an injury there will sometimes be tenderness over the transverse processes, or the spinal muscles will be stiff and the patient feel that he is unable to move freely. When he attempts to stand up he finds his back is weak and gives way, and there are often some hypersesthetic patches on the skin, which on being touched give him exquisite pain. If in addition he notes that there is some diffi- culty in micturition and that the bowels are constipated, his apprehensions are increased. But it is to be noted that when examined, and when the hyperaesthetic patches are touched, he moves his back freely; wherein, as Mr. Page rightly says, lies a diagnostic sign of much value; for it serves to exclude organic injury, and is a distinct indication as to the line of treatment to be adopted. If the symptoms of organic nerve lesions have been carefully ex- cluded, and if there be no definite rigidity of the column, the course of treatment is quite clear. The patient should not be allowed to remain in bed, but should have, first, passive movements, and then use the muscles of the back after time has been allowed for repair of the muscular and ligamentous structures. In fact the condition is comparable to that which ' is found in ordinary lumbago, and so much so that the term "traumatic lumbago" has been ' given to it. But it will be readily understood i that with the imperfect knowledge of the lay ; mind as to the relative value of back symptoms, ' and in people of nervous temperament—especi- j ally in those who are overwoi'ked or have in- { dulged in excesses—the tendency will be to j dwell upon the symptoms until the patient glides off into a state of neurasthenia or general prostration; and this state may even come on