SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 90 in the old or feeble. If little or no progress in absorption is made within one or two weeks, some of the fluid may be withdrawn through a cannula; and repeated if necessary. When pain and marked tenderness are absent, strapping may be applied with advantage. For radical relief the best treatment is free incision into the sac, and after turning out the contents the parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis and any adherent false membrane shoidd be removed as far as possible. A suppurating hsematocele must be ti-eated by free incision, thorough clearing out, and gauze drainage. Castration should be performed when the testis is useless; when the tunica vaginalis is thickened or hardened by disease; when the patient is old and feeble; when much blood is also diffused among the tissues of the scrotum, or when sloughing is threatened. Castration shortens convalescence and diminishes the risk of hsemorrhage, of cellulitis, and of septicaemia. Hcematocele of the Cord is rare, and consists in an effusion into an vniobliterated part of the funicular process. A history of injury would give the clue to the nature of a rapidly forming, opaque, circumscribed, tense, mobile swelling in the inguinal canal of a non-inflammatory origin. Should operative treatment be called for, a careful aseptic enucleation of the tumour must be performed. Hsematoma into the substance of the testis is sometimes described as "hsematocele of the testicle." Its treatment is that of htematoma elsewhere. HEMATOMA OF THE CoRD.—Hsematoma of the of cord is but rarely seen. It is due to the rupture of one of its vessels as a result of injury or strain. A swelling of considerable size rapidly forms, extending along the cord from the inguinal region to the scrotum ; the testis remains free and unimplicated. Such a con- dition is very likely to be mistaken for an omental hernia, bvit on careful examination the tumour will be felt to be more uniform in con- sistency, more rounded in outline, and even semi-fluctuating. It is always irreducible. The history of injury will give a clue to correct diagnosis. Treatment in the early stage consists in the application of elastic pressure or evaporating lotions, and later on, if the effusion is not absorbed, it may be relieved by aseptic tapping if the contents are fluid, or if threatening to inflame, the cavity must be laid open and the coagulum removed. Varicocele.—This affection consists of a varicose enlargement of the veins of the pam- piniform plexus and lower part of the cord. Including the mild degrees of the disorder, it is one of the commonest affections of the male genitals. In severe cases of varicocele all the veins of the cord may be involved. The veins of the pampiniform plexus are dilated, tortuous, much increased in size and in number, owing to dilatation of many smaller vessels forming flexuous curves and loops. The elasticity and contractility of the coats of the veins are diminished in advanced cases, and the coats are also somewhat thickened. Thrombosis and phlebolithes are frequently'' present. The degree of enlargement varies much, and may occasionally be so great as to fill the scrotum and conceal the gland. It rarely extends as far as the inguinal canal. The testis is, as a rule, both well developed and functionally perfect, but in a small number of old-standing cases it may become atrophied to some extent and even occasionally functionless. Varicocele is to a great extent due to the following ana- tomical factors: the size and winding course of the spermatic veins ; their numerous anasto- moses ; the loose, inelastic tissue in which they lie ; their passage through the oblique inguinal canal; and the length and comparatively small size of their efferent trunks. The left side is more often affected than the right, because of the lower position of the left testicle ; the point of entrance of its vein into the left renal veins is at a higher level than that of the right into the vena cava; the left enters the renal at a right angle, and the right enters the cava obliquely ; the left passes beneath the sigmoid flexure. Varicocele is more apt to develop in the weak and flabby than the strong and robust. It usually commences between the fifteenth and twenty-fifth year, developing for about twelve months, and tending to disappear after marriage and as men grow older. Apart from or perhaps in connection with the above-mentioned ana- tomical causes, varicocele may be caused by constipation, sedentary habits, masturbation, ungratified sexual passion, tight belts about the abdomen, and the pressure of trusses. Symptoms.—The testicle is usually normal, though it may be smaller; the scrotum is more or less relaxed, and occasionally varicose veins are seen on its surface ; the veins swell up and form a distinct swelling thicker below than above, feeling like a bag of worms, and dis- appearing in the recumbent position. The blue colour is often visible through the thin skin. There is usually an impulse on coughing. The pressure of a finger on the external abdominal ring increases fulness and distension. As a rule, varicoceles are painless ; but in weak, neurotic men aching is complained of in testis, cord, groin, and loins, and also a sense of weight and dragging. Severe spasmodic pain is sometimes felt. In some cases varicocele gives rise to severe mental despondency and a dread of impaired virility. Long standing, riding, and walking, or sudden exertion aggravate the swelling, and greater discomfort is therefore often felt towards evening. Treatment.—Treatment may be either palli- ative or operative. Palliative treatment will