377 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF loses weight very considerably, and this fact should enter into the considerations limiting its duration. But there is another aspect of rectal feeding which is of considerable importance, especially since it is a method of alimentation that should not be entered on, or at least main- tained beyond a few days, except from necessity. Observation has shown that very many cases of chlorotic girls exhibiting all the symptoms of gastric ulcer, and many others in whom htemor- rhage is alone wanting, do very well on a fairly good diet of solid food, including meat, almost from the first manifestation of symptoms, and much sooner regain their health than those who are kept on nutritive enemata and suppositories for weeks. It has also been proved at operation that some of them are the subjects of a minute ulcer or erosion, and it is probable that a very large number are suffering from a similar lesion. For such patients a full diet might reasonably be supposed to be innocuous, whilst the presence of a large ulcer that has penetrated through the mucosa to the muscular layer or even deeper might on equally good grounds be regarded as distinctly prohibitive. With the identity of symptoms in the two groups of cases the difficulty is to decide to which any individual one can be referred ; the probability on the ground of frequency alone in favour of the former class being scarcely sufficient to define the regimen to be ordered. Intermed- iate, as it were, between these extremes of dietetic method may be mentioned a purely milk diet, very small quantities being given at frequent regular intervals, the amount being increased as improvement takes place. The milk may be peptonised, or mixed with lime- water or with effervescing water—soda, Apolli- naris, etc.—or with a small quantity of fari- naceous food, all designed to cause a looser coagulation of the casein. Others prefer to give three or four meals a day of beef powder or some finely divided dry proteid mixed with magnesia or prepared chalk, and others depend on frequent teaspoonful doses of strong meat essences. Each of these methods the writer has seen attended with success, and on the whole it may be said that the general opinion is inclining rather to oral feeding, at least after two or three days' abstinence or rectal injections. As the case improves a more varied dietary may be gradually introduced. Of the special manifestations, pain more particularly calls for treatment, and for this purpose the various gastric sedatives may be tried. But since this symptom, as well as nausea and other sensory discomforts, are closely associated with the excessive acid secre- tion in the stomach, the correction of this condition goes far to allay the discomfort. For this purpose the bicarbonates of soda or potash (gr. XXX.) are most effective, and may con- veniently be given with subcarbonate of bismuth (gr. XX.) and oxalate of cerium (gr. x.). Or, acid, hydrocyan. dil. Triiij. liq. bismuthi et ammonii citratis Ttlxxx., sp. chloroform. ITtv., aq. ad. 3ij-, the writer has found most efficacious, and to this, if need be, three or four drops of liq. morphinse acetatis may be added. As a rule, however, unless the pain be very severe, or unless there be hfemorrhage, it is well to avoid opium and morphia. In the case of bleeding, their value is great in calming the patient, and in consequence favouring its arrest. Atropin (gr. ^hu) given with a view to arrest the secretion of the hydrochloric acid, being repeated every four or five hours accord- ing as it is tolerated. Constipation, which, as a rule, is extremely obstinate, must be overcome by enemata and laxatives such as cascara, or, what is perhaps generally preferable, Carlsbad salts. The vomiting is best treated by the measures just mentioned for the relief of pain, which may be supplemented by a sinapism applied over the stomach. If the haemorrhage be very excessive, transfusion of normal saline solution should be at once resorted to, as this diminishes the risk of syncope and prevents the distressing thirst which is so likely to follow. Htemostatics, so called, by the mouth are useless, but the sub- cutaneous injection of ergotinin, repeated every few hours for several doses, may be employed. The subsequent anaemia supervening, as is generally the case in a state of chlorosis, requires iron, meat, sunlight, and the ordinary manage- ment pursued in this condition. In all cases of healed gastric ulcer, except when the erosion is minute, there are the risks attendant upon the contraction of the cicatrix. These it is practically impossible to avert. For the surgical treatment of gastric ulcer, see special article, p. 386. Special Sjrmptomatology and Treatment of Cancer of the Stomach The onset of the symptoms characteristic of this disease is, like that of chronic gastric affections generally, insidious, and their exact commencement can rarely be indicated. In the cases occurring in early life the observations of Drs. Osier and M'Crae go to show a more abrupt commencement and more rapid course. In a small proportion of cases there is a history of dyspepsia for many years, and sometimes of very definite gastric ulcer, but far more fre- quently the patient gives no such account of his previous health. The symptoms are those of a progressive indigestion, exhibiting much variation in the degree to which they are severally present, and it is from a combination of signs and symptoms rather than from any absolutely pathognomonic phenomenon that the diagnosis is inferred. In an appreciable number of cases the symptoms throughout, or until almost the end, are so