STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 370 of a dilated stomach, and commonly is found with other gastric diseases, such as ulcer and cancer. The general result of the structural changes which characterise a chronic catarrh of the gastric mucosa is to impair the movements of the organ, to lead to a secretion of juice which is deficient in quantity or in hydrochloric acid, and probably to set up an undue sensitive- ness of the membrane; the organ hence be- comes deteriorated in turn, and is liable to dilate. Once established, therefore, chronic gastritis tends to produce or to intensify those conditions to which its occurrence may have been due. As might be supposed from the varied circumstances attending its causation, the symptoms it gives rise to are varied in range and character, from the mildest degree of discomfort to almost continuous suffering. Broadly speaking, the condition is one of de- layed digestion, marked by a sensation of weight or oppression, or even slight pain, that comes on some time after food, and may con- tinue for several hours. There may be some tenderness, especially on pressure over the stomach, and exertion even of deep breathing may cause discomfort in that region. The appetite is indifferent or variable and capricious. Flatulence with consequent eructations of gas, that are frequently induced with difficulty, though affording considerable relief when they have occurred, are among the most constant indications. There is a general liability to nausea, especially in the morning, and vomiting also is apt to be most frequent then, due, as it often is, to the absorption of poisonous products of digestion. Indeed, auto-intoxication is most probably the explanation of many of the remote symptoms of this condition, such as the dull, heavy headache so constantly met with, the lassitude and disinclination for mental and bodily exertion, muscular cramps and vertigo. The vomit or material artificially withdrawn from the stomach shows a deficiency of hydro- chloric acid and excess of mucus; the results of proteid digestion may be recognised, and the products of carbohydrate fermentation. The appearances of the tongue are less indicative of the state of the stomach and digestion therein than was formerly supposed ; it may be thickly coated, or large, flabby, and indented with the teeth and clean, or red and denuded; such variations are more dependent on the state of the mouth, teeth, and mode of breathing, and all may be met with in the course of a chronic gastric catarrh. A nasty taste in the mouth and foul breath are usually complained of. The ill effects of the indigestion on the general nutrition are seen in the wasting, the muddy complexion, the anaemia, and the condition of the urine, which is frequently scanty, high- coloured, and concentrated, throwing down lithates, or uric acid, or oxalate of lime crystals. The digestive processes in the intestine are more or less upset by the ill-prepared food in the stomach; and constipation, with attacks of diarrhoea, flatulence, and other symptoms, com- plicates the initial gastric disorder. All degrees and combinations of the conditions enumerated characterise the various cases of this very common complaint. In patients suffering from this disease the examination of the stomach-contents and the digestive process by Ewald's test-breakfast is often of very valuable assistance (see article " Digestion and Metabolism," vol. ii. p. 370). In making the diagnosis, attention should be paid to the possible existence of other stomach affections, or of general diseases, such as gout, etc., and still more to the habits and diet of the patient. Upon the nature of these several circumstances and the steady pursuance of treatment the prognosis of the case will mainly rest. Inflammation of the duodenum, apart from a similar condition of the stomach or of the intestines, is of doubtful occurrence clinically, and gives rise to no symptoms by which it can be certainly diagnosed. Simple catarrhal jaundice is commonly attributed to a mild duodenitis, but there is no reason to regard the duodenum as the sole part of the canal affected, and the supposed occurrence of inflammation in this situation as the result of toxic excretion in the bile has been referred to in considering the morbid anatomy of these organs. Treatment.—The ordinary cure of acute or subacute gastric catarrh requires no treatment, as a rule, beyond entire abstinence from food for twelve or twenty-four hours, washing out the stomach by drinking warm water freely, and a mild mercurial purge. If there be much pain, an effervescing mixture containing liquor bis- muthi et ammonise citratis, with hydrocyanic acid, will be required; and if it be clear that the stomach is empty, and yet retching and vomiting be excessive, a quarter of a grain of cocaine with one drop of carbolic acid in a mucilaginous draught will be found very useful. A hot bottle or fomentations to the abdomen will give great comfort. In the more serious forms of gastritis follow- ing irritant poisons, appropriate antidotes will be required, and probably opium for the relief of pain. The general state of the patient de- mands attention, and stimulants or strychnine to avert fatal collapse. Except in this same direction, little can be done for the very serious 'j phlegmonous form of inflammation. To ascertain and if possible remove the cause is the first and most important step in the treatment of a chronic gastritis. When this is due to errors in diet, whether of quality or quantity, alcoholic excess, insufficient mastica- tion, or the state of the teeth and gums, correction of the fault may of itself be soon attended with cure. So satisfactory a result «