SKIN GRAFTING AND ALLIED PROCEDURES 208 razor is employed, the blade being moistened by hot saline solution. To cut long, even, and uniformly thick grafts, considerable art is re- quired, which can only be acquired by practice. The essentials to success are (1) that the razor shall be sharp and moist; (2) that the skin be kept perfectly flat and perfectly steady, which is ensured by an assistant stretching at one end of the area operated upon, while the surgeon with his left hand stretches and steadies the other end; and (3) that the razor be used with a rapid, short, sawing movement. By attending to these points, strips of epithelium six or eight inches long by one and a half to two inches wide can readily be cut. The grafts should be immediately transferred to the surface on which they are to be planted. It is not usually necessary to irrigate while cutting the grafts, nor to transfer them to hot boracic lotion before placing them in position, as has been recom- mended by some. The grafts are placed on the sore, deep surface downwards, edge to edge, or, better still, slightly overlapping one another at their margins, so that they form a complete carpet to the sore. After they have been spread out, firm pressure is made over the grafts with a pad of sterilised gauze wrung out of normal salt solution, to express any blood or air-bubbles which may have collected under them. To prevent the grafts adhering to the gauze, a sheet of perforated oil-silk protective should be interposed. Dressing.—When the grafts are applied to a fresh, raw surface, and when there is no reason to anticipate any discharge, a dry, aseptic gauze dressing may be applied. When the grafts are applied to a granulating surface, on the other hand, and when there may be doubt as to its perfect asepticity, a protective dressing should be employed. This dressing consists of imbricated pieces of protective covered by antiseptic or sterilised gauze, and a thick layer of absorbent wool secured by a firm bandage. A retentive splint or other apparatus is of great advantage in preventing movement. The raw surface left by the removal of the grafts is bathed with a mild antiseptic and covered with a dry gauze dressing. The writer has found a simple picric acid dressing, such as is used for burns, answer admirably. It need not be distvirbed for ten days or a fort- night, by which time everything has healed. Subsequent Dressing.—When a dry dressing has been employed, it may be left in position for from seven to ten days. When protective has been used, the grafted area should be dressed on the fourth, fifth, or sixth day, the utmost gentleness and care being exercised to avoid displacement of the grafts. Grafts which have taken present a smooth, dry, pink surface, in contrast to the soft sodden, dirty grey appearance of such as have failed. At the next dressing, say three or four days later, it may be found that the epidermis of the grafts peels off as a fine, grey pellicle, without, however, affecting the vitality of the graft, which by this time is firmly adherent. A simple ointment dressing—such as weak boracic ointment (a quarter of the pharmacopeal strength)—is applied until consolidation of the new covering takes place. In the case of leg ulcers treated in this way, a prolonged period of rest in the recumbent position is necessary to allow of the consolida- tion of the cicatrix. There is considerable risk of the grafts breaking down if the limb is allowed to hang for any length of time within three months of the operation, and in cases of old-standing ulcer, even a longer period of recumbency should be recommended. Great difficulty is often experienced in persuading patients of the importance of this part of the treatment. On other parts of the body confine- ment to bed need not be protracted beyond six or eight weeks, but great care must be taken to avoid active use of a limb for some weeks longer. Skin Grafting.—The transplanting of por- tions of the whole thickness of the skin was first systematically practised by Wolff of Glasgow, who employed it to repair defects of the eyelids. He carefully avoided removing any portion of the subcutaneous fat with the grafts. Krause of Altona has recently (1896) revived interest in this method. He too avoids the subcutaneous fat. The grafts are placed upon a recent fresh surface, and if granulations have already formed, they must be scraped away and the surrounding surface pared with a knife until fairly healthy tissue is reached. These grafts have taken equally well when planted on muscle, fascia, connective tissue, periosteum, or even on denuded bone. The source of the grafts is prepared as for an aseptic operation, and to enable the wound made by their removal to be closed; oval or spindle-shaped grafts should be cut. When it is desired to cover over a raw surface with a single graft, it must be borne in mind in planning the operation that the skin shrinks after separation to about two-thirds of its original size. It is seldom necessary to stitch the grafts in place, except upon the face. The first dressing should be performed on the third or fourth day, as vesicles are apt to form on the transplanted skin. It is necessary to take great care not to disturb the feeble attachments which the grafts have formed with the wound. The after-treatment is the same as in Thiersch grafting. The epidermis peels off in a week or ten days, and occasionally small superficial areas of necrosis form. Complete healing takes from