533 TEETH use of tooth-brush and powders, gout, acids, etc. From microscopic investigation, Mr. Underwood has found that teeth affected by erosion are structurally ^defective, more especially the enamel, and all authors agree that the oral secretion in all such cases is strongly acid. Drs. Kirk and Buchard were the first to suggest that the irritated labial follicles in the mucous membrane opposite the affected teeth might be the cause of the erosion. Mr. Royston, in a paper on erosion published recently, gives a valuable hint in reference to the treatment of such cases, suggesting that not only the tooth, but also the mucous glands in neighbourhood of teeth affected, should be touched with AgNOg, he having found great benefit resulting there- from. Treatment.—Abi-asion.—When the teeth are much worn down, caps of gold or porcelain tips are fitted to the teeth. When there is tender- ness of tooth the application of AgNOg is useful. Erosion.—AgNOg applied to surface of teeth affected, and also to mucous glands contiguous to teeth ; also the daily use of Phillips' milk of magnesia as a mouth-wash will be found of great service. Electro-Cataphoresis Within recent years cataphoresis has been extensively used for various dental operations. It may be described as electrical diffusion of fluids through the soft and hard tissues, a kind of electric osmosis. A series of dry-cell batteries, capable of producing a current up to about forty volts or so, is used, and an instrument, rheostat or volt selector, also a milliamperemeter, to record the quantity administered. Various electrodes adapted for the different purposes are used. In the destruction of a tooth pulp the positive electrode is applied to the tooth, the negative—attached to a wet sponge—held in the hand; a piece of cotton-wool saturated with a 20 per cent solution of cocaine hydrochlorate in guaiacol, or meditrina, is inserted into the cavity of the tooth, and the current gradually turned on. One-twentieth of 1 millianipere to 3 or 4 milliamperes is all that is required for dental operations, but the time taken is rather a serious consideration, seven minutes to fifty or sixty minutes being commonly required to get the requisite results. Sensitive dentine can be ob- tunded by this means, and the pain of acute periodontitis allayed by it, while discoloured teeth are readily bleached by the aid of a 20 per cent solution of hydrogen peroxide. For tooth extraction it is not so successful. Oral Sepsis and General Bacteriology OF Mouth As is well known, the oral cavity forms a very suitable incubator for the various micro- organisms. The number of organisms present in any mouth is proportionate to the cleanliness with which it is kept, and the condition of health or disease of the contained organs. When teeth are defective in number and the mouth full of diseased and putrid roots, there will be also present, as a result of such conditions, numberless pathogenic and non-pathogenic bacteria, and, as a sequence of such an insanitary state of the oral cavity, the patient is likely to suffer from some of the following : dyspepsia, antemia, headache, constipation, etc. About 1882-84 Professor Miller of Berlin began publishing a series of papers in reference to the organisms of the mouth and their con- nection with disease, which greatly extended our knowledge of the important bearing micro- organisms have in the prodviction of various diseased conditions in the oral cavity and at a distance. The human mouth is well adapted for the development of bacteria ] the constant tempei-ature and the presence in the mouth of food debris, dead tissues, etc., all conduce to the nutrition and rapid proliferation of micro- organisms. Almost every known variety has been found in the human mouth, and in certain diseased conditions, such as that of typhoid, there may be present animal organisms also. Virulent pathogenic bacteria are frequently found even in healthy mouths. The danger of infection from the presence of such pathogenic organisms is proportional to the dosage, the condition of the mucous membrane, and the immunity or non-immunity of the individual when subjected to infection. In the dirty and diseased mouth are found at the margins of the gums, on and between the teeth, masses of micro-organisms, streptococci, staphylococci, bacilli spirillum sputugenum, spirochseta dentum, yeast cells, etc. (Fig. 15). The re- moval of septic roots and proper cleansing of the mouth have a wonderful effect in reducing the number of microbes, especially the coma and spirillum forms, which are always present in large numbers in diseased and filthy condi- tions of the oral cavity. Of twenty-two microbes isolated by Dr. Miller, ten were in the form of cocci of various sizes, five appeared as short, and six as long staflPs. One species formed spirilla, another developed long threads. Of thirty varieties cultivated subsequently eighteen were cocci, eleven staffs, one formed threads in fluids, three developed long connected or unconnected threads, one produced spirilla, eight were motile, fourteen immotile, only three showed spore formation, the others seemingly propa- gating themselves by fusion. They exhibited great differences in their relation to oxygen ; ten were found aerobic : four grew best in air, but could also do without; eight proved to be chromogenic, producing yellow masses in nutrient jelly. Dr. Miller also pointed out that the pigmentation of the dentine in dental caries is due to pigment - forming bacteria; various