RHUBARB adults. As a stomachic it is given in small doses usually combined with bismuth and soda, as a purgative in larger doses in combination with an antispasmodic. Because of the chrys- ophan it contains it may colour acid urine yellow and alkaline urine carmine. Rhus Toxicodendron.—The poison oak or poison-ivy, containing toxicodendric acid ; it has been used in chronic rheumatism. See Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata {Causal A(/ents, Vegetable); Myiasis {Hairy Cater- pillars). Rhyl. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {English, Wales). Rhythm ism. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Insane Defects of Inhibition, Rhythmism or Automatism). Ribes' Gang^iion. — A sympathetic nerve ganglion situated near the anterior com- municating artery of the brain. Ribs. See Chest, Deformities of {Ribs in Rickets); Chest, Injuries of {Contusions, Fractures, and Dislocations of Ribs); Osteo- malacia {Ribs); Pleura, Affections of, Sur- gical {Empyema, Thoracoplasty). Rice. See Invalid Feeding {Rice Pudding, Rice Soup). Rice-Water Stools. —The typical evacuations of cholera. See Cholera, Epidemic {Symptoms, Stools). Richardson's Mixture.—A mixture of alcohol (2 parts), chloroform (2 parts), and ether (3 parts). See Anaesthesia {Other Anaes- thetics). Richfield. See Balneology {America, Sidphuretted Waters). Richter's Hernia. SeeYi-ERmA\{Struc- tures. Contents). Ricin.—A proteid, with poisonous qualities, contained in the castor-oil bean {Ricimis com- munis), and causing toxic symptoms {ricinism) consisting of jaundice and hsemorrhagic enteritis and gastritis. Rickets. Definition ...... 2 Etiology and Pathology ... 2 Clinical Features and Course . . 3 Individual Symptoms .... 4 Complications and Associations . . 6 Morbid Anatomy ..... 7 FcETAL Rickets ..... 8 Late Rickets . . . . .9 Diagnosis ...... 9 Prognosis . . . . . .10 Treatment 10 See also Achondroplasia ; Adrenal Glands {Adrenalin in Rickets) ; Alcohol {Indications in Childhood); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Etiology, Predisposing Causes); Cataract (Varieties, Lam- ellar) ; Chest, Deformities of {Deformities in Rickets); Children, Clinical Examination op {Head in Rickets); Convulsions, Infantile {Etiology); Deformities {Rickets); Fragilitas Ossium \ Head {Shape in Rickets); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Pelvic Deformities, Rickety). Definition.—Rickets is a chronic disease of early life, in which the chief anatomical changes consist in enlargement of the epiphyses and deformities of the bones, while the ligaments, muscles, and many of the internal organs are also apt to be affected. Etiology and Pathology.—Rickets in its most typical form occurs between the ages of six months and two years; but the early symptoms are often noted during the latter months of the first half-year ; while the results of rickets—in the shape of stunted and deformed limbs—are seen long after the age of two years has been passed. A peculiar form of rickets is sometimes seen in older children and young adults (late rickets). Rickets is an exceedingly common disease in the large cities of the United Kingdom, as well as in the industrial centres of Europe and North America; it is comparatively rare among the natives of semi-tropical countries such as India, China, and Japan. It is much less common in country districts than in cities, as for instance in a Westmoreland village, where the inhabitants are a sturdy race of farmers and follow outdoor pursuits, than in a Lancashire village or city, where the inhabitants are miners or factory operatives. It is common among a population given to early and improvident marriages, and where in consequence over-crowding and poverty exist, while the infants are artificially fed on account of the mothers going to work in the mills. It is rare among a population where the parents are thrifty and sturdy, and suckle their infants for the greater part of the first year. The chief predisposing causes of rickets are (1) congenital weakness, (2) unhealthy life conditions, and (3) improper feeding and dyspepsia. Rickets is not an hereditary disease in the sense that rickety parents transmit the disease to their ofi^spring, but there can be no doubt that infants of weakly parents more often suffer from rickets than the infants of robust parents. Unhealthy life conditions undoubtedly predispose to rickets. Among these conditions must be mentioned the influence of a cold and damp climate in producing bronchial and in- testinal catarrhs, the continuous breathing of vitiated air in crowded dwellings, the neglect of cleanliness so common among the poor. Life in the crowded dwellings of the poor predisposes