SICK HEADACHE 159 Sick He£lda,Che.—Headache accom- panied by nausea. See Indigestion {Hemi- crania); Migraine and Cross References. Sickness. — Nausea and vomiting, e.g. the morning sickness of pregnancy, or that fol- lowing the administration of an anaesthetic; or a disease, e.g. sleeping sickness, falling sickness, green sickness, mountain sickness, etc. Sickroom. See Disinfection. Side-Chain Theory. See Immunity, Recent Views {Ehrlich's Theory). Sidera,tion.—Apoplexy or erysipelas of the face and head, both of which were supposed by the ancients to be due to stellar influence (Lat. sidus, a star). Sidero-.—in compound words sidero- (Gr. cri87]po<;, iron) means relating to iron ; e.g. sidero- scope (an instrument for detecting grains of iron in the eyes), sidero-dromophobia (morbid fear of a railway journey), siderophilous (having the tendency to take up particles of iron; as ex- hibited by some blood corpuscles), etc. SiderOSiS.—The morbid state of the lungs due to the inhalation of metal dust. See Lungs, Pneumonokoniosis. Sid mouth. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (English). Sidonal.—Quinate of piperazin; recom- mended in gout and the uric acid diathesis. Siegrle's Speculum. See Ear, Ex amination of {Tympanic Membrane, Pneumatic Speculum). Sig^auitian Operation.— Sym physiotomy. See Labour, Obstetric Opera- tions {Symphysiotomy). Sighingf. See Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Ancemia of Brain, Symptoms); Children, Clinical Examination of {Respira- tory System, Breathing); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Symptomatology, Dyspnoea); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symptomatology, Remote Symptoms). Sight. See Refraction ; Vision, Field op ; and Cross References under Eye. Sig'matism.—Defective articulation, or too frequent use of the s sound in speaking. Sig'moid.—Having the shape of the Greek letter (capital) S (sigma); e.g. the sigmoid flexure of the intestine, the sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw. SigmoidO-.—In compound words sig- moido- (Gr. a-iyjxa, s, and eiSos, resemblance) means relating to the sigmoid flexure; e.g. sigmoidopexy (fixation of the sigmoid flexure in cases of prolapse), and sigmoidostomy (the making of an artificial anus in the sigmoid flexure). See Intestines, Surgical Affec- tions OF. Sig'n.—An indication or mark of a dis- ease ; it is sometimes distinguished from a symptom, which is then regarded as an indication of disease observed by the patient alone, while the sign can be detected by the senses of the physician; phenomenon is sometimes used as a synonymous expression, e.g. the Argyll- Robertson phenomenon or sign in locomotor ataxia; a characteristic grouping of signs and symptoms is called a syndrome, or symptom- complex. Sig'nature.—in prescription-writing the name signature or signetur (Sig.) is given to the directions showing how and in what quantity the medicine is to be taken ; it is often written in English. See Prescribing {Prescription Writing, Contractions). Silicosis. — The presence of siliceous particles (Lat. silex, flint) in the lungs or in some other organ, giving rise to fibrous changes ; chalicosis. See Liver, Diseases of {Anthra- cosis and Silicosis); Lungs, Pneumonokoniosis {Chalicosis). Silk and Silkworm Gut. See Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Disinfection of Ligatures and Suttires). Silly how.—A popular name for the caul. See Caul. Silver. See also Drug Eruptions {Argenti Nitras); Pharmacology ; Toxicology {Irrit- ants, Silver).—Argentum. Symbol, Ag. Atomic weight, 107'11. The metal itself is not official, but is used as silver leaf for coating pills. The following are its official salts: — 1. Argenti Nitras, known as lunar caustic. It is obtained in crystalline form by the interaction of the native sulphide and nitric acid, and is then melted into rods. It should be kept in the dark, as light blackens it. It is soluble 2 in 1 of water. Dose—^-^ gr. in pill with kaolin. Preparations—(1) Argenti Nitras Induratus. Consists of 19 parts of silver nitrate and 1 of potassium nitrate fused together. (2) Argenti Nitras Mitigatus. Consists of 1 part of silver nitrate and 2 of potassium nitrate fused together. 2. Argenti Oxidum. Prepared by shaking together a solution of silver nitrate and lime- water. It is a brown powder, freely soluble in water. Dose—\-1 grs. in pill with kaolin. Silver nitrate acts locally as a caustic, astrin- gent, antiseptic, and haemostatic. It forms a very firm coagulum with albumen, and precipi- tates chlorides. Its action is therefore purely local, and does not penetrate into the tissues. Lunar caustic is used for the destruction of