SPINAL CORD 278 posterior longitudinal bundle, are mediate paths. The functional compensation possible between the tracts doubtless accounts for the fact that complete division of the pyramidal tract does not produce lasting paralysis in the higher animals, and that stimulation of the cerebral cortex after such division results in movements of the limbs. The motor path supplies chiefly the crossed side; its uncrossed fibres probably carry incitations for muscles which are habitually used contralaterally. For example, in turning the head the left sterno-mastoid is used with the right splenius capitis, and vice versa. Similarly, in lifting a weight, etc., with the right hand, the left erector spinse is put into action. The posterior longitudinal bundle and vestibulo-spinal tract serve further to connect the ocular nuclei and auditory nuclei re- spectively with the spinal musculature; the importance of such connection for equilibration is obvious. The function of the cells of the ventral horn has been already indicated. The vaso- and viscero-motor fibres leave the spinal cord in the most lateral part of the ventral root. Sensory Paths. — The path of common sensation reaching the cord by the posterior root seems to divide, touch and cold going together, while heat and pain preserve another path. The exact paths are not known, but that of touch and cold seems to become bilateral shortly after the entrance of the root, while that of heat and pain appears to cross almost entirely at the same level. It is likely that the mesial part of the lateral column is the seat of the conduction of some of these impressions. The muscular sense is conveyed from the limbs by GoU's column and (for the upper limbs) by Burdach's column to the opposite side of the cerebellum via the nuclei graciles and cuneati. The direct cerebellar tract probably is the muscular sense tract for the trunk muscles. It is an uncrossed tract. The function of Gower's tract is not definitely known. For the sensory and motor supply by the spinal roots, see vol. vii., art. "Paralysis." Shock.—The collection of phenomena indicat- ing depressed vitality which ensues upon injury or violent stimulation of the nervous system, and to which the term "shock" is apphed, has been explained as a severe stimulus causing widespread inhibition in the nervous elements, or as a condition of general exhaustion following a great stimulus. Recent experiments as to the nature of shock are of great interest. It must be borne in mind, in the first place, that every severe stimulus applied directly or indirectly to the nervous system causes, after a temporary rise, a great fall in the blood pressure, and when this occurs general vitality is depressed, for the reason that the circulation of the blood is interfered with, therefore nutrition is not so well carried on. Further, loss of blood and lowering of the bodily temperature may contribute to the phenomena. Those phenomena of shock produced by the three above-mentioned causes act generally over the whole body. There is, however, another important element, "spinal shock," the cause of which is little known, and which occurs when the central nervous system is injured. It is not general in its effect, but is manifest only in those parts supplied aboral to the point of injury, and cannot therefore be due to circulatory disturbance. This phen- omenon, little marked although pi'esent in invertebrate animals, reaches its maximum in the man and the monkey. An example will render the nature of the phenomenon obvioiis. If with the least possible injury the spinal cord of a monkey is transected in the upper dorsal region the lower extremities hang flaccid and lifeless. Reflex activity, at first absent alto- gether, is always difficult to elicit, and little muscle tone ever returns. Above the lesion, however, even an hour after the operation, little or no sign of shock is present, for the animal takes interest in his surroundings, and' uses his hands with customary agility in catch- ing flies and peeling chestnuts. If, again, after some time, when some reflex activity is elicitable, a second transection be made in the upper lumbar region, all reflex action and muscle tone are lost below the second lesion, whilst no alteration takes place in the region between the first lesion and the second. Further, the manifestation of spinal shock is more complete in those parts supplied by the isolated portion near the lesion than in mor" distant parts. It is more severe also the more aborally the lesion is placed. It would appear as if the phenomena of spinal shock are of the nature of isolation phenomena, due to the severance of paths conducting centrifugal influences necessary for the normal action of the isolated part of the central nervous system. General Symptomatology.—Sensory Symp- toms.—The disturbances of sensibility occur- ring in lesions of spinal cord are conveniently divided into subjective and objective disorders. Subjective. Pain, general. ,, localised. „ dull. ,, sharp. ,, occurring on movement. Tingling. Numbness. Psychrosesthesia, etc. Objective. Hypereesthesia. Hyperalgesia. Ansesthesia to touch. „ cold. ,, heat. ,, pain. „ muscular. ,, faradism.