SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL CHILDREN, MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF 66 ment will receive an immense impetus. Already one result of medical inspection in London, as in other parts of England, has been to stimulate the discussion of how to discover diseases and how to arrange for their treatment. The same problem has already emerged in Scotland. It may be expected that, as time advances, the treatment both of minor and major ailments will steadily increase and the functions of the medical profession will grow in importance. EDINBURGH SCHOOL BOARD Eegulations for the Medical Officer of Schools 1. He shall advise the Board as to new sites, plans of new Schools, and also, when required, as to School apparatus; he shall exercise a general supervision over the ventilation, heating, lighting, and cleanliness of the Schools ; he shall periodically inspect all School lavatories and other sanitary installations, and he shall report immediately to the Headmaster, and, if neces- sary, to the Superintendent of Works, any in- sanitary conditions discovered. 2. On receiving intimation of an outbreak of infectious disease among the pupils attending any School, he shall at once inquire into the outbreak; he shall take such action as may be immediately necessary ; and he shall, as soon as practicable, report the result of this inquiry to the Board, and to the Medical Officer of Health for the city, and shall co-operate with him in any measures he may propose for the prevention of infection. 3. He shall advise the Board as to the neces- sity for periodic disinfection and cleansing of the Schools, with a view to the prevention of disease. 4. He shall make such examination as the Board may require as to the mental and physi- cal condition of children selected for Special Schools or Classes, and shall grant any necessary certificates. 5. He shall medically superintend all Special Schools and Classes ; he shall keep the Board informed of the mental and physical progress of the children, and he shall indicate any measures that may be advisable for the preser- vation or promotion of their health. 6. On receiving intimation from the Chief Attendance Officer that a child is absent from School on account of alleged illness, he shall, where a medical certificate is not produced, inquire into the case and report to the Board. 7. He shall advise the Board as to the children remitted to any Day Industrial School and shall make such medical examinations and reports as may be required. 8. To the extent and in the form prescribed from time to time by the Board, he shall medi- cally examine tlie pupils attending the Schools and shall preserve and maintain on approved schedules a record of the examination of each child. 9. He shall organise and superintend such systematic measurements and observations as the Board shall institute or approve,—for ex- ample, measurements of height and weight, improvement or deterioration of physique, and the like. 10. He shall from time to time inspect the physical exercises given in the Schools, and shall report to the Board any practices that he con- siders injurious to individual pupils. 11. If any child is specially reported to him by the Head Teacher as suffering from any ailment or defect or injury, he shall as soon as possible examine the child and give such directions as may be necessary. 12. When required, he shall medically ex- amine candidates appointed to positions under the Board, Junior Students and Intending Junior Students, and report in cases of em- ployees absent owing to illness. 13. He shall, after such examination as he may find necessary, certify the fitness of teachers or pupils to undergo special courses of Physical Training. 14. He shall, by lecture, demonstration, or otherwise, instruct the teachers in the methods of recognising the common ailments and defects of School children ; in the practice of first aid for School accidents ; in the general hygiene of the School and class-room, and in the physio- logical principles that underlie physical training. 1.5. He shall keep such records and books as the Board may prescribe or approve ; he shall submit an Annual Report on the work done, and he shall make such special reports as the Board may require. 16. He shall perform any other medical duties that may be, from time to time, required by the Board ; but medical or surgical treatment shall be no part of the Medical Officer's duty. Adopted by the Board on 17th December 1906. Literature.—1. The Medical Inspection of School Children. Text-book for Medical Officers of Schools, Medical Officers of Health, School Managers and Teachers. By W. Leslie Mackenzie, M.A., M.D., assisted by Edwin Matthew, M.A., M.B., CM., F.R.C.P.E. (William Hodge & Co., Edinburgh and Glasgow.) 2. The Health of the School Child. By W. Leslie Mackenzie. (Contains some account of Medical Inspection in Germany.) 3. Report of Royal Commission on Physical Training (Scotland), 1903. (Blue Book.) (Con- tains Reports on Edinburgh and Aberdeen Schools.) 4. Report of Inter-departmental Committee on Physical Deterioration, 1904. (Blue Book.) 5. Report of the Inter-departmental Com- mittee on Medical Inspection and Feeding of