312 SPLEEN, MEDICAL AFFECTIONS OF Physiology.—Very little that is definite is known about the normal functions of the spleen. It is certainly not necessary to life or to health, and it has long been known that it can be removed safely. It is a contractile organ, its movements being due to the un- striped muscle in the capsule and trabeculje. Rhythmic movements of contraction and dilata- tion take place at intervals of about a minute, in dogs and cats at least, and there is also a slow expansion after meals, which reaches its highest point about the fifth hour and is then followed by a slow contraction. Much attention has been directed to the relationship of the spleen to blood-corpuscles. Red corpuscles are undoubtedly formed in the spleen during foetal life, but this function is definitely transferred to the bone-marrow at or soon after birth in man and in almost all mammals, and is only temporarily restored to the spleen, if at all, under conditions which profoundly modify the whole blood-forming functions. The relation of the spleen to destruc- tion of red corpuscles is still sub judice. There is no difference in the number or character of the red corpuscles in the blood going to the spleen and in that coming from it, while re- moval of the spleen has no influence on the number of the blood-corpuscles nor on the pro- teids of the blood-plasma, and after hisemor- rhage or haemolysis the normal number of red corpuscles is regained as rapidly in splenecto- mised animals as in those whose spleens are intact. As regards white corpuscles, there seem to be rather fewer in the splenic vein than in the splenic artery, and the lymphocytes which are certainly formed in the Malpighian corpuscles do not seem to be supplied to the blood in any large numbers, at least the pro- portion of them in the splenic vein is not noticeably increased. Farther, with regard to the possibility of internal secretion, the injec- tion of splenic extract has been shown not to be followed by the increase in the number of red corpuscles which is produced by the injection of extract of red marrow, and is indeed apparently without influence on the blood. Pathology. — The great majority of the pathological conditions affecting the spleen give evidence in the same direction as what is known of its physiology, namely, that its role is very largely a passive one, and that it acts as a reservoir for blood, especially for the portal system. Most of these changes in the spleen are therefore secondary to other diseases, and are de- scribed under the appropriate headings, or in the accompanying section of the surgery of the spleen. General Diseases affectmg Spleen. — Of the general diseases which cause change, usually enlargement, in the spleen, there may be men- tioned leucocythajmia, malaria, enteric, typhus, and other fevers, septicsemia, waxy disease, re- lapsing fever, syphilis, etc. Liver Changes affecting Spleen.—A second series of splenic enlargements are associated with changes in the liver. The most frequent of these is cirrhosis, where splenic enlargement is almost constant; other affections are pyle- phlebitis, acute and suppurative or chronic, and all conditions such as tumours, gummata, peri- toneal thickening, which exercise pressure on the portal vein, or its branches in the liver, or on the splenic vein itself. Circulatory Changes affecting Spleen.—Acting in more roundabout fashion, but as effective, are the whole series of cardiac diseases, valvular or myocardial, where compensation is imperfect, and even aneurysms and obstructive lung lesions may have the same effect. Enlarge- ment of the spleen is much less likely to ensue in all this series in children and in old people than in those in middle life. Pulsating Splenic Tumour.-—A very curious though rare condition is the pulsating splenic tumour. This requires for its production the combination of cardiac disease and an acute splenic enlargement due to an infective fever. The cardiac condition is generally aortic re- gurgitation, or sometimes hypertrophy of the left ventricle without valvular disease, and in all the cases observed compensation has been good. The fevers causing the acute enlarge- ment may be enteric, malaria, or croupous pneumonia. Tumours.—Primary tumours of the spleen are exceedingly rare, and even secondary metastases are by no means common, certainly not so common as the anatomical arrangement and blood-supply of the organ would lead one to expect. Of primary tumours, fibromata, angiomata, lymphangiomata, dermoid cysts, and cysts (non-parasitic), wni- or multi-locular, and containing serous fluid or blood, have been described, and while the first four have usually only been discovered on the post-mortem table, the cysts have on several occasions been large enough to cause inconvenience and to require removal of the organ. Solitary hydatid cysts are rare. It is doubtful whether primary cancer of the spleen occurs; the reported cases have either not been examined microscopically or the description leaves much to be desired. It is difficult to believe that an epithelial growth could occur pi'imarily in an organ so pre-eminently mesoblastic in origin unless from inclusion. Sarcoma of several varieties has occurred. The symptoms are fairly definite— first, splenic enlargement, then pain (usually severe) and tenderness, then rapid growth of the organ and the appearance of prominences on its surface. Metastases occur early, and removal of the spleen has not in these cases been followed by prolongation of the patient's life. Lymphosarcoma is better considered later. So-called Primary Enlargements.—The fourth group of splenic enlargements includes many of