SKIN-PARASITES 193 or two of aniline oil, followed by aniline oil acidulated with a drop or two of hydrochloric acid, and get rid of as much of the stain as possible. The acid aniline is got rid of with plain aniline oil, and the latter by means of xylol. 6. Wipe away excess of xylol, and mount in Canada balsam. (The preparation should be examined at stage 5 to see it is not too dark.) Scales and Nail-scrapings.—Place on a slide, and add a little 5 per cent solution of acetic acid. Spread out the preparation by rubbing between two slides; fix (as much as is possible) over a flame in the usual way, and proceed as above. Adamson's method is as follows, and can be applied after examining in liq. potassee (as can also the method already described):— 1. 5 to 10 per cent solution of liquor potassae on a slide : 10 to 30 minutes. 2. Wash in 15 per cent alcohol in distilled water. 3. Dry on slide, and, in the case of scales, fix by passing through the flame. 4. Stain in gentian-aniline-violet (a few drops of saturated solution of gentian-violet in aniline water): 15 to 60 minutes. 5. 1 to 5 minutes in Gram's iodine solution. 6. Decolorise with aniline oil: 2 or 3 hours, or longer. 7. Remove aniline oil with blotting-paper, and mount in Canada balsam. Method of Cultivation.—The fungi will grow on a variety of media, including potato and so forth, at room temperature. I have used the following formula :— Water 1 litre, maltose 40 grammes, peptone 10 grammes, agar 15 grammes, run into test- tubes (sloping) or Erlenmeyer flasks (flat bottles are also useful). ^ But there are others equally good. The point is always to use the same uniform medium for purposes of comparison, as fungi are very susceptible to very minute differences in their nutrient environment. Tinea tonsurans (Tinea trichophytina, Ring- worm of the scalp, Teigne tondante, scheerende Flechte).—This condition may be due either to Microsporon Audouini or Trichophyton megalo- sporon endothrix (for Trichophyton megalo- sporon ectothrix, see " Kerion," infra). Clinical Appearances.—Microsporon Audouini. —In a typical untreated case the diseased area is circular, more or less scaly, sometimes very markedly so, with numerous short, bent, broken, twisted hairs, growing usually in various directions. Exceptionally, some of the short stumps may go off to a point, like an inverted note of exclamation, whilst others in the patch This can be obtained frona Mr. Doudney, Conjoint Colleges Laboratory, Examination Hall, Victoria Em- bankment, London, W.C. VOL. IX are bent at an obtuse angle. The diseased hairs are usually whitish, opaque, and exhibit a powdery sheath about their proximal end, and for some way up the shaft, well above the level of the scalp. As a rule the patches are multiple, well defined, and not inflamed, but sometimes merely reddened only. Beyond the main patches smaller satellite areas are often present. There are various deviations from the type, either as a result of long duration or specially acute spread, when the greater part of the scalp may be diffusely involved and scaly, with more or less ill-nourished hair still present here and there ; or, the aspect may be altered by previous treatment (ink,^ ointments, and so forth), and the characteristic powdery sheath absent. The diseased hairs are lustreless, and may be curled like wool. Occasionally a patch may be bald, and at first sight look like alopecia areata. Diagnosis.—Microspo7-on tinea tonsurans is the most common form of ringworm in this country. One hundred consecutive cases (ex- clusive of kerion) microscopically examined by me in Dr. Radcliffe Crocker's clinic at University College Hospital showed that ninety-six were microsporon and four only trichophyton mega- losporon. In France the proportion of the latter is much larger, whilst in Germany and Italy microsporon is extremely rare, or practic- ally unknown, the prevalent parasites being trichophyton megalosporon. In the east end of London, where there are many Jews from Poland, Germany, Russia, the large-spored fungus (and favus) is more common. Where there is loss of hair in patches in a child, ringworm must be first considered. In the disseminated forms great care is re- quired. The main microscopical features of microsporon Audouini are the sheath of spores surrounding the diseased hair to a varying extent, and the irregular arrangement of the spores, the units being crowded together. The small refractile spores, with a faintly greenish tint, are all outside the hair, but inside it a delicate mycelium, running more or less parallel to the shaft, can be made out after some soaking and pressing down the cover-slip to detach the sheath. Cultural Appearances.—On maltose agar the growth has a delicate, white, and fluffy appear- ance, radiating from a centre. Differential Diagnosis.—Ringworm must not be mistaken for mere scurfiness of the scalp {pityriasis capitis), nor for a sehorrhoeic condition, as the consequences might be serious, owing to the contagiousness of the disease and its re- belliousness to treatment. This mistake is not infrequently made as a result of neglecting a very simple microscopical examination. Sebor- 1 Common writing ink was recommended by Celsus in the treatment of arece, lib. iv. cap. vi. 13