STOMACH: SURGICAL 386 mistaken for a floating kidney. If the stomach is distended with air, the tumour may be demonstrated to move about inside the organ. The removal of the mass by gastrotomy is a successful operation. The pyloric obstruction of infants is described in the article on " Gastro-intestinal Disorders OF Infancy," vol. iii. It falls to be added, however, that the results of its surgical treat- ment are not so disastrous as are there stated. The pylorus has been stretched in infants of a few weeks old (six-eight) by Nicoll, Schmidt, Stiles, and others, and a gastro-enterostomy has been performed at a similar age by Kehr, Fritsche, and others, with permanent relief of symptoms. The former is probably to be pre- ferred as being the less trying operation, the stretching being accomplished by means of bougies and dressing forceps. Gastric Ulcer The indications for the surgical treatment of gastric ulcer have been considerably widened of recent years, for experience has shown that not only can the complications of ulcer be dealt with successfully, but the healing and cure of the ulcer itself may be materially influenced. Operative Treatment of Uncomplicated Ulcer. —In the majority of cases in which the ulcer has become chronic, it is only capable of being cured by surgical measures, and it may be our duty to have recourse to these because of the chronic ill-health resulting from the ulcer, the incapacity for earning a living, and the risk that the ulcer one day may perforate, or bleed, or become the starting-point of cancer. The nature of the interference is influenced by the combination of conditions which so frequently attend on ulcer—hyperacidity of the gastric contents, spasmodic contraction of the pylorus, which is often hypertrophied, and motor in- efficiency of the stomach as a whole. Whether these conditions are responsible for the original formation of the ulcer, or are merely the result of its presence, is as yet uncertain, but we do know that their presence is inimical to healing, and that their removal is an essential condition for successful treatment. These conditions are most readily eliminated by providing a de- pendent exit for the gastric contents. (1) Gastro-enterostomy. — The mortality of this operation has been reduced in recent years to 5 per cent. The results as recorded by Fantino, Mikulicz, Hartmann, Mayo Robson, and others are as follows:—There is no longer stasis of the gastric contents; the stomach empties itself in from three to four hours after a meal. If the organ was previously dilated, it tends to return to its normal size and position unless prevented by adhesions. Hyperacidity diminishes and finally disappears. If hydrochloric acid was previously absent or deficient, there is no change after the operation, because the deficiency depends on permanent atrophy of the gastric glands. The new outlet of the stomach is usually continent, as may be proved by distending the organ with air. In the majority of cases, pain, acidity, eructations, and vomiting disappear, the appetite returns, the bowels act regularly, there is rapid gain in weight, and the return to health is complete. Relapse of the ulcer or the formation of a fresh one is not unknown, however; von Mikulicz records the occurrence of hsematemesis three years after an apparent cure by gastro- enterostomy. In chronic ulcer of the duodenum also, gastro-enterostomy is indicated if the ulcer continues to cause symptoms after a fair trial of medical treatment. (2) Pyloroplasty.—The object of this opera- tion is to aiTord a free outlet for the gastric contents where the pylorus is narrowed as a result of spasm, muscular hypertrophy, or limited cicatricial contraction. In selected cases—where the pylorus is free from adhesions, and is not extensively scarred—it is an easier and slightly safer operation than gastro-enter- ostomy, and the functional results are similar. The stomach is said, however, not to empty itself so nearly within the normal limits, and if the organ was previously dilated it is more likely to remain so than after gastro-enter- ostomy. The relapse of symptoms, which is said to be more common after pyloroplasty, may be due to its having been performed in unsuitable cases. (3) Excision of the Ulcer.—Inasmuch as ex- cision does not get rid of the conditions associated with ulcer, unless combined with gastro-enterostomy or pyloroplasty, this opera- tion is only practised when the ulcer is favour- ably situated, or there is reason to suspect that it has become the seat of cancer. If the ulcer be near the pylorus, its excision may form part of the operation of pyloroplasty. Circular resection of the stomach and pylor- ectomy are only performed in cases of ulcer when it is impossible to exclude the presence of malignant disease. Complications of Gastric Ulcer | Haemorrhage— Gastrorrhagia.—In the profuse hcemorrhage of sudden onset the blood is most i frequently derived from one of the larger arteries—coronary or splenic—exposed in the base of the ulcer, less frequently from one of \ the large venous trunks. In duodenal ulcer the bleeding usually proceeds from the gastro- i duodenal artery. In a certain number of cases 1 of profuse gastrorrhagia, even the most careful ] examination after death has failed to discover i any gross vascular lesion. It is usually im- | possible to infer the size or nature of the ' bleeding point from the amount of blood lost or the rapidity with which it escapes. The i situation of the bleeding point may occasionally !