ROSE'S OPERATION 16 Rose's Operation. See Nerves, Neur- algia {Trigeminal Neuralgia, Roses Operation). Rosette Body.—The monaster formed in the cell during mitosis {see Physiology, Pro- toplasm, Cell, Division by Mitosis); also bodies found in the parasite of malaria in the sporu- lating stage {see Malaria, Description of Para- site). Rosin. See Resina. RossbacKi's Disease. — A gastric neurosis characterised by the vomiting of very acid fluid, by headache, and by gastralgia. Rost r U m.—Abeak-shaped projection {Lat. rostrum, a beak); e.g. the rostrum of the sphen- oid bone, and the rostrum of the osteomalacic pelvis. Rotation. See Brain, Cerebellum, Affec- tions OF {Tumour, Disturbances of Equilibra- tion) ; Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Pre- sentations of the Vertex, Internal and External Rotation); Restitution. Rotators.—Muscles which produce rota- tion of a limb or of the trunk, e.g. the rotatores dorsi. Rot il e I n. ^ee Rubella. See also Measles {Diag7iosis). Rothesay. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Scotch). Rotil'S Disease. — Meralgia parges- thetica ; sensations of numbness, with hyperses- thesia, in the region of the thigh supplied by the external cutaneous nerve. Rotorua. See Balneology {JVe^v Zealand). RotUla.—The patella. See Knee-Joint, Injuries of {Fracture arid Dislocation of Patella). Rouleaux. See Blood {Nature of Coagu- lation) ; Physiology, Circulation {Blood, Red Corpiiscles). Round Lig^amentS. Generation, Female Organs of {Uterus, Ligaments of); Pregnancy, Physiology of {Changes in Peri- toneum and Appendages) ; Uterus, Displace- ments of {Descent, Treatment by Shortening the Round Ligaments). Round Worms. See Parasites {Nema- todes, Ascaris Lumbricoides). Row's Test.—The bactericidal effect of plague serum upon the bacillus pestis; it is said to be useful in estimating the protective effects of treatment by Haffkine's serum. Royat. See Mineral Waters {Alkaline). Roy's Cardiometer. See Physiology, Circulation {Work of the Heart, Fig. 126). Rubber Gloves. — Gloves of rubber which can be sterilised, and which are commonly used during surgical and obstetric manipulations to protect the wound from septic materials, or the hands from contamination by the discharges of a septic wound or surface. Rubefacient.—Causing redness of the skin ; e.g. all drugs which cause this phenomenon by dilating the cutaneous vessels {e.g. ammonia, mustard, camphor, etc.) are called rubefacients. See Pharmacology. Rubella: Roserash. Nomenclature . . . . .16 Definition . . . . . .16 Geographical Range . . . .16 History ....... 16 Etiology— (i.) Predisposing Causes ... 17 (ii.) Exciting Causes . . . .17 Varieties . . . . . .17 Abortive Cases . . . . .17 Symptomatology . . . . .18 Stages ....... 18 Sequelae ...... 19 Relapse . . . . . . .19 Relation to other Diseases . . .19 Diagnosis . . . . .19 Prognosis ...... 20 Treatment ...... 20 See also Disinfection {Quarantine for Rubella); Fourth Disease ; Scarlet Fever {Diagnosis). Nomenclature. — Roseola, epidemic rossalia, epidemic roseola, roseole epidemique, roserash ; rubeola, rubeola notha, rubeola sine catarrho, rubeole, rougeole, false measles; Rotheln, Ger- man measles. Definition.—A definite and distinct zymotic disease, very infectious, and occurring usually in epidemic form in the spring of the year. It mainly affects adolescents and young adults of both sexes. It affords no protection against measles, scarlet fever, or "the Fourth disease," but protects against itself. The period of incu- bation is a fortnight or more. The disease is infectious even prior to the appearance of the rash, which is usually the first noticeable symptom; and its duration of infectiveness is about a fortnight. It produces no mortality or sequelae in this country. Geographical Range.—The disease occurs in the British Isles, on the continent of Europe, and it is known also in Egypt, India, and America. History.—No cases in medicine are, at times, more perplexing, and involve the expenditure of greater thought and judgment than zymotic diseases. Their elucidation has bewildered and misled many of the ablest and most experienced physicians. The disease now to be considered is perhaps