338 STERILITY contraction of the vaginal muscles when inter- course is attempted, rigidity of the hymen, mere smallness of the vagina, nervousness, or any other conditions which make coitus physically or mentally painful. Treatment.—In many cases both dyspareunia and sterility may be cured by dilatation of the vaginal orifice under an anjesthetic. The above etiological factors in the produc- tion of sterility in woman may be summed up in tabular form as follows :— A. Defective Ovulation, due to— (1) Absence of the ovaries : (2) Under-de- velopment of the ovaries ; (3) Ovarian disease ; (4) Constitutional causes ; (5) Immaturity and senility. B. Defective Conditions of the Genital Pass- ages— (1) Defects of patency: (a) Atresia vaginse; (h) Absence of the vagina ; (c) Atresia of the OS uteri internum or externum ; {d) Atresia of the ostium tubse. (2) Defects of the membrane lining the passages : (a) Vaginitis ; {b) Endome- tritis ; (c) Salpingitis. (3) Defects of structure of the uterus : (a) Congenital under - development; (6) Hyperplasia and tumours; (c) Atrophy. (4) Defects of position of the uterus. (5) Functional defects. Diagnosis.—In the investigation of a case of sterility with a view to determining what is its cause, and whether it can be cured, the history should first be inquired into. The principal points to ascertain are—the character of men- struation and the age of its onset; the existence of dyspareunia and the presence or absence of normal sexual feelings and desire ; and the ex- istence or not of gonorrhoea and syphilis at any period of the married life. If menstrua- tion has come on very late, and has continued scanty and irregular, we shall be prepared to find some degree of under-development; dys- pareunia and the absence of normal sexual feelings may mean that coitus has never been properly consummated; a history of syphilis will lead one to suspect endometritis ; whilst a previous gonorrha3a will probably have left behind it endometritis or damaged tubes. It will be observed that nearly all the causes of sterility enumerated in the preceding table fall under one of the three categories foreshadowed in the history of the case, namely :—Under- development or primary sterility; pelvic inflam- mation or acquired sterility ; incomplete sexual intercourse or apparent sterility. We must next investigate the general health and note the general development, and then proceed to the examination of the pelvic organs. A childish appearance, combined with defective breasts and scanty pubic hair, often points to under-development of the genital organs ; and this may be further indicated by smallness and immaturity of the vulva, or by a small or deficient vagina. If, in addition, the uterus is small, with a cavity not exceeding two inches in length, we are justified in the conclusion that sterility is primary and irremediable. In such a case the ovaries will probably be also small. If we find no evidence of under-development, the condition of the pelvic organs must be in- vestigated with a view to determining whether any inflammatory disease exists or has existed. Cervical erosion, or a heavy uterus with abun- dant leucorrhoea, will point to endometritis; thickened tubes will indicate salpingitis of vary- ing degrees. Under these circumstances we have to do with an acquired sterility, which is probably incurable if the tubes are damaged, but curable if the endometrium alone is at fault. On the other hand, the only pathological condi- tion present may be a backward displacement, or a long conical cervix with stenosis of the os externum; these conditions may be the cause of the sterility, or they may be only incidental and devoid of etiological importance ; we cannot tell their precise role till the effect of treatment has been tried. Lastly, we may find some cause for dyspareunia, such as vaginismus, painful caruncles of the hymen or urethra, or prolapsed and tender ovaries. If we find the pelvic organs to all appearance normal, we must conclude that we have to do with one of three things: first, that it is a case of defective ovulation ; secondly, that the blame for the sterility lies with the husband; thirdly, that intercourse has not been effectively accom- plished. Suitable inquiry may clear up the last point; the second will be cleared up by ex- amination of the husband; and if neither of these two account for the sterility, we are reduced by exclusion to the first, and we may have to tell the patient that there is no obvious reason for her sterility. Treatment. — The treatment of individual conditions has already been briefly referred to, and we may now shortly review the whole subject. In the first place, marked under- development of the uterus or ovaries precludes any treatment, and the patient must reconcile herself to her condition. Extensive pelvic in- flammation and tumours of the uterus or ap- pendages will require treatment on their own account, and the result as regards sterility is a secondary matter. For endometritis a thorough curettage is required, both for its own sake and because this will give the best prospect of sub- sequent conception ; backward displacements of the uterus require appropriate treatment on the same grounds. Conical cervix with stenosis of the OS externum should be treated by dilatation, inasmuch as this will give the best chance of pregnancy. Any conditions causing dyspareunia must receive proper attention. With normal pelvic organs, we can only prescribe medicinal