SCEOTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 102 If the hydrocele has been unirritated the tunica vaginalis remains for long unchanged, but in old, neglected, or injured hydroceles the tunic becomes hard, thickened or calcified throughout or in patches. Symptoms.—A pyriform swelling on one side of and limited to the scrotum, with a smooth and uniform outline, elastic to touch, trans- lucent, dull on percussion, and giving no im- pulse on coughing, is characteristic of vaginal hydrocele. One side is as often affected as the other, and sometimes both are affected together. The shape is occasionally round, sausage-shaped, or constricted, like an hour-glass (hydrocele en bissac). Translucency may be wanting, either because of the opacity of the fluid from ad- mixture of blood, the presence of cholesterine; from the milky, thickened, or curdy nature of the fluid in some old hydroceles, or from opacity due to the thickening of the tunica vaginalis or other tissues of the scrotum. Fluctuation may be obscured by tension or by thickening of the sac wall. Testicular sensation is present at the back of, and towards the lower part of the swelling. The increase in size is slow and painless; dragging sensations are referred to the groin and loin. When there is a large hydro- cele on both sides, the skin of the penis may be so much dragged upon that the body of the penis becomes obscured, and the opening of the preputial orifice is all that remains to be seen of the organ. Diagnosis. — Hydi'ocele is to be diagnosed from scrotal hernia, from hgematocele, from orchitis and epididymitis, from solid tumours. A swelling in the scrotum or inguinal canal which is (1) circumscribed, (2) fluctuant, and (3) transparent is a hydrocele of some kind; and having established a diagnosis thus far, the several varieties of hydrocele are to be dis- tinguished from each other by the following signs:— Vaginal hydrocele., large and uniform ; pyri- form or round, does not encroach on the in- guinal canal; does not lessen under pressure or in the recumbent position; has no impulse on coughing; testicular sensation present; and testis appears by transmitted light as a dark shadow posteriorly. Infantile hydrocele differs from vaginal in that it fills up the inguinal canal (it may extend into the abdomen) and has an impulse on coughing. Congenital hydrocele differs from infantile hydrocele by lessening on pressure and dis- appearing on lying down; its impulse is direct and constant. All the hydroceles of the cord are smaller and more elongated ; the testis can be felt below the swelling and can be separated from it. Diffused hydrocele of the cord is always more or less sausage-shaped, and when punctured a clear fluid comes away in spots instead of in a steady stream. Encysted hydrocele of the epididymis is usually lobulated and rarely of large size; the testis is below and inseparable. The chief distinction is found after tapping, in the watery character of the withdrawn fluid, its low specific gravity, the comparative absence of albumin, and the presence of spermatozoa. Treatment of Vaginal Hydrocele.—Spontane- ous cures occur occasionally in children, but are not to be looked for in adults. In the young the fluid may be absorbed under stimulating lotions, or by frequently painting small patches of tincture of iodine on the scrotum over the swelling; in adults the hydrocele may disappear after an attack of inflammation of the testicle, the cavity of the tunica vaginalis becoming obliterated probably by adhesive inflammation, such as occurs after treatment by injection. It is on account of its bulk, weight, or unsightli- ness—not because of pain or danger to life—• that treatment of hydrocele is required. In young persons damage may be done to the testicle owing to the dragging effects on the vas deferens and epididymis, and to the atrophy of the testicle by thickening of its tunica albuginea and fibrosis of the gland tissue. Palliative treatment consists in draining off the fluid by tapping with a fine trocar and cannula. The position of the testicle should always be care- fully made out in order not to wound it with the trocar, and in making the puncture cutane- ous and deeper veins must be carefully looked for and avoided. A point for puncture in ordin- ary cases is chosen on the front of the scrotum, at the junction with its upper and middle thirds, where the skin should be carefully cleansed with methylated spirit before the puncture is made. A standing patient is most convenient for the operator ; or he may sit on the extreme front of a chair, with his body leaned back, and his legs extended and spread widely apart. A trocar and cannula of the size of a No. 2 catheter must be carefully sterilised. This can be done by boil- ing them in a test-tube over a spirit-lamp for a few minutes just before using. The surgeon stands or sits in front and to the right of the patient, grasps the scrotum from above and be- hind in his left hand, making the tissues tense over the swelling. The trocar is held in the right hand, with the index finger on the cannula about an inch from its end, for the purpose of marking the depth to which the instrument is to be thrust. A rapid, firm stab is made in a direction backwards and upwards as far as the index finger will allow; and as the trocar is withdrawn out of the cannula, the cannula must be pushed on into the scrotum nearly to its end, so as to avoid the slipping off from it of the contracting and receding proper tunic of the hydrocele. The fluid will escape through the cannula without pressure, but it is better to keep the left hand supporting the tumour until it is empty. When the fluid has ceased to flow