SKIN—ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY 169 {b) The non-medullated fibres probably supply the arrectores pilorum, the sweat-coils, and blood-vessels. The interepithelial nerve plexus is composed of fibres which have lost their medullary sheaths in the subepithelial layer. These are distrib- uted between the prickle - cells as far as the stratum lucidum. They end in minute swell- ings between the cells (Klein), or, according to Unna, pass into the cells and terminate in swellings applied to the nuclear membranes. The fibres of the epithelial plexus are sensitive to touch-impressions and to common sensation. Special Terminal Corpuscles.—A few of the meduUated fibres terminate in one or other of the following end-organs :— (a) Tactile Corpuscles, or Meissener's Bodies.— These end-bulbs are situated in the papillae, are universally distributed, but are specially numer- ous at the tips of the fingers and toes. They are oblong or spindle-shaped, and present a transversely striate appearance, owing to their being composed of superimposed layers of con- nective tissue between which the nerve fibrils ramify and end in small swellings. The nerve loses its medullary sheath on entering the cor- puscle and splits into these fibrils. (b) Touch-Cells of Merkel.—These are peculiar, small, round, or pear-shaped cells situated at the termination of the medullary nerves of the papillae of the fingers and toes. Certain observers believe them to be epithelial cells, and do not regard them as sensitive. (c) Pacinian Bodies, or Corpuscles of Vater.— In unstained sections held over a dark back- ground these bodies appear as small milky specks situated in the subcutaneous tissue. They are most numerous on the palms and soles ; they are oval or elliptical in shape, and are made up of a cortex of concentrically arranged connective tissue capsules like the sheaths of an onion, and a central granular core in which the fibres of the axis cylinder of the nerve terminate in a group of pear-shaped swellings. The nerves immediately below the corpuscle form a swelling known as the " stalk," and the capsules are said to be due to a splitting up of the sheath of Schwann of the nerve. The Pacinian bodies are believed to be sensitive to pressure and traction. Muscles of the Skin.—These consist of the arrectores pilorum and layers of involuntary muscle fibres such as are found "in the areolae of the nipples, the dartos of the scrotum, and the eyelids. The arrectores pilorum are made up of invol- untary muscular fibres which arise from a neighbouring papilla, and are inserted into a projection situated in the middle third of the hair-follicle. On contracting they cause an erection of the hair, and at the same time a dimpling of the surface of the skin. The elastic tissue forms a framework for the muscle which is continuous with the elastic network of the corium, so that when the muscle contracts it causes an increased tension of the skin in the neighbourhood. Pigment and Colour of the Skin.—In white races very little pigment is present in the skin except in the pigmented regions, such as the areolae of the nipples, axillae, scrotum, around the anus, and in the hairs. The colour of the skin is, as a rule, more dependent on the sub- cutaneous fat and the degree of vascularity than on pigment. The pigment granules are situated chiefly in the epithelial cells of the basal layer of the epidermis. They are generally confined to the periphery of the cells, while the nucleus and the zone immediately around it are free from pigment. They may also occur in the inter- epithelial lymphatic spaces, where they form branching figures. They are sometimes present in the deeper cells of the Malpighian layer, and more rarely in the connective tissue cells of the papillary layer. In dark races the pigment extends up as far as the granular layer of the epidermis. The true pigment of the skin—in contradistinction to blood-pigment, which gives the skin its peculiar tints in bruises and purpura—consists of a substance called melanin, which is in the form of more or less fine, irregular, brownish- black granules. Unlike the blood-pigment it is never in the form of crystals, and contains no iron. It is soluble in ether, weak acids, alkalies, and hydrogen peroxide, and is bleached by chlorine Physiology The skin performs six important functions: 1. It regulates the body temperature; 2. It is a respiratory organ ; 3. It is a secretory organ ; 4. It is a sensory organ; 5. It is a protective organ ; 6. It has a limited power of absorption. 1. The Function of Heat-Regulation.—The constant temperature of the body is maintained by the heat-regulating function of the skin. The amount of heat which is lost from the surface of the skin by radiation, conduction, and evaporation depends chiefly on the state of dilatation of the cutaneous vessels and on the activity of the sweat-glands. Heat and cold cause respectively a dilatation or constric- tion of the cutaneous vessels, either by acting directly on the involuntary muscular fibres of those of the subcutaneous tissue, or indirectly through the vaso-motor centres. In this way an increase in the flow of blood to the skin is determined, and a cooling results. Heat causes an increase in the excretion of sweat by a reflex and central stimulation of the glands, and through evaporation of the sweat a certain amount of heat is rendered latent, and the blood is cooled. The involuntary muscles of the skin also