SPINAL CORD 282 and in general use. Some, however, of consider- able value have been more recently described, and deserve special mention. The femoral reflex consists in a contraction of the tensor fascia femoris muscle, when the inner side of the thigh or when the sole of the foot is stimulated. It thus forms part of the usual response in the plantar reflex, and may- occur as the result of stimulating the sole when no response takes place in the foot. The scapulo-humeral reflex is of considerable importance as the most easily elicitable " deep reflex" obtainable in the upper extremity. Upon tapping the vertebral border of the scapula with the "tendon jerk hammer" a contraction takes place in the scapulo-thoracic muscles, which, if the myotatic irritability of the muscles be above the normal, affects also the scapulo - humeral, humero - thoracic, and finally the humeral muscles. The hamstrings jerk is of somewhat rare occurrence. When the quadriceps extensor is paralysed from a lesion of the motor root supplying it, an attempt to obtain the knee jerk causes a powerful contraction in the quadriceps. Deformities.—Of special interest and import- ance in the diagnosis of diseases of the spinal cord are deformities of the trunk and limbs which may result from imperfection of development of the nervous system, from contracture, and from paralysis. In some instances a deformity occurs regularly associated with a certain form of dis- ease, yet the actual way in which the deformity is caused is not easily explained ; for instance, the kypho-scoliosis so usual in cases of syringo- myelia and Friedreich's disease. Some of the more common associations are the following :— Spastic states—Pes cavus; Friedreich's disease— Kypho-scoliosis, contracture. Pes cavus; Syringo- myelia—Kypho-scoliosis, "Main en griffe," Pes cavus ; Spina bifida—Maldevelopment of digits, etc.; Myopathy—Dislocations, etc. General Pathological Considerations.— Developmental Peculiarities. — There are two main divisions into which conditions of defective development of the spinal cord may be con- veniently if somewhat artificially grouped : (1) Those which are the result of some failure in the developmental activity of certain tissues from some cause as yet unknown, such as spina bifida and persistent embryonic cavities in the cord ; and (2) Those which are presumably due to intra-uterine foetal disease, and of such nature are congenital spastic conditions. In the second of these groups the nervous system, since its development is not complete at birth, constantly shows the result either of incomplete develop- ment, arrested development, or non-develop- ment. A lesion of the central region of the cerebral hemisphere occurring during foetal life, since the fibres of the pyramidal system are outgrowths of cells situated in that region, will result in non-development of the corresponding pyramidal system if the lesion occurs early in foetal life. If the lesion occurs later, and if the destruction of the cerebral region be not complete, varying degrees of agenesia of the pyramidal system will result. Further, it has been shown by von Gudden that if in a young animal an organ be removed, when that animal reaches adult life the structures in functional association with that organ will be found comparatively undeveloped, or even to have undergone progressive atrophy. For example,, if one eye be removed at birth the corresponding nerve paths and centres in the cerebrum will cease to progress in their development and become atrophied. If destruction of one part of the nervous system occurs during foetal life,, a like result is found in those structures which are in intimate physiological association with the damaged part. Spina Bifida.—The central nervous system is developed primarily as a nervous thickening in the epiblastic covering of the body running lengthwise. This thickened plate of epiblastic- becomes depressed beneath the level of the- body surface, and its lateral parts curving upwards unite so that a tube is formed lying beneath the dorsal epiblast of the embryo. This tube is formed and is cut off from the general epiblast early in the region of the head,, last in the lumbar region, and forms the spinal cord. Between the primitive tube-like spinal cord and the dorsal epiblast, layers of meso- blastic tissue grow in on either side and unite,, and from them are developed the vertebral arches (laminse and spines) and the spinal meninges. The varieties of spina bifida represent arrest of this developmental sequence at some stage. They are commonly, moreover, associated with developmental defects involving other parts of the body. {See also "Spina Bifida.") Congenital cavities in the spinal cord are- parts of the original quadriradiate central canal which have persisted in addition to the permanent central canal. They are surrounded by neuroglia containing hardly any nerve ele- ments. This tissue seems to retain the char- acters of the embryonic neuroglia, and further to be especially liable to become the seat of new growths. In this way many cases of syringo- myelia and central gliomata of the cord arise. It appears also that the vessels in the im- mediate neighbourhood of these cavities ara particularly liable to rupture, and that some cases of hsematomyelia are to be explained on the ground of haemorrhage into embryonic cavities in the cord. The terms hydromyelia and syringomyelia have been applied to distended cavities in the spinal cord corresponding with the normal persistent central canal, and not so correspond- ing respectively. It is, however, impossible in