267 SPERMATORRHCEA structed to rise immediately on awaking in the morning, to empty his bladder, and to take a cold bath. Cold sitz-baths are also useful. His diet should not be restricted in amount, but all indigestible and stimulating articles of food must be avoided. Alcohol is only to be taken in small amount, and the patient should be directed not to take a large quantity of fluid late at night. Constipation, if present, must be corrected. Attention should also be directed to the patient's mental state. His mind should be fully employed with some healthful occupa- tion, he should be encouraged to desist from all sexual thoughts, and as it is essential that he obtain sound sleep, it may be necessary to give a hypnotic at bedtime. The administration of drugs is, however, to be avoided as far as possible. Arsenic, iron, strychnine, and quinine are useful in some cases, harmful in others; the bromides, hyoscyamus, or other sedatives are not as a rule required in the treatment of the case. Any source of local irritation, whether it be a phymosis, chronic urethritis, or other con- dition, should receive appropriate treatment. When spermatorrhoea is due to organic nervous disease, some benefit may accrue from the employment of such treatment as indicated above, but improvement is in these cases a strictly relative term. SperiTia.tOZOa..—The male reproductive cells found in the semen, and capable of impreg- nating mature ova. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Anatomy and Development of Testis). Sperm in.—An alkaloid (C2H5N), having non-poisonous properties, obtained from semen, sputum, and the organs {e.g. the spleen) of leuksemic patients ; also, Brown-Sequard's orch- itic fluid. Spes Phthisica.—The hopeful outlook regarding his own recovery taken by the con- sumptive patient, often when the near approach of the fatal issue is evident to every one else. Spezzia,. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Riviera). Sphacelinic Acid. See Ergot. SpiiaceiUS.—A necrosed mass or gan- grenous part (Gr. a<l>a.Ke\os, gangrene); sphacel- ismus is the state of being affected with necrosis. See Gangrene. SpiiagfiasmuS.—Spasm of the neck muscles, especially when occurring in epilepsy (Gr. (T(f)ayi^, the throat). Sphag^num iVloss. See Balneology {Peat Baths). Spheno-.—in compound words spheno- (Gr. cTfjiTqv, a wedge), means relating to the sphenoid bone of the skull, or having a wedge shape; e.g. spheno-maxillary (relating to the sphenoid and maxillary bones), spheno-jMlatine (relating to the sphenoid and palatine bones),, etc. SplienO-CepliaiuS.—A type of oto- cephaly in which the lower jaw is defective or absent, the isthmus of the fauces occluded, the superior maxillfe, squamous bones, and zygo- matic arches bent towards the middle line inferiorly, and the palate and pterygoid pro- cesses of the sphenoid and the tympanic cavities approximated or fused in the middle line ; the cranium and organs of vision are well formed, and the mouth exists. See Teratology {Oto- cephaly). Splienoid. — The wedge - shaped bone (Gr. o-c^tJv, a wedge) existing in the centre of the basis cranii, and having a crest (sphenoidal crest), sinuses (sphenoidal sinuses), and a rostrum (sphenoidal rostrum). See Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation of {Sphenoidal Sinuses) ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Nose). Sphenotribe. — An instrument for crushing the base of the foetal skull in embry- otomy ; the operation is known as sphenotripsy or sphenotresia. See Labour, Operations {Em- bryotomy). Spiierobacteria iVIicrococci. See Micro-Organisms. SpherocephaiUS. — A teratological type (variety of otocephalus) in which the lower jaw is absent or rudimentary, the isthmus of the fauces occluded, the external ears approxi- mated or united, and the bones of the face, the eye, and several other parts absent altogether or very defectively developed. Spherometer.—-An instrument for measuring the curvature of a sphere or of a spherical body {e.g. optic lenses). See Refrac- tion. Spilinctei'.—An annular muscle situated round an orifice such as the anus or the mouth. See Asphyxia {Phenomena, Relaxation of Sphincters) ; Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symptoms); Brain, Surgery of {Conc^ossion, Synqjtoms); Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor {Perineal Tears, Sphincter Ani); Rectum, Diseases of {Piles, Associated Conditions). Sphincterismus. — Spasmodic con- traction of the sphincters, e.g. in fissure of the anus. SphincterO-. — In compound words s2:>hinctero- means relating to a sphincter; e.g. sjihincte^'oscopy (inspection of sphincters) and sphincterotomy (incision of a sphincter).