SUPPURATION 440 be seen, representing the familiar "head" of a pointing abscess. The skin at this stage may not look quite so tense and shiny, in fact the tension has now been relieved to a small extent by ulceration of the corium and deeper layers of the epidermis. The diminution of tension is indicated by a radiating network of very fine lines about the top and centre that can be clearly seen by the aid of a magnifying glass. In bad cases the function of the limb or part affected is quite abolished, and held rigidly still by unconscious muscular effort. The abscess is now quite mature, and upon the slightest movement or trauma bursts. At first the pus flows out, owing to the pressure to which it had been subjected; its escape is helped by the elastic property of the cicatricial tissue forming the abscess wall, also by the contraction of muscles in the neighbourhood. The surround- ing redness disappears immediately upon the rupture of the abscess, and the other local signs rapidly subside. The abscess walls then fall together, from a continuation of the same processes which caused the evacuation of the pus, and from the influence of gravitation. The gross effects of the micro-organisms are no longer visible, although the middle layers of the abscess wall are still crowded with the agents of causation. How long the residual micro-organisms can remain is a difficult question to answer, and a definite opinion can- not at present be expressed. There is much difficulty in accounting for the property possessed by abscesses of spreading towards the skin. Many reasons are assigned, prominent among which are— (1) They spread towards the least resistance ; in this connection it is to be observed that the path of least resistance may lead to hollow viscera—intestine, bladder, pleura, or bronchus —and veins may similarly be invaded. (2) The vis a tergo caused by the pulsation of arteries and movements of viscera and muscles. In connection with this point the writer has seen, especially in many cases of inflammation about the face, the advancing process spreading in oblique lines towards the skin, being conducted thither by the lymphatics around the blood-vessels that pass through the subcutaneous tissue for the supply of the true skin. Constitutional.—Pyrexia.—Fever varies re- markably, the degree depending on the nature of the infection and the intensity of the process. The nature of the infection may be either septic intoxication—that is, an absorption into the blood of products of micro-organisms only—or absorption into the blood-stream of the micro- organisms themselves. In the case of human beings the former condition is more easily demonstrated than the latter. A high temperature does not necessarily denote the existence of a large abscess, but rather may be taken to indicate the acuteness of the infection. It is not very rare to find severe and fatal infection and suppuration with a normal or subnormal temperature subject to only small variations. In mild cases the temperature remains fairly normal, but when pyrexia exists it generally assumes one of four types. (1) Saprcemic.—In this condition the temper- ature begins gradually to rise immediately after infection, and reaches its highest point (103°- 104°) about the third day. A daily fall of 1° ensues until normal is reached three or four days later; the whole cycle thus occupies about seven days, or often a much shorter time. (2) Hectic.—This condition is characterised by a daily rise of temperature commencing at noon and reaching 104°-105° at about 6 p.m., followed by fall to subnormal by the next morning. The hectic state may or may not follow the saprsemic. The daily rise and fall gradually lessen in degree as the abscess heals. (3) Septiccemic. — Here again the initial temperature may be saprsemic, or it may at once rise to 104°-105° and remain elevated, with daily intermissions that rarely fall to normal. The temperature falls, but with the same intermittency, as the abscess heals. In the event of a fatal issue it continues to rise some- times to 106°-107°, and there may be a further rise of a degree or so after death. (4) Pi/cemic.—The initial temperature in this condition also may be saprsjemic. After four or five days the normal temperature quickly rises during a rigor of 104°-105''. In a few hovirs the temperature is normal again, and there may remain until the next rigor. The temper- ature varies, however, and does not always conform to this scheme of regularity. Leucocytosis.—This condition is marked in suppuration when not due to tuberculosis. It increases with the development of the disease, and subsides when pus is liberated. During convalescence the number of leucocytes in the blood sinks below normal (leucopenia). The presence or absence of leucocytosis may be of value in diagnosis, but in estimating its im- portance one must remember that in very slight and very intense processes it may be altogether absent. See also "Leucocytosis." Constitutional Depression. — This is a marked feature of the disease; like all symp- toms this state varies, but the sufferer from a large acute abscess feels and looks ill, and even approaches to the typhoid state. Rapidly increasing weakness and loss of weight increase the general appearance of profound poisoning. The writer has seen a case in which the absence of this constitutional depression had the effect of turning the scales from a wrong diagnosis of acute suppuration to a correct one of a rapidly growing abdominal cyst. In human beings it is not easy to estimate