274 SPINAL COKD The Grey Matter.—The nerve cells of the spinal cord may bo divided into—(1) Those of a markedly angular type, with strong processes and presenting well-marked tigroid granules both in the cell body and in its processes. Such a cell is now regarded as a " motor" cell {i.e. a cell upon an outgoing path). (2) Those of a rounded shape with less distinct processes and with but little tigroid substance. Such cells are of the "sensory" type (i.e. situated upon an ingoing path). Whilst longitudinal sections of the spinal cord do not show that the cells are sepai'ated into groups, transverse sections reveal a definite grouping in the plane at right angles to the axis of the marrow. The nerve cells of the spinal cord may be considered in the groups according to their situation— 1. Cells of the anterior horn. 2. The lateral cell column. 3. Clarke's column. 4. Cells of the posterior horn. 5. Cells of the posterior I'oot ganglia and sympathetic ganglia. The cells of the anterior horn are for the most part large cells of the motor type, their axons leaving the cord as fibres of the anterior roots. They are collected into well-marked groups : (1) Mesial, (2) Ventral, and (3) Lateral. The mesial group is most constant along the whole length of the spinal cord, and from it the dorsal spinal muscles are innervated. The ventral group supplies the ventral and lateral muscles of the trunk and the respiratory muscles. The lateral group is mainly developed in the cervical and lumbar enlargements, where it attains very large proportions, and its cells supply the motor fibres for the limb muscles. The lateral cell column (intermedio-lateral) tract consists of small cells of motor type, and is most marked in the thoracic region, where the chief ef&ux of vasomotor nerves occurs. It is continuous with the nucleus of the spinal accessory, and the nucleus ambiguous in the upper part of the spinal cord and medulla. From this group of cells the vaso and viscero- motor nerves probably arise. Clarke's column consists of a well-marked group of large cells, which appear rounded in transverse sections and spindle-shaped in longi- tudinal sections of the spinal cord ; they are conspicuously surrounded by a basket-like net- work of collaterals from the posterior root fibres, and it is to this group of cells that the termina- tions of the pyramidal fibres can most readily be traced. It is almost confined to the thoracic region of the spinal cord, being most marked in the lower thoracic i-egion. However, cells of a similar nature and situation are found opposite the origin of the second and the third sacral nerves (Stilling's sacra,l nucleus), and opposite the origin of the fourth and the fifth cervical nerves (cervical nucleus). Axons from this group constitute the direct cerebellar tract. Tlie cells of the posterior horn are not defin- itely grouped. They are of the sensory type, and are numerous. The cells of the posterior root ganglia are large unipolar cells of the sensory type. The single process joins the posterior root fibre in a T-shaped junction. Frequently a collateral is given off by this fibre close to the junction to arborise over the surface of the cell. The centripetal process from these cells on entering the spinal cord gives off a number of collateral branches, some of which (short collaterals) descend before breaking up in the grey matter, others pass transversely into the grey matter to form the plexus round Clarke's column, some passing to the ventral horn of the same and of the opposite side. The grey commissure of the spinal cord is made up almost entirely of such collaterals. Other collaterals ascend some dis- tance before entering the grey matter. Finally, after giving off many such branches the posterior root fibre may end by breaking up in the grey matter, or it may run as a long fibre of the posterior columns to terminate in the funiculus gracilis or cuneatus of the medulla. While the majority of the posterior root fibres from the limb regions terminate as long ascending fibres of the posterior columns, it is doubtful whether any such fibres are contributed by the posterior roots in the thoracic region (D 3 to D 12). The sympathetic ganglia, developmentally considered, are segments of the posterior root ganglia. Their cells are of a similar type, but are multipolar. The white matter of the spinal cord is most easily described when it is regarded phylogeneti- cally. Commencing at a certain period of its development, we may say that the spinal cord consists of segmented grey matter only. On the surface of this, nerve fibres are laid down, which connect each segment to its neighbour, and later to segments farther and farther re- moved. There thus arises a system of shorter and longer intersegmental fibres passing in either direction of the spinal axis (intrinsic mediate systems of the spinal cord). From their mode of origin these systems will lie next to the grey matter in the adult cord, and their distance from the grey matter when seen in a transverse section of the cord will be an index of their length, the shorter being nearer and the longer more distant. Later, the various segments of the spinal cord become connected with fibres both ascending and descending, with the medulla, pons Varolii, mesencephalon, thal- amic region, and corpora striata in order. Lastly, the development of the pyramidal system places each spinal segment in direct connection with the cerebral cortex, and a more