SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 294 i'lQ. 3.—Diagram to illustrate the position of the ribs when the curvature is to the right in the dorsal region. (After R6dard.) will at once distinguish them. (5) Scoliosis with obliteration or lessening of the natural antero- posterior curves of the spine. The clinical importance of recognising this group is con- siderable, because the most important factor in the deformity is excessive rotation in the vertebrje without much lateral deviation, and in these cases the external curvature of the spinous processes is no measure of the extent of the internal displacement of the bodies. The Appearance presented by a, Patient with Lateral Curva- ture. — Inasmuch as the vertebral column, like the keel of a ship, is the foundation of the structure of the trunk (Fisher), the result on the trunk must be very con- siderable. The mech- anism may be grasped by attention to the following diagrams (Figs. 3 and 4), and for the purposes of description we will take the case in which one curvature is to the right in the dorsal region, and there is a second or smaller curve to the left in the lumbar region. The symmetry of the body is lost, the right shoulder being elevated and the left depressed. The right arm is closely approximated to the side, and the left falls away at .'^v a considerable angle. The ribs on the right side are bulged posteriorly and depressed anteriorly, while on the left side the reverse is the case. On the right side there is considerable hollow- ing out of the flank, with prominence of the hip ; while on the left the flank is flattened and the hip is less in evi- dence than usual. These changes are due to rotation of the bodies of the verte- brae, the right transverse processes being rotated backwards in the dorsal region and the left transverse processes in the lumbar region. The obliquity of the right ribs is very marked, so that the scapulae may be found altered from the natural positions. Thus the right scap- ula—that of the out-growing shoulder—is raised and is less vertical, and in severe cases becomes almost horizontal, so as to give rise to the impression that its inferior angle is dislocated. It is also farther away from the mid-line than normal. The left scapula appears to have sunk, and its position is just the reverse of the right. Tlie clavicle on the right side is much curved, and in severe cases dislocation of its sternal end has occurred. As the right trans- verse processes in the dorsal region rotate back- wards the spinous processes sink, and they are twisted away to the left, that is, towards the concavity. But the deviation of these processes is no measure of the rotation of the bodies, which is often much greater than appears on the surface owing to the vertical axis of rotation being situated considerably nearer the tips of the spinous processes than the fronts of the vertebral bodies. In a severe case of the kind we have alluded to, the pelvis is much deformed, the lumbo- sacral angle points to the left, and en- croaches to a marked degree on the left half of the cavity. There is also inward displace- ment of the left acetabulum, and the wing of the sacrum and of the ilium on the left side are thickened. On examination of the softer structures it will be found that the left mamma is very prominent and the umbilicus is dis- placed to the left. The effect of the distortion of the vertebral column on the shape of the thorax in severe cases is profound. On the convex side its convexity is markedly decreased, and both the antero-posterior and transverse diameters are diminished, but its depth is in- creased slightly. On the concave side the depth is lessened, but the diameters are in- creased. A horizontal section of the thorax {see Fig. 4) shows it to be elliptical in shape, the longest axis being from the most prominent part of the ribs behind to the opposite nipple in front. That is to say, the ribs on the convex side are doubled up, and those on the Fig. 4.—Illustrating the alteration in shape of the ribs, the deviation of the transverse diameter of the thorax. (After R6dard.) concave side are unfolded. After a time the viscera vindergo changes in shape and position. With a curvature to the right side in the dorsal region the chest is less resonant and the vesi- cular murmur is decreased, while on the con- cave side the reverse obtains. But the total eff"ect is a decrease in the respiratory capacity, so that these patients suff"er from fi'equent and severe attacks of bronchitis. The trachea and bronchi are deviated to the left, and the ceso-