STERILITY 335 factors, the failure of which constitute male sterility and impotence respectively. Sterility in women depends, then, on one of two principal conditions. A. Defective ovulation, or the non-production of healthy ova. B. Defective conditions of the genital passages. We must consider each of these conditions in detail. A. Defective Ovulation, or the Non-Produc- tion OF Healthy Ova.—By a "healthy" ovum we here understand one that is capable of ferti- lisation and subsequent development; for there is reason to think that a form of imperfect ovulation may occur in childhood. Defective ovulation may be due, in the first place, to immaturity (before puberty), or to senility (after the menopause). During the usual reproductive period, extending commonly from the age of fifteen to that of forty-five, de- fective ovulation may be due to absence or under-development of the ovaries, to ovarian disease, or to certain constitutional conditions. 1. The absence of ovaries IS yery x&ve. When this condition is present it is usually associated with some gross malformation in the body generally. If there be no such malformation, the woman who has no ovaries retains the physical and often the mental characteristics of the child. 2. Under-development of the ovaries is not so rare as the preceding condition. All gradations are possible, from ovaries that retain their in- fantile size and shape, and present the form of narrow, elongated glands, to those that are merely under-sized, but otherwise present an appearance closely similar to that of ordinary ovaries. A corresponding gradation is observed in the physical development of these patients. On the one hand we see a type in which the woman resembles a child in all but stature, with flat, childish breasts, no pubic hair, small ex- ternal genitals, and total absence of menstrua- tion. On the other hand, the woman may be to all appearances well developed—the vulva being normal, the pubes covered with hair, and the breasts rounded. Menstruation may then be present, but it starts late, and is irregular and scanty; and the menopause supervenes earlier than usual. Under-developed ovaries are nearly always associated with incomplete uterine development; thus the uterus may retain the preponderance in the length of the cervix that is found in early life; or it may show a marked diminution in size, the body and cervix being nevertheless of normal relative length. The uterine canal varies in length from one to two inches. The vagina is usually small, but it may be sufficiently developed to admit of intercourse, so that the condition is not suspected. Prognosis is hopeless, since sterility is irre- vocable. Treatment is consequently nil. 3. Ovarian Disease.—Certain new growths of the ovary, multilocular cysts, dermoids, and solid tumours, and certain inflammatory con- ditions, such as ovarian abscess, so disorganise the ovarian tissue that healthy ovulation cannot take place. If both ovaries be affected, sterility results. Treatment, which resolves itself into ovari- otomy, is undertaken on general groiuids, and not with any hope of curing the sterility, which is irremediable. 4. Defective Ovtdation due to Constitutional Conditions. — It is sometimes found that a woman who appears to have all her organs healthy and well developed nevertheless does not conceive (it is premised that in such a case the fault does not lie with the husband). We must then assume that she is the subject of defective ovulation, due to constitutional con- ditions whose nature is obscure, though they are probably dependent on faulty metabolism. Sometimes such patients are very thin, even emaciated; more frequently they tend to obesity. Alcoholism and the morphia habit are well known to have a prejudicial effect on the function of ovulation. It appears in some cases that the reproductive powers have become exhausted; for the patient may have borne a child within a year or two of marriage, and may have remained childless thereafter. It is possible that mastur- bation may exhaust the reproductive power comparatively early. In this connection we may mention the view that sterility may be due to some want of " affinity" between husband and wife ; in support of this view cases are quoted in which after years of childless marriage a man and wife are divorced, and each becomes a parent when married again. Prognosis.—In many of these cases, all that can be said is that there is no evident reason why the patient should not become pregnant; and no more definite prognosis than this should be given. Treatment.—The duty of the medical at- tendant will chiefly consist in prescribing a hygienic mode of life. If there be reason to suppose that intercourse is indulged in too frequently, it is well to enjoin total abstinence for a time ; this is best secured by advising that the patient should spend some weeks, preferably with friends, in the country or by the seaside ; for the hygienic conditions can then be obtained at the same time. B. Defective Conditions op the Genital Passages.—The genital passages may be re- sponsible for sterility owing to obstruction in some portion of them, or to an unhealthy con- dition of the lining membranes, or to some other unfavourable condition. These faults must be considered in detail. 1. Defects of Patency.—It is obvious that closure of any part of the passage fi-om the