354 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF nutrition has been profoundly deteriorated, the inflammatory products form more or less coherent membranes or follicles in patches on the mucous surface. Most commonly similar patches are to be seen in the mouth or fauces, and this is to be expected oftenest in diphtheria. The membrane, of a yellowish-grey or brownish colour, may be quite superficial and consisting of leucocytes and coagulated fibrin involve only the epithelium of the mucosa, or the deeper tissues may be implicated in the patch. Various micro-organisms are to be found in the membrane, the Klebs-Loffler bacillus char- acterising the diphtheritic state. A well- marked form of membranous gastritis has been described as the result of pneumococcic infection (Foulerton). Resembling these pellicles some- what in appearance, and indeed in nature, are those superficial sloughs which are among the effects of the strong corrosive poisons and metallic irritants already described. In later stages of this lesion, after the membrane has been thrown off, the mucosa is left ulcerated with destruction of the tissues to varying depth. (c) Some gastritis is not infrequent in as- sociation with pulmonary tuberculosis, in part determined, it is supposed, by the swallowed sputum but often present before any pulmonary disease is to be recognised, and then probably due to the septic products developed in the course of the associated hectic fever, and rare cases of tuberculous ulcer have been seen. The infrequency of lesions of this nature in the stomach as compared with intestinal tuberculosis is remarkable; in the duodenum, however, they are somewhat more common, but much less so than in the lower part of the canal. A duodenitis may exist as an extension from the stomach or as a part of a general gastro- enteritis ; how far a condition of inflanaxiation limited to this region occurs is conjectural. The possibility, inferred from some experimental observations, of such a state arising from the excretion of irritant substances in the bile, derived from superficial burns, has been alhided to. The observations of Drs. Perry and Shaw upon morbid conditions of the duodenum led them to notice a close association between enlargement of Brunner's glands and "diseases due to specific organisms." Atrophy.—A wasting of the tissues of the stomach and intestines occurs as a part of the atrophy of the senile state, or in other cachectic states associated with marasmus. As already described, it is a result of a chronic catarrh of these organs, though there may be a coincident fibrosis causing a thickening of the walls, whilst the normal tissue elements — epithelial and glandular—may have shrunk or disappeared. A similar condition involving more or less all the coats usually occurs with morbid dilatation of the stomach, which is a frequent sequence of chronic catarrh. The organ is markedly diminished in size in cases of constriction of the cardiac orifice, the walls undergoing a simple atrophy, and also in the condition known as fibrosis presently to be described. Degeneration.—The inflammatory process involves degeneration of the tissues affected ; this as regards the epithelium, columnar and glandular, is granular and mucoid, whilst the muscular tissue when implicated presents the appearance known as cloudy swelling, with later a fatty change. This latter is especially seen in phosphorus poisoning, when the epithelial cells, as well as the submucous and muscular layer, may exhibit extreme fatty degeneration. The stomach and duodenum may share in widespread lardaceous change, which is almost entirely confined to the blood-vessels of the mucous and submucous layers. Hypertrophy.—An overgrowth of the normal tissues of the stomach is only to be seen as affecting the musoilar coat, and this only within certain limits. It is most marked in the pyloric region, and is determined by conditions which interfere with the normal passage of the gastric contents through the pyloric orifice. When the movements of the stomach are restrained, as by general peritoneal adhesions fixing it to the abdominal wall and elsewhere, the muscular tissue also tends to hypertrophy. Attention has lately been called to a hypertrophied condi- tion of the mucosa of the duodenum and upper part of the jejunum in diabetes. A very rare, but at the same time perfectly well established, affection is a congenital hyper- trophy of the pylorus found in infants a few months old, and leading to death from inanition. The mucosa, and still more the circular muscular ring, is very considerably thickened by an over- growth of normal tissue, quite distinct from a fibrotic change in the same situation met with at a much later age, though sometimes also spoken of as congenital. Extreme stenosis of the orifice results, with some dilatation of the stomach. The cause of this condition is quite unknown. Fibrosis; Cirrhosis.—These terms denote an excessive overgrowth of fibrous tissue in the walls of the stomach, which may be partial in extent, and chiefly towards the pylorus, or may involve the entire organ, which in consequence becomes much thicker and of firm, leather-like feel, paler and much less distensible than it should be, and with a capacity diminished to a quarter or less of the normal. In the greater number of cases it is a chronic inflammatory process following on a long-continued catarrh, but it occurs also in cases of corrosive poisoning. This, as already mentioned, is associated with more or less atrophy of the epithelial and glandular elements, and some cystic change in