571 TETANY from tetany after experimental removal of the thyroid, by Schultze, Victor Horsley, Frankl- Hochwai't, and others. Pathogeny.—It is now generally agreed that tetany is an affection of the nervous system. It is more difficult to decide which part of the nervous system is specially affected. Some of the symptoms might be referred to the per- ipheral nerves (Hasse), but the usual distribution of the affection seems rather to point to derange- ment of the spinal cord, and this view is further supported by the muscular atrophy which oc- casionally results, and by the changes which have been found in the cells of the spinal cord (Erb, Berger, Gowers). Frankl-Hochwart refers some of the symptoms {e.g. the rarely observed polyuria and glycosuria) to the medulla, and he and others have also referred to the possible implication of the cerebrum in certain cases. Among the theories advanced to account for the symptoms the most important are the de- hydration theory put forward by Kussmaul and afterwards disclaimed by him ; the reflex theory supported by G. See, Miiller, and Berlizheimer; and the toxic theory which is accepted by most writers at the present day. The role of toxins in the production of nervous disorders has been discussed so fully of late that it is unnecessary to enter upon any general discussion of the sub- ject. Among the points in favour of the toxic origin of tetany may be mentioned—the wide distribution of such lesions as have been found in the nervous system; the usual existence of some condition likely to lower the resistive power ; the actual discovery of toxic substances in certain cases ; and the occurrence of tetany in epidemic form. It is interesting to compare the groups in which tetany occurs with Robertson's ^ classi- fication of the sources of toxic infections which we have to consider in the study of nervous diseases. These are— (1) Exogenous poisons. Tetany has been ascribed in rare cases to alcohol, chloroform, morphia, lead (Frankl-Hochwart's group 4). (2) Poisons formed within the body in the course of various infectious and non-infectious diseases—typhoid, cholera, etc. (groups 1 and 3). (3) Poisons generated within the body owing to disorders of metabolism. Here we would place the cases occurring in pregnant and nurs- ing women (group 5) in whom metabolism is greatly increased, and also the cases following fatigue or exposure to cold which lower the resistive power of the nervous system. The cases of tetany following excision of the thyroid may also be included here (group 6). To certain organs, e.g. the liver, pancreas, lymphatic glands, is now attributed the function of neutralising toxic products of metabolic activity and of thus protecting the body from their influence. If 1 Text-Book of Pathology in Relation to Mental Diseases. W. F. Robertson, 1900. the thyroid has any such role to play its removal will allow an accumulation of toxin to take place, and this, if not otherwise neutralised, may act on the nervous system, producing tetany. (4) Poisons generated in the alimentary canal producing an auto-intoxication of gastro-intes- tinal origin (group 2). Bouveret and Devie found in the stomach, in cases of gastric tetany, a substance which produced convulsions when injected into animals. They associated the production of this substance with excess of hydrochloric acid in the gastric juice. Others (Ewald, Blazicek) have reported cases in which free hydrochloric acid was absent. Halliburton and M'Kendrick have recently described a toxic substance which they found in the stomach contents in a case of tetany and gastrectasis. To sum up, tetany may be regarded as a group of symptoms produced by the action on the nervous system of a toxic substance or sub- stances which arise under different conditions, and whose nature is unknown. Diagnosis.—Nothing is easier than the re- cognition of tetany in a characteristic case. The diagnosis depends upon the onset, usually sudden, of the peculiar spasms in the limbs, their restriction to certain groups of muscles, the normal temperature, and the absence of cerebral symptoms. Moreover, Trousseau's symptom, Chvostek's symptom, and the altered reactions to galvanism (Erb's sign), are im- portant aids to diagnosis. In some cases diagnosis may be rendered difficult by the slightness of the symptoms, or their aberrant form. Some recent French writers describe as tetany cases of spasm in- volving only a single group of muscles, or even only a single muscle, such as one sterno-mastoid. Again, cases are met with in which the typical spasm is or has been present, but to only a very slight degree, while sensory symptoms, such as numbness and tingling, have monopolised the attention of the patient. In such cases the special diagnostic sign (Trousseau's, etc.) may be absent or doubtful. A careful study of the possible causes of the symptoms will often throw light on the diagnosis. In other cases the intensity and generalisation of the spasm may give rise to difficulty in diag- nosis. Trismus, stiffness of the neck, and opis- thotonos are present occasionally in severe attacks, and are suggestive of tetanus. In tetany the spasms usually begin in the ex- tremities and invade the trunk later, trismus is a late symptom, and is usually only slightly marked, the usual position of the hands and feet is characteristic, and the temperature is usually normal. The termination of the case also contrasts with that of tetanus, for most cases recover, although death from asphyxia or from some complication may occur. Another disease for which the severe forms of tetany may be mistaken is cerebrospinal