SCARLET FEVER 48 the skin from above downwards, commencing on the face, Hps, and ears. With this series of symptoms before him even the comparatively inexperienced can find no difficulty in diagnosis. The diseases with which scarlet fever is mostly confounded must now be considered :— (i.) Acute Tonsillitis.—In the early stage of this disease, and when scarlet fever is prevail- ing, accurate diagnosis is well-nigh impossible, and therefore quarantine is imperative. The disease, however, rarely commences suddenly with vomiting ; the eruption, when present, is merely an erythema, and not a punctate erup- tion. At first the tonsillitis is unilateral. The tongue, though coated, does not peel, and the skin does not desquamate. (ii.) Erythema.—At an early period, when diagnosis is of most importance with a view to isolation, the rash in these cases is limited to the neck and a portion of the trunk ; it does not appear on the extremities, and it spreads in a very irregular manner. (iii.) The Fourth Disease. — Provisionally merely numbe7-ed, until a distinguishing name is attached to it. Definition.—A zymotic disease characterised by an exanthem, scarlatiniform in character, which is usually the first noticeable symptom. It is a diff'use, not patchy, rosy-red eruption from the onset, and, however intense the erup- tion may be, the sensation of heat to the touch is usually slight. It is generally followed by desquamation, which bears, however, no relation to the intensity of the eruption. It is mostly preceded by no symptoms, though where the attack is sharp there may be some headache, drowsiness, and tiredness for a few hours before the eruption is manifest. Its season is mainly the spring. The incubation period is prolonged even to three weeks. Its dura- tion of infection is about a fortnight. The straw- berry tongue is never present. It afibrds no pro- tection against measles, scarlet fever, or rose-rash. History.—It was not until towards the close of the seventeenth century that scarlet fever ceased to be confounded with measles, and at the close of the nineteenth century rose-rash (rubella) was still confused with measles and scarlet fever. At the opening of the twentieth century, another disease has been distinguished, isolated, and classified, which, while greatly re- sembling measles, rose-rash, and scarlet fever in many characteristics, is quite distinct from them all, and an attack of any one of these diseases does not protect from an attack of the other. Etiology.—Enough is known at present to speak of the age and sex incidence. But the various epidemics I have seen occurred in December, February, March, April, and one single case in June. It is an infectious disease which, like scarlet fever, occurs in smaller epi- demics than measles or rose-rash, probably on account of its being, again like scarlet fever, less infectious at the outset. Symptomatology.—See pages 40-44, where its distinguishing characters are set out side by side with those of scarlet fever and rose-rash. Also the original article may be consulted in the Lancet of July 14, 1900, "On the Con- fusion of Two different Diseases under the name of Rubella (Rose-rash)," and a paper by the medical officer of health for Southport, " On the Fourth Disease," and published in the Journal of State Medicine. To sum up the leading characteristics which show that this disease is distinct from measles, rose-rash, and scarlet fever, I will formulate them as follows :— 1. That although the resemblance of the Fourth disease is so close to scarlet fever in many of its features, it cannot possess any affinity with that disease, inasmuch as both diseases occurred concurrently in the same epidemic. 2. That some of the sufferers had both diseases in the same epidemic, one patient having scarlet fever followed by the Fourth disease, and several having Fourth disease fol- lowed by scarlet fever. 3. That, although the Fourth disease has been confused with rose-rash, and regarded as a mere variety of rose-rash, this conclusion is fal- lacious, since nearly one-half the cases in one of my epidemics had already had rose-rash within a year or two, which, according to Cullen's established law, is incredible. (iv.) Rubella.— Vide t^. 16. THE DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS BETWEEN RUBELLA (ROSE-RASH), THE "FOURTH DISEASE," AND SCARLET FEVER. Rubella (Rose-Rash). The "Fourth Disease." Scarlet Fever. \. Premonitory Symptoms. — In many instances none; no head- ache ; no vomiting ; no catarrh ; no cough ; but frequently sore throat. If tlie attack be severe, some malaise, anorexia, and drow- siness will exist. 1. Premonitory Symptoms.—In many cases none, even with a copious eruption ; neither headache, nor vomiting, nor catarrh, nor cough, but frequently slight sore throat. If the attack, however, be severe, there may be pronounced malaise for some hours, with head- ache, anorexia, drowsiness, chilliness, and even considerable backache. 1. Premonitory Syrnptoms.—If the attack be slight the patient merely feels tired, and usually complains of some amount of sore throat, head- ache, and chilliness. There may, however, be considerable malaise, with a genuine sense of illness, ac- companied by some vomiting.