113 SCURVY, INFANTILE the mixture has the consistence of cream. This may be added to the contents of the bottle in doses of a teaspoonful, which may be gradually increased to as much as a tablespoonful in the case of older children. Hygienic measures, such as fresh air, are useful adjuncts to the dietetic treatment. Drugs are of no material service in the treatment of the scorbutic condition, but in the period of convalescence the administration of such drugs as cod-liver oil and iron may be indicated for the treatment of the rickets and anaemia so usually present. The liability to haemorrhages and to fractures near the epiphyses, as also the extreme general tenderness, call for great care in handling scorbutic infants. The clothing should be so constructed that the contortions ordinarily entailed in putting it on and off may be entirely avoided; but the child should be warmly covered, and when it is necessary to move it, it should be carried upon a soft pillow. Under such treatment improvement is rapid and ultimate recovery complete, provided that the disease has not reached a stage at which recovery is no longer to be looked for. The general tenderness quickly disappears, the con- dition of the gums improves from day to day, and even the swellings of the limbs subside with a rapidity which is surprising, considering the nature of the lesions. On the other hand, the absorption of massive subperiosteal clots naturally takes time, and it may be months before the natural contour of the affected bones is restored. Scurvy in Adults Introductory. . . .113 Clinical Features .113 Morbid Anatomy . . . . .114 Diagnosis . . . . .114 Prognosis . . .114 Treatment . . . . .114 Etiology and Prophylaxis . .114 See also Scurvy, Infantile, and Cross References. Introductory. — This disease, which was formerly the most serious scourge of the navy and the mercantile marine, and was the cause of no small mortality among troops on active service, is now chiefly of historical interest; but it is still occasionally met with, and there is no reason to doubt that it would reappear with all its former malignity in any community in which the conditions which gave rise to it should from any cause come into existence again. The last severe outbreak of scurvy in the British navy was in 1795, when it seriously endangered the safety of Lord Howe's fleet. After this, on the advice of Sir Gilbert Blane, lime-juice was introduced into the navy ; and it gradually found its way into the mercantile marine, its adoption being made compulsory by vol. IX Act of Parliament in the year 1867. During the last hundred years the frequency of scurvy has gradually diminished, so that it has become one of the rarest of diseases. Thus during the five years ending 1868 the cases of scurvy ad- mitted to the Seamen's Hospital at Greenwich were on an average 85 per annum, with an average of two deaths, while for the five years ending 1898 the average annual admissions amounted to only 1'4, and there has been no fatal case since 1887. The records of other large hospitals in seaport towns confirm this conclusion. Thus out of a total of 3089 patients admitted to the men's wards of the Liverpool Royal Infirmary during the last five years of the century which has just closed only two are stated to have had scurvy. This remarkable improvement, which may be not inappropriately compared with the diminution of smallpox %hich followed the discovery of vaccination, has by most authorities been attributed to the introduction of lime-juice on board ship ; but the general introduction of steam enabling fresh supplies of food to be more frequently obtained, the adoption of better methods of preserving food, and the prevalence of improved hygienic conditions on board ship must be credited with a considerable share of the amelioration which has taken place. The fuller consideration of this point, however, had best be deferred to the section dealing with the etiology and prophy- laxis of the disease. Clinical Features.—The symptoms of scurvy may best be considered under two heads, viz. those associated with anaemia and general mal- nutrition, and those associated with a tendency to ecchymoses and spontaneous haemorrhages. The onset is generally slow and insidious, the symptoms being those of progressive cachexia and anaemia. The complexion is sallow and dull, and of a leaden hue, reminding one of the appearance of the subject of frequent attacks of malaria ; the epidermis is dry and tends to des- quamate, the conjunctiva is pearly white, there is extreme physical weakness and mental apathy, together with shortness of breath and pains in the back and lower limbs. As the disease ad- vances the more characteristic signs of scurvy appear. The gums become swollen and livid, they tend to bleed and ulcerate, and may actually slough. This affection of the gums, though generally present, is not constant; it begins between the teeth, is especially severe in the neighbourhood of carious teeth and stumps, and is reduced to a minimum in the case of edentulous subjects. The teeth, buried in the swollen and bleeding gums, become loose and may drop out, and mastication is painful and may become impossible. The other character- istic sign of scurvy is the occurrence of haemor- rhages from the mucous membranes, or into the substance of the skin, the subcutaneous cellular tissue, or the deeper structures of the body.