SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 87 the testicle as a whole, including the epididymis, and more or less of the vas deferens, may be absent; or the testicle proper may be absent, the epididymis and the rest of the parts being present; or the epididymis and the vas may be absent, and the testicle proper may be present. Supernumerary Testicles.—No well-authenti- cated example of a supernumerary testicle (polyorchism) is on record, but a few cases of absence of one (monorchism) or of both testicles (anorchism) have been reported. Malposition of the Testicle.—One or both testes may be absent from the scrotum at birth, but may descend during the first few weeks or months of life, or even as late as the period of puberty. Late descent is usually accompanied by hernia. Malposition may be considered under the heads of incomplete descent or reten- tion, and abnormal descent or ectopia. Retention of Testis.—The testis may be re- tained in the following situations : on the posterior wall of the abdomen in relation with the kidney, in the cavity of the abdomen, partly within the internal ring, in the inguinal canal, or just outside the external ring. It is interest- ing to note that although the testis may be retained in the inguinal canal the tunica vaginalis reaches to a lower level, often as far as the bottom of the scrotum. An incompletely descended testis is always small and undeveloped, usually atrophied and the seat of fibrous and fatty degeneration. Spermatozoa are almost always absent from such testes, their ducts, and the corresponding seminal vesicle. Curling held that all incom- pletely descended testes were sterile ; and, while this is true of the vast majority, there are a few well-authenticated cases of fertile crypt- oi'chids now on record who had all the signs of virility and were capable of sexual intercourse. The diagnosis of retained testis is made by the absence of the testis from the scrotum, and the presence of the peculiarly sensitive swelling in the groin or elsewhere. The diagnosis is sometimes complicated by the coexistence of hernia. The treatment depends on the age of the patient, the position of the organ, and the pre- sence of complications. A young child with a comparatively well-formed testis lying just out- side the external ring, or which may be easily pushed there out of the inguinal canal, may be fitted with a truss, furnished with a horseshoe- shaped ivory pad, applied above the level of the testis, and exercising a gentle pressure down- wards and inwards towards the scrotum. This has usually to be worn for several years before descent is complete. If the testis cannot be brought out through the external ring it may either be left alone or castration may be recom- mended. If a hernia is associated, operation is indicated for the purpose of curing the hernia, and of removing the testis in the majority of cases. I have operated on many such, and have in nearly every instance found it necessary to sacrifice the testicle. Ectojjia Testis.—The testis is met with in three abnormal positions. The rarest of all (peno-pubic) is where the testis is situated in front of the pubes at the root of the penis. In the most common, the organ having left the peritoneal cavity traverses the inguinal canal, and then, instead of going on into the scrotum, travels into the perineum (ectopia perinealis). In the third form the testis leaves the peritoneal cavity by the femoral ring, and remains by the saphenous opening (ectopia femoralis). In the perineal form the gland may lie in the fold between the scrotum and the thigh, or more particularly in front and to the side of the anus, usually to the left side. It lies beneath the superficial fascia, and is surrounded by its tunica vaginalis. A testis so misplaced will be exposed to injury, and calls, therefore, for treatment during the second year of life. If the scrotum is developed on the same side it is usually not difficult to replace the testicle within it. An incision is made over the testis and, enveloped in its tunica vaginalis, it is freed from its surrounding attachments, the spermatic cord being carefully preserved and dissected free up to the external ring. A second opening is made in the bottom of the scrotum, and a pair of sinus forceps thrust upwards therefrom and made to emerge through the former opening ; their blades are now widely separated so as to make a space in the scrotum for the reception of the testicle, which is then caught at its lower end by the forceps and pulled into its new home, where it is anchored by one or two catgut sutures to the edges of the scrotal incision. The scrotum may with advantage finally be fixed with a temporary suture to the skin of the thigh. In suturing the perineal wound it is well to arrange the sutures so as to at once close the track along which the testis has been drawn. I have twice operated successfully in this manner. If the scrotum is undeveloped, or the patient over puberty, castration is to be advised. In the femoral form the testicle cannot be transferred to the scrotum, because the spermatic cord traverses the femoral canal, and it is better, therefore, to remove it altogether. Misplaced testes are liable to the ordinary testicular affections, and owing to their posi- tions are under such circumstances much more serious sources of danger. Inflammation of such an organ may extend to the peritoneum and prove fatal. Abnormal position of the testis undoubtedly predisposes it to malignant disease, and should always be kept in mind where such abnormality is known to exist. In case of even suspected enlargement, therefore, immediate removal is at once called for. Strangulated hernia in the sac of a testis re- tained anywhere in the inguinal canal is among