487 SYPHILIS, RECENT ADVANCES IN THE KNOWLEDGE OF luis; and although the correctness of his observa- tions was soon disproved, it was their impetus which induced Schaudinn, endowed as he was with special skill and experience in protozoology, to tackle the question afresh. It is also interest- ing to note that although the whole credit of the discovery rests with Schaudinn, it was by mere accident that he was not anticipated by Bordet and Gengou. About two years before, they found a spirillum (which was in all probability the spirochtete pallida) in smears from a hard chancre, but did not fully ap- preciate the significance of their discovery; while Metchnikoif, failing either to verify their observation or to find such spirilla in the experimental syphilis he had recently succeeded in producing in apes, declared against syphilis being a spirillosis. Following closely on the heels of Schaudinn's account of his work, came a report from MetchnikofF that his infected monkeys showed a spirochsete resembling (and soon identified by the German protozoologist as identical with) the new organism. Thus within a few days were two important facts made public—its occurrence in the lesions of the disease in man, and its existence in animal infection. A further link in the chain of evidence was soon supplied by Buschke and Fisher, who demonstrated the same spirocheete in the organs of a congenital syphilitic infant, and Levaditi, who detected it in the fluid of the bullae of congenital syphilitic pemphigus. In the former site, at least, a saprophytic parasite was unlikely. Since that time, observations all over the world have led to the same results. The spirochsete pallida is found in the primary sore, in the enlarged glands, in the secondary lesions, in the blood stream—and it has never been found except in syphilis. It has been found in the saliva, in the urine, in the ovaries, but not in the cerebrospinal fluid, nor, curiously, in the semen. It has even been detected in tertiary lesions, but not in parasyphilitic diseases—tabes and general paralysis. It is abundant in all the organs, including the bones, of syphilitic foetuses ; in the umbilical cord ; in the placenta. Part of Schaudinn's work was to differentiate the varieties of spirochfetes which occur in healthy and diseased genital organs. He showed that there are two—the spirochcete refringens, a normal saprophytic denizen, and spirochcete pallida, in syphilis only. Characters of Spirochcete Pallida.—It is a very delicate spiral organism, with an average length of 6 to 16 yu, smaller and larger individuals being also met with. It consists of from 6 to 26 delicate spiral undulations, each measuring from ■8 to \'% fjL. Its diameter is about "7/x. The organism retains its spiral form when at rest. An undulatory membrane has not been demon- strated, and the existence of a nucleus is doubtful. The peripheral part is thinned out at each end to form a delicate flagellum. Schaudinn was able to observe that fission took place by longitudinal division, beginning with the formation of two flagellse at one pole. The spirochaete pallida is capable of backward or forward motion by corkscrew-like rotation round its longitudinal axis ; in addition to this, undula- tions course along its whole structure. Motility is retained for several hours in salt solution, but is lost in glycerine; the organism rapidly dies when deprived of moisture. S. refringens is a larger organism which stains more deeply and has more open undulations. With a little experience it is not difficult to distinguish it from s. pallida. Technique of Detection.—Spirochsetes should be sought in the deeper parts of lesions. The surface of a Hunterian chancre should be thoroughly washed with soap and water, gently scraped, and smears made from the fluid which exudes. Surface contamination with s. re- fringens is thus avoided. Another plan is to apply a vesicant to the skin, and to examine the serum ; another, to puncture a bubo with a syringe. The tissue juices from cases of hereditary syphilis sometimes swarm with the organism. Spirochsetes are visible in fresh smears; they do not stain deeply; they are more difficult to recognise in sections than in film preparations. In examining fresh preparations incandescent gas is preferable to day or electric light (Metchnikoff). The ultra - microscope (dark ground illumination) shows the organism readily. For staining films, Giemsa's stain is usually employed. Fix air-dried films in absolute alcohol for 1 hour, and immerse them for 24 hours in dilute stain (15 drops to 10 c.c. distilled water). Spirochsetes are stained pale violet, and nuclei deep red. Giemsa's stain (Griibler and Co.) is composed of azur II. "8 gram, azur II.- eosin 3 grams, glycerine (Merck's chemically pure) 250 grams, methyl alcohol (Kahlbaum I.) 250 grams. For sections, von Ermenghem's method is used, though exception has been taken to the use of a reduced silver process on account of the liability to confusion between the organism and fibrillae of the tissues. Sections are placed for 24 to 48 hours in '2 to '5 per cent nitrate of silver solution, rapidly washed in distilled water, and immersed for \ hour in gallic acid 5 grams, tannin 3 grams, sodium acetate 10 grams, distilled water 350 c.c, until they are tinged yellow. They are then replaced in the silver solution until they turn brown, and are washed and mounted as usual. Biology.—The exact position of the spirochaete is still uncertain. Schaudinn, whose untimely death cut short his researches and robbed science of so brilliant a worker, inclined to the view that it was a trypanosome, but this is still quite uncertain. He rechristened it "spiro- nema" and then "treponema pallidum," but