SPLANCHNO- 309 the body ; e.g. splanchnology (visceral anatomy), splanchnosheleton (the part of the skeleton re- lated to the viscera), etc. Splanchnopleure.—The visceral or inner layer of the mesoderm in association with the entoderm. See Embryology ; Fcetus and Ovum, Development of (Segmentation of Ovum). Splanchnoptosis, ^ee Enteroptosis and Cross References. Splayfoot. See Deformities {Flat- Foot). Spleen. The Surgery of the Spleen Rupture of . . . . . . 309 Movable Spleen . . . . .310 Splenomegaly . . . . .310 Cysts, etc 311 Splenectomy 311 See Abdomen, Injuries of {Lesions of the Spleen); Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of {The Spleen); Anemia, Pernicious {Pathology); Anthrax ; Children, Clinical Examination of {Abdomen, Spleen); H^ematemesis {True, Splenic Anaemia); Heart, Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease, Cyanotic Spleen, and Embolism of the Spleen); Hydatid Disease {Echinococci of the Spleen); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Movable and Floating Kidney, Diagnosis); Kidney, Surgical Affec- tions OF {Hydronephrosis); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Tumoivrs, Diagnosis); Lardace- ous Degeneration {Diagnosis, Waxy Spleen) ; Leprosy {Clinical Features); LEUCOCYTHiEMiA {Symptoms); Leucocytosis {Leucopenia); Liver, i)iSEASES of {Portal Cirrhosis, Spleen); Liver, Tropical Diseases of {Portal Thrombosis); Malaria {Sequelm, Splenic Enlargement); Mumps {Complications, Splenic Enlargement); Ovaries, Diseases op the {Ovarian Tumours, Diagnosis); Physiology, Blood and Lymph {Fate of the Blood Constituents, Haemolysis); PoNOS; Post- mortem Methods {Examination of the Body Cavities, Spleen); Spleen, Medical Affec- tions ; Syphilis (Visceral, Liver and Spleen) ; Syphilis {In Children, Viscera); Tuberculosis {Morbid Anatomy, Spleen); Typhoid Fever {Complications, Splenic Infarctions). Our knowledge of the functions of the spleen is very uncertain ; observation as well as ex- periment indicate that, whatever these func- tions may be, they are shared by other organs. The spleen is not a vital organ ; this is proved by the fact that many men and women have survived its removal, and an examination of such individuals does not reveal anything that would enable one to suspect that they are spleenless. The appalling immediate results of indiscri- minate splenectomy, especially when the opera- tion was performed for leukaemia, threatened to exclude excision of the spleen from the sphere of legitimate surgery, but the excellent results which have followed a careful and judicious selection of cases since 1890, serve to show that the operative risks are not greater than those of ovariotomy. The spleen has been removed for a variety of diseases, such as leukaemia, amyloid spleen, malarial spleen, syphilitic enlargement, echino- coccus cysts and colonies, sarcoma, and also when it has been torn (ruptured) and when dis- placed (wandering spleen). It is clear from this list that splenectomy has been performed for a variety of diseases, and a perusal of the list indicates that the majority of the diseases which lead to enlargement of the spleen are secondary to, or form part of, other morbid processes, and it is easy to comprehend the uselessness of removing the spleen under such conditions. A critical analysis of the collected records of splenectomy indicates that it can only be expected to succeed in the follow- ing conditions:—(!) Rupture of the spleen; (2) Wandering spleen; (3) Splenomegaly; (4) Abscess; (5) Echinococcus cysts ; (6) Malarial spleen. Rupture of the Spleen.—In the majority of instances rupture of the spleen is a rapidly fatal accident; death in some cases has been as speedy as when an aneurysm of the aorta bursts. Injury to the spleen may arise in a variety of ways, e.g. kicks from horses and from men; falls upon angular objects or ridges; falls on the belly when drunk, and even when sober; crushes between carts, carriages, or loco- motives ; blow from a cricket-ball, stabs in warfare and civil broils, and bullet-wounds. When the spleen is injured by the passage of a vehicle or any severe crush, it is often compli- cated by fracture of the neighbouring ribs. When the spleen is enlarged in malaria it is especially liable to rupture even from slight causes, such as straining induced by vomiting or coughing. It is a fact that injury to an enlarged spleen is not, as a rule, followed by such free bleeding as ensues on injury to a normal spleen. This is illustrated by a re- markable case recorded by Vincent. He per- formed coeliotomy on a woman, expecting to remove a large ovarian tumour, but found a large black mass instead. During the manipu- lation his hand broke into it; there was free bleeding, and the mass was recognised as a large malarial spleen. The hole in the spleen was stuffed with gauze; for a long time a sinus persisted and discharged black material. It eventually closed, and a year later nearly the whole of the spleen had disappeared. The woman was in good health. The signs of injury to the spleen are those common to severe internal bleeding: they include what is called shock attended by pallor,