SYPHILIS 485 minute blood-vessels, and from that day the opacity begins to disappear, though the process is very slow, and the entire attack may take a year before it completely passes off. The prognosis is good, and the patient can be buoyed up with the hope that he will almost certainly recover the greater part of his former vision, even when both eyes are affected severely, and he is nearly blind. Retinitis.—Later in life, i.e. about the age of twenty-one, patients, and men more often than women, may present evidence of retinitis. Oph- thalmoscopic examination shows the retina to be dotted yellowish-white, the veins are enlarged, and pigmented spots are seen chiefly in the equatorial region. There are central or annular scotomata. The colour sense remains normal as long as the disc shows no sign of atrophy. The retina is occasionally detached. The permanent teeth show remarkable changes in the subjects of hereditary syphilis, especially in those who have interstitial keratitis. The changes are thus described by Mr. Jno. Hutchin- son, who first drew attention to them :— "At or after the age of puberty the recog- nition of the subject of inherited syphilis may sometimes be made with great certainty; at other times it is surrounded by difficulties. Our most valuable aids are the evidences of past disease, more especially of inflammations which may have occurred in infancy. A sunken bridge of the nose caused by long-continued swelling of the nasal mucous membrane when the bones were soft, a skin marked by little pits and linear scars, especially near the angles of the mouth, the relics of an ulcerating eruption, and protuberant frontal eminences consequent upon infantile periostitis, are amongst the points which go to make up what we recognise as an heredito - syphilitic physiognomy. Added to them we have very valuable aid furnished by the shape of the incisor teeth. In these patients it is very common to find all the incisor teeth dwarfed and malformed. Sometimes the canines are affected also. These teeth are often narrow, rounded, and peg-like; their edges are jagged and notched. Owing to their smallness the sides do not touch, and interspaces are left. It is, however, the upper incisors which are the most trustworthy for purposes of diagnosis. When the other teeth are affected these very rarely escape; very often they are malformed when all the others are of fairly good shape. The characteristic malformation of the upper central incisors consists in a dwarfing of the tooth, which is usually both narrow and short, and in the atrophy of its middle lobe. This atrophy leaves a single broad notch (vertical) in the edge of the tooth ; and sometimes from this notch a shallow furrow passes upwards on both anterior and posterior surfaces nearly to the gum. This notching is usually symmetrical. It may vary much in degree in different cases; sometimes the teeth diverge, and at others they slant towards each other. ... In a considerable number of cases of heredito-syphilis the teeth show no deviation whatever from the normal standard . . . and it is only in the permanent set that any peculiarities are observed. The first set are liable to premature decay, but are not malformed." The joints are affected about the same time as the cornea, and mutatis mutandis they appear to undergo similar pathological changes. The knees and shoulders are most often affected. A slight synovitis involves the joint on one side, and after a time the opposite joint begins to swell. Both joints remain inflamed for a long time, and the joint first affected recovers before the other. There is no permanent impairment of function as a result of the synovial inflam- mation. The worst form of syphilitic arthritis is fortunately the most rare, for it does not re- spond to antisyphilitic remedies and is practically incurable. It occurs about puberty, when a rarefying osteitis affects many bones and joints, and is associated with a deposit of caseating material in the cancellous tissue. A similar process taking place in the articular cartilages leads to the formation of irregular pits and grooves, and has led to the disease being described under the name of chondro-arthritis. The inflammation is marked by transient attacks of synovitis, with evidence of chronic inflamma- tion of the bones affected. There are often other signs of syphilis, with evidence of long- standing iritis and choroiditis, and enlargement of the spleen. The Nervous System.—There is an increasing tendency to believe that certain rare cases of tabes and general paralysis occurring about the age of puberty are parasyphilitic (p. 480) affec- tions, even if they are not more directly con- nected with hereditary syphilis. Dr. Fletcher Beach says that in juvenile general paralysis there are, as a rule, no grandiose symptoms, but a steady progress towards dementia, and that the course of the disease is more prolonged than in adult cases. Acquired Syphilis in Children.—Syphilis may readily be acquired even by the youngest children, and in a variety of ways. Local out- breaks have occurred from time to time as a consequence of arm to arm vaccination, and in the course of ritual circumcision, and although the methods leading to these sources of infection have been abandoned, many other means still remain. The lesions of acquired syphilis trans- mit the disease with much greater ease than those of the hereditary form, and it is important, therefore, to distinguish the one from the other. Acquired syphilis presents all the characters in children which mark the disease in adults, with certain modifications due to the tender age of the patient. There is a primary sore followed