STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 366 manifestations of "nervous dyspepsia," and are not infrequently relieved by the taking of food, or by pressure over the epigastrium, although this is not invariable. Having regard to the normally slight sensibility possessed by the gastric mucosa, a condition of hypertesthesia is assumed to exist when the presence of food, of saliva, or of stomach secretion induces pain or distress, and such a state appears to be the explanation of much of the discomfort associated with erosions, ulcer, and indeed of structural changes in the stomach generally. From this it will be seen that it is often extremely difficult entirely to exclude the existence of any lesion in a case of gastric pain and to be sure that it is a gastrodynia only. Attention should be paid to the presence of other hysterical or neurasthenic symptoms and to relation of the pain to other evidences of disordered stomach, such as vomiting, cardialgia, flatu- lence, tenderness, etc., as well as the results of physical examination of the abdomen. The occurrence of pain independently of food, or its relief by the same or by pressure, and a general tendency to periodicity in occurrence, often regu- larly at night, and little disposition to be re- ferred to the interscapular region or shoulder, are of considerable importance in arriving at a diag- nosis. The most frequently recurring difficulty in respect to diagnosis lies in the discrimination of these very common cases in chlorotic young women, when all the symptoms of gastric ulcer are present except the hjemorrhage, from what would be regarded by many as gastrodynia, and it may be admitted that no criteria of difference are to be found, nor are such reasonably to be expected if much of the pain in ulcer is attri- butable to hypersesthesia of the mucosa. Par- oxysms of gastrodynia are occasionally alarming in their intensity, for with the pain there may be a condition almost of collapse, with cold sweats and a small slow pulse, though this does not always correspond to the general condition, and may give a clue to the real nature of the affection. A copious flow of pale urine of low specific gravity, as with other forms of nerve storms, may immediately follow the attack. A curious and inexplicable association of gastric pain with aortic incompetency has been noted. As illustrating pain of nervous origin, when there is a gross lesion of the centres without change in the stomach, may be mentioned the gastric crises of tabes. The condition known as "anorexia nervosa," when a most extreme emaciation takes place, often with complete loss of appetite, is not to be regarded as merely the result of a want of food or a peculiar form of gastric neurosis, but rather as some abnor- mal state of the central nervous system, which leads not only to impaired appetite (not always, it is to be noted, a complete anorexia), but also to a grave deterioration in the nutritive capacity of the tissues. Perversions of the motility of the stomach are frequent and various, both in the direction of excess and of deficiency; and their depend- ence on impaired nervous control, distinct from gastric disease, is in very many cases undoubted, emotional and mental states being often clearly responsible. All grades of excess are to be met with, from an increased peristalsis up to an attack of eructations or vomiting—so-called hysterical—which may last for days. The in- testines are at the same time usually involved, and borborygmi and diarrhoea occur, causing much inconvenience. The sensibility of the stomach is also most likely to be altered, and the motor disturbances are then accompanied by a conscious sensation of the existence of a stomach, or a sickening, sinking feeling, or even pain, which may be extremely severe, as happens in the gastric crises of some spinal cord diseases. Moreover, muscular manifestations of other structures are apt to occur, of which hiccough or deep sighing are among the most frequent. A simple exaggeration of the normal peristaltic movements results in propelling the contents of the stomach into the duodenum with undue haste, and the consequent causation of a feeling of emptiness or hunger sooner after a meal than is usual. If, as sometimes occurs, the peristalsis is in the reverse direction, the intestinal con- tents, even those of the colon, may find their way into the stomach and be thence ejected. A rare manifestation of this perversion leads to rumination or merycismus, when the food is chewed, swallowed, and then brought up exactly as in ruminant animals. This has been seen in persons the subject of grave nervous diseases, but has also been known to be acquired by imitation and practice. The motor disturbance may take the form of definite spasm, sometimes affecting the entire stomach, though this seldom causes any discomfort resembling intestinal cramp or colic. Spasm of the cardiac aperture is usually nervous, though may be induced by hot or irritating ingesta; but the pyloric spasm is most often caused by a hyperacidity of the contents, and is a frequent cause of severe epi- gastric pain two hours or more after a meal. Deficient muscular power in the stomach is a common symptom of any state of bad health and general enfeeblement, of anaemia, chlorosis, and the like, as well as chronic catarrh of the organ ; less often is it a manifestation of a purely nervous condition, though temporary inhibition of its exercise may accompany great emotion or anxiety. The resulting symptoms of this atony are those of delayed digestion, with a sen- sation of weight and distension with flatulence and eructations. Relaxation of the cardiac and pyloric orifices may occur, unduly facilitat- ing the passage of gas in the ingesta in abnor- mal directions. Treatment.—For the satisfactory dealing with that form of gastric indigestion that is essen-