SPASM 260 the spasmodic form from wryneck due to rheu- matism of the neck muscles, cervical caries or enlarged glands, congenital shortening of the sterno-mastoid from birth injury, and hysterical torticollis. I have also known it occur in tabes, and to accompany the extensive paralysis follow- ing thrombosis of the basilar artery. In this latter case the torticollis was towards the left, as it generally is in the functional cases, while the paralysis of the arm and leg was most inarked on the right side, with intense rigidity. During every eiTort of conversation there were marked clonic movements of the head towards the left shoulder. Other lesions at the base, such as tumour and meningitis, may also cause torticollis and retrocollic spasm. An important group of cases presenting functional spasm as a symptom are the occupation neuroses, or fatigue spasms, such as writer's cramp (see article on " Occupation Neuroses "). 5. Hysterical spasm may affect a single group of muscles, or the whole trunk and limbs may be in a condition of intense rigidity, known as catalepsy. Hiccough may occur as a hysterical manifestation, and I have seen stiffness of the neck muscles, with the risus sardonicus, trismus, and tonic rigidity of the abdominal muscles, with some opisthotonos, an almost exact mimicry of tetanus, produced in hysteria. Hysterical spasm, though functional in the sense that no lesion can be found to account for the symptoms, differs from those forms spoken of above as functional in being more distinctly dependent on neurotic causes, in being more quickly established, and in being more easily and quickly cui-ed by moral treatment and sugges- tion. There is a large variety of cases which can be conveniently classed as hysterical, and which it is certainly advantageous to separate from those included above under the term functional. There can be no objection to the term " hysteria " so long as its Greek derivation is not included in the pathology of the disease and it is remembered that its manifestations occur in men as well as in women. The follow- ing case is a typical example of hysterical spasm. A young man, aet. 2.3, was doing some carpentry work on a building. About four o'clock in the afternoon he cut his left hand on the palm near the wrist with a piece of broken glass. It bled a good deal, and he stated after- wards that he was rather nervous about it, though he did not cease work, and went home at six o'clock as usual. While having supper at eight o'clock he noticed that the little finger of his left hand was becoming flexed into the palm; this was soon followed by similar flexion of the ring finger, and later on in the evening by the remaining fingers. By one o'clock in the morning he was so alarmed at the condition of his hand that he came to St. Mary's Hos- pital, where it was found that all the fingers of his left hand were tightly clenched into the palm, the thumb outside the index finger, and that there was considerable anjesthesia of the whole hand. Next morning when I saw him his hand was in the same condition of rigid spasm of the fingers, and there was complete antesthesia to all forms of sensation over the whole hand as high as the wrist, ending sharply at the level of the joint. The spasm resisted all attempts to unclench the fingers, but strong faradism applied to the hand dissipated all the spasm and anaesthesia in less than two minutes. ()ther cases of hysterical spasm which have either been allowed to persist untreated or have resisted treatment may remain in tonic contrac- ture for years, until organic shortening of the muscles from permanent approximation of their attachments takes place Diagnosis. — If the cause of the muscular spasm is not obvious, reflex causes of irrita- tion of peripheral nerves should always be care- fully sought for, the joints in the neighbourhood of the affected muscles examined, and any possi- bility of a toxic origin inquired into. The chief difficulty usually lies in distinguishing func- tional and hysterical spasm from that due to organic disease of the nervous system. The presence of muscular atrophy or of any increase or loss of the deep reflexes on one side, which cannot be sufficiently otherwise accounted for, will be of the greatest value in diagnosing an organic lesion. The peculiar spasm of the legs in spastic paraplegia can be distinguished from hysterical paralysis by the fact that in the latter when traction is made upon one limb the other does not follow it, whereas this occurs in spastic paraplegia of organic origin owing to the fixation of the lower extremities to the pelvis by tonic muscular contraction. An extensor plantar reflex, true ankle clonus, incontinence of the sphincters, girdle pain, optic atrophy, and nystagmus will all be of assistance in diagnosing a spinal or cerebro-spinal lesion. In hysterical paralysis of the legs the plantar reflex is often absent, and in many cases the curious irregular distribution of the spasm, paralysis, and anaesthesia present, which it would be im- possible to account for by any organic lesion, will often give the clue to a correct diagnosis of hysteria. It should never be forgotten, how- ever, that organic disease may be present in addition to hysterical symptoms, and the presence of the latter may have been evoked by the real disease, which thus may be over- looked. Treatment. — Hysterical spasm should be treated generally upon the same lines as other hysterical manifestations, by isolation from depressing surroundings or too sympathising relatives, by massage, douching, and by fara- dism. The aim of the treatment is so to react on the higher centres as to enable the volitional power of the patient to regain its proper sway. For this reason faradic treatment will