SCABIES, OR THE ITCH 36 The species most common with us is Ixodes reduvius or ricinus. The female alone is para- sitic, the larvse, nymphs, and males only fixing themselves on man and animals for purposes of transport. The acarus is armed with a rostrum, which it bores into the skin, and as it is provided with minute barbs directed backward (after the manner of arrow-heads and fish- hooks), it becomes very firmly anchored in the integument. The parasite should therefore never be forcibly removed, as in that case the rostrum would break oiT in the puncture and give rise to pain and inflammatory swelling. The animal should be either allowed to finish its meal, or a drop of some essential oil, or turpentine, or benzine placed upon it, when it will withdraw its proboscis and die. Soldiers in the United States use tobacco juice. Blan- chard has recorded the curious case of a man who complained of a small growth about the size of a hazel nut on the abdomen. It was removed, and on cutting into it, a fecundated female Ixodes ricinus (or reduvius according to M^gnin) was discovered. The creature was 8 millimetres long and of a yellowish white. Similar cases have been observed by others. Although harmless as a rule to man, ticks are responsible for Texas cattle fever, probably by inoculating a hsematozoon, Piroplasma bigem- inuvi. Argas.—This genus is closely allied to Ixodes and belongs to the same family [Ixodidm). The Argas acari differ in their not being provided with a cephalo-dorsal plate. A European species, Argas reflexus, is parasitic on pigeons, and infests pigeon-lofts. In old disused lofts it may survive for long periods without food. Argas reflexus sometimes attacks man. It is nocturnal in habits, and in its mode of feeding resembles Ixodes. It may produce various lesions, such as a crown-sized oedematous patch, extremely itchy, which usually subsides in the course of a few hours, but instead, it may increase in size and spread up the limb, giving rise to burning sensations, accompanied by a vesicular eruption. Giant urticaria may also occur, and affect many parts of the body, in- cluding the tongue, etc., with diarrhoea and vomiting. At the seat of the puncture a small hard papule may persist for months and even years. As in the case of ixodes, if the parasite is removed before it has finished its meal, the rostrum is left behind in the small wound. The treatment is the same as for ixodes. In the north of Persia (Meana), Argas per- sicus is said to give rise to severe constitutional symptoms in Europeans, the natives being immune. It goes there by the names of Guerih-guez, Malleh, and Keuchhhed-guez. On the other hand, Laboulbene and M%nin throw some doubt on the accounts of travellers as to the serious results. These two observers ex- perimented on themselves with two Persian species, Argas persicus and A. Tholozan, which had been sent to them and kept without food for four years. They only experienced marked pruritus, with the production of a small viola- ceous ecchymosis at the seat of puncture, but no other untoward symptoms. Tholozan, who practised for years in Persia, has confirmed the evil reputation of Argas persicus. It infests old houses, lying perdu during the day in the cracks of the walls and floors, and issuing forth at night to feed on man and beast. In Portuguese South Africa, Argas moubata, first described by Livingstone (Ambaca and Tete on the Zambesi. In the latter place it is called Kufu and Bu), {Garrapata and Tampan by the Portuguese). In addition to local irritation, vomiting and purging may occur. Daniels has also found it in British Central Africa. It is very necessary to search mosquito nets for the ticks before retiring for the night. Megnin also mentions Argas Americanus (called Clinche and Nigua in South American Columbia), which is perhaps the same acarus as Argas Talafe, which worries travellers at night in Guatemala. In South America both ixodes and argas are popularly styled gara- patas. Addendum. — (a) Acarus hordbi {Kritoptes monunguiculosus.—Geber has given this name to a larval form found in barley, and which affects the harvesters, giving rise to great itching, eczema, or a marked urticarial erup- tion. KoUer has also seen many cases. (b) Tydbus molestbes, according to Blanchard, is common in Belgium, the acarus having been imported with guano from Peru. It attacks man and animals, giving rise to smart itching. SC£llcl.—Literally a ladder, the term is applied to the ladder-like structure in the cochlea of the internal ear; it consists of two parts, scala vestibuli and scala tympani. See Physiology, Nburo - Muscular Mechanism {Hearing, Internal Ear). Sca.lclS. See Burns and Scalds. Sca,lene. — Having unequal sides (Gr. (TKaXyjvo'i, uneven) ; e.g. the scalene tubercle of the first rib, or the scalenus anticus muscle of the neck, which is inserted into the scalene tubercle and gives it its name. Scalp. See also Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels (Thrombosis, Cerebral, (Edema of Scalp); Head (Scalp Wounds); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (Symptomat- ology, Dropsy, (Edema of Scalp); Insanity, Pathological Anatomy (Scalp); Lupus Erythe- matosus (Site, Scalp); Neurasthenia (Symp- toms, Tenderness of Scalp); Rheumatism in Children (Subcutaneous Nodules of Scalp); Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands (Seborrhoea of Scalp); Syphilis (Tertiary, Oste-