STOMACH: SURGICAL 397 tomy.—The incision is made in or near the middle line. Having opened the belly, our first concern is to determine the seat and extent of the cancer and its amenability to radical cure, especially noting the condition of the lymph glands, the nature of the adhesions, and the presence or absence of metastases. If the operation is to be proceeded with, the tumour is drawn forwards into the wound, to facilitate the separation of the omenta. In separating the transverse mesocolon, any enlarged glands are left attached to the stomach. The vessels on the stomach side are merely seized with forceps, but on the side of the colon they are ligatured. If the mesocolon is invaded by i'lG. 7.—Gastro-enterostomy after resection of pyloric portion of stomach. BiUroth's " second method " of pylorectomy. cancer, it is questionable if the operation should be proceeded with, because tying the colic vessels imperils the vitality of the colon. If the right and left colic arteries be ligatured as well as the middle, the central portion of the colon is almost certain to perish, and must therefore be resected straight away—a serious addition to the operation. The lesser omentum is separated along the upper border of the growth, all glands being left attached to the latter. If the glands be enlarged they should be removed along the whole length of the lesser curvature, care being taken to secure the bleeding points, as they tend to retract beneath the costal margin. In clearing the pyloro- duodenal junction, the common bile-duct may be in danger if the parts have been displaced by contracting adhesions, as is frequently the case in ulcer-cancer. When the growth is completely isolated it is drawn out of the wound, and the peritoneal cavity is shut off' with gauze. The duodenum is to be divided half an inch from the margin of the cancer. The section is made between two clamp-forceps, and each cut surface is cleansed with a sublimate swab and wrapped in gauze. The pylorus is raised along with the growth, and the stomach is cut across two and a half inches beyond the margin of the cancer. The section is made between clamp-forceps; two pairs grasp the upper half, and other two the lower half, the assistant supporting the cardiac portion while the section is being made. The tumour is laid aside, escaped gastric con- tents are wiped away, and the cut edge of the stomach is disinfected. The forceps on the cut end of the stomach are relaxed sufficiently to allow bleeding from the vessels, and these are now secured and ligatured. The soiled gauze is replaced. The further steps of the operation depend on the amount of stomach which has been re- moved. If it be possible to join the duodenum to the stomach, this is best carried out by Kocher's method. The cut end of stomach is closed by two rows of sutures, and the duo- denum is inserted into its posterior wall, the communication being eff"ected by sutures alone, as in a gastro-enterostomy, or by means of a Murphy button (| inch). Where the interval between the viscera is too great to allow of a direct junction, the cut end of each is closed, and communication be- tween them is established by means of a gastro-enterostomy — " the second method of Billroth." The suture lines are painted with iodoform cream, the gauze packing is removed, the viscera replaced, and the abdominal wound is closed without drainage. If Kocher's operation has been performed, and there is regurgitation of intestinal contents and vomiting, this usually ceases if the patient is turned over on to his right side. Complete Extirpation of the Stomach.—This operation is carried out on the same lines as an extensive resection. It is only practicable when a portion of the gullet below the diaphragm or a portion of the cardia can be preserved. The duodenum is joined to the lower end of the oesophagus; or, if this is impossible, the duodenum is closed, and a loop of the jejunum employed to re-establish the continuity of the alimentary tract. Although this operation has been performed successfully on several occasions, it is only called for in very exceptional cases, and can rarely be expected to afford a permanent cure. StOITia.ChiCS. — Drugs increasing the secretion of the gastric juice, such as aromatics, bitters, condiments (pepper, mustard, etc.), alkalies, alcohol, etc. ; some act locally on the