100 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE Methods op Supporting or Suspending the Testicles.—An endless variety of bandages have been devised for this purpose, and " suspenders " of different kinds are to be found at every drug store or surgical instrument maker's. The chief fault of suspenders lies in the fact that they fit only by accident; as a rule they are too tight in some parts, and too loose in others, so that the uniform compression which is essential to the relief of swollen and tender parts cannot be secured by their aid. Fortun- ately, however, more than efiBcient substitutes are easily and simply made. The testicle can be well supported by two handkerchiefs, either of silk or cotton—prefer- ably the former — applied in the following manner: A handkerchief is folded corner-ways to the width of an ordinary belt and is then tied securely round the waist. The second handker- chief is folded once corner-ways into a triangle. The centre of its base, with the apex forwards, is placed behind the scrotum, and its "angular" ends are then brought forwards on either side of the genitals up to the " waistbelt," where they are secured. The apex of the triangle is now brought forwards over the scrotum, and is carried upwards in the median line to the waistbelt, under which it is passed and turned down and fastened securely with a safety-pin ; the pressure on the swollen parts being deter- mined by the tightness of this apical portion of the triangle. Von Baer's Triangle.—A better method of securing a dressing on, or of supporting, the scrotum or testicles is by means of " von Baer's triangular bandage," which is applied as follows : An eighteen-inch square of surgical lint or other soft textile, from which the selvage has been torn, is cut from corner to corner into two equal triangular halves. To the rectangular apex of one of these is sewn two twenty-inch lengths of two-inch bandage, and to each of the angles at the base is sewn a thirty-six-inch length of the same. The triangle is now laid over the genitals and hypogastrium, with its base upwards and its apex reaching behind the scrotum to the perineum, where it is firmly held by passing one of the strips attached to it under each thigh along the gluteal fold to the outer side of the great trochanter, where they are firmly held by an assistant so as to prevent the triangle being drawn forwards. The strips attached to the angles at the base of the triangle are now carried, one in each direction, round under the pelvis, and are brought forwards between the iliac crest and great trochanter across the triangle about one inch below its base, and are tied firmly together in the middle line. The strips from the outer side of the thighs are now carried forwards and inwards across the outer third of the groin, and are fastened with safety-pins to the base of the triangle, which is turned down to meet them over the strips which have encircled the pelvis. An opening is lastly made in the triangle, through which the penis is drawn. On '■'■Strapping^' a Testis.—The whole scrotum must be shaved. The affected testis is separ- ated from its fellow and gently pressed into the lowest part of the scrotum. A strip of adhesive plaster, three-fourths of an inch wide and twelve inches long, is now bound transversely round the scrotum above the testis, sufficiently tight to prevent the testis slipping back through it. A second or even a third circle of strapping is applied below the first, pressing the gland more and more downwards. Longitudinal strips are then applied, reaching from the encircling strap- ping on one side over the testis to the other side. These strips overlap each other, and are repeated until the gland is well covered in. A final strip of encircling plaster is bound round the " neck " of the swelling to make all secure, and the scrotum is finally supported in a sus- pensory arrangement of some kind. If thought necessary, ointments spread on lint may be applied under the strapping. The dressing should be changed as soon as the imprisoned testicle is found to be shrunken within it. Excision of the Testicle (Castration).— The pubes and scrotum must be shaved and made aseptic. An incision through the skin and deeper tissues is made from the external abdominal ring to the bottom of the scrotum, and the cord and testis laid bare. The cord is now isolated close to the external ring, the testis squeezed out of its bed, and the soft parts which attach it to the scrotal tissues divided freely until the testicle is held in by the sper- matic cord only. The cord may now be dealt with in several ways, but whichever method may be adopted it is important to have a secure hold of its central end until all its vessels have been secured. It may be transfixed with an aseptic stout double silk ligature, which is divided at its looped extremity, each half tied separately about its own section of the cord, and the cord then cut through half an inch below the ligature; or the cord may be caught temporarily in a clamp or with artery forceps, divided an inch below, and the vessels on its divided face caught separately or in small clusters, and tied as in an ordinary amputation. The position of the vessels in the cord has been referred to (p. 85). Three arteries must be included in the ligatures—the artery to the vas deferens, the cremasteric, and the spermatic. It is often impossible to identify the arteries from the veins. The mouths of the latter vessels gape when divided; they are readily seen and easily secured. Both veins and arteries together are picked up with artery forceps, and secured with silk or catgut liga- tures. The two sets of veins may be tied in separate masses. If the scrotal tissues are invaded by disease the affected area must be