42 SCARLET FEVER (vii.) Throat.—1. In the earliest stage of all sore throats the mucous membrane appears smooth, dry, and glistening, as if all secretion and the superficial layer of the mucous mem- brane had been scraped off and the surface polished. 2. In the next stage of all cases of scarlet fever, even in the mildest, there is a general uniform redness of the uvula, soft palate, the palatine arches, and the tonsils,—in fact, the appearance is that of an exanthem of the throat, exactly analogous to the exanthem of the skin, and precedes the exanthem of the skin by twenty-four hours. 3. When the disease is more intense these parts present a velvet appearance from the oedema which the exanthem of the throat pro- duces. The colour becomes a deeper red, and involves the whole of the fauces and the hard palate. Small elevations form, arising from swelling of the papillae, which give the mucous membrane a granular appearance. 4. In most cases the preceding condition is succeeded by swelling of the tonsils, which gradually become covered with minute isolated white dots, occasioned, in consequence of the hyper£emia, by an excess of the normal secre- tion from the follicles of the tonsils. 5. This secretion may increase to such an extent as not only to appear at the orifices of the follicles, but also by coalescence to form a layer of secretion covering the tonsils, and resembling an ulcerated surface. All the pre- ceding changes usually disappear by the third or fourth day, and the throat by degrees assumes its normal appearance by the end of a week. 6. But when the throat becomes more severely inflamed, as in scarlatina anginosa, the tonsils grow more swollen and ulceration follows, to- gether with an excessive secretion of mucus of an acrid watery character, which includes the whole of the mouth and the nasal mucous membrane, and causes soreness of the nose and the upper lip. Sloughing and gangrene sub- sequently supervene. 7. At other times abscesses of the tonsils occur, with so extensive a swelling of the uvula and tonsils that regurgitation of fluid takes place through the nose. 8. At a later stage the regions of the parotid, of the submaxillary glands, and the whole of the connective tissue of the neck become enor- mously swollen, assuming a brawny character which may disperse in a few days, or terminate in abscesses or gangrene. (viii.) Glands.—It is an invariable law of nature that augmented action produces in- creased growth. Where additional work is thrown upon glands they become either tempor- arily or permanently enlarged. In scarlet fever two sets of glands are involved owing to the anatomical lesions which affect them. 1. In common with all eruptive fevers, the glands in relation with the lymphatics of the skin, while performing their functions in con- nection with the eruption of scarlet fever, become somewhat increased in size. Where the eruption is slight and transient they cannot be detected at all; but where it is copious they are readily perceptible, though they never attain the size, hardness, and tenderness which they exhibit in rubella. 2. The lymphatic glands of the throat and neck can be scarcely perceived during the first few days, although from the onset some fulness of the neck may be discerned ; but subsequently an enlargement will occur in proportion to the severity of the faucial affection. In all cases of scarlatina anginosa, where the stress of the illness is largely manifest in the throat, these glands suffer from a severe adenitis frequently attended by suppuration,—the acuteness of the inflammation involving the connective tissue of the neck in a brawny swelling, whence suppura- tion is also liable to arise,—the thin ichorous matter burrowing in various directions, with the production of sloughing of the connective tissue and the skin, and terminating fatally before the close of the second week. In some instances venous haemorrhage from the involve- ment of a vein precedes death. (ix.) Eruption.—I have purposely hitherto withheld the description of this symptom, since, in the investigation of eruptive fevers, the " rash " is usually observed first, and a mental diagnosis is at once made, without a full in- vestigation of other equally important symptoms and the period of incubation. This entails a preconceived idea that can only betray the investigator into frequent mistakes, which would be avoided if a patient, painstaking investiga- tion of the whole of the symptoms were instituted prior to a definite conclusion. The mind must be biassed which sees the eruption first. For it is an ingrained pi-epossession in the medical mind, that a diffuse red rash, followed by desquamation, affords unmistaken evidence of scarlet fever. This notion, however, is contrary to fact, as unfortunately the rash of the Fourth disease resembles so closely that of scarlet fever, that, in certain cases, and in certain stages, no medical man who simply studies the eruption can possibly perceive the distinction. Another frequent source of error in diagnosis is the inference that the slightness of the illness precludes the suggestion of scarlet fever ; while its severity is assumed to be an unfailing indication of that disease. It is certain, on the contrary, that some of the mildest cases of serious illness I have witnessed have been scarlet fever; and it is an established fact that these cases frequently become fatal in conse- quence of acute nephritis. I have also known the illness occasioned by the Fourth disease assume a somewhat severe type.