STOMACH: SURGICAL 395 should be at least four inches in length. The operation is often rendered difficult by adhesions to the anterior abdominal wall, and on separat- ing the adhesions a gastric ulcer may be opened into. To prevent the re-formation of adhesions, the right free edge of the omentum may be Fig. 2.—Gastroplasty for hour-glass stomach. brought up so as to lie between the stomach and the parietes. Gastro - anastomosis or Gastro - gastrostomy (Wdlfler).—This operation consists in making a free communication between the two compart- ments of an hour-glass stomach. It is carried out on the same lines as gastro-enterostomy, and the largest size of bone-bobbin may be used as an internal splint. The modification suggested by Watson consists in turning the pyloric segment over on to the cardiac portion, using the constriction between them as a hinge ; Fia. 3.—Gastro-anastomosis or gastro-gastrostomy for hour-glass stomach. having fixed them together by sutures, the communication is effected through an opening made in the presenting surface of the pyloric compartment. Gastro-enterostomy.—The communication be- tvveen stomach and intestine is usually made with the first part of the jejunum—gastro- jejunostomy. The opening in the stomach is made at a dependent point close to the greater curvature. The viscera are applied to each other so that the direction of the peristaltic movements shall be the same in both. The jejunum is either brought upwards in front of the colon and fixed to the anterior wall of the stomach—Wolfier's operation,—or it is brought up behind the colon and fixed to the posterior wall of the stomach—von Hacker's operation. There are countless modifications of the procedure, especially as regards the details of the anastomosis; we shall therefore limit our description to the operations above mentioned, either of which, when performed accurately, gives excellent results. The selec- tion of one or other depends on the conditions present in each individual case. Anterior Gastro-enterostomy (Wolfier's opera-- tion).—-Having opened the belly and ascertained the exact condition of the viscera concerned, the first step is to identify the upper end of the jejunum. The omentum and colon are raised with the left hand, while the extended fingers of the right are pushed along the under surface Fig. 4.—Scheme of methods of gastro-enterostomy, after v. Mikulicz. St., stomach; t.c, transverse, colon ; j., jejunum ; (1) anterior gastro-enterostomy; (2) posterior gastro- enterostomy. of the transverse mesocolon until they reach the vertebrae. The first loop of the jejunum, which lies immediately to the left, in the angle between the mesocolon and the vertebrae, is seized by the second and third fingers disposed like the blades of a scissors, and on pulling it forwards its connection with the fixed termina- tion of the duodenum becomes evident. We have only once failed to find the jejunum by this method—in a case in which the colon was displaced and fixed by adhesions—and we were obliged to trace the small intestine upwards from the caecum. Having identified the jejunum, a point is selected about twenty inches from its origin, and the loop is so disposed that its afferent and efferent limbs lie left and right respectively. The neck of the loop is encircled and constricted by a piece of narrow elastic tubing to prevent leakage. A point on the anterior wall of the stomach is selected, and the stomach as a whole drawn forwards into apposition with the jejunum, both viscera being