SYPHILIS ill who suffer from tubercle, malaria, advanced Zittman's decoction No. 2. membrane of the mouth, which may extend backwards until the tonsils and pharynx are involved. The teeth may become loose, and there is an enormously increased flow of saliva, with swelling of the parotid and submaxillary glands. The psychical condition changes from shyness to despondency, and in women men- struation is diminished or ceases. It often happens that a coarse of mercury produces symptoms connected with the intes- tinal canal rather than with the mouth. The patient complains of colicky pains with ab- dominal rumbling and diarrhoea shortly after taking each dose of the medicine, and the diar- rhoea may be so severe as to be bloody. Treatment of Salivation. — Commencing sali- vation indicates that the amount of mercury taken by the patient must be diminished. The teeth should be brushed once or twice a day with equal parts of tincture of myrrh and tincture of iodine. Great care should be taken to prevent any accumulation of food between the teeth, and the patient should be directed to wash out his mouth with a saturated solution of boric acid after each meal. Alum and chlorate of potash, of each a drachm and a half in twelve ounces of water, also forms a good mouth-wash; whilst if the breath be foul a drachm of the chlorinated soda may be mixed with an ounce of brandy in four ounces of water to serve as a gargle. Atropine is alone of service in checking the profuse sali- vation. It should be given frequently in small doses in the form of powders, which are allowed to dissolve in the mouth. A thirty-second of a grain of atropine mixed with a drachm of sugar of milk may be divided into ten powders, of which one may be given every four hours until the pupil begins to dilate. Five or ten grains of Dover's powder given at night are usually sufficient to allay the intestinal symptoms, which are often marked at the beginning of the mercurial course; but the use of opium should not be persisted in, and the symptoms disappear spontaneously in many cases after a few days' discomfort. A tonic treatment by the adminis- tration of quinine and iron may be given for a short time after the symptoms of salivation have disappeared, before the patient recom- mences his mercurial course. There is no doubt that, even after a prolonged course of mercury, the whole of the drug is eliminated from the body within two years of the last dose being taken, though there is a popular belief that when mercury once gets into " the system " it is never afterwards got rid of. It is chiefly excreted by the kidneys and skin. Patients with renal disease, therefore, are bad subjects for a prolonged course of mercury ; and though albuminuria does not necessarily contra-indicate the use of mercury in the treatment of syphilis, it makes the surgeon somewhat more careful in the watch he keeps upon his patient. People anaemia, the hsemorrhagic diathesis, and chronic disease of the alimentary tract also bear mercury badly as a rule. Tertiary Syphilis It must be remembered that the expression tertiary syphilis is only used for the sake of convenience to express the latest manifestations of syphilis, which are more refractory to treat- ment than the earlier signs. The symptoms of tertiary syphilis usually appear during the third or fourth year after infection, but they show themselves as early as the second or fourth month, or they may be delayed until some debili- tating cause weakens the general health of the patient. In favourable cases and under proper treatment no tertiary symptoms may present themselves, the patient being cured in the secondary stage. Malignant Syphilis.—In some unfortunate cases an attack of syphilis runs a malignant course which often terminates in death. The skin eruptions are a marked feature in malig- nant syphilis, and they quickly ulcerate, but the mucous membranes are only slightly affected. The bones and nervous system show evidence of the syphilitic poison, and the whole organism is seriously affected, as is shown by the fever and cachexia. Pathology will not as yet explain the cause of malignant syphilis, though it is probably the same as that of malignant scarlet fever, acute septicaemia, and malignant small- pox, i.e. a diminished power of resistance on the part of the tissues rather than an increased virulence of the infective agent. Such cases of malignant syphilis have been observed in individuals who have seemed otherwise to be in good health, as well as in those suffering from dysentery, tuberculosis, scurvy, anaemia, and chronic alcoholism. Treatment.—Mercury is badly borne in these cases, and iodide of potassium is often found to be too depressing. Sir Alfred Cooper speaks very highly of Zittman's regimen, of which he gives the following account:—" The course of treatment extends over a fortnight, during which time the patient is put upon a strict diet and regimen. The following are the details of this method of treatment. The decoctions and pills are made from the following formulae:— Zittman's decoction No. 1. R Rad. sarzae contus. giv., sem. anisi contus., sem. foeniculi contus. ail gr. 80, fol. sennae 5j., rad. glycyrrhiz. contus. 5iv. And in a linen bag :—• Sacch. alb., alum, sulph. aa 5ij., hydrarg. subchlor. gr. 80, hydrarg. bisulph. rub. gr. 20, aquae C. iij. Boil down gently to one gallon, strain and put into four forty-ounce bottles. Label—The Strong Decoction.