TERATOLOGY 556 cesses in whole or more commonly in part,— structures which ought to appear will not do so, structures which ought to imite will remain separate, phases which ought to be temporary will be permanent,—and so various malforma- tions and monstrosities will be produced. It is comparatively easy, further, to understand how defective development of the amnion will, by preventing the peripheral expansion of the under- lying parts, lead to many of the well-known ter- atological manifestations, such as anencephaly, sympodia, exomphalos, etc. Classification.—-Hitherto teratological classi- fications have often been rather a hindrance than a help to the understanding of the subject. There have been many of them, the names employed in them have been polysyllabic and unfamiliar, and different teratologists have employed very different methods with widely different results. One of the simplest, as it is also one of the oldest, methods of classification is to divide all monstrosities into those by excess, those by defect, and those in which there is altered relation of parts. After all that has of late years been discovered, this method has still much to recommend it. The method adopted by the writer (in Teratologia) is a modification of that used by the late Professor Taruffi of Bologna, and aims at being both simple and yet sufficiently comprehensive to find a place for all known malformations. By it monstrosities are divided into two primary divisions according as they represent two fa3tuses or only one, the polysomatous and the monosomatous terata. The monosomatous terata, again, are subdivided into those in which the whole body or at least several parts of it are malformed, and those in which only one part or region is deformed; for the latter a strictly regional classification is adopted. Finally, a sepa- rate place is found for the curious cases of in- version of the viscera or heterotaxy. In an abridged form the scheme is as follows :— A. Polysomatous Terata—• 1. Monochorionic or uniovidar twins. 2. Allantoido - angiopagous twins or placental parasites. 3. United twins or double terata proper. {a) Symmetrically united. '1) Syncephalus. (2) Dicephalus. (3) Thoracopagus. (6) Asymmetrically united or par- asitic twins. 4. Triplets, etc. B. Monosomatous Terata— 1. Whole body (or several parts of it) malformed (pantosomatous). 2. Parts of the body malformed (merosomatous). (a) Head. {b) Neck, (c) Thorax. (d) Abdomen and pelvis. (e) Spine. (/) Limbs. 3. Heterotaxy or transposition of the viscera. In this classification the first section roughly corresponds to the monstrosities " by excess" of the older schemes, while the second includes the malformations "by defect" and by "altered relations." Types op Terata.—As it is impossible within the limits of an article such as this to describe or indeed name all the varieties of teratological development which may be met with, the writer contents himself with referring to the outstand- ing types. Types of Polysomatous Terata.—Since mono- chorionic or uniovular twins have been already considered iinder another heading (Pregnancy), and since some hesitation may be felt regarding the wisdom of terming this variety of twins teratological, the writer passes at once to the consideration of the placental parasites about whose teratological nature there can be no possibility of doubt. Placental Parasites or allantoido-angiopagous twins.—These are twins of the same sex enclosed within a single chorion, one of which shows more or less grave developmental defects, and communicates with the other by means of the vessels of the umbilical cord in the neighbour- hood of the placenta. The usual clinical history in such cases is that the pregnancy terminated somewhat prematurely in the birth of a normal foetus, but that before or along with the ex- pulsion of the placenta a deformed twin was born; the placenta was single, and gave origin to two umbilical cords whose vessels inosculated in the substance of the afterbirth. The deformed twin may show a great variety of defects, among which absence of the heart is not uncommon; indeed, such foetuses may be divided into the acardiac and the cardiac varieties. But a more useful classification is to group them into (1) those in which the head, trunk, and lower limbs are present, but the head is deformed, and the upper limbs very rudimentary {paracephalic) ; (2) those in which the head is entirely absent, and in which the trunk and upper limbs are very defective (acephalic); and (3) those in which the external appearances of a foetus are lost, and a rounded mass with slight indications of limbs and sense organs is all that is to be seen {amorphic, anidean). The internal malformations are of the most varied type ; sometimes almost all the viscera are present, but in a more or less anomalous state ; at other times scarcely a single part may be found, and the foetus be represented by some fragments of bone, a loop or two of intestine, much oedematous adipose tissue, and skin. Most of these curious monstrosities are quite incapable of existence after birth ; indeed the fact that they are able to reach the end of