508 TABES DORSALIS with any of the coal-tar preparations. It is well not to employ morphia if it can be avoided, and never to put into the hands of a patient the hypodermic syringe, or a worse condition even than the disease may be produced. In gastric crises the before-mentioned drugs may be tried, but, as a rule, moi'phia is the only remedy which is efficient in severe cases, although oxalate of cerium in 2 to 5 grain doses may be tried. Electrical Treatment. — Galvanism has been recommended, one electrode being applied to the neck, the other to the lumbar region of the spine, a current not exceeding 5 to 8 milliam- peres being used, or the current may be applied by moving an electrode down the spine (labile), or made to pass right down the spine, both electrodes being fixed (stabile). Erlfs Method.—The kathode, of medium size, is fixed over the superior cervical sympathetic ganglion, then the larger anode is moved down the opposite side of the vertebral column close to the spinous processes in the lower cervical and upper dorsal regions. By either method the sitting should not be more than five minutes. Faradism.—A large electrode is placed on the thorax or neck, whilst the brush is stroked over the skin of the buttocks and lower ex- tremities or over the antesthetic areas. The strength should be enough to be just painfully appreciated by the patient, but not to cause muscular contractions. The sitting should not occupy more than ten minutes. Some authorities recommend the actual cautery over the spine, especially when there is pain in this region. Aconitia ointment and hypodermic injections of cocaine \ to ^ grain or menthol liniment may be employed to relieve the pains of hyper- eesthetic cutaneous areas. Hydrotherapy. — Cold douches and simple warm baths, natural thermal springs, and springs containing carbonic acid are used in Germany, but have not found much favour in England. The baths of Mannheim and Wildbad are re- commended. The hot mineral water baths of Bath, and hot brine baths of Nantwich and Droitwich might be recommended. Mechanical Treatment.—About twenty years ago nerve-stretching was introduced; benefits and even cures were said to result. This treat- ment, as well as suspension and bloodless nerve- stretching have by experience been found to be useless. The latter, carelessly applied, has led to fracture. These methods, when they have done good, have probably merely aff"ected the subjective attitude of the patient towards his disease, and have not had any real effect upon it. They are not, however, free from the possi- bility of injurious results. Massage and gymnastics are useful in some cases, and certainly benefit has resulted from Frenkel's method of exercises. The patient is made to learn again the movements by the aid of vision ; gradual transitions from simple to more complicated movements are practised under the guiding direction of vision, while he is lying, standing, and walking. When the patient is in an advanced state of locomotor ataxy, and when presumably the association systems of neurons of the spinal cord, as well as of the exogenous systems, are destroyed, little good can come from this mode of treat- ment ; but prior to this, vmdoubtedly much benefit, and even a return of useful coordinate movement can in many cases be accomplished by a systematic adoption of this principle of opening up new paths and new associations under the direction of vision. Care must be taken, however, not to fatigue the patient. It is of very great importance not to alarm the patient, yet at the same time to frankly confess that you are of opinion that he is suffer- ing from an incurable disease, which will pro- gress slowly or quickly according to his mode of life. If he gives himself up to indulgences ill Baccho et Venere, and neglects the warnings as to exposure, fatigue, mental or bodily, the disease will certainly progress more rapidly. His general nutrition must be maintained by generous, but not excessive diet; iron, arsenic, or strychnine in the form of pill may be ad- ministered, if he suffer from ansemia or anoi'exia. He should be told to empty his bladder regu- larly ; and not to allow more than four hours to elapse, so that atonic distension may be avoided. Care should be taken that he does not suffer from residual urine from want of use of a catheter, but the greatest precautions should be exercised to use a perfectly aseptic instrument. Smoking should be avoided if there is optic atrophy; in any case, moderation in tobacco should be strictly enjoined. He should be told that if he suffer with corns, he should not cut them, but soak them in warm water and carefully rub them down with pumice stone, otherwise he may suffer from a suppurating corn and per- forating ulcer which will never heal. Owing to the liability to joint affections and spontaneous fracture, he should not attempt to walk with- out support, if he is ataxic ; as a slight injury may lead to a serious result, in the form of spontaneous dislocation or fracture. It will thus be seen that the pathology of the disease teaches us that there are many symptoms and complications for which the doctor's aid may be called, and in relieving these and as far as possible comforting the mind of the patient and averting further morbid developments by judicious advice, he fulfils, as far as he is able, his duty towards the patient, for he is powerless to restore the nervous tissue which has been destroyed, and, indeed, is in great measure powerless to avert the progressive degenerative change of further nervous structures: in fact, there is no part of the nervous system which