SPRUE 318 eleven or twelve o'clock in the forenoon stools may pass at intervals of one or two hours, but after noon the patient seldom has to go to stool. In the late stages of the illness the patient is usually called to stool about two o'clock in the morning, in addition to the early morning stools. The character of the stool varies with the stage of the disease, with the food taken, and with the treatment. Neither the frequency of defecation nor the bulk of the motion is in exact relation to the stage or intensity of the illness, frequency of stool being sometimes associated with but slightly marked tenderness of the mouth or constitutional derangement. The motions are at first usually quite loose, consisting of a watery evacuation without blood, with but little or no mucus and of a pale yellow colour. The motion may escape with considerable force, attended by some griping, and is usually followed by a feeling of weakness, and occasionally clammy perspiration. As the illness advances the stools become less liquid and more pultaceous in character. The stools are of a dirty white colour, and of the consist- ence of thick mud. At times, and for a week or weeks together, the stool may be frothy, bulky, and fermentative in appearance, a con- dition which may alternate with one during which the stools assume the thick, muddy appearance described, and quite devoid of gaseous fermentation. The consistence and appearance of the stools harmonise with the state of the nmcous membrane of the alimentary canal. During an acute spell of tender tongue, associated with stomachic and intestinal catarrh, the stools are of a fluid character; when the acute attack wears oft' the stools again become muddy in consistence. It would appear (a) when diarrhoea is present as though the stools passed before fermentation had developed ; {h) when the contents of the bowel are longer retained and are thicker, but with bubbles of gas, the intestinal fermentation would appear to have begun, but not completed before the motion took place; and (c) when the motion is like mud, and with but little or no gaseous admixture, the explanation would seem to be that the butyric and other fermentations are completed before the stool is passed. Towards the later stages of the fatal form of the disease the stools become watery, with a heavy, fetid, repulsive odour, of a dirty brown colour, alternating with one of light straw colour. The stool has an acid reaction, the bile pigments are almost entirely absent, but the bile acids are present, although in what proportion to the normal has yet to be ascertained. Toider-ness of the tongue may develop gradu- ally, or it may appear as a sharp, sudden attack. At the ridge and tip of the tongue, red raised spots appear, which gradually spread over the entire surface. The tongue assumes a glazed appearance in consequence, as though its epithelial surface was shed. The papillje dis- appear, the tongue shrinks in bulk and is at last protruded with difticulty. Shallow trans- verse fissures, small cracks, superficial erosions, and ulcerations appear, more especially on the edges of the tongue, on the gums, frenum, and inside the cheeks and lips, which in time appear reddened and bare of epithelial covering. The tongue is very sensitive, not only to salt and acid substances, but such apparently non- irritating substances as bread, potatoes, etc., give rise to pain in the mouth. The senses of taste and smell are also impaired in advanced cases. Discomfort in speaking and swallowing is commonly complained of in sprue, and occas- sionally profuse salivation. An ulcer, described by Crombie, and named " Crombie's Molar Ulcer," which appears be- tween the two last molar teeth of either the upper or lower jaw, is considered by some to be a sign of commencing sprue. Dyspepsia in sprue is usually of the atonic variety, and attended by the feeling of fulness and uneasi- ness over the stomach, eructations, belching, heartburn, etc.; the appetite is variable, and vomiting may become pronounced, the vomit being mostly of a sour character, with a faint taste and odour, and with much mucus. Curi- ously enough, the vomiting most frequently occurs about midday. The mouth, fauces, and gullet feel so hot at times that the patient is tempted to sip cold or ice-cold water, or sucks ice persistently. The patient in course of time loses weight, the subcutaneous fat disappears, the skin becomes dry, harsh, and loose, the features appear drawn, the sclerotic is of a pearly white hue, anaemia becomes more marked, and oedema in advanced cases develops in the feet and legs. Irritability of temper, low spirits amounting even to melancholia, and progressive weakness increase as the ailment develops and in proportion to its severity. The physical signs are chiefly confined to the abdominal organs. The abdomen, at first rather retracted, becomes somewhat distended at a quite early period in the disease, but its walls are soft, and the hand in palpation can be pressed deeply without any endeavour at resistance. In the last stages of fatal cases the abdomen sometimes shrinks and retracts, cor- responding with the general emaciation. The liver shrinks in size at an early period of the disease, and it is even difficult at times to discover any hepatic area of dulness in long- standing cases of sprue. The other organs of the abdomen present no characteristic feature. The urine is usually limpid and light in colour, with a low specific gravity, and, except in the last months of illness in fatal cases, albumin in the urine is not met with. Fever is not a distinctive feature in sprue. A temperature below the normal is the rule.