153 SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF overwork, mental worry, or unhealthy sur- roundings. Treatment.—Prophylactic treatment will con- sist in ascertaining if there is any local cause of infection, even though it be but a slight cystitis, an inflamed tooth, or a pericardial affection. Palliative treatment consists in feeding the patient well, combined with mas- sage of the affected muscles and the application of small blisters to relieve the pain. Hot air baths, by some apparatus of which Tallerman's is a type, may be employed advantageously in some forms of the disease. It is still too early to do more than allude to the curative effects of light, X-rays, and similar means which are at present being tried on an extensive scale at many different centres. There can be no doubt, however, that patients derive much benefit from the regimen prescribed at the baths of Bath, Buxton, Harrogate, and Strathpeffer at home, and at those at Aix-les-Bains, Nauheim, and Wildbad abroad. Excision of the head of the humerus may be necessary in a few advanced cases of arthritis deformans, when the joint is very painful and crippled in a bad position, but I do not happen to have seen a case where it seemed advisable to perform such an operation. Spinal Arthropathies.—The chief spinal arthropathies affecting the shoulder are syringo- myelia and Charcot's disease, which is tabetic. In syringomyelia no less than 32 per cent of the cases exhibit lesions of the shoulder. Pathology.—Syringomyelia is due to an al- teration in the neuroglia of the spinal cord, which leads to the formation of one or more irregular cavities in the tissue. The disease usually begins in the upper part of the cord, the grey commissure and posterior cornua being first affected. Mr. Targett describes the joint as being aff'ected in two forms. In the hyper- trophic form the articular ends of the bones are deprived of their cartilage, and the exposed osseous tissue is worn away, but at the margins of these surfaces the cartilage is much thickened, and the ends of the bones are irregularly enlarged by osteophytes. The capsule of the joint is dilated and thickened by large deposits of bony and of calcareous material; its inner surface is beset with polypoid outgrowths of the synovial membrane. These pedunculated bodies may be very abundant, and occupy much of the cavity of the joint. There is often a coincident production of new bone upon the adjacent part of the shaft, either in the form of exostoses or as a general thickening of the dia- physis by an osteoplastic periostitis. The attachments of the tendons, ligaments, and fascise near the joint are liable to become ossified. In syringomyelia, as in tabes, the bones exhibit a predisposition to spontaneous fracture, and when such fractures are intracapsular the dis- placement of the fragments may cause great deformity of the joint. The atrophic variety of syringomyelia is distinguished by rarefaction of the cancellous tissue and very extensive de- struction of the ends of the bones. Thus the glenoid cavity and the neck of the scapula are gradually removed, the head of the humerus is worn away, and the atrophied upper end of the shaft plays upon the stump of the coracoid pro- cess. In this manner the humerus may be reduced several inclies in length. The affected bones are exceptionally smooth and light from wasting, yet the tendency to ossification in tlie neighbouring muscles may still exist. Bymptoms.—The first indication of the dis- ease is often a sudden, rapid, and almost pain- less effusion into the cavity of the joint, but without redness or heat. Three-quarters of the patients are men. The swelling usually sub- sides at first under treatment, but the attacks recur, and the capsule becomes in time so much relaxed that the shoulder may be dislocated. These signs are associated with marked impair- ment of sensations of pain, heat, and cold, though the tactile sense, the muscular sense, and the special senses are unaltered. Muscular atrophy commencing in the small muscles of the hand may extend until it involves the shoulder and trunk. Trophic lesions of the skin, such as bullous eruptions, ulcers, and painless whitlows (Morvan's disease), are not uncommon, whilst the effects of disturbed nutrition upon the finger nails may be very marked. It is not at all unusual, therefore, for the shoulder to suppur- ate in cases of syringomyelia, as a result of septic absorption from the ulcers on the skin. The bones become cai-ious and necrosed, and as the condition is unattended with pain, the patient is said in some cases to have picked out his own sequestra and incised his own "felons." No treatment appears to be of any service ; but the surgeon should bear in mind that the anaesthesia from which the patient suff'ers, re- quires him to take every precaution against accidental injury, for ulcers once formed can- not be cured, and their presence hastens the end. Tabetic arthropathy or Charcot's disease affects the shoulder much less often than the knee, and is at first hardly distinguishable from arthritis deformans. The articular surfaces of the shoulder joint are greatly altered. The glenoid cavity is replaced by a large hollow, boimded above and in front by the acromion and the coracoid processes, and below by a mass of bone springing from the axillary border of the scapula, and apparently produced by calci- fication of the long head of the triceps. The head of the humerus disappears, and the upper end of the bone may be converted into a large club-shaped mass, which is drawn upwards and forwards as in a subcoracoid dislocation. The joint may thus become flail-like, for the capsule is elongated. In other cases spontaneous frac-