116 SEA SICKNESS wretchedness before he acquires his sea legs. It should be mentioned, however, that a few cases are very pei'sistent, the patients becoming seriously ill, and requiring careful nursing and feeding, for days or longer, with iced stimulants. Sea, Ta.ng'le. See Laminaria Tents. Sea. Voyag'eS. — The plea for a sea voyage in therapeutics is a more restricted one than was at one time in vogue. Cases of tuberculosis are now more suitably treated at home under the more healthy hygienic regime of the open-air methods of treatment. Cases of mental weakness, e.g. melancholia and the like, should not be treated by sending the patients on a sea voyage (see " Insanity, Treatment OF," vol. iv.). In other diseases, when a sea voyage may be thought of, the utmost care should be taken to ensure (1) that the quality of the food should be of a kind favourable to the patient; (2) that the sleeping accommoda- tion is all that is desirable; (3) that the pros- pects of the patient having the desired amount of rest and pleasure are fairly good. Seafbrd. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). Seamen. See Colour Vision (Practical Remarks, Seamen, Tests). Seasons. See Diphtheria [Etiology); Epidemiology ; Malaria ; Pneumonia, Clinical {Predisposing Causes, Season); Rheumatism, Acute (Etiology, Predisposing Causes). Sea-Water Baths. See Balneology (Marine Baths). Sebaceous. — Secreting or containing sebum, e.g. sebaceous cysts and sebaceous glands. See Neck, Region op {Cysts and Cystic Tumours); Physiology, Excretions {Skin); Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Sebaceous Glands); Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebace- ous Glands. Sebolith. —A concretion or calculus formed in a sebaceous gland. Seborrhoea. — A disease of the skin characterised by excessive secretion of sebum from the sebaceous glands, the secretion forming crusts or scales or an oily covering for the in- tegument. See Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Seborrhaia). See also Al- opecia {Relation to Seborrhoea); Eczema (Clinical Types, Mycosiform or Seborrhoeic Eczemas); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Integu- mentary System); Psoriasis {Diagnosis); Skin, Bacteriology of {Seborrhoea oleosa); Skin, Parasites {Tinea Tons^irans, Differential Diag- nosis); Warts {Verrucce Seniles or Seborrhoeic Warts). Sebum.—The oily secretion of sebaceous glands. See Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Sebaceous Glands). Secale Cornutum. >S'ee Ergot. Seclusion.—A method of treatment of insanity in which the patient is placed in a padded room; both this method and that by mechanical restraint {e.g. the strait-waistcoat) are now much less often employed. See Insan- ity, General Treatment of {Restraint). Second Intention. ^See Wounds (^e- pair. Healing by Granulation). Secondary.—Following upon the first of anything, e.g. secondary action (in Pharmaco- logy), secondary amputation, secondary contrac- ture, secondary hcemorrhage, secondary syphilis, etc. Secretin.—A material which forms in the epithelium of the intestine under the action of an acid, which, being absorbed and carried in the circulation to the pancreas, causes it to secrete. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Pancreatic Secretion). Secretion. — The physiological act of forming from the blood a substance which either passes from the gland (in which it is elaborated) and is " thrown out upon the external or internal surface of the body," or is absorbed into the blood {internal secretions or hormones). See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Pancreatic, Intestinal, and Hepatic Secretions); Physiology, Internal Secretions or Hormones ; Pancreas, Physiology of Pituitary Body ; Puerperium, Physiology {Lactation); etc. SectiO.—A section or dissection ; e.g. sectio abdominalis (laparotomy), sectio cadaveris (a post-mortem examination or necropsy), sectio ccesarea (Caesarean section), sectio lateralis (the lateral operation of lithotomy), etc. Section.—The act of cutting or the material cut {e.g. microscopic sections). See also Sectio. Secundines.—The placenta, membranes (chorion and amnion), and the umbilical cord, which are expelled after the birth of the child. See Labour, Stages and Duration {Third Stage); Labour, Management of {Third Stage). Secundipara. — A woman who has borne two children, or who is going through her second confinement. Secundum Artem. — Literally, "according to art," a term used in prescription- writing, and represented by the contraction S.A. or sec. art. See Prescribing {Table I., Contractions).