403 STOMATITIS are on record in which it has been found in the small intestine and in the csecum, so that the popular idea of thrush " going through" the child has some basis in fact; but the redness about the buttocks which usually gives rise to this expression is due in almost all cases to the irritating ffeces resulting from the associated gastro-intestinal disturbance, and not to thrush. It is said, however, that in rare cases thrush has occurred on the mucous membrane of the anus and genitals : the writer has never met with it either here or in the intestine. Thrush seldom lasts more than a few days if actively treated, and is of little importance per se, unless it interferes with the taking of food in the case of a feeble infant. In the very rare cases in which it spreads down the oesophagus it has been known to interfere with deglutition (vide Gastro-Intbstinal Disorders of Infancy, vol. iii.). Treatment.—-The mouth should be wiped out carefully after every feed with a soft piece of rag dipped in glycerin of borax, or the mel boracis may be smeared over the affected part. In some cases a spray may be more convenient, and a solution of sodium benzoate or of borax (gr. XV. to sj.) or sodium sulphite (5ss. to 5j.) should be used. Great care must be taken to keep all teats and bottles which are used for feeding scrupu- lously clean, and it is advisable also to have the mother's nipples washed carefully with some boracic acid lotion after each suckling, as there is some risk of making these sore otherwise, and some observers have thought that the mother's nipple may become infected by the thrush parasite. It is important to improve the child's con- dition by appropriate treatment of the diarrhoea or other disorder which may have predisposed to the thrush, and in some cases, both in infants and in older children, the appearance of thrush may be an indication for the use of stimulants. StomSltO-.—In compound words stomato- (Gr. (TTOjxa, the mouth) means relating to the mouth ; e.g. stoniatomycosis (a parasitic disease of the mouth), stomatonecrosis (cancrum oris), and stomatoplasty (plastic surgery of the mouth). Stomatodaeum or Stomo- dasum.—In Embryology this term is applied to the primitive mouth ; about the fifteenth day the foregut opens into it (through the disap- pearance of the bucco-pharyngeal membrane), and the anterior opening of the alimentary canal is thus formed. StomOCephal US. — A teratological type in which there is cyclopia along with smallness of the lower jaw and mouth and the presence of a buccal proboscis. Stone. See Bladder, Injuries and Dis- eases of {Calculus Vesicce); Children, Clinical Examination of (Urinary System) ; Gall- bladder AND Bile-Ducts, Diseases of (Chole- lithiasis) ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Pyelitis, Stone in the Kidney and Ureter); Lachrymal Apparatus, Diseases of (Excretory Apparatus, Calculi) ; Lungs, Pneumonokoni- osis (Stonemason's Lung) ; Nose, Foreign Bodies (Rhinoliths); Pancreas, Diseases of (Pancreatic Lithiasis); Penis, Surgical Affec- tions OF (Preputial Calculi); Prostate Gland (Prostatic Concretions); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of (Scrotal Calculi); Urethra, Dis- eases OF (Calculi) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in (Urinary Calculi) ; Vbsicul^ Seminales (Calculi). Stools.—Intestinal Sand. See also Abdomen, Injuries of (Symptoms, Blood in the Stools); Beriberi (Symptoms); Black- water Fever (Symptoms); Cholera, Epidemic ; Cholera Nostras ; Diarrhoea ; F/Eces and Cross References; Gastro-Intestinal Disorders OF Infancy (Diarrhoea); H^matemesis ; In- testines, Diseases of ; Intestines, Surgical Affections of ; Jaundice (Obstructive, Signs of), Liver, Diseases of (Acute Yellow Atrophy, Symp- toms) ; Liver, Acute Hepatitis ; Helena ; Mesenteric Glands (Tuberculosis) ; Sprue (Clinical Features); Sprue (Hill Diarrhoea); Typhoid Fever (Etiology, Symptoms). This article deals solely with the subject of enterolithiasis. Other facts relating to the stools are dealt with in the article " Faeces," vol. iii., p. 241. Enterolithiasis may be defined as the forma- tion of concretions within the lumen of the in- testine. A distinction must be drawn between true enterolithiasis and pseudo-enterolithiasis. In the latter condition, hard, scybalous, dried-up faecal masses, gall-stones, or substances which, having been ingested, have remained undigested, are present within the intestine and are passed per rectum. The true intestinal concretions are usually of small size, like sand or gravel, so that the terms intestinal sand and intestinal gravel appropriately designate the condition. The formation of larger concretions—intestinal stones or enteroliths—is of still less frequent occurrence. Intestinal Sand and Gravel (Sable intestinal, Gravier intestinal; Darmsand, Darmgries).— This condition is one of considerable rarity, and there is consequently but little literature on the subject. Attention was first directed to the condition by Laboulbene in 1873. He recorded 6 cases. In the majority of these the said particles consisted of a nucleus of undigested vegetable cells, around which there was inorganic material, mainly lime salts. In 1896 Mongour recorded the case of a young woman who passed in the stools yellowish-white calculi, varying in