435 SUPPURATION the fluid of the abscess cavity; a few are still to be seen outside in the tissues. Between four and five days after inoculation the relation of the micrococci to the other components of the abscess remains practically the same, but much more clearly defined. The sinuous cloud of micrococci around the marein is more distinct; instead of being chiefly among leucocytes, it is now in an abscess wall, which is mainly formed from the connective tissue of the part {see Fig. 1). In this wall leucocytes also abound. Many more micrococci have become incorporated in cells. Such apparently is the permanent disposition of the micro- organisms in the abscess. Hence seven days after inoculation this relationship remains un- changed. The cell-incorporation of micrococci 6 Fig. 1.—This section of an abscess is under low power: on tile right, b is the abscess cavity ; on the left, c is the abscess wall, in which is seen the collected staphylococci in the form of a sinuous cloud. This abscess is seven days after inoculation. has become more marked, but still a large proportion of the micrococci are free in the pus cavity. It is extremely difficult to demonstrate any cocci outside the now much-thickened wall. At this point it is important to bear in mind the possible and probable behaviour of some of the micro-organisms immediately after sub- cutaneous inoculation, and hence days before the local effects result in the formation of an acute circumscribed abscess. In proof of this possibility the writer has frequently observed that in animals killed five minutes after they had been subcutaneously inoculated with a dose sufficient to induce an acute circumscribed abscess, the livers and spleens contained some of the micro-organisms inoculated. In most of the control animals inoculated with the same dose an acute abscess resulted. The presence of these micro-organisms, and the fact that they do no apparent harm, show the importance of recognising the value of the factors that regulate infection immediately upon inoculation. In the case of these generalised micro-organisms being highly virident, death would ensue before an abscess had time to form at the seat of inoculation. (Concerning the knowledge of the products of micro-organisms, see under " Micro-organ- isms," vol. vi.) II. The pus most commonly seen flowing from an acute circumscribed abscess is a thick, opaque fluid, white tinged with j^ellow, fatty or greasy to the touch, possessing a peculiar animal odour, and an alkaline reaction (sometimes acid in bone abscesses). It has a specific gravity of 1030, and patients whose abscesses have communicated with the mouth say it has an insipid, sweetish taste. This is the so-called " laudable pus." Pus is not always " laudable " ; it may be thin and translucent ("ichorous"), or bloody ("sanious"). Flakes of coagulated material and dead tissue may be suspended in the fluid. The yellow colour of pus is ascribed to the fatty degeneration of the leucocytes and to the pigment of staphylococcus pyogenes aureus ; when white it is ascribed to staphylo- coccus pyogenes albus. Sometimes pus is blue, this tint being due to the presence of bacillus pyocyaneus. The colour depends not only upon the micro-organism present and the fatty de- generation of the leucocytes, but also upon the tissue in which it develops. The pus of bone, for example, is often of grey leaden colour. The pus of a liver abscess is often chocolate or brownish from mixture with the bile pigment. The odour of the pus varies. An acute ab- scess contiguous to the intestinal wall is often most offensive ; if connected with the urethra it is often ammoniacal. By some the bacillus coli communis is supposed to be the chief cause of offensive smell, but this theory practically ignores the fact that this micro-organism may exist in purity in many odourless abscesses. The odour is often due to an infection mixed with non-pathogenic micro-organisms of putre- faction. Gas may be present in pus as a direct product of micro-organisms, or owing to the abscess com- municating with the respiratory or alimentary or genito-urinary tract. The above variations of colour, reaction, smell, and so forth are supposed by some surgeons to be of value in the diagnosis and prognosis of the case. Thus "laudable " pus is supposed to indicate a good prognosis. It would be of ad- vantage to be able to give weight to these characteristics, but implicit trust must not be placed in them. The evidence upon which to found a prognosis is bacteriological. The fact that an acute abscess is provoked by staphylo- cocci is a better foundation for saying that it is likely to end in complete recovery, than a prognosis to the same eff"ect based upon the