SCLERODERMIA 73 sclerodermia in bands. These may be multiple, and when numerous occupy considerable areas of the body; they seem to be frequently seg- mental in their distribution, or in some cases to follow the distribution of individual cutaneous nerves. Thus the position which is not un- commonly occupied by this band-like structure is the distribution of the supraorbital branch of the fifth nerve, commencing narrowly near the supraorbital notch, and extending back- wards fan-like over the forehead and vertex. In such cases little patches of sclerodermia may also be noted on parts of the face supplied by other branches of the fifth cranial nerve. On the trunk the bands pursue a course parallel to the ribs, and when multiple a peculiar striped appearance is imparted, owing to the alter- nating bands of sclerodermic and normal skin. When much disturbance of pigmentation is present the appearance of the patient then becomes very striking. At first the bands of sclerodermia are often raised, in the so-called indurated stage of the disease, they become depressed later producing compression of the underlying structures, as if a strap were firmly passed across them. This becomes especially noticeable when the band of sclerodermia passes over soft structures, as, for instance, the breast. In spite of the striking alteration in the appear- ance of the skin, sensibility is only slightly, if at all, disturbed; not unfrequently the sweat and sebaceous glands retain a certain amount of activity, though, as a rule, this is much impaired. Patulous orifices of the sebaceous follicles are in certain cases the only disturb- ance of the glossy smoothness presented by the altered skin. The progress of the disease is slow, and after the lesion is well formed it usually remains stationary for a long period, probably for years. It may then slowly disappear, the skin regaining much of its normal appearance; but in other cases gradual atrophy develops with permanent destruction of the skin. In some cases retro- gression of the diseased areas may take place in one or two years. In the majority of instances the disease is of much longer duration, and patches may make their appearance, and in turn disappear during ten years or more, while in others the skin becomes permanently atrophied. In certain cases, especially when the sclero- dermia is of long duration, degenerative changes make their appearance. Occasionally ulceration of intractable character occurs on the sclero- dermic areas, and keratoma and other epithelial degenerations have been observed. The histological changes affect the corium mainly. Its connective - tissue bundles are hypertrophied, producing an aspect of great condensation of the cutis, without noticeable proliferation of connective - tissue cells except in certain positions. The upper layers of the cutis are especially affected, and the papillae more or less flattened, while the sweat and sebaceous glands and ducts are compressed and even atrophied if the condensation passes deep into the cutis. Groups of new connective- tissue cells are seen surrounding the skin appendages, and in certain other situations, especially surrounding the small blood-vessels. These vessels, as well as the lymphatic channels, are much narrower, but no signs of true obliterative endarteritis are noted. Surrounding the diseased area the blood and lymph vessels are usually wider than normal. The epithelium may show pigmentation and may be thinned, but otherwise shows little change. The altera- tions described make their appearance in both types of the disease. The etiology of the condition is unexplained. It occurs in women much more frequently than in men, and may appear at a very early age, though apparently not in infancy. The majority of cases presenting themselves occur in adol- escents or young adults. There can be little doubt that many of the patients showing the disease are of nervous disposition, but whether this is associated with the cause or is simply an effect of the malady is difficult to determine. Depressing influences seem to have less effect in producing the circumscribed variety of the disease than in the case of the diffuse symmetri- cal type. Its relation to nerve distribution, especially in the band-like variety, which has frequently a typical zosteriform outline, is very suggestive, and has frequently been remarked by clinical observers; but no definite nerve lesion, such as in the case of herpes zoster, has yet been recognised in cases of zosteriform morphoea. Treatment has very little effect in modifying the cause of an attack of morphoea. General measures to sustain nutrition and to keep the patient in " good condition " should be taken. In some cases regular and gentle massage of the patch of sclerodermia, using a bland oil for the purpose, appears to hasten the resolution of the induration, and to make the skin more pliable, and should certainly be tried. Galvan- ism and electrolysis have been made use of, but without sufficient success to justify their employment except under very exceptional circumstances. Scleroedeiina,. See Sclerema Neona- torum. SclerOgenOUS.—Causing hardening, or the production of firm tissue. Scleroma,. See Sclerema Neonatorum ; Scleroderma. See also Larynx, Chronic In- fective Diseases {Scleroma of the Larynx). Scleronychia.. See Nails, Affections op the [Scleronychia).