STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 364 lates, uric acid; albuminuria; glycosuria; aromatic sulphates. Among the most frequent results of diseases of the stomach, or other organs of digestion, and of disorders of the functions performed by them, ai-e a general malnutrition, as seen in the wasting and emaciation which so frequently follows on these maladies, and a deteriorated resisting power on the part of the tissues, rendering them more susceptible to infections {e.g. tuberculosis) or other causes of disease. Of the interference with digestion by the inadequate absorption of digesta from the stomach, or by the presence of substances excreted into the viscus, as may be the ex- planation of "gouty dyspepsia," very little is known; but it is not improbable that either condition occiu's independently of the other and commoner causes of indigestion. Such are the manifestations of gastric disease and of gastric dyspepsia considered generally. Covering as they do so wide a range of character, their investigation becomes difficult so far as their reference to cause and diagnostic value are concerned, from the fact that many totally different conditions give rise to similar symp- toms. Groups of these occurring in association with tolerable uniformity constitute the several varieties of indigestion which have been quali- fied by such terms as "irritative," "atonic," "flatulent," "bilious," etc.—names which it is now better to discard, as a more precise path- ology has shown their inaccuracy. Far less open to objection is a classification based on the site of the digestive perversion, whether oral, gastric, duodenal, or intestinal, although the data for such a grouping are still very deficient. From another aspect the forms of dyspepsia may be arranged according to the particular element of the food which is ill- digested—proteid, fat, or carbohydrate. But probably the most satisfactory basis is that of causation, which would give the following forms: (i.) Dietetic; (ii.) Symptomatic, i.e. the manifestation of primary affections of the digestive organs — structural, nervous, and vascular ; (iii.) Bacterial indigestion ; and those rarer conditions due, it may be presumed, to (iv.) Defective absorption of the digesta, and to (v.) Improper excretory processes taking place in the gastro-intestinal canal. Restrict- ing attention, however, to the stomach and duodenum, it suffices to repeat that symptoms distinctly referable to these organs are due— (1) either to structural diseases of those viscera, or (2) to abnormal digestive changes taking place in their contents, and that these last may be the result of (a) structural defects, or (6) may be the consequence of dietetic errors, or (c) of some impaired nervous control of the function without any recognisable lesion in the organs concerned, a true nervous dyspepsia. But although these three fundamental forms— symptomatic of structural disease, dietetic and nervous—may each occur in many varieties, yet the continuance of the second and third is likely to bring about from the irritation pro- duced some change (catarrhal or other) in the mucous membrane, which intensifies the primary fault. Special Symptomatology and Treatment of Gastric Neuroses Included within this term are those disturb- ances of gastric function for which no structural cause is to be found in the organ itself, and attributed to perverted nervous influence, whether this be due to gross change in the nerve centres, such as tabes dorsalis, cerebral tumour, meningitis, etc., or to general states of these centres for which no anatomical sub- stratum has as yet been discovered, such as hysteria and neurasthenia, or that still more indeterminate condition known as the " nervous temperament." By far the greater number of cases are referable to these last-named causes, whether they have been inherited, as is more usual, or have been acquired as the result of excesses in living, of nervous exhaustion, of chlorosis, of gout, of previous illnesses like influenza, or of other circumstances. Not a few may be traced to causes acting reflexly, especially pelvic disease, ovarian, uterine, or rectal, and even, it has been asserted, to eye- strain and astigmatism. The influence of the nervous system is exerted on the sensory, motor, and secretory functions of the stomach, and perversions of each of these are met with singly or in combination. Whilst some are quite independent of morbid changes in the organ, some are also met with in associa- tion with very distinct lesions, but no appreci- able difference is to be detected in the symptoms in these two groups of disease. Secretory.—Although the anatomical connec- tion between the nervous system and the gastric glands is as yet imperfectly known, the control exerted is undoubted. Under normal circum- stances it may be aflirmed that the gastric juice is only secreted under the stimulation of food, or immediately pi-eceding its ingestion when mastication is about to commence, and that in the intervals between gastric digestion, except for any mucus or swallowed saliva, the stomach is empty, and, also, it would appear that the presence of the gastric secretion in an empty stomach is productive of pain or discomfort of some kind. Further, it seems to be very probable that the quantity and quality of the gastric juice are very considerably influenced by the mental or emotional state of the individual, and possibly the existence of pain may act similarly. Thus it may be that food that departs widely from physiological digestibility may be taken with impunity by a dyspeptic under pleasurable sui-roundings, whilst a per-.