44 SCARLET FEVER about the nineteenth day, disappearing in a few days, or as the fever subsides. The persistence of albuminuria for a month or six weeks consti- tutes a very unfavourable symptom. (xiv.) Respiratory System. — Where chest symptoms suddenly present themselves during scarlet fever, it is not the lung that suffers, but the serous membranes of the pleura and the pericardium — except when acute nephritis occurs, in which case pulmonary oedema is to be expected, and is an ominous symptom. (xv.) Generative System.—There is also, at times, a mucopurulent discharge from the vagina, which, during its continuance, may be a source of infection, and should be watched for. VII. Varieties.—For convenience of descrip- tion, and without assigning any fixed lines of demarcation, we may distinguish these varieties, and divide them into the following classes :— (i.) Scarlatina Simplex.—The cases included here are those which are attended by slight sore throat; a characteristic eruption ; an in- crease of temperature, perhaps reaching 102° F.; and a quickened pulse, of 120 to 130. The fever reaches its height on the third or fourth day, and the entire illness is comprised within about a week, without complications. (ii.) Scarlatina Ariginosa.—This mostly affects young children. It is attended by an ulcera- tion, commencing in the tonsils, which extends and destroys the neighbouring tissues, with symptoms of septicsemia. An intense eruption accompanies it, which becomes dusky, or even hfEmorrhagic. The temperature attains 104° F. or upwards. The pulse becomes very rapid, 150 or 160, and irregular. These symptoms continue into the second week, attended with delirium, insomnia, and anorexia. Unless improvement here supervenes the disease proceeds into the third week, ac- companied by diarrhoea, sweating, pulmonary symptoms, and death. (iii.) Scarlatina Maligna.—The severity of these cases results from the production by the toxin of acute poisoning in the blood, which is followed by death within twenty-four or forty- eight hours, before even local manifestations have had time to arise. The absence of symp- toms, together with the rapidly fatal result, may give rise to suspicion of the action of an external poison. There may be no rash, no local affection of the fauces, but the intensest fever, 106° F. or upwards, with an uncountable pulse. Sometimes the nervous depression is so profound that the temperature is subnormal. In less severe cases of an adynamic type the rash and throat are evident, and the patient may live for two or three days longer. (iv.) Scarlatina sine Eruptione.—-These are abortive attacks of scarlet fever characterised by their mildness and the complete absence of certain symptoms, such as the rash in some instances, and in others the throat signs. In scarlatina sine eruptione there is occasionally found a well-marked and extensive desquamation. (v.) Scarlatina sine Anginosa.—In this form rheumatism, kidney disease, parotitis, and in- filtration of the cervical connective tissue may even occur. (vi.) Surgical scarlet fever ensuing upon wounds, however caused, is generally of a mild (vii.) P^ierperal scarlet fever, arising immedi- ately before or after parturition, usually pre- sents a form which causes grave anxiety by reason of its fatality, with septicsemic symptoms. At anterior stages the pregnant woman is not more affected by scarlet fever than persons generally. VIII. Stages.—(i.) The Period of Incubation. —If one fact be more certain than another in medicine, it is the limitation of the incubation period of scarlet fever to seven days. In cases where the term is stated to exceed this limit the accurate source of infection has been mis- taken, or the cases belong to the class of disease which I have designated a "Fourth disease," and which it is exceedingly difficult to differ- entiate from scarlet fever. It is undoubtedly the fact that in occasional instances the period of incubation is less than twenty-four hours ; but the greatest number of patients exhibit the disease on the third day, many on the second or fourth, a few on the fifth, while its occurrence on the sixth is ex- tremel}' rare. It may be regarded, therefore, as final doctrine that the incubation period of scarlet fever never extends beyond a week, and rarely lasts so long. But in estimating the period of incubation it must be remembered that during a time when scarlet fever is prev- alent the common sore throats of colds, or cases of simple tonsillitis, occurring in those who have suffered from scarlet fever, are capable of conveying scarlet fever to an individual who has not already been affected. If the patient has been previously attacked these sore throats are regarded as non-infectious, and the sufferers consequently are not isolated, as they should at once be, for three or four days. The inter- pretation of these cases appears to be this:— There are always a certain number of young people in every community who have tonsillitis several times in the course of the year; and even when they do not suffer from an acute attack, the tonsils are chronically enlarged and full of accumidated secretion, in which the scarlet fever bacillus finds a suitable nidus for development; while, accordingly, the sufferers are themselves protected, the bacilli are able to fertilise and infect the unprotected. I believe that precisely the same process takes place in the causation of " return " cases of scarlet fever. Fresh cases of infection are mixed with con- valescents whose throats, not yet restored to a normal condition, provide the congenial soil