182 SKIN—TUBERCULOSIS succession. In the case of children the element of pain must be specially taken into considera- tion. It is obviously absurd to expect a child to put up with the constant boring pain of salicylic acid and some of the other preparations, and in children, speaking generally, the best application is carbolic acid. The pain is severe for the moment, but rapidly vanishes, and even though it may not be the most suitable application to the form of the disease, the fact that there is a patient behind the disease, as Mr. Morris sagely remarks, must never be forgotten. Lupus of the mucous membranes is best treated by the application of strong lactic acid, the part being painted daily, or less frequently if the pain experienced is very severe. Improve- ment is usually obvious and rapid. Photo-therapy.—The two methods of photo- therapy are not very easily compared with the older methods of treatment. In the first place, they involve an apparatus of considerable expense, and are therefore only likely to be used by those who have a considerable number of cases to treat. The one which has been most largely used is the X-ray method. The dermatitis set up by exposure to the rays soon became familiar, and it was to this irritative effect that the benefit which resulted was originally ascribed. Experi- ence, however, has shown that, over and above their irritant effects, the rays have a directly curative influence. Often enough iinder their use, without any evidence of irritation, beyond it may be a greater tendency to scaling, im- provement steadily goes on. The catarrhal complications vanish. The skin becomes smooth, and the nodules diminish in number until each one may be identified. While the rays may be used in any case of lupus, the unaffected parts being protected by lead-foil, they are of special value in wide- spread cases, for their effects reach far beyond the area of skin directly exposed to them. In circumscribed patches, where the healthy sur- rounding parts are covered with lead-foil, no great harm is done if irritation is produced, and such cases may be exposed for five minutes daily until the case is cured. If the reaction is excessive, then an interval of rest is desirable. In widespread cases, such as those affecting the whole face, greater caution is essential. The patient should be exposed, once only, for ten minutes to the rays, and several days should then be allowed to elapse so as to gauge the susceptibility of the individual. If there is no reaction, then daily exposures may be com- menced. If there is reaction, then the intervals between the exposures must be lengthened, and the time of exposure shortened. In extensive cases affecting half or the whole of the face, no method of treatment can ap- proach the X-rays in their efficiency. The other (Finsen's) method of treatment, the application of concentrated light, is more tedious, and was until recently enormously more expensive—so expensive as to place it beyond the reach of any but wealthy hospitals. Recently, many new and practical modifications of the method have been introduced, and now a working Finsen apparatus can be procured at a cost less than that of a good coil. It consists of a small arc lamp surrounded by a water- jacket. The apparatus is very rigidly mounted, and the patient leans heavily against the lens, through which are focussed the rays on the part which it is intended to treat. The object of this pressure is to dispel the hypereemia of the part, for the rays only penetrate red with difficulty. With this modified apparatus exposures of a quarter of an hour's duration produce a re- action over an area four times the size in a quarter of the time requisite in Finsen's original apparatus, in which the lenses were very small. On the next day a blister appears upon the sur- face, which may be dressed with any simple ointment, and allowed to heal up while other parts are being attacked. In this way the whole affected surface is gone over, over and over again, from five to eight times circuits being usually necessary to complete a cure. Both these methods are followed by ex- tremely satisfactory scars—scars infinitely su- perior to those produced by any other method of treatment. Their use does not prevent the simultaneous application of other remedies, and particularly, when the nodules are greatly reduced in number, they may be individually destroyed more easily and more rapidly by some of the simpler m-ethods already referred to. Internal Treatment.—-There is no specific for lupus any more than for tuberculosis in general. The only medicine which seems to have any effect on the disease is cod-liver oil, which, by improving the general condition of the patient, enables him more successfully to com- bat the ravages of the bacillus. Thyroid has already been alluded to. It certainly dissipates the catarrhal products, but has little further influence. Creasote, arsenic, chloride of cal- cium, and other drugs which have been at one time or another recommended in the disease have but little influence. There are one or two other forms of tuber- culosis of the skin which are not included under " Lupus." Scrofuloderma is the term used to describe those cases of tuberculosis of the skin where the infection proceeds from a tuberculous focus beneath. Thus it is most common over broken- down tuberculous glands, and in the neighbour- hood of fistulse from tuberculous bones. The appearances are familiar enough. The red- dened skin, often with a bluish tinge, the thin