316 SPOON Spoon. See Prescribing (Weights and Measures); Metric System. Spoon Curette. See Curettage (In- struments). Spoon-Nails. See Nails, Affections OF (Alterations in Cihrvature, Koilonychia). Sporadic.—Occurring in a separate or isolated manner, especially in reference to dis- eases which are generally epidemic (Gr. a-rropds, scattered); e.g. sporadic cholera, sporadic plague, etc. See Epidemiology (Sporadic Diseases) ; Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal (Sporadic Form); Mental Deficiency (Sporadic Cretins). Sporang'ium. See Micro-Organisms (Hyphomycetes, Asexual Reproduction). Spore. — A seed or reproductive body, especially of bacteria and other low vegetable forms. See Micro-Organisms (Reproduction). Sporo.—In compound words sporo- (Gr. a-TTopd, a sowing) means relating to seeds or spores ; e.g. sporoblast (a spindle-shaped cell de- rived from a zygote, as in the malaria organism), sporocyst (mother-cell of a spore), sporocyte (later stage in the development of a sporoblast, e.g. in the malaria organism), sporozoa (parasitic pro- tozoa), sporozoids (sporoblasts set free from the the zygote), etc. Sporozoa. See Leucocyth.emia (Caiisa- tion and Pathology, Sp>orozoa), Parasites (Pro- tozoa). Spot.—A small area of the skin or other part differing in colour from the surrounding- surface; a macula or spilus. In the eye there is the hlind spot (where the optic nerve enters the retina) ; there is the germinal spot in the ovum; there is the macula lutea or yellow spot of the retina (area of clearest vision); and there are post-mortem spots on the pericardium known as milk-sjyots. Spot Culture.—The cultivation of ty- phoid bacilli from the blood got from the rose spots characteristic of that fever. Spotted Fever. — Epidemic cerebro- spinal meningitis, or, sometimes, typhus fever. See Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal (Sym- ptoms, Shin Lesions); Typhus Fever (Period of Advance, Rash). Spotted Sickness.—^See Pinta. Sprains. See Ankle-Joint, Eegion OF, Injuries (Sprains); First Aid ; Hip - Joint, Injuries of (Sprained Hip); Knbe-Joint, In- juries OF (Sp>7-ains); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of (Sprains). Spraying'. See Disinfection (Room, Throat, Carbolic Spray, etc.). Sprays. See Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations (Laryngitis, Treatment); Nose, Acute Inflammation (Local Treatment); Pre- scribing and Methods of Administering Drugs (By Mucous Membranes, Sprays). Spring" Catarrh. See Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Spring Catarrh). Spring Finger. See Deformities (Ac- qivired. Jerk- or Snap-Finger^ Spring Water. See Water (Sources). Sprue. Geographical Distribution . . . 316 Etiology . . . . . .316 Clinical Features. .... 317 Treatment . . . . .319 Hill Diarrhcea ..... 320 See also Nose, Diseases of Nasal Orifices AND Septum (Affections of Septum, Ulcerations). Synonyms.—Psilosis linguce (Thin); Ceylon swe mouth; Tropical aphthae; Chronic tropical diarrhoea ; White flux; Aphthaco-gastro- enteritis tropica; Seriawan (Malay). Definition. — Sprue is characterised by a chronic catarrhal condition of the alimentary canal from the mouth to the anus, accompanied by tender- ness of the tongue, throat, and gullet, aphthae of the tongue and gums, diarrhoea of a special character, and a gradual atony and physiological incompetency of the organs and fluids of diges- tion. During the course of the disease there are fluctuations of improvement and relapses, which may end in recovery, or in ansemia and fatal exhaustion. Geographical Distribution.—Sprue seems to be endemic in India, Ceylon, the Malay Peninsula, the Malay Archipelago, Annam and Tonquin, the Antilles, the coast and river ports of China, and in some of the ports of Japan. Hillary described an affection resembling sprue in Barbados in 1776. The disease is mostly met with amongst white people in these countries, although natives are not exempt. The question as to whether the disease occurs in Japan is no longer doubtful, the writer having recently met with the disease in Europeans who have long been resident there. Etiology.—The immediate cause of sprue is not known. Confined as it is to tropical and subtropical countries, it would appear that heat and moisture have a direct influence in its pro- duction, but the absence of the disease from countries with similar climate other than those mentioned above, would appear to imply the action and presence of some other factor. Many attempts have been made to discover the cause, the mode of investigation being mostly examina- tion of the stools of persons suffering from sprue; no conclusive evidence has, however, been