74 SCLEROSIS Sclerosis.—The induration or hardening of an organ, part, or tissue, due specially to the increase in it of connective tissue; e.g. sclerosis of the spinal cord, liver, ovaries, arteries, etc. See Ear, Middle, Chronic Non - Suppurative Disease {Atrophic Catarrh); Fallopian Tubes {Salpingitis, Sclerosis of the Tubes); Fascia {Diseases, Duptii/tren's Contraction); General Paralysis {Diagnosis); Heart, Myocardium AND Endocardium {Special Pathology, Affections of the Myocardium); Liver, Diseases of {Cir- rhosis) ; Lungs, Diseases of {Fibrosis, Pneu- monokoniosis); Muscles, Diseases of the {Degeneratiojis); Nephritis {Renal Cirrhosis); Ovaries, Diseases of {Oophoritis, Cirrhosis of the Ovary) ; Paralysis {Primary Lateral Sclei-- osis); Paralysis {Subacute Combined Degenera- tion of the Cord); Paralysis {Disseminated Sclerosis); Syringomyelia {Diagnosis). Sclerosis, Disseminated. See Paralysis {Multiple Sclerosis). Sclerosis, M U It i pie. — Disseminated sclerosis, or " sclerose en plaques." See Par- ALY'SIS. Sclerostoma Duodenale. See Parasites {Nematodes, Strongylidce, Uncinaria Duodenalis). Sclerotic, Diseases of the. Introductory . . . . .74 Episcleritis ...... 74 Sclerotitis . . . . . .75 Injuries ...... 77 Staphyloma 78 The sclerotic forms four-fifths of the outer pro- tective tunic of the eyeball, the remaining fifth being covered by the cornea. Although the two structures differ so widely in outward appearance they are histologically very much alike. Each is composed of interlacing bundles of fibres of connective tissue, but in the former there is less regularity of arrangement, and so the opaque whiteness of the one stands out in striking con- trast to the perfect transparency of the other. There is, however, no sharp line of demarcation between them, for microscopic examination shows clearly that one passes without break into the other. The sclera is thickest behind, and becomes gradually thinner as the cornea is ap- proached, but localised thickenings occur at the insertions of the ocular muscles. Its weakest parts are at the lamina cribrosa, where the fibres of the optic nerve enter the eye, and at the zone round the cornea overlying the canal of Schlemm. The sclerotic is very poorly supplied with both blood-vessels and nerves, but it is in intimate anatomical connection with all the vascular structures of the eyeball. Externally it is closely related to the blood-vessels of the conjunctiva and episcleral tissue, internally to those of the choroid and ciliary body, and by the fibres of the ligamentum pectinatum it is united to the iris. It is traversed also by numerous vessels and nerves which penetrate it to gain access to the interior of the eye, and by the vense vorticoste, as well as by the anterior ciliary veins which pierce it where they emerge on the surface of the globe. Along the course of these blood-vessels and nerves are numerous branched pigment corpuscles, which help to give the structure a bluish colour, and which at times collect and form brownish spots on the white of the eye. When this pigmentation is congenital it usually occupies the circumcorneal region, and has rarely any significance, but when it is pathological it may implicate a considerable area of the sclerotic, and mark the site of a melano-sarcoma of the choroid. The anatomical connections just mentioned have an important bearing on the pathological relation of diseases of the sclerotic, which are usually secondary to those of the cornea and uveal tract. Idiopathic inflammation is rare, but it does occur, attacking the part between the equator and the margin of the cornea. Two forms of inflammation can be distinguished: first, episcleritis, where the changes are limited to the superficial layers; and, second, sclerot- itis, where the middle and deeper layers are involved. In the former the disease causes a good deal of annoyance, but is never serious ; in the latter it is dangerous to sight, owing to complications involving the cornea, iris, ciliary body, and choroid. Episcleritis This disease occurs most frequently in young adults, especially if they have a rheumatic or gouty constitution. It is more frequent among women than among men, a result probably due to changes connected with menstruation. Attacks often occur regularly at the menstrual period, although the eye is, in the interval, to all appearance perfectly well. Episcleritis is characterised by the occurrence on the sclerotic, close to the margin of the cornea, of a circum- scribed elevation of dark red or bluish red colour. This might at first sight be mistaken for a phlycten, but careful examination will show that the infiltration is not in, but beneath, the conjunctiva ; moreover, the inflamed patch is always tender to touch, and there is usually more or less aching pain in the brow. The cornea and iris are unaffected. After a few weeks the general congestion diminishes, and the swelling (which is now more bluish than red, and is traversed by a few enlarged and varicose veins) gradually disappears, though usually for some time longer the underlying sclerotic presents a slate-blue discoloration. Episcleritis shows a marked tendency to recur at the same spot, or at some other part of the eyeball, and it may continue to attack point after point, and only pass off after it has