358 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF Various terms are applied to the several forms, based chiefly upon their gross appearances. Thus scirrhus growths are those in which the fibrous tissue element greatly preponderates, so much so that the cell elements may require careful searching for. Like all forms of malig- nant growth they are most frequent at the pylorus, scarcely if at all extending into the duodenum, and along the lesser curvature, but they also tend to infiltrate the body of the organ, and in extreme cases involve the entire vise us, which is thickened to an extent of half an inch or more, causing an extreme shrinking of the stomach and reduction of its capacity to a few ounces; many cases of cirrhosis ventriculi are doubtless of this nature. The fundus is least often the site of a malignant tumour. In the medullary variety the growth is much softer, grows more rapidly, and forms extensive polypoid exci'escences into the cavity of the stomach. In these the fibrous stroma is at a minimum, and the abundant cells are clustered in groups or assume a distinct tubular arrange- ment not unlike that of the gastric glands, although later, as the tubules become crushed and displaced, this arrangement becomes less obvious. These so-called " cylindrical carcino- mata " pass by insensible gradations into what are known as " adeno carcinomata" or " de- structive carcinomata "—the term "epithelio- mata " being collectively applied to all. With this form there may also be a very considerable infiltration of the stomach walls besides the massive outgrowths. Owing to their physical characters and rate of development it is the medullary cancer which is most prone to ulcerate, and also as a consequence to bleed. Portions of the surface may be seen in a sloughing state, and with the continued formation there is a continued destruction of the growth, even to leaving large ulcerating areas with considerable induration and very thickened edges. The carcinomata that commence at or are confined to the cardiac region are sometimes of the nature of squamous epithelioma, such as are met with in the ojsophagus; others are of the spheroidal variety, such as occur in other parts of the stomach. In this condition the stomach generally atrophies and shrinks, the oesophagus being dilated. These various growths are very liable to undergo a colloid degeneration, both of cells and stroma. To a slight degree it is frequent, but occasionally the change assumes a most ex- tensive character, and gives rise to large alveoli enclosing gelatinous material, which spread to the peritoneum and thence to the abdominal cavity generally. Primary gastric carcinoma starts in the mucosa or submucosa, and later invades the muscular, subserous, and serous layers, together with a leucocytic infiltration, especially in the medul- lary varieties. To what extent a previously deteriorated or damaged state of the constituent epithelial tissues favours its origin is unknown, and in some measure depends on the view taken of the determining cause of the neoplasm, but it is noteworthy that the orifices, especially the pyloric, where the opportunity of friction from the contents is greatest, are the most frequent situations, corresponding in this respect to the growth of cancer elsewhere. Some stress has been laid upon the frequency with which a chronic ulcer, or the scar thereof, may become the seat of a malignant growth; but the re- lationship of these conditions is probably no more than tliat of a damaged surface favouring the development of the new growth, or, on the infective view of the origin of the latter, facili- tating the invasion of the organism. But in reference to this question the clinical fact that cancer of the stomach very often develops in persons who have given no previous evidence of gastric derangement of any kind must be re- membered. When the serous membrane is involved an adhesive peritonitis is set up, some- times to a considerable extent, the gastric growth being inextricably involved in a mass of fibrous tissue by which the surrounding parts are matted together. This is especially so when the neoplasm has originated outside the stomach, as in the gall-bladder. It may be observed that tuberculous lesions have frequently been found in the bodies of persons dying of cancer of the stomach, as previously stated. The lymphatic glands along the lesser curva- ture are involved, and may attain a considerable size : the retroperitoneal, and occasionally the inguinal, supraclaviculai", and maxillary glands may also be enlarged. Secondary growths are more likely to follow on the medullary forms, which are more vascular, and from which particles are more easily detached into the blood or lymph current. Obviously the liver is the commonest seat of such deposits, and less often the lungs. Subcutaneous nodules, especially around the umbilicus, are occasionally seen. Involvement of neighbouring organs— liver, peritoneum, pancreas, colon, etc.—by extension is common, and in this way fistulous communication of the stomach mto the intestines may be established. The duodenum, and more particularly the second part, is an occasional seat of primary carcinoma that accords in general characters and course to similar gastric growths. It is by far the most common situation for malignant tumours of the small intestine, and is frequently involved in extensions of growth from the pancreas or pylorus or gall-ducts. It almost always causes stricture of the gut. As in the stomach, the scar of an ulcer appears to be not infi-equently the starting-point of the new growth. As Dr. RoUeston has pointed out, " carcinoma has a special tendency to arise in the duodenal mucous membrane covering the