464 SYPHILIS dyle of the humerus, are said to be so uniformly enlarged in syphilis as to be almost pathogno- monic if the more ordinary causes can be ex- cluded. The epitrochlear gland is examined by bending the patient's elbow, slightly adducting his arm, and placing the hand outside his arm so that the fingers are inserted into the groove between the biceps and the triceps. The en- largement is not limited to the. superficial glands, for the prevertebral, lumbar, iliac, and femoral glands are often affected, the mesen- teric glands being more rarely involved. This glandular enlargement is wholly independent of any skin or visceral lesion. It remains for an indefinite period, though the glands generally diminish in size when mercury is administered, and the number and position of the glands involved vary in every individual. The patient often presents certain symptoms of malaise in the interval between the appear- ance of the sore and the secondary symptoms, which can only be considered as evidence of a progressive absorption of the syphilitic poison hj the various tissues of the body. These symptoms are often so slight as to constitute little more than a malaise, which might be attributed to the popular dread of the disease if similar symptoms did not occur during the prodromal period of tetanus and hydrophobia, where we know that toxins are being produced in an infected body. The patient complains of a sense of general discomfort, with weakness, lassitude, and disinclination to follow his usual occupations; he may be sleepless, and his appetite fails; his complexion becomes sallow, his skin is pale and dry, and his eyes are dull and heavy-looking. He has " rheumatic " pains in his bones and joints, which are worse at night, and he suffers from neuralgia of the face and scalp, or even of the intercostal and sciatic nerves. The painful joints are sometimes a little swollen by a serous synovitis. These vague symptoms may culminate in a sharp attack of fever, which precedes by a few days the first decided sign of secondary syphilis. The fever which ushei's in the secondary manifestations of syphilis is often considerable, for the temperature may rise to 104° F., being high at night and falling nearly to normal in the morning. It rarely lasts more than three or four days, and it is occasionally distinctly remittent in character. There is a correspond- ing quickening of the pulse, and the respiratory rhythm is accelerated. A faint blush may appear at different parts of the trunk whilst the patient is still feverish, but the blush dis- appears and the temperature falls in many cases as soon as the first rash becomes visible. A remarkable peculiarity of the syphilitic poison is the readiness with which it attacks points of least resistance in each body in much the same manner as does influenza. The full force of the syphilitic inflammation is felt by different tissues in different individuals : thus in one the mucous membranes suffer most; in another the fibrous tissues, so that the bones, joints, and blood-vessels are unduly affected; whilst in another the nervous system, and in yet another the viscera, are more particularly attacked. It is not surprising, therefore, to find that a typhoidal condition, a temporary inflammation of the kidneys, pleurisy, enlarge- ment of the spleen, and many other indications of localised but transient syphilitic inflammation occur during the early periods of secondary syphilis. Affections of the Skin (Cutaneous Syphi- lide).—The afiections of the skin are certainly the most important signs of secondary syphilis, for until they appear it is at present impossible to say that a patient has acquired syphilis. The mucous membranes are implicated simul- taneously with the skin, the lesions being called condylomata or mucous patches. The cutaneous syphilides are either scaly, papular, eczematous, pustular, or bullous, for, as Mr. Jno. Hutchinson has well said, "while syphilis may imitate all forms of skin disease, it can create no originals." The rashes of secondary syphilis, as a rule, only involve the superficial layers, so that they do not often ulcerate, and they have certain features which seem to distinguish them from similar eruptions which are not of syphilitic origin. The secondary syphilitic rashes, like all other manifestations of secondary syphilis, are com- paratively slight, and, unless they are subject to irritation or pyogenic infection, have a ten- dency towards spontaneous cure. They differ in this respect from the tertiary manifestations of syphilis, which ulcerate and show no disposi- tion to undergo resolution. Cutaneous syphilides are remarkable for the slowness with which they develop and run their course. A few spots may appear many days before the general eruption becomes visible, and as the rash is unattended by inflammation or itching, a careless or unobservant patient may be ignorant of its presence. Cutaneous syphilides do not present more than a superficial resemblance to the forms of skin eruption which they mimic. They develop in successive crops, and a close examination of the individual spots forming the rash shows that they are not all alike, so that in one place they are maculse, at another papules, whilst scaly patches may be mingled with pustules. The absence! of active inflammation i-enders the colour of the rash less bright in syphilis than in the ordinary form of skin disease, and the rash is often said, therefore, to be of the colour of lean ham ; for the same reason the eruption stands out markedly in syphilis, as there is no surrounding inflammatory zone, whilst the scales in the desquamating forms are less numerous and more easily detached than in simple