SALICYLIC ACID AND SALICYLATES 23 and less irritating to the stomach. Sodium salicylate is a specific for acute rheumatism. It reUeves the pains, lowers the temperature, and in every way reduces the sufferings of the patient. If given in sufficiently large doses some effect is almost invariably to be noted within the first twenty-four hours. The effect on the joint pains is usually earlier and more marked than that on the temperature, but the antipyretic action is greater than can be ac- counted for solely by the diffuse diaphoresis produced. An average dose to start with in an adult is 20 grains every two hours, and later on the amount must be increased or diminished according to the amelioration of symptoms produced and the evidence of the establishment of a full physiological action (singing in the ears, etc.). It is better tolerated and is less irritating to the stomach if given in combination with sodium bicarbonate. After the tempera- ture has fallen and the swelling and pain of the joints have gone the dose should be gradually diminished, but the administration must be continued for about ten days after the acute attack on account of the tendency to relapse. Cardiac and other sequelae of rheumatic fever are less frequent when the disease has been treated by salicylates. When nervous symp- toms are prominent, and occasionally in other cases, salicylates may entirely fail to produce any effect, but under such circumstances it is wise to carefully reconsider the diagnosis. In gonorrhoeal rheumatism and in arthritis defor- mans salicylates are of no benefit, and in gout their usefulness is questionable. In subacute and in chronic rheumatism their action is vari- able. In tonsillitis of a rheumatic tendency sodium salicylate should always be employed on account of the tendency of such attacks to be followed by acute rheumatism. It is recom- mended strongly by some authorities for cases of pleural effusion. It is said to diminish the excretion of sugar in some cases of diabetes mellitus. Potassium salicylate has no advan- tage over the sodium salt and is not so well tolerated. Various other salicylic salts and preparations are in use, and are described under the different headings. Salicylism.—The toxic effects of sali- cylic acid and the salicylates. See Toxicology. Saline Infusions. See Cholera, Epi- demic {Treatment, Injection of Saline Fluids in Collapse Stage); Eclampsia {Treatment, Saline Solutions); Labour, Post-Partum Hemorrhage {Treatment of Post-Hcemorrhagic Collapse, Saline Infusions); Transfusion {Methods). Saline Purg^atives. See Pharmaco- logy {Inorganic Substances, Saline Purgatives). See also under Magnesia, Potash, Sodium, etc. Saline Solution.— A 0-6 per cent solution of chloride of sodium, also termed normal saline solution. See Saline Infusions for Cross References. Saline Waters. See Mineral Waters {Muriated Salines). Sal ins.—See Balneology {France). Salipyrine.—The salicylate of anti- pyrine (Cj^Hj2N20.C7Hg03), which has been used, in doses of 15 to 30 grains, in neuralgia and rheumatism, and generally as an anti- pyretic. Salisbury Treatment. See Diet {Animal Foods, Meat); Gout {Dietetic Treat- ment, Meat and Hot Water Cure); Invalid Feeding {Meat and Hot Water Diet); Obesity {Dietetic Treatment, Salisbury Cure). Saliva. See Salivary Glands. Salivary Calculi. See Salivary Glands, Diseases of {Inflammations). Salivary Glands, Disorders of. Anatomy ...... 24 Inflammations— Calculous ..... 24 Tuberculous . . . . .25 Syphilitic . . . . .25 Acute Septic or Angina Ludovici . 25 Symptoms . . . .25 Treatment . . . - 25 Xerostomia or Dry Mouth . . 26 Ptyalism or Salivatio7i . . .26 Tumours 26 Ramdce ...... 26 Sublingual Ranula . . . .26 Submental Ranula . . . .27 Congenital Ranula . . . .27 Dermoids . . . . .27 Adenomata . . . . .27 Chondromata ..... 27 Malignant tumours . . . .27 See also Cheek, Fissure of {SymptoTuatology, Salivary Dribbling) ; Children, Development of {Symptoyns of Teething, Salivation) ; Diabetes Mellitus {Symptoms in Alimentary Canal, Saliva); Digestion and Metabolism {Salivary Digestion); Hysteria {Disorders of Secretion, Salivation); Mouth, Injuries and I)iseases of the Jaw {Fracture of Mandible, Symptoms) ; Mumps {Symptoms); Nerves, Neuralgia {Symp- toms, Salivation); Pancreas, Physiology of {Excision of Salivary Glands) ; Parotid Gland, Disorders of ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Digestion in the Mouth); Pneumonia, Bacteri- ology of {Pneumococci in Saliva); Pregnancy, Diagnosis of {Symptoms, Increased Salivation); Stomatitis {Symptoms of Aphthous Variety); Syphilis {Treatment of Secondary Syphilis, Sali- vation) ; Teeth {Dental Caries, Condition of