THERAPEUTICS: HEALTH RESORTS 584 a desirable place for invalids, but Wynberg and Sea Point are both very good. But it is the climate of the high upland plateau, known as the Karroo, which is specially beneficial to invalids, and here there are many places which in the future should become important sanatoria, and already have con- siderable reputation. One of the first to be reached is Matjesfontein, at an elevation of 3588 feet and about 200 miles from Cape Town. The climate is very dry and bi'acing, with a rainfall of only 5'5 inches, and almost perpetual sunshine. These qualities are characteristic of the Great Karroo, which has an average eleva- tion of 3000 feet, but witii mountains rising up to 7000 feet. The summer heat is consider- able, but is easily borne owing to the fine air, while the nights are always cool. Beaufort West and Graaff Reinet are both good spots in this district. In the eastern provinces Grahamstown, 1750 feet, Craddock, 2856 feet, and Tarkasted, 4280 feet, are all beneficial to different classes of cases. Queenstown, Molteno, near the Stormberg Range, 3544 feet, and Burghersdorp, 4550 feet, 30 miles north, are both attractive places with fine climates. Aliwal North, 4330 feet above the Orange River, is well known, not only on account of its climate, but for its mineral springs. A consider- able number of pulmonary cases have in the past derived great benefit here from the pure air. In Natal a delightful climate, somewhat moister than that of the Karroo, but invigorat- ing, is found ; and the capital, Pietermaritzburg, 2225 feet, is a good resort for sufferers from bron- chial troubles. Howick, 3500 feet, Estcourt, 3800 feet, and the well-known Ladysmith, 3280 feet, all enjoy good climates. The Orange Free State consists largely of country resembling the Karroo, but considerably higher. The climate is very similar, and the dust is one of the chief drawbacks here as else- where. Bloemfontein, the capital, 4518 feet, has long been a resort for phthisical patients, and many have recovered their health here. Beth- lehem and Harrismith, both over 5000 feet, have good mountain climates, and the latter is much visited by invalids from Natal. The Transvaal has many spots which might be utilised for invalids and have considerable eleva- tion, but they are not laid out to attract invalids ; and Johannesburg has a somewhat dangerous climate, marked by rapid changes, and its sani- tary conditions are bad. There are many other places in South Africa besides those mentioned which might be visited by invalids, but enough has been said to show the great climatic advantages which it offers. Australia and New Zealand Though generally classed together, there is no similarity whatever between the climates of these countries, and separated as they are by 1000 miles of sea it is more a matter of custom and convenience than anything else which causes their conjunction. Taking Australia first, it must be said that the coast towns (and all the principal towns lie on the coast) are singularly unfitted for invalids owing to their moist atmosphere and liability to sudden change. The best of them, perhaps, is Adelaide, the capital of South Australia, which has a moderately dry climate, but is liable to great heat. It must be remembered that neither here nor in New Zealand are there any organised health resorts, and there is no provision for invalids or even comfortable accommodation out- side the big towns, which we have just said are unsuitable. The up-country towns are for the most part very small places, with probably one or two third-class hotels, very little amusement, and scant society. It may be gathered, there- fore, that the number of invalids for whom Australia is suited is very small, save those who come to settle. The climate of the Riverina and Darling Downs is excellent: warm, dry and bracing, with moderate elevation, it is admirably suited for the phthisical patient, or for suff"erers from renal or cardiac trouble, who need a warm yet bracing winter, and the same applies to much of the large inland plateau. At Orange in New South Wales, 2400 feet, a Government Sanatorium has been established, and this place seems likely to develop. Other towns where moderate accommodation can be found, all on the high inland plateau, but far apart, are Bathurst, Bourke, Deniliquin, Hay, and Tamworth. JVeiv Zealand.—The climate of New Zealand is very much like that of England, but warmer and less humid; there is a fairly heavy rainfall, but much less fog and mist and more sunshine. The same caution as in Australia must be given with reference to accommodation for invalids, which is almost wholly wanting. The country has many advantages for those who propose to settle, but few for visitors, unless they are in robust health and capable of long coach journeys. The two extreme ends of the island are un- suited for invalids, the one being semi-tropical, and the other having a climate somewhat re- sembling the Scotch lowlands. But tliere is a considerable area in the pro- vinces of Canterbury and Nelson in the south island, and of Wellington and Napier in the north, which offers very pleasant and healthy settling ground for English emigrants. The towns of the same provinces all have good climates ; Christchurch is the best in some ways, but it is hot in summer. Wellington is more bracing, but very windy. Napier and Nelson are both equable climates and fairly bracing in winter.