SUNSTKOKE 424 divisions and terms which have been indicated, namely, heat shock and heat fever, are sufficiently precise and explicit, and will be employed in this article. Causation.—Excessive heat is the essential and dominant factor in causation. It is con- venient to distinguish solar or luminous heat from high atmospheric temperature, whether derived from the sun or from an artificial source. From time to time assertions have been made that the influence of these two forms of heat upon the body differs, and since the discovery of the so-called X-rays by Riintgen, surmises have been advanced that the deleterious effects of luminous heat, especially on the nerve centres, are due to these or similar elements. On this sub- ject no satisfactory evidence has been adduced ; but as regards solar heat it is of practical ad- vantage to discriminate between direct and in- direct exposure, that is, between exposure to the rays of the sun or to a sun-heated atmo- sphere ; because, apart from any question of the properties or powers of special rays, the heat of the xmclouded or thinly clouded sun is consider- ably higher than that of the atmosphere, and there are grounds for believing that the element of glare intensifies the deleterious effect of radiant heat. The noxious effects of heat are not altogether measured by its degree, though intensity is a condition of prime importance. The experiments of Tillet, Fordyce, and Blagden in the last century, and of many observers in more recent times, show that the human body may be subjected unscathed to very high de- grees of temperature provided that the ex- posure is not too prolonged and the individual is in sound health. Experience in tropical countries proves that an atmospheric tempera- ture considerably exceeding blood heat and a still higher degree of direct sun heat may be endured for considerable periods by healthy persons without harm. There are other condi- tions — geographical, climatic, hygienic, and personal — which affect the influence of heat upon the body. Popular observation has de- termined that it is not frank dry heat within certain limits that injures, but moist, sultry, or " muggy" heat. It is not necessarily the hottest places, or years or seasons, as indicated by the thermometer, which produce most cases of sunstroke, and its geographical incidence is by no means a question of latitude or isotherms. The topical conditions associated with sunstroke are these :—an alluvial soil; a low level; a sea- coast, river basin, valley, or ravine ; a moist atmosphere ; stagnation or stillness of air, and impurity thereof caused by jungle or swamp. Hot years and hot months are not so dangerous as years and times when both heat and humidity are high. It has been ascertained in India that the majority of cases of heat apoplexy in the European army occur not in the hottest months, but just before and after the rains, when much moisture is present in the air. It is possible, therefore, to define a geographical distribu- tion of sunstroke, and Hirsch has collected a considerable amount of information on this subject, the accuracy and value of which is doubtful on account of uncertainty of diagnosis and the fragmentary character of the data. Sunstroke is necessarily more common in the tropics, because the essential factor of heat is there; and more common in some tropical countries, India, for example, and in some parts of these than in others, because the adjuvant conditions, topical and meteorological, are localised. Its occurrence in the tropics is by no means confined to the land; cases often occur in ships sailing in tropical waters—in the Persian Gulf and Red Sea, for instance—where excessive moist heat and glare and calms are apt to prevail. Cases and outbreaks also arise in overcrowded vessels, as in the examples from the French navy cited by Maclean. When sunstroke appears in temperate latitudes it is under conditions which may be truly described as tropical. Waves of heat of short duration often overspread parts of Europe and America in late summer or early autumn, which in cities, and among persons exposed to the sun in field labour, or when walking on hot pavements, or working in foundries and furnaces, are apt to prove disastrous. Such a heat wave passed over the Argentine Republic in February 1900. The air temperature mounted up to 104° F., the barometer was low, and the humidity over 50 per cent. In the town of Buenos Ayres, with a population of 795,000, there were, between the 1st and 13th of February, 1110 deaths, of which 121 were caused by sunstroke. Men were struck down as if by lightning. Similar experiences have been recorded in New York, Boston, and Philadelphia, and in Vienna, Berlin, and Paris. Most of these cases are of the nature of heat shock, but many of those not immediately fatal develop fever. In armies marching on service, or undergoing manoeuvres during such heat waves, numerous cases of sun- stroke, many of them fatal, are not uncommon. Hirsch gives many examples from European history, and a painful illustration oocurred at Aldershot on the 11th of June 1900, when, during some manoeuvres, out of a strength of 18,000, 300 cases of sunstroke took place, of which four proved fatal. Great heat is com- petent in the tropics, and even in temperate latitudes, to cause disaster on a large scale. In some parts of India, and in some years, hot winds blow which cause extensive mortality among natives of the agricultural class. This exceptional event is known among them as loo mama (wind stroke). The year 1868 was re- markable for the severity and deadliness of the heat, which affected animals as well as men. The influence of heat is materially modified by conditions of a communal and personal kind.