SCARLET FEVER 47 2. Bones.—Periostitis and necrosis may arise at a later stage of the disease. (xi.) Diseases of the hitegumentary System.—• An infinite variety of atfections of this system may be produced, ranging from herpes labialis to severe boils. The most frequent is eczema, which mainly occurs at those orifices from which acrid or pustular discharges have flowed— round, for example, the ears, nose, and mouth. The inflamed oozing eczema is apt to become pustular, and to extend from these centres. (xii.) Anaemia and a protracted period of general debility and ailing are often the sequelae of a slight attack in the delicate, or of a severe attack in the strong, and require attention for months or years before the usual health is recovered. X. Relation TO OTHER Diseases.—(i.) Measles. —It has been stated by some medical writers that scarlet-fever epidemics tend to follow out- breaks of measles; but this view, after a lengthened and carefully analysed experience, I am unable to endorse. The relation, however, which has been observed between scarlet fever and measles is completely explicable where rubella and the Fourth disease are substituted. These forms of disease are so frequently con- current or consecutive that their confusion with measles and scarlet fever, or with rubella and scarlet fever, is both prevalent and facile. (ii.) Diphtheria.—Although diphtheria may occur at any stage of scarlet fever, its prominent period of appearance is that of convalescence. It may follow the mildest as well as the severest form of scarlet fever, and seems to be inciden- tal to cases treated in hospital, where it ap- parently clings to certain hospitals and certain wards. When it occurs it usually arises in groups of cases in the various wards which possess no intercommunication. Dr. Caiger, whose special experience has been most exten- sive, says :—" Such outbreaks have not infre- quently arisen in seasons characterised by a high degree of atmospheric humidity, depen- dent upon previous rainfall and consequent dampness of soil. The incidence of the disease is for the most part greatest in wards surrounded with grass, or other vegetation growing in a clay soil; indeed, the moisture-retaining char- acter of the actual surface would seem to be of greater importance than the subsoil drainage, whether natural or artificial." He furnishes the mortality in cases of diphtheria following scarlet fever as 58-3 per cent; and this high percentage is due to the special tendency of the disease to affect the respiratory passages. Scarlatina from diphtheria may at any time arise; but this course is rarer than the reverse one. XI. Diagnosis.—From the preceding discus- sion it will be readily understood that this disease presents the most serious difficulty in diagnosis. In its mildness or in its infinite vagaries many days may elapse before a definite judgment can be formed ; and at times, indeed, the certainty of diagnosis may appear to be impracticable, unless another case arises from it with an accurate period of incubation and well-marked symptoms. Even in typical in- stances I have myself long felt doubtful until some days have elapsed, and characteristic symptoms have appeared in their natural course. In face of these difficulties, and in regard to the serious consequences which may ensue from erroneous diagnosis, I would suggest that the only sound rule is that of the game of whist,—■ " When in doubt play trumps " ! and hence I propound the maxim that the existence of doubt should imply the presence of scarlet fever, on the ground that, if the assumption prove in- correct, less harm will usually have been pro- duced by reason of the scrupulous care that will thus have been exercised. This course, however, is not always justified; for a medical friend not long since informed me that twenty- eight patients had been sent to a scarlet fever hospital in one year, the whole of whom proved to be free from that disease. I have also a series of cases in my hands, recorded by a most accurate observer, but I am unable to make use of them now, beyond saying that six patients were admitted into a fever hospital as scarlet fever who were proved to be sufi^ering from the Fourth disease, and subsequently caught scarlet fever when in hospital; and six other patients were admitted suffering from scarlet fever, who caught the Fourth disease while in hospital from some of the previous set. In presence of such grave mistakes a serious burden of responsibility is involved in the accurate diagnosis of these cases of illness, but still more so on one who presumes to instruct others in their elucidation. In now considering the question of diagnosis, I would urge, in limine, that the physician who bases his diagnosis primarily upon the " rash " is hopelessly lost in confusion. I even venture to make the wider statement, that a physician who commences his investigation of these exan- themata by observing the rash chiefly, is involved in the same confusion, since, in the interpretation of the remaining symptoms, he will become so biassed by his foregone conclusion that no clear judgment will be practicable. In a typical case of scarlet fever diagnosis ia comparatively easy, and for the purpose of re- freshing the memory I will briefly enumerate the symptoms. A sudden onset of acute symp- toms, with headache and vomiting, accompanied by a marked sore throat, attended by high fever and an exceedingly quickened pulse, followed in twenty-four hours by a minutely punctate eruption, which avoids the circumoral region, and spreads from above downwards until the entire body is uniformly covered. The tongue peels on the fourth day of the illness, which is followed by a general desquamation of