394 STOMACH: SURGICAL toneum, and thus fix the stomach to the anterior belly-wall. The external wound is then closed around the tube. Special care must be taken to fix the tube, as its untimely escape may be a source of difficulty ; a reliable method is to use a silver ring which grips the tube, flush with the surface of the abdomen, and provided with eyes, by means of which it is secured by a broad tape encircling the body or by strips of plaster. The usual dressings are applied, and held in place by a many-tailed bandage. A funnel is then inserted into the outer end of the tube, and the patient is fed before leaving the table ; the tube is closed with a wooden spill and secured to the bandage with a safety-pin. After-treatment and Results.—The patient is fed every two hours or so with meat teas, milk, gruel, plasmon, somatose, eggs, and alcohol. The tube is taken out and cleaned once a week, and may be changed after a month or so for a No. 14 rubber catheter. When the fistula is no longer required, as after dilatation of innocent stricture, it closes rapidly on removal of the tube. The author has performed eleven gastrostomies for malignant stricture: the shortest survival was one month—the cancer having penetrated the pleural cavity; the longest, nine months; the average of the series, three months. A patient operated on by Prof. Annandale sur- vived two years and five months, cancer of the gullet being verified post-mortem. Although the fistula occupies a dependent point in the stomach, it is remarkably continent: the patient may cough after an abundant meal, even with the tube withdrawn, without a drop of fluid escaping. Qastrotomy.—The steps of this operation have been described in the treatment of gastror- rhagia. Gastropexy. — This consists in raising and fixing the stomach in cases of gastroptosis. As originally practised, the stomach was fixed to the anterior abdominal wall, but as this method of fixation may interfere with the motor functions of the organ, it is now preferred to tighten up the structures which normally support the stomach. A series of silk sutures are passed through the gastro-hepatic omentum in such a manner that when they are tightened up and knotted two horizontal folds result, and the lesser curvature of the stomach is suspended at a higher level. The first thread is inserted close to the hepatico-duodenal ligament, and includes the capsule of the liver; below, it is made to grasp the sero-muscular wall of the pylorus ; the others range along towards the cardia (Bier). The gastro-phrenic ligament may also be tightened up. In one of our own cases the gastro-hepatic omentum was so thin and trans- parent that the sutures would not hold, but a satisfactory result was obtained by stitching the sero-muscular coat along the lesser curvature to the hepatic attachment of the round ligament and to the diaphragmatic peritoneum. The patient should lie for a month after operation. Gastrorrhaphy.—This term is occasionally applied to the closure of wounds or of perforated ulcer of the stomach. Gastrolysis.—This term refers to the separa- tion of perigastric adhesions. It has been described under this head. Gastroplication.—This operation is associated with Bircher's name, and is intended to reduce the size of a dilated stomach. As modified by Moynihan, a series of horizontal folds or tucks are made in the anterior wall of the organ by means of a number of silk sutures passed out and in through the sero-muscular coat. The sutures run from the lesser to the greater curva- ture, and when tightened up approximate the curvatures. Pylo7-odiosis.—In this operation the pylorus is mechanically stretched and dilated. Loreta's method consists in opening the stomach near its outlet, and passing the fingers or a dilating instrument through the pylorus. Hahn's method, which is much safer and easier, con- sists in invaginating the anterior wall of the stomach by means of the forefinger, and pushing the latter into the pylorus; as the resistance of the sphincter is overcome, two or even three fingers may be inserted until the channel is well opened up. The procedure is contra-indicated if there is ulceration or cicatricial contraction. Pyloroplasty.—^This operation, which consists in open linear division of the narrowed pylorus, is associated with the names of Hein- eckeand V. Mikulicz. Having opened the belly, the pylorus is drawn out at the wound, and is pack- e d round with gauze. Its anterior wall is divided longi- tudinally by an in- cision two inches in length, commenc- ing on the stomach side of the pylorus, and prolonged through the latter by scissors. The upper and lower edges of the incisions are drawn widely apart, and are approximated by two rows of sutures in a direction at right angles to that of the original incision. A Robson's bobbin may be used as an internal splint. The contra-indications and results of this operation have been already described under Gastric Ulcer Gastroplasty (Wblfler).—This operation im- plies the division of the strictured segment of an hour-glass stomach, and is carried out on the same lines as pyloroplasty. The incision FlQ. 1.—Pyloroplasty for innocent stenosis of pylorus.