221 SLEEPING SICKNESS, OR NEGRO LETHARGY detectable only by the microscope, and consists in, as was first pointed out by Mott, an ex- tensive lepto-meningitis and encephalo-myelitis. Throughout the whole of the central nervous systems microscopical sections show the pia- arachnoid infiltrated with numerous small mono- nuclear leucocytes. This infiltration can be traced along the blood-vessels and septa into the substance of the nervous system. The peri- vascular lymphatics around the large and small vessels are crowded with lymphocytes, similar cells being scattered about and between the nerve cells and fibres. There are secondary changes in the nerve elements, but they are of a character not nearly so pronounced as in general paralysis of the insane, a disease to which sleeping sickness appears to have many clinical affinities. Mott found inflammatory infiltration of the lymphatic glands, and also, in sections of the duodenum, large numbers of lymphocytes, as well as increase in the size of the lymphatic nodules. So far as they go, Bettencourt's ob- servations confirm those of Mott on the histology of the nervov;s system. Etiology.—Bettencourt claims to have dis- covered in the cerebro-spinal fluid and elsewhere a micrococcus which he regards as the cause of sleeping sickness. Observations in England do not support this. Cultures of blood and lym- phatic tissue in competent hands gave negative results as regards the presence of bacteria. The morbid anatomy of the disease favours the supposition that the virus acts primarily through the lymphatic system, but what may be the nature and source of the virus has not been ascertained. A curious circumstance, which may or may not have a bearing on the etiology, lies in the fact that in the vast majority of the cases in which the point has been critically investigated the subjects of sleeping sickness are also the subjects of infection with Filaria pe7-stans. Thus in 3 cases carefully examined in Eng- land this parasite was found in all of them. It was present also in a large number of films of blood derived from cases of sleeping sickness on the Congo, and in 33 cases recently in- vestigated by Dr. Howard Cook in Uganda, the parasite was ascertained to be present in 30. As we know that Filaria perstans after being present may disappear from the blood, it is not unreasonable to think that it may have been present at one time or another in every case of sleeping sickness. An intimate associa- tion between parasite and disease is further suggested by a study of their respective endemic areas, which, so far as Africa is concerned, and so far as we know, are identical. On the other hand, many negroes — 50 per cent — in some districts harbour Filaria perstans, but only a relatively small proportion of them get sleeping sickness. If it be that this parasite is the cause of the disease, some additional and as yet unrecognised factor must co-operate. It has been suggested that sleeping sickness is communicated by the saliva. The negroes in some places entertain this idea. The negroes eat together, using their fingers to convey their food from a common dish to the mouth, and so, it is said, convey the virus. Treatment.—So far, no treatment has proved of material value. Something may be done to prolong life by assiduous attention in feeding and nursing. [The cause of sleeping sickness is now known to be a species of trypanosome—T. ga7nbrense. DuUon was the first to identify a case of human trypanosomiasis, and in 1902 Castellani found trypanosomes in the cerebrospinal fluid of a case of sleeping sickness. This observation has been abundantly confirmed, especially by the work of Bruce, Navarro, and Greig in Uganda, who showed that the trypanosome could be detected in every case of the disease. Man is infected through the agency of a species of tsetse fly— Glossina palpalis; possibly other species of Glossina may also convey the infection. The game in an afi^ected area probably acts as a permanent reservoir for trypanosomes; Koch recently has ascribed especial importance to the crocodile in this respect. No certain means of curing sleeping sickness is known. Atoxyl, an arsenic compound, and trypan roth, an aniline dye, have been shown to control or check ex- perimental trypanosomiasis in animals, and have apparently proved beneficial to man. In so protracted a malady as sleeping sickness, how- ever, a longer time must be allowed to elapse before it can be said that either of these drugs is curative.] Sleeplessness.—Insomnia. See Sleep,. Normal and Morbid (Sleeplessness); Alcoholism {Treatment, Sleeplessness) ; Heart, Myocardium AND Endocardium {Treatment of Sleeplessness); Insanity, Pathology of {Pathogenesis, Insom- nia) ; Mental Deficiency {Primarily Neurotic Type); Morphinomania and Allied Drug Habits {Cocaine, Effects). Sloughh. See Gangrene ; Sphacelus. Slow Heart. See Heart, Neuroses of {Brady cai •dia). Siudgre.—The solid residue left after the chemical treatment of sewage; it is usually obtained by subsidence and precipitation, and also by the action of such chemical substances as lime, or sulphate of alumina, or blood, or black ash waste; and the sludge or final pro- duct should not be injurious to health. See A.B.C. Process ; Condbr's Process ; etc. Smallpox. History 222 Causation . . ... . . 222