STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 343 Special Symptomatology and Treatment OF Gastric Neuroses . . . 364 Special Symptomatology and Treatment of Inflammations (Catarrh) . . 369 Special Symptomatology and Treatment OF Ulcer . . . . . .371 Special Symptomatology and Treatment OF Cancer ...... 377 Special Symptomatology and Treatment OF Gastric Dilatation . . . 381 Surgery of . . . . . . 384 See also Abdomen, Injuries of {Symptoms, Lesions of Stomach); Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of {The. Stomach); Alcoholism {Acute, Treatment by Washing out the Stomach); Ascites {Distinction from Dilated Stomach); Atrophy,Infantile {Morbid Anatomy, Stomach); Children, Development op {Stomach); Chil- dren, Clinical Examination op {Abdomen); Chlorosis {Symptoms, Dilatation of Stomach); Cough {Clinical Varieties, Stomach Cough); Digestion and Metabolism {Gastric Diges- tion) ; Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases of {Adhesions); Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Congenital Anomalies, Diseases of Stomach, Dilatation of Stomach, etc.); H^ma- temesis ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease, Passive Congestion) ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Symp- tomatology, Stomach Symptoms); Indigestion {Gastric Conditions) ; Intestines, Diseases op ; Lardaceous Degeneration {Morbid Anatomy, Alimentary Canal); Liver {Tropical Abscess of); Liver {Portal Thrombosis) ; Liver {Hyda- tids of); Medicine, Forensic (Wounds, Rup- tures of Internal Organs); Medicine, Forensic {Infanticide, Stomach Test); Mel^ena ; Men- struation AND ITS Disorders (Vicarious Men- struation) ; Pharmacology {Drugs whose Action is Mainly Local) ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Alimentary Canal); Post-mortem Methods {Examination of Body Cavities, Abdo- men) ; Prescribing {Administering Drugs hy the Mouth); Rheumatism, Acute {Symptoms, Dil- atation of Stomach); Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis {Clinical Characters, Dilatation of Stomach); Tabes Dorsalis {Gastric Crises); Tetany {G7-oups of Cases, Atrcyphy of Stomach); Toxicology {Post-mortem Appearances due to Poisons); Tumours ; Tumours, Inoperable ; Typhoid Fever {Symptoms, Alimentary Canal); X-Rays {High Frequency Currents). Anatomy The stomach is the somewhat pear-shaped ex- pansion of the alimentary canal continuous with the gullet immediately after that tube has passed through the diaphragm. It occupies the upper part of the abdominal cavity on the left side, lying in great part behind the ribs, the larger end reaching as high as the fourth left intercostal space where it is in contact with the diaphragm, which separates it from the heart, and the lower end (pylorus) where it becomes continuous with the duodenum, lying to a variable extent to the right of the middle line according to the degree of distension of the organ. The general direction of the viscus is therefore obliquely downwards and forwards from left to right, being about 10 to 12 inches in greatest length in the average adult male when moderately distended. The orifices by which it communicates with the oesophagus (cardiac) and with the duodenum (pyloric) are from 3 to 5 inches apart, and situated on the upper or smaller curvature, so that the left portion of the organ constituting the fundus extends farther to the left and higher than the cardiac opening, which lies to the left side of the body of the tenth or eleventh dorsal vertebra outside the aorta, the pyloric orifice being lower and at the level of the right side of the body of the first lumbar vertebra nearer to the anterior abdominal wall. Inasmuch as the oesophageal opening is the most fixed point of the stomach, and the pylorus is freely movable, the relative positions of these open- ings to each other, from before back, is subject to much variation with the state of fulness of the organ. Whilst, therefore, the cardiac orifice, into which the oesophagus opens somewhat at an angle, remains fixed in position, the pylorus, which is usually just behind the anterior edge of the liver, and lies close to the right of the median plane, 1 to 2 inches below the ensiform cartilage, when the stomach is empty, may be found 2 or 3 inches to the right when the organ is distended, and may then be in contact with the abdominal wall immediately below the liver. With the varying distension of the stomach the anterior and posterior surfaces, which are in apposition in the empty state, shift in position, the former coming to be directed more upwards instead of forwards as the organ dilates, with corresponding alteration in the posterior surface, the viscus rotating somewhat on a transverse axis. The relations of the stomach to adjacent structures are as follows :—The upper portion of the anterior surface, along the lesser curvature and cardia, is in contact with the under surface of the left lobe of the liver; the pyloric third of the lower portion of the same surface is in apposition with the abdominal wall; whilst the remainder of the surface, as well as on the fundus and the left extremity of the posterior surface, is contiguous to the diaphragm ; immediately adjacent to the phrenic area lies the internal surface of the spleen, and adjoining this to the right, the left kidney and suprarenal body come in contact with the posterior surface, and still farther to the right, reaching from the spleen to the pylorus, is the pancreas; the splenic flexure of the colon abuts on the middle of the hinder aspect of the greater