SPLEEN, MEDICAL AFFECTIONS OF 313 thesLTpTpa,rent\jprimari/enlargfements of the spleen, and these are usually associated with anaemia. The wildest confusion still reigns in this sub- ject, and it is exceedingly difficult to harmonise the views of different observers. One cause of difficulty is the retention in text-books of de- scriptions of disease from the pre-hsematological era; another is the fact that the cases are generally of rare occurrence, are often insuffi- ciently reported, and that the nomenclature is often more a reflection of the fancy of the observer than of the facts of the case. Some outstanding groups can, however, be distin- guished by fairly marked characters. These may be classed as (a) splenomegaly without anaemia; (b) splenomegaly with anaemia, with its sub-groups (1) Banti's disease, (2) splenic anaemia, (3) pseudoleukaemia, (4) lymphosar- coma ; and (c) splenomegaly in children, of which the most important form is the anaemia pseudoleukaemica infantum. Splenomegaly without anmmia (primary spleno- megaly) is a very rare condition. Cases have recently been described by Bovaird and by Brill. Brill saw three cases in one family, and had two of them under observation for over fifteen years. The special points in the cases were a slow, progressive, causeless, and enor- mous enlargement of the spleen, with excellent health for years (a slight anaemia of chlorotic type developed after the disease had been established for more than ten years, and after an intercurrent affection), a normal leucocyte count and pi'oportion, some enlargement of the liver, and a slight tendency to haemorrhage. Some of the other cases similar to the above have also occurred in family groups. The cause is entirely unknown. Splenomegaly ivith Ancemia.—(1) Banti's Dis- ease.—This is in reality a cirrhosis of the liver, associated with a marked enlargement of the spleen which clinically entirely overshadows the condition of the liver. Jaundice may or may not be present, and the disease may last for several years. Anaemia is always marked, the red corpuscles are greatly reduced in number, the colour-index is low, nucleated reds are fre- quent, white corpuscles are almost always diminished in number, and the lymphocyte proportion is high. (2) Splenic Ancemia and (3) Splenic Pseudo- leuk(jemia.—These are often indistinguishable, and probably cases which are clinically similar are often due to dissimilar pathological pro- cesses. The most typical cases of " splenic anaemia" are very rare, and show, besides the enlargement of the spleen, a marked anaemia with diminution both of red corpuscles and haemoglobin, sometimes with slight leucocytosis, and often with a rather high lymphocyte propor- tion. The disease is remittent, periods of severe anaemia and increase in the size of the spleen alternating with long periods of health with normal or nearly normal blood and with diminu- tion but not disappearance of the enlarged spleen. It is probable that the late stages or the acuter forms of the condition which I have described as splenomegaly without antemia have also been regarded as splenic anajmia, and some of the recorded cases are distressingly like sub- acute or chronic cases of lymphatic leukaemia without a very high leucocyte count. One of West's cases, for instance, a month or so before death had 50,000leucocytes per c.mm., "chiefly lymphocytes," and other cases are equally doubtful. Some cases of lymphadenoma or pseudoleukaemia have greatly enlarged spleens, either with enlarged lymphatic glands and liver or without; and these cases, which usually present a chronic progressive anaemia of chloro- tic type, are often called splenic anaemia. The red cells in these cases do not fall very low in number, the haemoglobin-index is usually low in the earlier and slighter cases, but may be higher in advanced or acuter cases. The anaemia never approaches the pex'nicious type, however. The leucocytes in chronic cases are normal or diminished in number, and there is a relative lymphocytosis. The more rapid and febrile cases show a leucocytosis with increase of poly- morphs. The pathology of the condition is involved in the same obscurity as that of the lymphatic gland form {see " Lymphadenoma "), and it is certain that the same clinical features may be associated with tubercle and with gumma of the spleen as with the less definite conditions which pass under the name of lymph- adenoma. (4) Lymphosarcoma.—This form of sarcoma may take rise from any collection of lymphoid tissue in the hodj. The diagnosis is rarely un- certain when it occurs in such a situation as the tonsil, as there a circvimscribed tumour forms in which ulceration soon takes place; but when it occurs in the lymphatic glands the diagnosis is more difficult, and most difficult of all when it arises from the spleen. As it tends to spread at the point of origin a large spleen is soon pro- duced, and as the metastatic growth takes place along lymph-channels, the aff'ected glands are concealed by their depth in the abdomen and thorax, and abdominal masses which might otherwise be discovered are hidden by the spleen. The rapidity of growth of the splenic tumour varies considerably; sometimes it is so slow that the clinical picture is that of pseudo- leukaemia, sometimes as rapid as with the more malignant varieties of sarcoma. The examina- tion of the blood may give some hint of the state of the case, however, for the lymphocytes, which, in most of the cases already discussed, are actually or proportionally increased in number, sometimes show a very marked diminu- tion. In a case of Reinbach's, for instance—a lymphosarcoma of the neck, it is true—the lymphocytes, whose normal proportion is about