STERNO-CLAVICULAR JOINT 340 resting on a couch for four to six weeks with the arm in a sling, and the appUcation of direct pressure on the part by a woollen pad. In many cases it is found impracticable to carry out this treatment, and it is fortunate that little harm results even if the joint be left permanently displaced. The backward dislocation is characterised by a marked depression at the root of the neck, and the head of the bone is recognised to lie in an abnormal position, if the contour of the bone be traced from without inwards. There may be pressure on the oesophagus or trachea, and disturbance of the circulation from local ob- struction of important vessels. In treatment the shoulders should be bandaged well back- wards, using a cushion fixed between the shoulders posteriorly. In the upward dislocation the head of the bone rests on the top of the sternum. The sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid is promi- nent, while the clavicular portion is relaxed. In treatment the usual difficulty is experienced in keeping the bone in position. Reduction should be effected by drawing the shoulder well outwards, and at the same time make pressure on the shaft of the clavicle from above. Diseases of the Joint.—The ordinary forms of synovitis of the sterno-clavicular articulation are very rare, but suppurative forms of inflam- mation are met with in the course of septicaemia or pyaemia. The diagnosis of a pyaimic joint affection has to be made from the general con- dition. Locally the presence of swelling and redness of the skin over it, with oedema, are characteristic symptoms, and with these symp- toms are associated inability to raise the arm to the horizontal position. As a rule, however, the symptoms produced by this local condition of the sterno-clavicular joint are marked by the general constitutional symptoms of the septicae- mia. The treatment should be directed mainly to the general condition. The local aff'ection may demand treatment by early and free incision, with evacuation of the effusion. Thorough drainage is essential to prevent backward ex- tension of the purulent effusion into the struc- tures at the root of the neck, or its downward extension into the mediastinum. The structural changes induced in the joint by a pyaemic invasion are characteristic. They include acute ulceration and destruction of the cartilage and other soft structures of the joint. As a general rule, the prognosis is highly unfavourable. Chronic rheumatic arthritis frequently affects the sterno-clavicular joint. It is characterised by a nodular enlargement of the joint structures, and there may be creaking in the joint on move- ment. Movements at the shoulder joint are accompanied by sharp pains at the sternal end of the clavicle, the pains being sometimes of a shooting character, and radiating upwards and backwards along the side of the neck. The etiology and pathology of this affection have already been discussed in the article on "Chronic Rheumatism" (vol. viii.). In that article the opinion was expressed that this disease may really be an attenuated pyogenic infection of the joint structures. The treatment should be conducted along the lines laid down in the article on " Rheumatism." Tuberculous disease is occasionally met with in the sterno-clavicular joint, but this is one of the joints least frequently involved. The tuber- culous process may start in the articular end of the bone, or in the synovial membrane, and spreads and involves the other structures of the joint. The clinical features are similar to those seen in tuberculous affections elsewhere, and are mainly distinguished by their "quiet" nature. Chronic suppuration in the vicinity of the joint is present in many of the cases. Treat- ment should be conducted on the lines suitable for tuberculosis in general. It may be necessary to open the joint freely, and scrape the articu- lar ends of the bone. A neurotrophic joint lesion is sometimes met with in the sterno-clavicular articulation. This is especially seen in cases of syringomyelia (q.v.). This lesion is characterised mainly by unnatural relaxation of the soft structures of the articulation, which allows of unnatural movement at the joint. As in other joint lesions in syringomyelia, it is the joints of the upper extremity that are most prone to be affected. The diagnosis is to be made from a general survey of the clinical features of the case, and especially from the peculiar sensory disturbances that are characteristic of this disease. Sterno-Mastoid. — Relating to the sternum and to the mastoid process of the temporal bone, e.g. the sterno-mastoid muscle. See Brain, Physiology of (Spinal Accessory Nerve); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Podalic Lies, Injuries of Child's Neck) ; Neck, Region of {Sterno-mastoid Tumour); New-born Infant (Hcematoma of Sterno-mastoid Muscle); Spasm (Cramp, Wry-Neck); Spinal Accessory Nerve ; Wry-Neck or Torticollis. Sternopa.g'US.—A teratological type of fused twins in which one infant is united to the other in the sternal region. See Teratology (Thoracopagous Double Terata). SternoSChisiS.—Fissure of the sternum as in the man E. A. Groux. Sternum. See Chest, Deformities of (Congenital); Chest, Injuries op (Ribs and Stermim); Heart, Myocardium and Endo- cardium (Symptomatology, Dropsy over Sternum); Pulse (Auricular Pulsation in a Case of Cleft Sternwm); Scurvy, IsfanhIjE, (Clinical Features,