425 SUNSTROKE Overcrowding and defective ventilation, giving rise to a moist, impure air, are the most potent of these. The action of the skin and lungs, the principal cooling agents of the body, is impeded, the general health weakened, and the power of resistance crippled. Sanitai-y neglects, leading to atmospheric contamination and de- pressed vitality, are also important. Occupa- tions involving labour in heat, solar or artificial, as in the case of stokers, predispose to injury by exceptionally raised temperature. Prolonged subjection to heat tends to diminish tolerance, owing, probably, to fatigued accommodation. The element of acclimatisation is also an im- portant one. Communities and individuals whose lives and habits have not been attuned to high solar and atmospheric temperatures are apt to succumb when these rise suddenly and exceptionally. Racial distinctions are well illustrated by the statistics of the European army serving in India, as contrasted with those of the native army, and of native prisoners. The returns compiled by the Sanitary Commis- sioner with the Government of India for the years 1895-98 indicate an admission rate per 1000 of strength of the European army of 4-6, and a death-rate of 0-9, from sunstroke and heat apoplexy. In the native army the correspond- ing rates were 0-3 and 0-14, and the rates for native prisoners in all Indian jails were 1 -0 and 0- 4. These figures prove a considerable excess of liability and mortality among British soldiers, while the conditions as regards accommodation and exposure are more favourable for Europeans than for natives. The latter are by no means exempt from serious consequences entailed by exposure to thermic influences under unfavour- able circumstances. Take as an illustration this extract from a frontier campaign by Fin- castle and Elliott - Lockhart:—" The 35th Sikhs marched into Dargai en route to relieve the troops holding the Malakand Pass early on the 30th of July 1897, many of them so ovei-- come by the heat that they succumbed immedi- ately on their arrival. There was no ice, and the only water available was lukewarm; and these stalwart Sikhs, nineteen of whom died, lay scattered about in every stage of heat apoplexy." Closely related to the question of race is that of temperament. White races are more arth- ritic and sanguine than bilious or neuro-bilious dark races. Stout, full-blooded persons are less tolerant of heat than spare, wiry folk. Sexual liability is held to be considerably in favour of women, on account, doubtless, of the greater exposure of males to exciting causes. Children are comparatively exempt for the same reason. Women attached to the European army had, during the years 1895-98, an admission rate of 1- 9 and a death-rate of 1-2, and children M and 0-5. The women, therefore, had fewer but more severe seizures than the men. New arrivals in tropical countries are more prone to succumb to heat than old residents, probably because of the better adaptation of the latter to their environment by habituation and habits. The statistics of the British army in India prove this; but after a time protection seems to be lost and liability to increase. Resistance seems to be weakened by strain, and the power of adaptation seems to age as does that of accom- modation of the eye. Of the more strictly personal conditions predisposing to sunstroke, alcoholism is the most serious. This is a well- established fact. Occasional or habitual excess impairs nervous power, predisposes to vascular irregularities, and in time damages organs and tissues concerned in processes necessary for maintaining a uniform temperature. Excess in eating, especially of animal food and fats, also tends to enhance liability. Clothing is of great importance from the points of view of protection of the head and spine, interference with respira- tion and circulation, weight and tightness, and impediment to cutaneous evaporation : the evil effects of unsuitable clothing and the wearing of heavy accoutrements, such as metal helmets, leathern stocks, tight, heavy cloth tunics and cross-belts, and weighty knapsacks are amply illustrated in the history of the British army. Maclean gives several striking examples in his lectures. Excessive muscular exertion causing fatigue is a most potent adjuvant of the worst effect of superheating. Muscular action gener- ates heat, quickens respiration and circulation, and loads the blood with waste products, and fatigue impairs resisting power. It has also been found by experiment that the coagulation of myosin which occurs at a temperature of 113° F. takes place at a somewhat lower tem- perature in tired muscles. Pyrexia of malarious or other origin is likewise a strong predisponent on account of its debilitating effect, and mainly by reason of the upset of the thermotaxic function of the nervous system. Heat fever may be superadded to any other fever in the tropics, and the resulting hyperpyrexia is very deadly. The subjects of organic disease of heart, lungs, or kidneys are peculiarly amenable to thermic overthrow. Finally, depressed health, of whatever description or origin, lays its victim open to easy surrender to exceptional heat. In most cases of sunstroke a combination of these causes is at work. The suddenness of seizures and seriousness of cases impart to the event an importance which the incidence and mortality even at the worst hardly justify. The victims are always a minority, often a very small minority, of a community. The partial and exceptional operation of a general cause is due to the element of personal susceptibility. Seizures, on the whole, present a sporadic rather than an epidemic aspect, and are apt to be simultaneous or to occur within a limited period which is strictly defined by the duration of