STERILITY 336 vulva to the ovary must cause sterility. Such closure may be congenital, taking the form of atresia of the vaginal orifice, or absence of some part of the vagina; or it may be secondary, involv- ing the OS externum or internum, or the uterine or abdominal ostium of the Fallopian tube. (a) Atresia Vaginalis. — Any part of the vagina may be the seat of an obstruction, but this is found much the most frequently at the vaginal orifice, where the condition is sometimes described as " imperforate hymen," or atresia hymenalis. It has been shown that the hymen in such cases is not usually imperforate, and that this structure can generally be recognised adherent to the outer surface of the obstructing membrane. After puberty vaginal atresia causes retention of menstrual products in the form of hsematocolpos, and, later on, of hfematometra. When the obstruction is near the uterine end of the vagina coitus is possible; but sterility necessarily results, because the spermatozoa cannot reach the uterus. When the atresia affects the lower part of the vagina no sexual intercourse can take place. Treatment consists in incising the obstructing membrane or septum, and excising the part or the whole of it when possible. This at any rate allows of intercourse taking place ; but it is very doubtful whether pregnancy ever follows in a patient who has once been the subject of hsem- atocolpos and haematometra. We have not met with a record of pregnancy under these con- ditions. Sterility is to be expected because, in the first place, atresia vaginalis is not in- frequently associated with under-development in other parts of the genital organs; and in the second place, the uterine mucosa is so altered by the existence of haematometra that it is very doubtful whether it would permit of the develop- ment of the oosperm, even if fertilisation itself occurred. {h) Absence of a Part of the Vagina. — Consider- able variations are met with as to the extent of vaginal deficiency ; and all gradations may exist, from the condition in which only a short portion of vagina is absent to tliat in which practically the whole of it is replaced by a fibrous cord. What has j ust been said as to the probability of sterility after restoration of the patency of the vaginal canal applies with even greater force to cases in which a part of the vagina is absent. For although an artificial vagina may be made surgically, it is usually very unsatisfactory for the purpose of intercourse, and almost always useless as far as impregnation is concerned. (c) Atresia of the Os Internum and Externum. —Such atresia may theoretically be of con- genital origin; but in practice it is nearly always met with as a secondary closure follow- ing inflammatory conditions or the application of strong caustics to the cervix. Hajmatometra results, and the retained products may become septic, so that the uterus is converted into a bag of pus (pyometra). This is especially apt to occur in cases of carcinoma of the cervix. Treatment.—It is necessary in any case to overcome the obstruction and restore the patency of the cervical canal, in order that menstruation may be carried on; or, in cases of pyometra, for the purpose of evacuating the pus. The prognosis in relation to sterility is, however, almost hopeless, because the patho- logical changes caused by the previous inflam- mation or disease are prohibitive of conception taking place. {d) Atresia of the Uterine or Abdominal Ostium of the Fallopian Tube.—Purulent salpin- gitis, whether due to gonorrhoea, to tubercu- losis, or to sepsis, results almost invariably in complete closure of the abdominal orifice of the tube by a sealing-up process. The uterine orifice is not so often closed in this way, but the patency of the uterine end of the tube suffers from infiltration of the tubal wall with inflammatory products, and from the doubling up of the tube on itself. Most cases of this kind are due to gonorrhceal infection, and the result is permanent sterility. This is necessarily the case as long as the abdominal orifice re- mains occluded; and in many instances the health and even the life of the patient demand the removal of the pus-tubes and ovaries. Sterility is then confirmed. In a few cases, when the tube has not been too far disorganised, it has been found possible to make an artificial ostium to the tube; and pregnancy has been known to follow this procedure. But it is obvious that prognosis in relation to a future pregnancy is very bad. Treatment.—We cannot enter here in detail into the treatment of tubal disease, for the subject is a large one, and each case requires to be dealt with on its merits according to the methods described in text-books. It is sufficient to say that there are cases in which it would be right to attempt to restore the function of the tubes by a conservative operation. 2. Defects due to Inflammation of the Lining Membrane.—All the conditions described so far present two features in common: in the first place, they are the cause of inevitable sterility if left untreated ; in the second place, treatment is either entirely or relatively hopeless. The defects to be considered in this section are not an insuperable bar to pregnancy, since this may occur in spite of them ; and proper treatment holds out a fair prospect of the cure of the sterility. We have here to deal with vaginitis, endometritis, and salpingitis. (a) A slight vaginitis is of little or no conse- quence ; but a severer type will prevent con- ception, owing to the injurious effect of the pathological secretions on the vitality of the spermatozoa. Moreover, vaginitis will usually cause dyspareunia, with the result that inter- course does not take place.