SMALLPOX 223 makes it plain that the virus multiplying in the body of a smallpox patient is conveyed directly or indirectly to a predisposed individual and infects that person. The contagion is exhaled from the skin and lungs of the patient, is pro- bably contained in secretions and excretions, and beyond doubt it adheres to clothing, and articles, and places with which the patient may have come into contact. Hence, the attendants may convey infection, or it may be received by entering a house from which the patient has been removed. The patient may communicate the disease from the initial stages of his illness up to the completion of convales- cence, and the bodies of the dead also convey infection. But experi- ence points to the suppurative stage as the most dangerously liable to spread infection. The contagium of smallpox operates at a far greater distance than that of any of the other forms of infectious disease, and this volatility of the poison is one of the most important and diffi- cult matters to be dealt with in the prevention of this disease. The following example which came under the writer's notice in 1886 illus- trates this point, and serves also to prove the impossibility of domestic isolation unless every person within the range of infection is protected by vaccination: A girl, nineteen years of age, contracted smallpox at her place of business, and when taken ill went to her home at 94 B. Street, where she died on the twelfth day of illness, the Registrar's certi- ficate being the first intimation to the health authorities. There was no smallpox known in the district prior to this. Although the family at 94 B. Street were new-comers to the district, and had but few ac- quaintances, yet within the next ten days following upon the girl's death, no less than 38 cases of smallpox were found in the immediate neigh- bourhood of this house and were removed to hospital, the stage of the illness of each of these cases proving that they had been infected dur- ing the time the girl lay ill at No. 94; their locality served to identify still further the source of infection. Facts such as these also indicate the necessity for care in the selection of the site for smallpox hospitals {see p. 236). Symptoms and Course op the Disease.—In- cubation.—Between the moment that a person is infected with smallpox and the consequent outbreak of the disease there is a period of in- cubation during which there are no definite symptoms of illness, although occasionally there may be languor and malaise. This period is singularly constant in every case of smallpox, whether modified or not. In every instance in which it can be fixed with precision the period is almost invariably found to be twelve days, or, to be more precise, twelve times twenty-four hours. The intensity of the infection of small- pox is such that one single brief exposure usu- ally results in infection, and hence it happens that the duration of incubation in this disease is accurately known. A margin of variation of a few hours in the onset of the initial rigors may be accounted for by the hour of exposure not being definitely ascertained. Fig. 1.—Mona W., aged 7. Au unvacciiiated child. Illustrates variula dibcicta, at the twelfth day of the disease. Invasion.—-At the termination of twelve days from the time of infection the invasion of the disease commences with sudden onset. It is characterised by rigors, sickness, intense head- ache, and severe pains in the back and limbs, accompanied by rapid rise of temperature, which reaches 103°, 104°, or even 105° within twenty- four hours. The aspect of the patient at this stage is indicative of serious illness, his condition usually being one of complete prostration. In the case of infants and young children this initial stage is often ushered in with convulsions. The symptoms of invasion are liable to vary in intensity, and are not all always present in the same degree. In one patient headache is