SENILE INSANITY 125 may, in a proportion of uncomplicated cases, terminate in recovery, the person returning to a normal senility. This is especially the case in the milder forms of mania and melancholia. This recovery may be effected even in very old persons, and generally takes place within four to six months of the onset of symptoms. The usual course is, however, for the more acute symptoms to pass off and to leave a more or less marked degree of enfeeblement. This may, however, be so slight that the patient may be said to have recovered in many cases, though it may incapacitate him from any active vocation. About one-fourth of cases terminate in this modified recovery, and are enabled to pass the remainder of their lives quietly at home. The longer the duration of the psychosis the greater the tendency to marked dementia and death. Death results in about one-fourth of cases within a year from exhaustion or inter- current affection. Apoplectiform symptoms are of very serious import, and few patients survive the second or third seizure. Treatment.—(a) General.—The first point to be considered is whether the case can be kept at home or whether removal to an asylum is necessary. There can be no doubt that most cases of senile insanity, including the large majority of cases of dementia, can be satis- factorily treated at home. The habits of life of the patient have become stereotyped to his surroundings, and removal from them in many cases hastens the dementia. It is only where the excitement and noise are great, or where some special symptom, such as violence to those attending him, or sexual perversion, exists, or where delusions of suspicion against his relatives are present that it becomes necessary to separate him from his old surroundings. The means at the disposal of his friends must, however, be considered, and there is no doubt that modern asylum infirmaries provide excellent nursing and means of care and treatment. In the early stages, when the patient has considerable will power, and where he is unamenable to manage- ment by friends, it may be necessary to advise removal until the weakening of these factors renders a return to home possible. In the toxic cases of the delirium of collapse, the short course of the illness, even though the symptoms are very acute, renders it advisable to try home treatment, or to explain to his relatives that the delirium is frequently the precursor of death, which may occur within a very few days or weeks. In this class of case the nearest asylum is the best, as any prolonged journey undoubtedly hastens the end. It is probable that as the pathogenesis of these cases comes to be more fully determined, that direct treatment by means of the equivalent antitoxines may be adopted. In home treatment, the first essential is a good nurse or nurses. Females, with their greater kindliness and tact, are preferable, and even in cases where heavy lifting, or some special point such as catheterisation, renders a male attendant necessary, it is often valuable to have supervision by a trained female nurse. In many cases relatives will answer well during the day, and if the nocturnal exacerbations are marked, the trained attendant may then be employed. In restless cases who wander un- easily about the room, constant guidance is necessary to prevent a fall and possible fracture. The rooms should be well aired and ventilated, and all excess of furniture should be removed. The clothing should be warm, and at night specially made flannel or woollen garments fitting moderately closely are necessary. These may be made fastening down the back, so that the patient cannot easily divest himself of them. The food should be light and easily digested, and special attention should be directed to find at what hours it is best given in each particular case. Little and often is frequently advisable. The last diet at night should be non-stimulating, and one of the cereal foods serves the purpose well. In all cases there should be frequent and repeated examination of the stools for evidence of any fermentation, and especially when the diet is a farinaceous one. When foetor in the motions is present, salol or salicylate of quinine is frequently beneficial. Night alimentation in wakeful cases often causes quiet rest to be obtained. Where food is refused, it is best to begin forced feeding early. Peptonised milk or gruel may be given at intervals by the oeso- phageal tube, or nutrient enemata may be tried. Alcohol may be used in moderate amount if it does not cause excitement or flushing of the face; given warm at night, it often acts as an excellent hypnotic. Where there is constipa- tion, saline purgatives may be given in small doses daily ; but all aperients should be given with caution, and especially in females enemata will often be found preferable. In cases with pareses of the lower bowel and sphincters, lavage of the rectum with large quantities of warm water, injected about 15 ounces at a time and allowed to flow out by a return tube, often gives great relief from the troublesome and repeated motions from incontinence, and may be followed by some hours' quiet sleep. Sleep should be permitted in all senile cases at whatever hour of the day. Tonics such as the compound syrup of the hypophosphites may be employed to keep up the general nutrition, and cod-liver oil is also valuable. In cases of forced feeding as much as one ounce three times daily may be well borne and absorbed. Strophanthus and digitalis in suitable cases, by improving the state of the circulation, will often be found to benefit the mental symptoms gTeatly. (b) Particular.—The neuroses with vascular