SKIN—PARASITES 198 it used to be erroneously called, but now known to be due to pus cocci) in its rapid spread, multiple foci, and chiefly the boggy, nodular swellings. In eczema of the beard the process is acute, more superficial, and accompanied by serous exudation; at times vesicles can be observed ; it is a more uniform patch in appearance, and the skin betiveen the hairs is invaded, dififering in this respect from the pustular folliculitis of tinea. Etiology.—The disease frequently starts after being shaved at the barber's. The fons et origio mali is the brush, and not the razor. The disease may also be contracted from animals (cattle chiefly). Treatment.—It is exactly the same as for Kerion, which see. Tinea unguium has already been dealt with by me under "Affections of the Nails," vol. vi. Suffice it to say in this place that any long-standing deformity of one or more nails, with roughness, irregularity of the surface, brittleness, and so forth, together with an asymmetrical distribution, should make one suspicious of ringworm. A further point in the diagnosis would be the rebelliousness of treatment. A previous diagnosis by another, tiiat the condition was "constitutional," should, of course, not be accepted without further in- vestigation. I have seen the disease occur in two sisters, aged about forty, in whom it had existed for twenty years and more. In both it commenced in the same finger-nail. The cause had never been discovered until I took the trouble to examine some nail-scrapings, and found the fimgus, a thing any one might have done. I was able to cviltivate the trichophyton megalo- sporon endothrix from one of these cases. But trich. meg. ectothrix has been more frequently found. The nails are sometimes affected in old tinea tropica cases. Treatment and so forth {vide loc. cit. supra). Tinea cruris seu axillaris {Tinea tropica; Eczema 7narginatum). See p. 190. Tinea Versicolor. — {Pityriasis versicolor ; Chloasma (old style); Kleienjiechte.)—This dis- ease, which is due to a fungus, microsporon furfur, occurs in patches of various shades of fawn and sepia brown, usually situated on the trunk. The patches may be small, discrete, and few in number, but it is more usual for them to occupy large, irregularly but well- outlined areas about the chest and back, owing to the fact that the disease, giving very little, if any, trouble, is allowed to spread unchecked. In some cases a great part of the trunk may be occupied by a sheet of discoloration, with numer- ous satellite spots beyond, thrown out like out- posts. In this way it may spread to the limbs and neck, but it is very rarely seen on the face in this country. The latter situation is, how- ever, more common among the natives of India, according to Arthur Powell, who kindly sent me scrapings, in which I was able to demon- strate the typical fungus exactly as it is seen in this country. Cultivation on maltose agar gave a fluffy white growth, very aerial, without any special arrangement; but some doubt having been expressed by so good an observer as Col- cott Fox, I cannot be dogmatic on the point of genuineness of the growth. In some instances the colour has been so dark as to deserve the name of pityriasis nigra (from Willan and others), but Hebra considered that condition was the pigmentation of chronic pedi- culosis corporis (see article on " Pediculosis," vol. vii.). Leitz, when at Honolulu, pointed out that the coloured races presented a white or grey discoloration of the skin. It usually occurs in adults, but it has been seen in a boy of about eight (Sidney Phillips). It has frequently been observed in the phthisical, but this is probably due to the sweating. I have seen it recur again and again in a case of rheumatoid arthritis, no doubt for the same reason. People who have a rather greasy skin, and wear thick vests night and day (a not un- common, but unhealthy and uncleanly habit), have appeared to be more prone to it. The disease is contagious, but not in a marked degree, as man and wife may not contract it one from the other after years of cohabitation. Diagnosis.—Fawn or sepia brown patches on the trunk should suggest the idea of tinea versi- color. The discoloration is not a true pigmenta- tion, but when the parts are scraped with a scalpel or with the nail, the discoloration dis- appears. The examination of these scrapings in a little liq. potassse will reveal the presence of the parasite, viz. shortish mycelial elements, with clumps of rounded spores, usually with a central dot, here and there in the preparation. These clumps are characteristic. Differential Diagnosis.—Owing to the dis- coloration, and especially when there are numer- ous discrete small patches, cases have been erroneously taken for syphilis and treated as such. This is due to leaning on one symp- tom exclusively, apparent pigmentation, without looking for corroborative evidence of lues. This mistake should never be made. True chloasma is in the skin, and should not offer any difficulty. Leuco-melanoderma is also a true pigmenta- tion (melanoderma), followed by depigmentation (leucoderma), the white contrasting parts en- croaching on the dark skin. This condition is symmetrical, affects the hands, wrists, and neck chiefly, but also other parts (face, and so forth). The mode of development should also be taken into account. Pityriasis rosea in its declining stage some- times leaves very faint fawny discoloration