321 SPRUE but in all probability it is due to a sudden change upon the economy caused by marked atmospheric changes in the temperature, in the barometric pressure, and in the humidity. The action of the skin being checked, partly by the fall in temperature at high altitude, and partly by the increased humidity, extra work is thrown upon other excretory organs which, until the balance is adjusted, may show itself in increased excretory activity of the lungs, the kidneys, and the intestines. There may be some further direct cause for hepatic insufficiency and portal congestion which determines the flux being in- testinal. The height at which hill diarrhoea is observed is anything from 1000 to 10,000. When the complaint was first recorded an elevation of 6000 was the lowest level at which it was stated to appear, but during recent years hill diarrhoea has been observed at much lower levels. The writer observed that many residents near the seashore in Hong-Kong had diarrhoea for a week or two on taking up their abode at about 1000 feet above sea-level. Other theories of causation have been advanced. The un- filtered and unsettled water from mountain streams in the Himalayas are stated to contain fine particles of mica and grit, and to the mechanical irritation produced by these hill diarrhoea has been attributed. So far, there- fore, a climatological and mechanical explana- tion has been sought, but the cause may belong to bacteriological or other factors, of which at present, however, nothing is known. Signs and Symptoms. — Immediately upon reaching an altitude of, say, a few thousand feet above a tropical plain, some persons are liable to be attacked by a looseness of the bowels characterised by several peculiar and distinctive features. The stools begin usually about 4 a.m., and between that hour and noon some six or seven stools occur. The patient wakes sud- denly with an intense desire to go to stool. The motion is attended by a sense of relief, and with but little griping or tenesmus. Stools are repeated, it may be every hour up to say 11 A.M., and they then cease for the rest of the day, to recur only in the early morning of the following day. With almost mathematical regularity do these stools appear for days, or even weeks, until, in fact, the patient becomes acclimatised, or until he seeks relief by return- ing to the plains. The motions vary in con- sistence, being at times watery, but more often of a thicker, pasty character, and of a dirty white or pipe-clay appearance. Flatulence and dyspepsia are marked accompaniments of the troublesome diarrhoea, the abdomen becoming prominent and flabby from gaseous distension of the stomach and intestines. Diagnosis.—The sudden appearance of pipe- clay loose motions occurring during the earlier part of the day when a high, or fairly high, altitude is reached, and disappearing when VOL. IX lower levels are revisited, serve to sufficiently distinguish hill diarrhoea from other forms of intestinal flux. Prognosis.—After a week or two hill diarrhoea may disappear spontaneously, the patient be- coming acclimatised; on the other hand, the complaint may require the patient to return to the plains, owing to persistence of the symp- toms, and to the development of considerable debility. In some cases sprue has been observed to result from hill diarrhoea. Treatment by rest, diet, and drugs affords relief in some cases. A milk diet is usually prescribed, and with occasionally excellent re- sults. Several aids to digestion, such as pepsine, lactopeptine, acids, peptonised foods, etc., are beneficial; and Crombie {Indian Medical Gazette, Dec. 1880, May 1892) advocates well-diluted drachm doses of liquor hydrargyri perchloridi after meals. Spurious.—False, imaginary, or bastard ; e.g. in such terms as false or spurious labour pains and spurious pregnancy (pseudocyesis). See Pseudocyesis ; Ovaries, Diseases of {Ovar- ian Tumours, Diagnosis). Sputum. See Expectoration and Ex- pectorants, See also Asthma {Symptoms); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Etiology, Micro-organisms in Spiitum); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Clinical Varieties, Foetid Bronchitis); Children, Clinical Examination of {Respiratory System, Sputum); Hydatid Disease {Pulmonary Echinococci); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Expectoration); Lungs, Gangrene of {Symptoms); Lungs, Parasitic Affections of {Aspergillosis); Mediastinum {Cancer, Symptoms, Cough); Pneumonia, Clinical {Clinical Features, Sputum). SC|U£LITI£l.—A scale, e.g. of the epidermis ; or scale-like bone, e.g. the squamous part of the temporal bone. Sq U a.in i p i n n es. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Coral Fish or Squamipinnes). S0|U£llT1O-.—In compound words squamo- (Lat. squxima, a scale) means relating to a scale or to a scale-like bone, such as the squamous temporal ; e.g. squamo-sphenoid (belonging to the squamous part of the temporal and to the sphenoid bone), squamo-zygomatic (belonging to the squamous and zygomatic parts of the temporal bone). SC|U£linOUS.—Scale-shaped or scaly, or related to parts which are scale-like; e.g. the squamous suture of the skull (between the squamous temporal and the frontal and parietal bones). Squill.—The sliced bulb of Urginea scilla, a plant of the Mediterranean coast. The most active principle is scillitoxin, and there are also 21