170 SKIN—ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY assist in performing this function, since cold stimulates them to contract, and so the super- ficies is reduced and the loss of heat by con- duction and radiation is diminished. 2. The Function of Respiration.—The skin is capable of eliminating water-vapour and carbonic acid gas, and possibly of absorbing oxygen. The amount of water excreted by the skin in twenty-four hours is almost double that which is eliminated by the lungs. An increase of the temperature of the air causes an increase in the amount of water and carbonic acid gas excreted by the skin. 3. The Function of Secretion.—The fluid secretions of the skin are the sweat and the sebum. (a) The sweat is a watery, clear fluid, with a saltish taste, a peculiar odour, and an acid reaction due to the presence of acid sodium phosphate, except in excessive sweating, when the reaction becomes alkaline. It contains water, salts, fats, volatile fatty acids, cholesterin, and a trace of urea. The excretion of sweat is dependent on two sets of nerves, namely, special excretory nerves, and the nerves of the involuntary muscles of the coils. Special sweat-centres are present in the cord and medulla. The excretion of sweat is stimulated—(1) peripherally by certain drugs, such as pilo- carpine and muscarine; and (2) reflexly and centrally by heat, a venous state of the blood, and such drugs as strychnine; the excretion is diminished by atropine. The sweat not only eliminates certain effete products from the blood and lymph, but it lubricates the skin. (b) The sebum is a semifluid substance con- taining various fats, fatty acids, cholesterin, salts, albuminoids, and water mixed up with epidermic debris and a few horn-cells. No excito-secretory nerves have been demonstrated in connection with the sebaceous glands. The old view that the sebum was mechanically secreted by pressure caused by the contraction of the arrector pili is no longer admitted, and the secretion is now believed to be due to the vis a tergo caused by the continuous elaboration of fat by the sebaceous cells. The secretion of sebum is augmented by an increase in the temperature and the blood-supply to the gland. The function of the sebum is to lubricate the hair. 4. The Sensory Function.—The presence of the peripheral nerve terminations in the skin makes it sensitive to touch, common sensation, pressure, and traction. 5. The Protective Function.—The waxy fat in the stratum corneum gives to the skin the character of a waterproof coating for the body, and also prevents too great evaporation and absorption of toxins or poisonous gases; the close union of the cornified cells enables the skin to resist mechanical injuries, and prevents the entrance of micro-organisms. 6. The Function of Absorption.—As long as the stratum corneum is intact the skin has little absorptive capacity, but if it be abraded absorption by the papillae readily takes place. Neither water nor alcohol, nor substances dissolved in them, are absorbed by the healthy skin, except at the mouths of the follicles and sweat-pores. On the other hand, oils and fats and sub- stances suspended in them are absorbed, and the more nearly allied the fat is to that of the skin the more active is its absorption. The degree of absorption of substances suspended in fats depends on their power of becoming volatilised at a low temperature. If the skin- fat be removed by washing with ether, absorp- tion by the skin takes place more readily. Gases are also absorbed by the unbroken skin. Bacteriology of the Skin General Introduction . . . .170 Bacteria present on the Healthy Skin 171 Bacteria identified with Various Dis- eases OF THE Skin . . . .172 General Introduction. — The more exact our knowledge of dermatology becomes the greater is the role which micro-organisms are found to play in its etiology. Within recent years a number of skin diseases which had previously been vaguely considered to be the result of some peculiar diathesis or idiopathy, have been definitely proved to be parasitic in their origin. Still, in spite of the recent elabor- ate researches and the extensive literature which has collected around the subject, our knowledge of the dermatological flora is very far from being complete. Sabouraud has aptly compared it to an ancient map in which the large countries alone are mapped out, while all within the lines enclosing them is blank and unknown. The study of the bacteria of the skin is complicated and difficult. At one time or another any micro-organism may become deposited on the skin, so that a complete description of the subject would necessitate a reference to almost every known variety of bacterium. Micro- organisms are found in largest numbers in those regions of the skin which are least exposed to friction, such as the axillse, the groins, and the clefts between the fingers, and where the sebaceous glands, which form a suitable soil for the growth of most micro-organisms, are in greatest profusion. For purposes of description the micro-organ- isms of the skin may be divided into two classes, namely, those which are accidentally deposited on the surface and as a rule do no harm, and those which are invariably present, and which find a suitable habitat in the stratum corneum and about the epidermal appendages. The latter class of bacteria as a rule lead a perfectly