SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL CHILDREN, MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF 64 Reference Number of Note. 10. Cleanliness may be stated generally as clean, somewhat dirty, dirty. It must be judged for head and body separ- ately. The skin of the body should be examined for cleanliness, vermin, etc. ; and the hair for scurf, nits, vermin, or sores. At the same time ringworm and other skin diseases should be looked for. 11. General condition and cleanliness of tem- porary and permanent teeth, and amoimt of decay. Exceptional features, such as Hutchinsonian teeth, should be noted. Oral sepsis. 12. The presence or absence of obstruction in the naso-pharynx is the chief point to note. Observation should include mouth- breathing ; inflammation, enlargement, or suppuration of tonsils; probable or ob- vious presence of adenoids, polypi; specific or other nasal discharge, catarrh, mal- formation (palate), etc. 13. Including blepharitis, conjunctivitis, dis- eases of cornea and lens, muscular defects (squints, nystagmus, twitchings), etc. 14. To be tested by Snellen's Test Types at 20 feet distance (= 6 metres). Result to be recorded in the usual way, e.g., normal V. = - . Examination of each eye (R. and L.) should, as a rule, be under- taken separately. If the V. be worse than -, or if there be signs of eye strain or headache, fuller examination should be made subsequently. Omit vision testing of children under six years of age. 15. Including suppuration, obstruction, etc. 16. If hearing be abnormal or such as interferes with class work, subsequent examination of each ear should be undertaken separ- ately. Apply tests only in general way in case of children under six years o f age. Reference Number of Note. 17. Including defects of articulation, lisping, stammering, etc. 18. Including attention, response, signs of over- strain, etc. The general intelligence may be recorded under the following heads :—(a) Bright, fair, dull, backward; (b) mentally defec- tive ; (c) imbecile. Omit testing mental ca2Mcity of children under six years of age. 19. Under the following headings should be inserted pai'ticulars of diseased conditions actually present or signs of incipient disease. The extent of this part of the inspection will largely depend upon the findings under previous headings. 20. Include heart sounds, position of apex beat, anaemia, etc., in the case of anything abnormal or requiring modification of school conditions or exercises. 21. Including physical and clinical signs and symptoms. 22. Including chorea, epilepsy, paralysis and nervous strains and disorders. 23. Glandular, osseous, pulmonary, or other forms. 24. State particular form, especially in younger children. 25. Including defects and deformities of head, trunk, limbs. Spinal curvature, bone disease, deformed chest, shortened limbs, etc. 26. Including any present infectious, para- sitical or contagious disease, or any sequelae existing. At each inspection the occurrence of any such diseases since last inspection should be noted. 27. Any weakness, defect or disease not in- cluded above {e.g. ruptures) specially un- fitting child for ordinary school life or physical drill, or requiring either exemp- tion from special branches of instruction, or particular supervision. I.—Name. Schedule of Medical Inspection. Date of Birth i Address. SchooL II.—Personal History : (a) Previous Illnesses of Child (before admission). Measles. Whooping Cough. Chicken pox. Scarlet Fever. Diphtheria. Other Illnesses.'- (b) Family Medical History (if exceptional).^