367 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF tially nervous in its origin, and the treatment of the sensory, motor, and even the secretory disorders which in varying combination consti- tute " nervous dyspepsia," it is of primary im- portance to take into consideration the general condition of the individual, and not confine attention to the stomach and its misdoings. Indeed, it is veiy often absolutely necessary, in gaining the confidence of the patient, to appear to be disregarding the digestive troubles in endeavouring to disabuse his mind of his "liver being out of order," or of that much-abused organ being the seat of his trouble. Such patients are commonly full of notions as to the nature and cause of their malady, and are very apt to neglect all advice that does not fit in with their preconceived ideas, and consider their case is not properly understood unless something is done to " touch " their " sluggish liver." The widespread advertisements of pills and nostrums for the cure of all digestive troubles fosters their erroneous conceptions, and their self-dosing does much to make their illness more difficult to treat. Hence it is that not only in attending to the general condition of the patient must such conditions as chlorosis or other underlying perversions of nutrition receive careful treatment, but the habits and occupation, with the mental and emotional state of the individual, be investigated, as well as the existence of neurasthenia or other nervous dis- ease, and, if need be, corrected. Quite as much good may be done in these directions by change of scene, a rest from work, and other such measures, as by remedies specially directed to the stomach itself. As contributing to the general treatment, it is very desirable that the sufferers from nervous dyspepsia should be kept warm, and that their clothing should be suitable and sufficient for the limbs as well as for the trunk. Such patients are liable to suffer much from cold feet and hands and to specially "feel the cold," and such an indication must be met by application of warmth or by the prevention of loss of heat by their apparel. A woven or flannel abdominal belt is a very useful adjunct to the ordinary underclothes, and night-socks or hot-water bottles to the feet or belly afford much relief and materially assist the circulation. Hot fomentations or similar applications are of the greatest service in severe paroxysms of gastric pain, and should be employed whatever else may be done. Whilst on general hygienic grounds it may be advisable to recommend moderate and regular exercise, it must be remembered that the sub- jects of the malady under consideration are very likely to be easily tired, and that fatigue generally favours neuropathic manifestations. Caution, therefore, is necessary as to the degree and character of the exercise to be taken, and anything like exhaustion must be avoided. In- deed, it is frequently well to order, if only as a preliminary or adjunct to other treatment, a partial or complete " rest cure." Resting before and after a meal should bo carefully observed. Among the errors of living in such cases is a walk home, after a day's office or other work, before dinner. Early rising and cold bathing, whatever may be their merits for others, are not suitable for the nervous dyspeptic, who may often be recommended to breakfast in bed so as not to start the day tired. At the same time, restrictions must be put upon the engage- ments and entertainments later in the day, when such patients are often at their best and feel quite fit for considerable exertion, although at the cost of exhaustion and increased suffering- next day. All-important, of course, is the question of diet, but at the same time much judgment and discrimitiation are required in laying down rules for it, since it is most desirable that the patient should not be continually thinking of what he should eat or avoid, and should be prevented as far as possible from the habit of introspection upon his condition, whether this refer to his food or to the action of his bowels, both which subjects occupy a large share in the thoughts of many a neurotic man or woman, and, in the writer's experience, more frequently the former. Many is the dyspeptic who, if not self-made, is at least self-continued by the pursuance of some ridiculous dietetic regimen for which he off"ers some reason which is as ignorant as it is absurd. Excellent and essential as a regulated dietary is, both for getting well and for keeping well, the writer ventures to affirm that as many cases of indigestion exist whose cause is as clearly attributable to some course of diet the com- ponents of which may be physiologically with- out reproach, as there are those whose ailment is the direct abuse of dietary prudence ; and the recent introduction of patent foods, extracts, and especially predigested aliments is largely responsible for this result. The idea that this, that, or the other plain, digestible, and nutritious article of food will disagree is with many a fad that has been encouraged, though it must be admitted that idiosyncrasies in respect to the digestibility of ordinary foods are occasionally to be met with, and must be allowed for. Hence in this class of case it is very common to furnish the patient with a written dietary to be followed. Except for special reasons, let the food be as varied as possible, with due regard to its digestibility; and it is a common ex- perience that individuals who are, as the piirase is, " martyrs to indigestion " may partake freely of even a public dinner and feel better rather than worse for the transgression of their self- imposed rules. In a large number of cases, no doubt, where careful examination and the patient's own account have shown the secretory, the motor, or the sen-