531 TEETH members of the series—centrals, laterals, canines, and bicuspids; (2) conical teeth, having no peculiar characteristics. The first are some- times called supplemental teeth, and are found generally in the front of the mouth, either in line with the other teeth outside the arch, or on the palatine side of incisors. In the mandible they are placed on the lingual side of the in- cisors. These supplemental incisors are thought to be just a reversion to the typical number. Extra canines, and three bicuspids on either side, are fairly common ; an extra molar on either side has also been observed. Super- numerary teeth are conical in shape, with a short single root. They are usually found present in the incisor region, between or at the back of them, and sometimes in association with the third molar, especially in the maxilla. Treatment.—If ranged alongside of the other teeth, and the patient is over twenty years of age, it is better to retain them; if, on the other hand, the patient is young, it is better to extract. Teeth situated on the palate, or out- side of the arch, interfering with the tongue or bite, are better removed. Teeth excessive in size, amounting almost to deformity, are met with sometimes, and are frequently an associa- tion of hyperostosis. Irregularities in the position of individual teeth, and abnormalities of the maxilla and mandible, are very common in the present day, and seem to be to a certain extent more prevalent among civilised than among savage races. A great many causes are adduced to account for it; the disuse of one's jaws and teeth, owing to the prevalence of cooking, the early loss or extraction of the primary teeth, or too long retention of them, all influencing more or less vicious arrangements of these organs; while malformations of the maxilla and man- dible may be caused by thumb or tongue suck- ing, mouth breathing, the presence of adenoids, etc., or may be congenital In treating cases of irregularity it is im- portant to know which teeth to extract and which to retain, so as to make room in the arches. As a general rule, with young patients, say from ten to fourteen, the first molars, especially if carious, should be extracted, this being a tooth that almost invariably, sooner or later, is attacked by this disease. In patients from fourteen to eighteen years of age it is better practice to extract the first bicuspid, as the teeth will be more readily and quickly acted on by regulating apparatus. In the case of the incisors, it may be necessary sometimes to ex- tract the laterals ; but of course both ought to be removed, as it would make the arch unsym- metrical if only one were extracted. The prom- inent canine teeth should always be retained, as they are characteristic feature teeth, unless they lie in such a position as to make it im- possible to get them into place in the arch. The temporary canines should also be retained as long as possible, because their successors do not erupt till after the tooth on either side is in place, and are liable to be crowded out if the space is not kept. Another important matter is, not to com- mence at too early an age to treat mechanically such conditions, and also to remember that, provided there is room, the lips and tongue, aided by some help from an intelligent patient, work wonders in bringing into place teeth very badly misplaced. A good method of finding out, before treat- ment, what room will be obtained in the arch, and how the teeth will look, is shown by taking models of both jaws, cutting off from plaster cast the teeth proposed to be extracted, also all the irregular teeth, and refixing them with wax in their normal positions, so as to articulate with the bite. This enables you at once to see how they will look, and what room you have to come and go upon. Irregularities of the Separate Teeth.—Maxil- lary central incisors may bite inside, instead of outside, of the mandibular teeth. A vulcanite plate covering the molars, so as to raise the bite, and compressed hickory wedges, or piano- wire springs, fixed at the back of the misplaced teeth, will speedily remedy this defect. Pro- trusion of these teeth is common, and necessi- tates the extraction of a tooth on either side, and the application of pressure from the front by means of elastic bands, or what is better, piano or gold wire, adapted to the outer surfaces of the teeth, and attached to metal bands round the posterior teeth, and capable of being tightened. The two teeth are sometimes over- lapped, or are arranged at right angles to each other, in which case the operation of torsion may be employed. Forceps are cai'efuUy padded, and the tooth or teeth are carefully twisted into position, being retained there with a splint till fixed. Lateral Incisors.—Irregularities in these teeth are common outside or inside of bite, or twisted on their axes to various degrees. Some oper- ators practise alveolotomy in bad cases of irregu- larity, which consists in making incisions with a saw througli the alveolus on either side of the tooth to be moved, and forcing the tooth with suitable forceps into its proper position, re- taining it there with a plate. Canines frequently erupt considerably out- side of the arch, both generally being affected, and there may be no room for them in the arch. To remedy this in young patients the first molars should be extracted, and the bicuspids retracted by means of a spring plate, etc. The extraction of the first bicuspid in older patients produces more certain and more rapid results. Canines sometimes erupt on the palate, in w^hich case extraction is the only remedy. Bicuspids or molars, if crowded out of the arch, are better