ROSERASH 17 RUBELLA: vol. IX 2 the most difficult in these respects, and even now its character as a distinct disease is some- times denied. It seems to have been known to the Arabian physicians under the name of hhamikah. Little, however, is recorded of its existence until the early part of the eighteenth century, when it was known by the name of Roseola; the term Epidemic Rossalia was subsequently applied. The record of the dis- ease, however, was slight until the middle of the eighteenth century (1758), when the Ger- mans described it under the name of Rubeola. In the middle of the nineteenth century it reappeared in German medical litei'ature under the name of Rotheln, which we, unfortunately, have translated by the popular name of German Measles. Scarcely any term, I think, in medical lan- guage has created so much perplexity and obscurity as the word measles; for it involves inconceivable difficulty through the confusion under one name of four distinct diseases : Rose- rash, Measles, Scarlet Fever, and what I have termed provisionally a Fourth Disease. This uncertainty has no doubt partially arisen from the vagaries of the disease itself; and partially also from inherent difficulties in diag- nosis, by reason of its close resemblance to measles ; but undoubtedly the principal cause has been an erroneous nomenclature, with the result that English measles is confounded with German measles. It was not until the close of the seventeenth century that, mainly through the researches of Sydenham, scarlet fever was differentiated from measles; and at the end of the nineteenth century roserash is still confounded with measles, with scarlet fever, and with the fourth disease. Yet the difficulties are not greater than the differences between typhus and typhoid fevers —a problem ably solved by Jenner in the middle of last century (1849-50) with beneficial results. These four diseases are not varieties of the same species, but are perfectly distinct and definite diseases, notwithstanding the obscuring resemblances which may sometimes appear in " certain " characteristic features. A fundamental law in medicine—the science of our practice enforced by Cullen more than a century ago, but now too frequently ignored —is, that one attack of an eruptive fever entails immunity from a second attack in the same individual during childhood. The " germs " of infectious diseases apparently require a virgin soil for development; a prior attack seems to exhaust the soil, or to transform it chemically by the products of their growth in such a manner as to render it incapable of furnishing a suitable nidus for the reproduction of the germs. The law is so pervading—for the insignificant exceptions may be regarded as scientific curiosities only—that for the practical guidance of our work it may be adopted as an absolute and invariable rule. Each disease, moreover, has its characteristic seed, entirely sui generis ; although microphytes may bear some relation to saprophytes in their origin. But a curious fact, at present inexplicable, in the life-history of these zymotic diseases is, that the growth of some germs in the body seems to produce so essential an alteration in the soil as to facilitate the immediate fertilisa- tion and development of the germs of other diseases. For example, the concurrence, or sequence, of measles and whooping-cough, of scarlet fever and diphtheria, and of measles and diphtheria, is well recognised. Etiology.—(i.) P7-edisposing Causes.—1. Age. —Some authors assert that the disease is most prevalent in young children. In my experience, on the contrary, the sufferers are usually adol- escents and adults. I have very rarely observed the disease in infants, or in children in the nursery; only occasionally in private schools, where the ages range from nine to thirteen years; and when it occurs at the public school age, thirteen to nineteen years, the elder rather than the younger boys have been attacked. After searching my record of one hundred new boys, taken consecutively, I find that twenty- eight have had, and seventy-two have not had this disease before their entrance to Rugby School at the age from thirteen to fourteen years. 2. Sex.—Each sex is equally liable. 3. Season.—The disease appertains to spring and early summer ; out of 275 cases which I tabulated in 1896, all but four occurred be- tween March and July. And it becomes epi- demic every five or six years. (ii.) Exciting Causes. — 1. Contagion. — Ru- bella is one of the acute infectious diseases depending upon a specific virus arising from germs which, so far as I am aware, have not yet been isolated. 2. Mode of Communication.—The channel of extension is personal intercourse, and, when once started in a susceptible community, the disease spreads as rapidly and widely as measles —if, indeed, its speed and range be not greater. My experience is that even if isolation be adopted on mere suspicion, and without waiting for definite evidence, the disease will spread. Varieties.—Until the year 1900, from want of actual proof to the contrary, I believed that there were simply two varieties of this disease : one in which the eruption resembled that of measles, the other in which it simulated scarlet fever. But I am now convinced that only one form exists, namely, that in which the eruption is of the measles type ; while the scarlet fever variety is a distinct disease, which I have pro- visionally termed a " Fourth disease." Abortive cases are frequent, and are re-