58 SCHIFF'S TEST SchifF'S Test.—This name is given to four different tests, one of which is for the detection of carbohydrates in urine, another for the detection of cholesterine, another for urea, and another for uric acid. Schindylesis.—A variety of synarthro- dia! joint in wliich the edge of one bone {e.g. the rostrum of the sphenoid) articulates with the cleft of another {e.g. the vomer). Sc il i n Z n ac h. See Balneology {Switzer- land., Sulphur Waters). SchistO-.—In compound words schisto- or schizo- (Gr. o-;(i^a), I split) means cleft or divided ; e.g. schistorrhachis (spina bifida), schizo- genesis (reproduction by fission), etc. SchistOCepiialUS. — A teratological type characterised by fissure of the cranium ; e.g. there may be a median fissure of the face splitting the head in two {schistocephalus bifidus of Gurlt), or there may be hare-lip {schisto- cephalus jissilabrus). SchistOCOeiia.—A teratological type in which there is a split condition of the ab- domen with extroversion of the viscera. SchistOCOrmuS.—A teratological type in which there is a defect in the wall of the body cavities (abdominal or thoracic) ; e.g. schistocormus exomphalus (congenital umbilical hernia), schistocormus fissiventr alls (gastroschisis), schistocormus Jissisternalis (ectopia cordis); and schistocormus fissicollis (fissure of the neck). SchistOCyte.—A blood corpuscle in a process of segmentation, or a poikilocyte; schistocytosis is that condition of necrobiosis of the blood in which there is fragmentation of the cells. SchistOgiOSSia.—Congenital fissure of the tongue. SchistoproSOpuS. — A teratological condition consisting in the presence of a facial cleft. Sch istOSOm U m.—A variety of parasite belonging to the trematodes; e.g. the schisto- somum hwmatohium or the schistosomum bovis s. crassum. See Parasites {Trematodes). ScllistOSOmuS.—A teratological type in which there is a fissure of the body cavity, aflecting usually both the thorax and the abdomen. Schistotracheius. fissure of the neck. Congenital SchiZObiepharia.—A congenital cleft of the eyelid, or coloboma palpebrarum. Schizomycetes.—Fungi or bacteria which multiply by fission, the cleft-fungi. See Micro-Organisms {^Bacteria). SchlafSUCllt.— The German medical term for abnormal sonuiolency. Schiang^enbad. See Balneology {Germany); Mineral Waters {Thermal). Sciliang'e'S Sig^n.—The presence, in cases of intestinal obstruction, of dilatation of the bowel above the site of obstruction, and the absence of peristaltic movements below it. Schieich'S iViixture. See Anes- thesia {Mixtures of Ether and Chloroform); Anaesthesia {Local Anaesthesia, Infiltration). Schiemm'S Canal.—The circular canal found at the corneo-scleral junction of the eye, by which the aqueous humour communi- cates with the scleral veins; sinus venosus sclera;. Schlosing^'s Method.—A method of estimating the amount of ammonia in urine by adding lime. See Urine, Pathological Changes IN {Ino7-ganic Constituents, Ammonium). Schmidt's Method. —A clinical method of demonstrating functional intestinal disturbances by giving a fixed and special diet, and testing whether the resulting fseces undergo fermentation when mixed with water and placed in a fermentation-tube at 37° C.; in normal circumstances no fermentation should take place, but when the digestion of starch is faulty it does. Schmidt's Test.—The static test of live birth founded upon the absolute weight of the lungs, it being known that lungs which have breathed weigh more than those which have not, but it is unreliable; Fodere's Test. Schneiderian Membrane.—The mucous membrane of the nose, so named after Conrad Victor Schneider, anatomist (b. 1614, d. 1680). Schoenlein's (or Schonlein's) Disease.—Purpura, or peliosis rheumatica. See Purpura {Arthritic). Schoiler's Method.—A method of inducing premature labour by plugging the vagina. Schools and School Children, Medical Examination of. 1. Introductory and Historical . . 59 2. Scope and Nature of Medical In- spection . . . . . .61 3. Practice of Medical Inspection . 62 4. Results of Medical Inspection . 65 5. Duties of the Medical Officer of Schools ...... 65 6. Literature ..... 66