SULPHITE 422 Sulphite. See Sulphurous Acid. SulphO-.—111 compound words sulpho- means containing sulphur or related to sul- phur ; e.g. sulpho-bacteria (organisms containing sulphur), mljjho-carbolic acid (acid produced by action of sulphuric acid on phenol), etc. SulphOCyanideS. *S'ee Kidney, Surgi- cal Affections of [Tumours, Diagnosis, Sulpho- cyanide in Saliva); Trades, Dangerous {Lead Poisoning, Symptomatology, Saliva). Sulphona.1. See also Drug Eruptions (Sulphonal); HiEMATOPORPHYRiNURiA [Sulphonal Poisoning); Hypnotics; Toxicology {Organic Poisons, Sulphonal). — Dimethyl - methane - di- ethylsulphone. A symmetrically prepared sub- stance, produced by the oxidation of a mixture of ethyl-mercaptan and acetone. It is soluble 1 in 450 of cold, and 1 in 15 of boiling water. Dose—10-30 grs. It is a hypnotic, and does not have any untoward effects if given in moderate doses. On account of its insolubility it does not usually act for two or more hours, and its action may sometimes be undesirably prolonged. It is not so powerful as chloral, but more powerful than paraldehyde. It is very useful in functional nervous insomnia, and in mental disturbance associated with sleepless- ness. It is useless when pain is the cause of the absence of sleep. If taken in large doses over long periods it produces general nervous and digestive disturbances, and sometimes also hsematoporphyrinuria. The establishment of a sulphonal habit is rare, but not unknown. Sul- phonal has been used with some success in chorea, and to relieve spasms and cramps of muscles in fractures of the limbs. Sulphur. See also Diet {Mineral Constit- uents); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Actino- mycosis, Diagnosis); Mineral Waters {Sul- phated); Pigments of the Body {Melanins); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Neutral Sul- phur).—Symbol, S. Atomic weight, 31-8. It is official in two forms :—1. Sulphur Sublimatum. Flowers of sulphur. Dose—20-60 grs. Prejmra- tions—(1) Confectio Sulphuris. Dose—60-120 grs. (2) Unguentum Sulphuris. It is also con- tained in Compound Liquorice Powder. 2. Sul- phur PrvECipitatum. Milk of Sulphur. A soft powder, not gritty like sublimed sulphur. Dose —20-60 grs. Preparation—Trochisci Sulphuris, 5 grs. in each. Externally, sulphur is a mild vascular stimulant to the skin, and a parasiticide. In scabies it should be applied copiously, after a hot bath and vigorous rubbing with a rough towel, for three nights in succession. Mild sulphur preparations are used for acne and some other skin diseases. Internally, sulphur is an excellent mild laxative, producing a soft, easy evacuation without pain. It is to be recom- mended for constipation in children, and in adults who suffer from piles or anal fissure. Its usefulness in bronchitis, rheumatism, sciatica, etc., is open to doubt. Many mineral waters owe part of their action to sulphur and sulphides, and sulphur baths have a considerable reputa- tion for eczema and gouty skin troubles. PoTASSA Sulphurata, Calx Sulphurata, and Sulphuris Iodidum (from which is pre- pared an official ointment) have all been used externally in scabies and other skin diseases. Sulphuretted Hydrogren. See Breath {Character); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symptomatology, Flatu- lence) ; Toxicology {Gaseous Poisons, Sulphur- etted Hydrogen). Sulphuric Acid. *S'ee a^so (Esophagus {Inflammation, Causes); Pigments of the Body and Excreta {Hcematin in Urine); Toxicology {Inorganic Poisons, Mineral Acids). — H^SO^. A heavy, colourless liquid of an oily consistence, known as vitriol. It is a powerful irritant and escharotic, dehydrating and carbonising the tissues. Preparations—Acidum Sulphuricum Dilutum. Dose—5-20 m. It is contained in Infusum Rosse Acidum. 2. Acidum Sulphuri- cum Aromaticum. " Elixir of Vitriol." Dose —5-20 m. It is contained in Infusum Cin- chonse Acidum. Externally, strong sulphuric acid may be used as a caustic for sores, warts, etc.; but other substances are generally pre- pared for such purposes. Internally, in addition to possessing the actions common to the dilute mineral acids, it is of great service in serous diarrhoea and in cholera, especially if combined with a vegetable astringent. Sulphuric acid is also used in lead poisoning, and lemonade con- taining sulphuric acid may be consumed by those exposed to poisoning by lead, the ob- ject being the formation of the insoluble lead sulphate. In combination with belladonna, it has been found of value in the night-sweats of phthisis. Sulphuric Ether. See also An«- thesia and An/ESTHEtics.—Ether is prepared from ethylic alcohol by interaction with sulphuric acid. It is a colourless, volatile, inflammable liquid with a characteristic odour. Dose—10- 30 m. (repeated) ; 40-60 m. (single dose). Pre- p)arations—1. J^ther Purificatus. The ethylic alcohol is removed by washing. 2. Spiritus ^theris. Dose—20-90 m. 3. Spiritus ^Etheris Compositus. Hoffman's anodyne. Dose—20- 90 m. Externally, ether may be used as aa analgesic in neuralgia. For freezing the skin in minor operative procedures it has been super- seded by ethyl chloride. Internally, it is ad- ministered as a carminative in colic and flatu- lence. Given hypodermically (10-30 m.), it is an excellent and rapidly acting cardiac stimulant in collapse, fainting, cardiac failure, and other emergencies. A few inhalations of ether will