SYPHILIS 461 secondary symptoms always follow inoculation with syphilis, though thej' may be readily over- looked in slight cases, and they usually, but not always under appropriate treatment, give place to a further sequence of chronic inflam- matory changes which together make up the tertiary stage of the disease. This division of syphilis into primary, secondary, and tertiary stages was first adopted by Philippe Ricord (1800-1889). It is convenient for descriptive and therapeutic purposes, but it has no claim to scientific accuracy, and it is not clinically correct, for, as in all other infective diseases, the signs and symptoms of the various stages are often coexistent, and thus blend insensibly one with another. Inoculation.—The inoculation of syphilis, so far as is known at present, can only take place upon a surface deprived of its surface epithelium in such a manner as to expose the intra-epi- thelial lymphatic system. When the culture is pure the abrasion heals readily, and for some time there is nothing to alarm the patient or make him suspect that he has contracted so far-i-eaching a disease. More frequently, however, the inoculation has been a mixed culture containing various pyo- genic organisms {see article Venereal Disease), and the abrasion becomes an \ilcer. Primary Syphilis.—Inoculation is followed by an incubation period of varying dui-ation, which ends in the first local manifestation of syphilis or the primary sore. Countless obser- vations have been made as to the duration of this incubation period, partly by clinical obser- vation and partly by the experimental inoculation of syphilitic poison. The mean of these obser- vations, so far as they have been tabulated, gives twenty-five days as the incubation period. This mean, however, is insufficient for pi-actical purposes, and I am in the habit of telling my patients that they must not consider themselves safe until after the expiration of forty days from the date of exposure to infection. The initial manifestation of syphilis varies greatly in appearance. It may be a mere erosion of the surface, it may be a dry papule, or it may be a chancre with an indurated base as in the classical form described by John Hunter, but more often so slightly indurated that it requires some skill as well as experience to distinguish it from a soft sore. The initial manifestation of syphilis is usually single, but too much importance must not be laid upon this point in distinguishing syphilis from other forms of venereal disease, because syphilis may be inoculated simultaneously, either at two or more adjacent parts or at several places in the same body widely separated from each other. The situation of the venereal chancre in the male is usually on the inner side of the foreskin or in the sulcus of the glans penis. The frsenum, the orifice of the foreskin when the prepuce is long and tight, the glans and the meatus as well as the skin of the penis, are often the seat of the sore, whilst the scrotum and anus are not exempt. Chancres of the urethra occur either in the fossa navicularis or at some little distance from the meatus. They are important because the patient may be ignoi'ant of their existence, and attribute his discomfort to an attack of gonorrhoea. The female genitals are said to be liable to infection in the following order: the labia majora, the labia minora, the fourchette, the cervix uteri, the region of the clitoris, the vestibule of the vagina, the urinary meatus, tlie upper commis- sure of the vulva and the vagina. The indura- tion is usually less marked in women than in men, and the initial lesion is often so slight that it passes unnoticed or is looked upon as a simple erosion. The primary sore disappears spontaneously in syphilis, if it be kept clean and free from in- jury. Its duration, however, varies greatly, though it has usually disappeared by the time the secondary symptoms have become well marked. Pathology of the Sore.—The first indication of syphilis is commonly a superficial erosion situ- ated on the internal surface of the prepuce in men, and on the inner side of the labia minora in women. The erosion begins as a dry and slightly raised reddish spot, which soon Ijegins to desquamate but is not painful. The spot is circular at first, but it soon becomes irregular owing to ulceration. The surface of the ulcer is bright coloured, smooth and flat, or very slightly excavated. The discharge is serous and scanty if the ulcer is protected, but it becomes purulent even if it be only slightly irritated. The induration is slight and superficial. Cica- trisation is rapid, and a slightly indurated scar is left, which eventually disappears entirely. The Hunterian chancre or classical "hard sore " first appears as an indurated nodule, the surface of which soon ulcerates as a result of irritation. The edges of the chancre are raised and rounded, and the surface is smooth and covered with a little viscid secretion. In a typical case, when the nodule is pinched up be- tween the finger and thumb, it feels as hard and inelastic as a mass of cartilage ; often, however, the induration is more extensive but less well defined, and the lesion is then called the parch- ment sore. The hard sore is seen most often in the coronary sulcus of the penis near the frse- num, and on the labia majora in women : the parchment sore is more common on the skin of the penis, and in the vulva. Little by little granulations appear, and the sore heals by cicatrisation to form a scar which is often pig- mented, or it may remain as a fibrous nodule perceptible for many years. The mixed chancre is one in which syphilis