THERAPEUTICS: SERUM THERAPY 587 taining (1) one prophylactic dose of 1000 units at Is. 3d.; (2) one therapeutic dose of 2000 units at 2s. 6d.; and (3) one therapeutic dose of 4000 units in 5 c.c. or less at 7s. 6d. Parke, Davis and Co. (Ill Queen Victoria St., London, E.C.) offer two grades of serum diiTering in their potency. For an early case No. 4 of the X or Standard, containing 2000 units at 3s. 2d., may suffice, but it would be better to use the XX or Special at 6s. 2d. For an advanced case two doses of No. 6 XX Special, containing 4000 units, would be necessary, and this costs 9s. 6d. a dose. For very severe cases two doses of No. 8 Special, containing 6000 units in each, at 15s. the dose, would be required. E. Merck of Darmstadt supplies "500-fold" serum in doses of 600, 1500, and 3000 units, and also sends out "1000-fold" serum. Behring's serum is comparatively little used in England, but in the United States the higher grades, Nos. 4, 5, 6, and 7, containing respectively 200, 300, 400, and 500 units in each c.c, are employed. Aronson's serum has ceased to be popular, whilst that of Roux is said to be no longer prepared under his personal supervision. The more potent the serum and the greater the number of antitoxin units contained in a c.c. the better is it adapted for practical purposes. When from 8000 to 12,000 units have to be given, the bulk of the injection is a matter of considerable moment, especially in the case of children, who do not take to frequent or multiple injections kindly. These serums, if kept in a cool place and away from the light, will remain active for a year, but there is always some decadency of potency, and the higher the grade the greater the deterioration. Some makers add an addi- tional number of units to their phials to counteract this tendency. A phial once opened must be used immediately : the portion unused is useless. Dried antidiphtheritic serum is sold by some makers, and the Jenner Institute supplies it in tubes containing 300 units, at 60s. the dozen tubes. It is said to be useful for export, but as the ordinary tubes bear carriage well there seems to be no particular advantage in its employment. In dissolving the scales, from 2 to 3 c.c. of water, which has been boiled and allowed to cool, should be poured into each tube. Care must be taken by shaking and rotating the tube to prevent the scales from caking. The question of dose is very important, and a good deal depends on the stage of the disease in which the patient is first seen. If the treat- ment is commenced on the first day 2000 units will suffice, but if delayed until the second day from 8000 to 12,000 units will be necessary. Putting it in another form, for a mild, that is an early case, in which the exudation is limited and there are no constitutional symptoms, 2000 units is the dose, whilst for more severe cases, those usually seen on the second day, from 8000 to 12,000 units will be required, the exact dose depending on the extent of the exudation and the gravity of the constitutional symptoms. The injection will have to be re- peated within twenty-four, and probably within twelve hours, but if the patient show signs of decided improvement only one-half of the initial dose need be given. As a prophylactic 600 units will suffice. The serum treatment should invariably be resorted to in children, and practically in every case, the only possible exception being in very mild cases in adults. Time is of the utmost importance, and not a moment should be lost. On the first day a dose of 2000 units will secure a result which 50,000 will not effect on the third or fourth. It is useless to wait for the result of a bacterio- logical examination, for that involves loss of valuable time, and it is well known that there are many cases which are clinically diphtheria, but which bacteriologists decline to recognise as such. The serum has no toxic action, and it is better to give too much than too little. In severe cases the patient must be brought rapidly under the action of the drug. This is especially the case when there is broncho- pneumonia as a complication, for then the lungs always contain bacilli in large numbers. Although the general consensus of opinion is in favour of large doses. Professor John H. Musser of Philadelphia claims that he has obtained good results from small and frequently repeated doses, especially in children. For children imder eight he gives 500 units, re- peated every six hours, whilst for children over eight he gives 1000 units, and repeats it at intervals of from six to eight hours. Toxic effects sometimes follow the injection of the serum, but they are rarely of importance. They commonly assume the form of a rash, which may be urticarial or erythematous. Sometimes it is scarlatiniform, or it may be like the rash of measles. The urticaria may attack not only the skin but the mucous membranes, giving rise to vomiting and diai'rhoea, and even urethritis. As there is usually some pain in the joints with elevation of temperature, there may be a difficulty in diagnosis. The antitoxin rash usually appears on the eighth day, is seldom seen before the sixth day, and rarely appears after the eighteenth. The occurrence of the rash bears no relation to the amount of antitoxin injected. The serum itself is not toxic, and these untoward symptoms are due to impurities. It is said that with some serums thei-e is never any rash. In one instance in the United States a batch of antidiphtheritic serum in the process of manufacture became contami- nated with tetanus bacillus with disastrous consequences. The administration of the serum does not contraindicate the use of local measures, and