STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 368 soi-y functions of the stomach to be really im- paired, then a regulated diet must be insisted on. When a state of supersecretion or hyperchlor- hydria exists, the more the food is confined to simply lean meat with a very small amount of rusk or dry biscuit and hot water, or very weak tea without sugar, between meals, the better. A milk diet for a few days will often suitably precede this plan. The digestion of other alimentary principles is clearly defective in such a condition, just as in the opposite state of hyperchlorhydria proteids should be avoided and a carbohydrate dietary adopted. It is well also in this condition to encourage the taking of salt, as this is the source of the deficient acid. In other neurotic disturbances it is well to aim at returning to ordinary meals at the usual times, and this course may be soon re-established even in patients who seem the most resistent. It need not be said that obviously indigestible articles—pastry, nuts, cheese, pickles, etc.—be eliminated from what is taken, at least at first. Very considerable assistance to digestion may be given by the administration of hydrochloric acid, immediately before or after meals, in those conditions when this is shown to be deficient, and particularly when there is flatulence and eructations from faulty carbohydrate digestion, with cardialgia from the presence of an excess of organic acids. The uncertainty as to the variations in the amount of pepsin secreted, and its not corresponding with alterations in the hydrochloric acid produced, render the ad- ministration of this agent less certain, and rules for when it should be given are not easy to formulate unless analysis has clearly shown its deficiency. It certainly is not so generally useful as is the acid. The writer has found a very satisfactory way of giving pepsin is in the form of Benger's liqvior pepticus, one or two teaspoonfuls before meals in a couple of ounces of Liebig's beef tea as ordinarily made and allowed to become tepid, not being taken hot. Ten or fifteen drops of dilute hydrochloric acid may also be added to this. The Liebig's extract furnishes the material from which the gastric glands in great measure elaborate their secretion. When there is hyperchlorhydria the giving of acid is clearly inadmissible, and alkalies, soda and potash salts, are indicated. Although giving relief to the symptoms, it is only of a temporary character; and, far from curing the underlying secretory fault, they really tend to intensify it. Preparations of atropin or bella- donna, with the dietetic measures indicated, are of the most value for this condition. For the pain and other sensory disturbances, as also for vomiting, sedatives are necessary, such as hydrocyanic acid, preparations of bis- muth, oxalate of cerium, aqua chloroformi, codein, cocain, and morphia. Of these the first three named are most efficiently given in an effervescing mixture, and for milder degrees of discomfort may be sufficient. In the intense agony of some gastralgic attacks, morphia is a necessity, and even then may well be added to the bismuth and hydrocyanic acid. Hot drinks, especially containing a little brandy or peppermint, will sometimes act well, and when the pain is due to pyloric spasm from the irritation of excessive acidity, a full dose of sodium or potassium bicarbonate with a carminative is effective. If vomiting prevents anything being retained in the stomach, a hypodermic injection of morphia or a rectal injection of chloral (gr. xv.) and potassium bromide (gr. xl.) may be given. The need for caution in the administration of morphia is obvious, but it must not be forgotten that when pain is constantly recurring, especially in neurotic subjects, it tends in a great measure to become a " habit" which may be broken quickest by a few daily repeated effective doses of an opiate, concealing if possible from the patient the nature of the remedy given. Topical applications of heat, fomentations, hot bottles, sinapisms, or turpentine stupes are of the greatest service. Supplementary to the local anodynes are those which produce their effect rather as general sedatives—phenacetin, antipyrin, chloral, cannabis indica, hyoscyamin, etc.—and may be advantageously employed. Another group of remedies—antiseptics—for the correction of organic fermentations are not on the whole as effective as might be supposed within the dosage limits of the drug that is permissible. The most commonly employed are creasote, carbolic acid, resorcin, and salicylic acid, the last-named being probably the best. They may be rendered more efficacious if given with essential oils, as of peppermint, rosemary, cajuput, etc., made into a draught with aq. chloroformi, itself an antiseptic. Charcoal in cachet or biscuits is convenient when a pro- longed administration is requisite. Assafoetida in emulsion acts well, and often succeeds when other drugs have failed. For flatulence and gaseous eructations these same agents are used, being given between meals, a draught contain- ing hydrochloric acid and a vegetable bitter preceding the food. General tonics, as quinine, iron, or arsenic, may be called for in improving the general tone in conjunction with such hygienic measures as have been referred to. If the reluctance of the patient can be over- come, lavage is usually beneficial, except perhaps when the gastric digestion is unduly hurried; in all cases of delay in the process it is called for in proportion to the urgency of the symptoms. When impracticable, an emetic, and the en- couragement of vomiting by full quantities of warm water may go some way to replace it. The disagreeables connected with the passage of a stomach tube are soon overcome if the patient will really try, and it is seldom that it is really impossible if the individual is willing