430 SUPER- e.g. superacroniial (above the acromion), super- abduction {excessive abduction), superalimenta- tion (overfeeding), etc. Supercilia.ry.—Above the eyelid, i.e. belonging to the eyebrows ; e.g. the superciliary ridge (the bony prominence of the frontal bone corresponding to the frontal sinus). Superfecundation.—The successive (non-sinmltaneous) impregnation of more than one ovum, possibly by different fathers, at different dates, but within the range of one menstrual period. See Superfcetation ; Preg- nancy, Multiple. SuperflCia.1.—Belonging to the surface, not deep seated ; e.g. the superficial palmar arch (see Arteries, Ligature of), the superficial veins (see Ascites, Signs, Enlargement of Veins), etc. Superfcetation. — A problematical occurrence consisting in the impregnation of a second ovum from the next or some subsequent ovulation, the uterus being already occupied by the gestation sac from the former ovulation; superconception. See Pregnancy, Multiple {Superfcetation); Pregnancy, Affections op Generative Organs {Malformations of Uterus, Double Uterus); Superfecundation. Superheated Steam.—steam the temperature of which is higher than that which corresponds to the pressure under which the steam is formed ; it is used in disinfection. Superimpregrnation.—Thefertilisa tion of more than one ovum, resulting in twin pregnancy ; in a special sense, polyspermy ; this term includes both superfecundation and super- fcetation {q.v.), but should not be regarded as synonymous with either. Superinvolution. — Atrophy of the uterus due to excessive absorption of the tissues of the organ after labour or abortion ; there occurs, as it were, an unusual degree of involu- tion, so that a normal process becomes ab- normal by excess. See Menstruation and its Disorders {Amenorrhoea from Atrophy of the Uterus). Superior.—Lying above another struc- ture, uppermost; e.g. the superior maxilla, the superior meatus of the nose, etc. Supernumerary.—Additional or accessory, excessive; e.g. a supernumerary auricle, supernumerary digits or Polydactyly, etc. See Ear, External, Diseases of {Malfor- mations) ; Deformities ; Heredity ; Hermaph- roditism ; Physiognomy and Expression {Super- numerary Parts). Supination.—The condition of the hand and arm in which the palm looks upward and the radius and ulna are parallel to each other; it is opposed to pronation; the muscles which put the hand and arm in this position are termed supinators, e.g. the supinator brevis and the supinator longus. Supplemental Air.—-Additional or reserve air; e.g., in respiration the term supple- mental is given to the volume of air which can be forcibly expelled after ordinary expiration is completed. See Respiration {Respiratory Rhythm and Rate). Supply. See Ventilation and Warming {Amount of Air); Water {Sources of Supply). Suppository.—Solid, medicated, conical bodies used for introduction into the rectum, vagina, or urethra; as a basis they contain oil of theobroma, rarely cacao butter or gelatin; there are seven official suppositories in the B.P.— those of carbolic acid, tannic acid, belladonna, glycerine, morphine, iodoform, and of lead. See under the various drugs named. See also Prescribing and Methods of Administering Drugs {By Mucous Membranes, Rectum). Suppression.—Stoppage of a secretion, or obstruction to the escape of a discharge or excretion ; e.g. suppression of urine, suppression of the menses, etc. See Urination, Disorders OF {Retention, Anuria). Suppuration. Introduction ...... 430 Nomenclature ..... 431 Etiology ...... 431 Factors connected with the Micro- organism ..... 432 Factors connected with the Host. 433 Acute Circumscribed Abscess 434 Clinical Features .... 439 Diagnosis ..... 441 Treatment ..... 442 Local ...... 442 Constitutional .... 443 Acute Diffuse Abscess .... 445 Subacute Abscess ..... 446 Chronic Abscess ..... 446 Angina Ludovici ..... 447 See also Abdominal Abscess ; Abscess and Cross References; Aneurysm {Complications, Cellulitis and Suppuration) ; Ear, Acute In- flammation of Middle ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration ; Leucocytosis {Ordinary); Liver, Pylephlebitis ; Micro-organisms ; Oxygen iJJses, Suppurating Wounds). Suppuration is the term applied to a process induced by the introduction into a living tissue of an extrinsic excitant which causes at its site a collection of serum and living leucocytes, most of which it kills, together with the tissues involved, as a direct or indirect result of its