112 SCURVY, INFANTILE rather than the absence of antiscorbutic ones (see article "Scurvy in Adults," p. 113); but if this be the case, the mere addition of fresh elements, without change of diet, should fail to cure the disease. How far it does so is a point which calls for further investigation. Cases have even been recorded occurring in breast-fed infants, but they are certainly very rare, and in most of them, at any rate, some special circumstances have been present, such as inadequate supply of milk, or impaired health of the nursing mother. The view here adopted, that the disease under consideration is identical in its nature with the scurvy of adults, what- ever the pathology of the latter may be, has met with general acceptance in this country and in the United States, as is evidenced by the names in ordinary use for it. On the Continent, on the other hand, this is not the case, and the great majority of Continental observers hold either that it is not scorbutic in its nature, or at least that its identity with adult scurvy is non-proven; and this is why the name of Barlow's disease, which makes no such assump- tion as to its nature, has found such wide acceptance among them. No argument adduced in support of the scorbutic theory approaches in cogency that based upon the curative effect of a diet contain- ing fresh elements, such as unboiled milk, orange juice, or raw-meat juice. Although in the most severe cases such a diet is not capable of averting a fatal ending, the effect in milder cases is most striking, and a rapid and con- tinuous improvement under appropriate feeding may be confidently predicted. So uniform, indeed, are the results, that one cannot help regarding with suspicion cases of a less severe kind, diagnosed as examples of infantile scurvy, in which such treatment is without effect. It has been observed that improvement and even recovery may occur apart from any deliberate change of diet, but there is little doubt that a slight change in the conditions, such as a change of milk-supply, may turn the scale in one or other direction. The character of the gum affection and its distribution about such teeth as are present, as also the tendency to haemorrhages in various situations, agree with what is seen in adult scurvy. Those who reject the scorbutic theory are not prepared to take so favourable a view of the effects of antiscorbutic treatment, but the strongest argument which they adduce is based upon the special and very characteristic tendency to subperiosteal haemorrhages in the infantile disease, lesions which, although not unknown in the scurvy of adults, are certainly not of common occurrence. It has also been objected that in countries, such as Russia, in which adult scurvy is not uncommon, the infantile affection appears to be very rare, and that in outbreaks of true scurvy, infants show little liability to suffer. In answer to the first objection, it is urged that the special liability to subperiosteal haemor- rhage may be due to the age of the patients, and to the vascularity of the tissues, which are in a condition of specially active growth. As to the immunity of infants during so-called epidemics of scurvy, further evidence is to be desired. The opponents of the scorbutic view have no satisfactory alternative to offer in its place. For the suggested infective origin of the malady no tangible evidence is forthcoming, and the view that we are here dealing with a haemorrhagic diathesis associated with rickets does not take us appreciably further, especially in view of the fact that cases are met with in which clinical evidences of rickets are wholly wanting. 5. Treatment.—It is impossible to discuss the clinical features and etiology of infantile scurvy without dealing at the same time with the subject of its treatment, and the importance of introducing what Sir Thomas Barlow speaks of as "living" ingredients into the diet. It therefore only remains to give in this final section some details of the dietary which brings about the best results in these cases. Fresh milk should be substituted for any form of prepared milk hitherto given, and if the supply can safely be trusted, there is little doubt that unboiled is to be preferred to boiled milk as the staple food of these patients. How- ever, in view of the limited antiscorbutic pro- perties even of unboiled milk, it is always well to add other fresh elements to the diet, such as raw-meat juice or orange juice or potato cream. The only objection to raw-meat juice is the risk of introducing the ova of tapeworms into the alimentary canal, but this risk can be to a large extent avoided by straining through fine muslin—a precaution which it is always well to take. It is prepared by extracting fresh, uncooked meat, such as best rump steak, with a small quantity of water. Some two ounces of raw meat are scraped into a pulp, to which half an ounce of cold water is added. After standing for an hour, the juice is expressed through fine muslin, and a teaspoonful may be added to the infant's bottle. The juice of oranges is readily obtained and palatable. It may be given in a teaspoon, and may be sweetened if necessary. When oranges cannot be got, the juices of other fruits, such as grapes or lemons, may be used instead, and for children above a year old, well-baked apple may be given in suitable quantity. Potato cream, which is highly recommended as a potent antiscorbutic remedy, is prepared by passing thoroughly steamed potatoes through a fine sieve, and intimately mixing the fine powdery material so obtained with milk, until