SYPHILIS 474 tissue are especially liable to syphilitic osteo- myelitis. Thus there is a syphilitic spine just as there is a tuberculous spine—though it is commoner in the cervical than in the dorsal region,—whilst the bones of the head and face are well known to be particularly susceptible to syphilitic disease. The resulting deformities are olten of very serious import to the patient, for the whole character of his face may be altered by the loss of the bridge of his nose, whilst a marked alteration in the voice may be produced by a syphilitic ulceration of the hard palate. Soft nodes occur on the vault of the skull as a result of a gummatous infiltration, which is laid down between the bone and the dura mater on the inner side, or between the bone and the pericranium on the outer side. Progressive absorption takes place, and the whole thickness of the bone may be removed ; more often only the external or internal plate is disintegrated by a process of serpiginous infiltration, the result of the fusion of several circular gummata. The scalp feels boggy over the affected parts, and occasionally pulsation is felt where the bone is perforated. It is not usual for suppuration or necrosis to occur, and the softened spots should not be incised with the idea of letting out pus. The joints are less often affected in tertiary syphilis than the bones. The best-known forms are the gimmiatous synovitis, which some- what resembles the allied tuberculous form, and a more advanced type of disease—chondro- arthritis—in which the articular end of the bone is removed by a gummatous ulceration, leaving a thin membrane, representing the cartilage, over the ulcerated surface. Both forms of dis- ease are very chronic, and the gummatous synovitis, so far as I have seen it, may be dis- tinguished from the tuberculous form by the comparative absence of pain, and by the readi- ness with which the patient can use a joint which is apparently seriously disorganised. Chondro-arthritis may occur in many joints, and it may be associated with extensive gum- matous periostitis. The prognosis is good during the earlier stages of syphilitic inflammation of the bones and joints, but when the lesions are of long standing there is no remedy which will cause the reab- sorption of scar tissue or the rarefaction of sclerosed bone. Plastic operations on the face to remedy the ravages of syphilis should not be lightly undertaken, but if there is no active ulceration an attempt may be made to remedy a defective bridge to the nose by the subcu- taneous injection of paraffin, whilst holes in the palate may be closed by the resources of the dentist's art. BuRS^. — The out-patient room of every general hospital in a large town will show cases of gummatous inflammation of the bursa patellte, or of that at the insertion of the ligament patellse; but though these are the usual bursEe to be affected, similar enlarge- ments are found in the semi-membranousj iliopsoas, olecranon, and trochanteric bursse, as well as in those at other parts of the body. The enlargement is painless, and is unaccom- panied by inflammation, unless as a result of injury. The bursa is either hard or quite elastic. It gradually becomes adherent to the skin, and a typical gummatous ulcer is formed, which will heal readily enough, if it be kept, clean, under the influence of a course of iodides. The Eye and its Appendages. — The eye suffers frequently and severely from the effects of tertiary syphilis. The eyelids may be the seat of gummatous ulceration, and the conjunc- tiva of a chronic catarrhal inflammation. A localised gumma of the conjunctiva which may involve the sclerotic is not uncommon. It may ulcerate and leave a scar. Iritis with its sequelae is at once the most common and the most troublesome manifesta- tion of tertiary syphilis. Its symptoms and appropriate treatment have already been indi- cated (p. 467). The danger of its subsequent complications is due in part to the inflammation involving the ciliary body and the choroid; in part to the continued irritation produced by the presence of synechise, which are adhesions between the edge of the iris and the anterior layer of the lens capsule. Cornea.—The cornea is sometimes marked by small dots of different sizes, which are situated on its posterior surface — punctate keratitis. The dots are often arranged like a cone, with the apex at the margin of the pupil. The condition is due to the fluids of the eyeball circulating through the pupil, and bringing with them epithelial deposits and cells, which are deposited upon the posterior surface of the cornea. Keratitis punctata, therefore, is some- times a symptom of iritis and cyclitis. But in addition to this there is a true syphilitic parenchymatous inflammation of the cornea, which is not associated with iritis, and which disappears gradually and entirely under consti- tutional treatment. Cyclitis.—An attack of iritis may pass on into, or may be associated with, inflammation of the ciliary body, which is known as cyclitis. The symptoms consist of a deep circumcorneal zone, great pain of a neuralgic character, dim- inished intraocular tension, and marked inter- ference with vision, for the media of the eye are hazy. The condition is rarely limited for any length of time to the ciliary body, but it soon spreads over the whole uveal tract of pigmented tissue of the eye. The treatment of cyclitis is practically the same as for iritis, but iridectomy is required if the iritis recurs and synechise are present. Choroiditis occurs in two forms, acute and chronic. Acute choroiditis is met with at an