SMALLPOX 238 istration of a smallpox hospital, there are points requiring attention in addition to those common to ordinary hospitals for infectious diseases. Perhaps the most important are :— (a) The re-vaccination at the time of entering upon their duties of all persons engaged upon the premises, whether regularly or only tem- porarily at work, and no matter what the ■character of the occupation may be. FlQ 10.—Deserves special attention by reason of the typical sparseness of the eruption on the back. A very different distribution to the eruption of varicella. (b) The admission of visitors. It becomes necessary from time to time to admit visitors to patients in the hospital. This should be permitted only under urgent and exceptional ■conditions, such, for example, as those in which the patient may be in extremis. Visits should be minimised as far as possible, and the visitor should be required to be re-vaccinated (unless this has recently been done), to put on suitable hospital clothing during the visit, and to take a good disinfecting bath, and resume his own disinfected clothing before leaving. As an alternative he should be detained in the isola- tion section for fourteen days after vaccination. Promiscuous visiting is wholly inadmissible. Every information should be given to relatives and friends at a suitable place, in order to avoid the risk inseparable from visits to the hospital. (c) No articles of any kind should be sent out from the hospital, and letters written by patients must be carefully disinfected by dry heat. (d) Nurses and attendants off duty and on leave must take the usual precautions to guard against carrying infection from the hos- pital. Disinfecting baths should be taken, and clean clothing worn before mixing with their friends or the public. In many boroughs and small districts the smallpox hospital is an adjunct of the fever hospital, and is controlled from the same administrative block. No doubt this plan is adopted for conven- ience, and, owing to the rarity of smallpox visitations, the arrange- ment cannot be altogether con- demned in small districts. The expense and inconvenience attend- ing the upkeep of a hospital, for which perhaps for years there may be no use, is not to be lost sight of. At the same time the arrangement is not one to be recommended. It is a great safeguard to have abundance of room, not only for actual cases of smallpox, but for the isolation of doubtful cases, and for the complete isolation of fam- ilies from which a case of smallpox has been taken. This latter ques- tion leads to the consideration of the provision of special accommo- dation in quarantine houses where people may be kept under observa- tion. There is clearly an advantage in removing them to wards con- nected with the hospital, provided that they are willing to go and are well conducted. It is much easier to induce them to go with than to go to another district If the wages of the bread-winners are paid there is usually very little difficulty on this head, and it is far better that this payment should be made than that grave risks should be incurred. There is no special advantage in obtaining large dwelling-houses, and transferring to these dwelling-houses families from which a case of smallpox has been taken. These families can be equally well re-vaccinated and kept under observa- the patient institution