STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 362 whether from insufficiency of the gastric juice, or from impaired motility of the organ, as in gastroectasis or atony from whatever cause, or from both. A feeling of "emptiness" akin to hunger is, as the word implies, commonly due to a want of food in the stomach, which may be the result of a very rapid digestion and expul- sion of the digesta into the intestine, coming on unduly soon after a meal. The nature of all these sensations and of pain, next to be con- sidered, is clearly related to the sensibility of the stomach. Normally this appears to be but slight, less so perhaps than in the intestine; ordinarily, hot or pungent substances swallowed produce no conscious effect when they reach the stomach, and moderate irritation of the gastric mucous membrane seems to cause a sensation of " weight" rather than pain (Brunton). The mucosa, however, is liable to become hyperfes- thetic, and then pain is experienced. Pain in the stomach, stomach ache, or gas- tralgia is the most marked, the most constant, and in some respects the most distinctive of gastric symptoms, indicating some structural change of the organ of primary origin, or an irritation due to some digestive disturbance, or some purely neuropathic condition. The epigastrium and lower end of the sternum is the most frequent situation of pain of stomach causation, this being often strictly circumscribed, and perhaps felt over an area that may be covered by the finger tip, in other cases it is more diffused over the epigastric and hypochon- driac regions. Less often than intestinal and other abdominal affections it is experienced about the umbilicus. Owing to the course of the afferent nerve channels, the pain is fre- quently referred to the interscapular region and to the shoulder, whilst the overlapping of the pulmonary and gastric nerve-supply accounts for the occasional reference to the stomach of pain that is excited by diseased states of the lungs or pleura. In character the pain varies from a dull ache or sense of weight and tightness to being " throbbing," " spasmodic," " dragging," " gnaw- ing," "darting," "lancinating," "smarting," "burning," or a sense of "soreness," of all de- grees of intensity, from simple uneasiness up to intolerable agony. The milder forms may become wearing out when long continued. It is noticeable that patients rarely if ever use to describe their suffering such similes as being " gnawed by a rat," or that their " insides are being burned with red-hot irons," as they not infrequently do when the lower intestines are the source of the pain ; and that gastric pain, whatever be its character, is less likely to pro- voke mental delusions than intestinal distress is. The duration of the discomfort may be extremely brief or almost continuous. It is seldom that the pain has any reference to the mere quantity of the ingestion, but the quality of the same is apt seriously to influence it, and the simplest articles of diet may in some cir- cumstances provoke great distress. Curious idiosnycrasies in this respect are to be met with. The time relation of the pain to the taking of food, whether it follow immediately or not for half an hour, or one or two hours, and to what extent it is relieved by vomiting or by the eructation of gases, or whether it be increased or diminished by pressure over the stomach, are also characters to be noted, as well as the presence or absence of tenderness over the pain- ful area, which is sometimes so great as to prevent contact with the clothes. To some extent these several characters of gastric pain are distinctive of the various diseased states which the stomach may exhibit, and so far are referred to in treating of the special symptom- atology of these maladies; and although, taken with other indications, they are of considerable diagnostic value, yet they require judgment for their interpretation owing to the exceptions which must be made in any statement concerning them. It is also important to remember that pain in the situation and with the characters here described may be due to causes other than gastric, such as affections of the colon, spleen, gall-bladder and ducts, spinal caries, thoracic aneurysm, and intercostal neuralgia. As Dr. Head has shown, certain regions of the scalp are associated with the segmental areas of the trunk as low as the tenth dorsal, it follows that reflected pain and tenderness may be ex- perienced over the temporal, vertical, parietal, and occipital regions when the areas correspond- ing to the stomach, viz. seventh to tenth dorsal, are involved, and as discomfort over the latter varies in intensity, so will the former. A peculiar form of gastric pain is known as heart-burn, acidity, or cardialgia, caused by the contact of the acids of the stomach (whether the hydrochloric or the organic acids produced during digestion) with the surface of the oeso- phagus, which is normally much more sensitive than the stomach. The condition which per- mits this contact is a relaxation of the cardiac orifice with slight eructation of the stomach contents. It is usually associated with gastric flatulence, which favours this regurgitation, and is relieved by free eructation, or by assuming the erect position It is not to be regarded as necessarily indicative of hyperchlorhydria nor of increased acid fermentation, and often is not so. Closely connected with unhealthy states of the stomach and its contents are a foul breath and nasty taste in the moiUh, of which there are many varieties. Ill-smelling gases liberated in the process of digestion, some of which have escaped upwards from the intestines through the pylorus, account for the first, and in some measure for the second, which is also partly due to abnormal products of digestion or of meta-