EDITORIAL NOTE This is the penultimate volume of the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and Surgery, and it carries the subject-matter of the work from Rhi- to The-, the rubrics running from Rhino- liths to Thermotaxis. Of articles which did not appear in the Encyclopcedia Medica two may be specially referred to: that on the Medical Examination op Schools and School Children, by Dr. Leslie Mackenzie of Leith; and that on the Status Lymphaticus, by Dr. W. H. Wynn of Birmingham. Recent advances in the knowledge of Syphilis have been taken notice of in a contribution dealing with the causal agent of that disease and the serum diagnosis of the malady; and novel aspects of Sensation are treated in a short paper. In addition to these articles the volume contains more than the usual number of short paragraphs on medical and surgical matters, and of definitions of medical terms, for it includes the whole of the large letter S. The longest article is that on the Stomach, which is treated in two sections, Medical and Surgical; another long contribution deals with the Skin under six subdivisions; and other notable articles are those on Smallpox, the Spinal Cord, Syphilis, Tabes Dorsalis, and Therapeutics. The volume contains 1588 subject headings, the largest number in any single volume except the second (which contained 1758). The total number of rubrics in the nine volumes is ten thousand seven hundred and eighty-four. There are sixty-eight articles of more than 1000 words in length; some of these extend to thirty or forty pages. They deal with such a variety of subjects as Rickets (by the late Dr. Ashby of Manchester), Rodent Ulcer, Rubella, Diseases of the Salivary Glands, Scabies, Scarlet Fever, Schools and School Children, Sciatica, Sclerema Neonatorum, Sclerodermia, Diseases of the Sclerotic, Diseases of the Scrotum and Testicles, Infantile Scurvy and Scurvy in Adults, Senile Insanity, Sensation, Septicaemia, Sewage and Drainage, Shock, Injuries and Diseases of the Shoulder Joint, Diseases of the Skin, Normal and Morbid Sleep, Sleeping Sickness, Smallpox, Snake-Bites, Spasm, Spina Bifida, Diseases of the Spinal Cord, Surgery of the Spine, Surgical and Medical Affections of the Spleen, Sprue, Stammering, Status Lymphaticus, Sterility, Diseases of the Stomach, Surgery of the Stomach, Strabismus, Sunstroke, Suppuration, Syphilis, Teeth, Tendon-Jerks, Teratology, Tetanus, Therapeutics, etc. Of articles of less than 1000 words but of at least ten lines in length, there are one hundred and seven in this volume. Among the subjects dealt with in these articles of medium length are Rhubarb, Rigidity, Rosce Gallicce Petala, Rupture, Saccharin, Salicin, Salicylic Acid, Salol, San- tonin, Sapo, Sarcoma, Sarsaparilla, Scalp, Scammony, Sclerosis, Scoliosis, Scopolamine, Scotoma, Sea Sickness, Sea Voyages, Seborrhoea, Seidlitz Fowder, Senegce Radix, Senna, Serpentarice Radix, Sialo- gogues. Silver, Sinus, Situs Viscerum Inversus, Skull, Smell, Sodium, Souffle, Spermatorrhoea, T a 2