553 TERATOLOGY are, as it were, raised in order that the whole building of the embryonic cosmos may grow up symmetrically and in such a manner as permits of the later introduction of new structural features ; and one of the most beautiful adapta- tions in organogenesis is that by which the materials of these temporary scaffoldings are utilised and worked into the completed organism. Only here and there in the body, as for example in the appendix vermiformis, do we see traces of these scaffoldings which have not been en- tirely built into the permanent structure. This conception of embryological processes makes it easier to understand teratological phenomena, for many monstrosities are evidently arrested developments : they represent stages in organo- genesis which are usually transitory, but which under certain circumstances are rendered per- manent. The formation of one part of the body may be arrested while that of the rest of the body goes on to its full completion, and so a malformation of a part may be met with while the other portions of the organism are well constructed. If we could obtain a cinemato- graphic representation of ontogeny then we could recognise when and in what part of the living picture the process of arrestment took place. A second factor which has to be kept in mind in endeavouring to understand the phenomena of teratology is found in the immediate environ- ment of the embryo during the developmental processes. In the earliest phases the amniotic membrane comes into close contact with the new organism, and later the liquor amnii takes its place and constitutes the embryonic hydro- sphere. There is much to show that this amniotic environment plays an important part in determining the nature of the pathological manifestations of embryonic life, and it cannot be doubted that it is instrumental in producing a great many of the arrests which lead to mal- formations and monstrosities. If there is one thing which experimental teratogenesis has shown, it is that amniotic adhesions and pres- sure are agents in the disturbance of normal ontogeny. A third factor is the germinal one. All teratological phenomena do not arise in the embryonic epoch of antenatal life : some are determined already in the germinal period. It is scarcely conceivable that hereditary malfor- mations, and there are many instances of such, can owe their origin to causes coming into play after the laying down of the first rudiments in the embryonic area of the blastoderm: their hereditary nature practically implies that they were determined before that time. Again, there is some reason to believe that double monstro- sities arise in the pre-embryonic epoch, and that they are caused by anomalies in the phenomenon of ovum-penetration by the spermatozoa or by disturbances in the extrusion of the polar bodies. That these three factors, and possibly others, are effective in influencing the production of pathological processes in the embryo is without doubt; that a knowledge of them is of value in understanding these pathological occurrences is also without doubt: but, imfortunately for the successful explanation of teratological pheno- mena, these factors are themselves little under- stood. There are many difficulties in embry- ology : the development of the human amnion is still a mystery; and what happens in the pre-embryonic or germinal period of antenatal existence is concealed by nature's veil. At the same time the information which we possess is of great value, and with each advance in our knowledge of normal embryogenesis will come a surer appreciation of the facts of pathological development. Teratology is the pathology of the embryo as influenced by that of the germ : teratogenesis is morbid embryogenesis. Causation of Monstrosities (Terato- genesis).—There is scarcely any part of the history of medicine which has a more interest- ing past than that of the theories of the pro- duction of malformations and monstrosities. The modern scientific investigator pauses in dismay and humiliation when he is brought face to face with the teratogenetic theories with which former genei'ations of medical observers were content, and his feelings are little altered when he realises how much of the past is contained in the accepted doctrines of the present day. This article is hardly the place to consider the theories of the past in so far as they refer to teratogenesis; but a very few words may be devoted to the enumeration of two or three of the more noteworthy of them. Perhaps the best known of these theories of the past is that which ascribes the various malformations of the foetus to the imagination of the mother during pregnancy. This subject has been already considered by the writer ("Maternal Impressions," vol. vi.), and need not be again referred to except to point out that it is far from being discredited by all obstetricians, although of scientific proof it is sadly lacking. Another group of the terato- genic theories of the past contains the super- natviral explanations which were given by the ancients to explain malformed infants, and which are still accepted by primitive peoples at present inhabiting various parts of the world. According to some of these views the gods made monstrosities to amuse themselves and to astonish mortals, or to warn the in- habitants of the earth of impending calamities : these ideas are wrapt up etymologically in the words "monster," "freak of nature," "portent," etc. According to other views it was to the evil deities only that men were indebted for the appearance of monstrosities upon the earth ; and in Christian times it soon came about that Satan was connected with teratological pheno-