STOMATITIS 399 common; indeed, according to the writer's statistics, more than half the cases of stomatitis which occur in children are of this variety; but statistics are not altogether reliable, particularly in comparing such a condition with thrush, which is so often part of some more serious malady that it is apt to be overlooked, if not in clinical examination, at any rate in out-patient records; and it seems probable that strictly accurate figures would show thrush or parasitic stomatitis to be the commoner of these two conditions. Aphthous stomatitis is most frequent in children under four years of age, but is very rare under the age of six months. Although it occurs at any time in the year, it would seem to be more frequent during the cold months than in the summer. Symptoms.—In many cases soreness of the mouth is the first symptom noticed, but it is not uncommon for marked constitutional disturb- ance to precede the local manifestations. The child feels ill, and looks pale and miserable ; he is feverish, with headache and sometimes vomit- ing. These symptoms may last one or two days before there is any complaint of soreness in the mouth. The oral appearances are very characteristic. On the anterior portion of the tongue, on the dorsum and at the edge, there are rounded, greyish-white opaque patches (aphthae), some- what like blisters, on the mucous membrane, surrounded by a narrow, dark-red zone of hypersemia. These patches have a diameter varying from one millimetre up to half a centi- metre, and vary in number from two or three up to fifteen or twenty ; they are often slightly raised when they first appear. Similar patches are almost always present on the inner surface of the lips, especially the lower lip, and are sometimes present on the buccal mucosa, the hard and soft palate, and the anterior pillars of the fauces; rarely aphthse are seen on one or both tonsils. After a few days these patches become shallow ulcers or erosions, generally with a greyish-white depressed base; occasionally this process goes further, patches coalesce, and the ulceration is deeper and more troublesome, but as a rule the shallow ulcers heal rapidly, leaving only for a short time minute grey scars in the mucous membrane. With the appearance of these aphthae, the mouth is often kept open and there is some drivelling of saliva, the infant refuses its food, and even older children may find trouble in eating, owing to the pain and smarting which accompany mastication. Even if no symptoms have preceded the onset of the oral symptoms the child now looks pale and " out of sorts," the temperature in a mild case may not be over 100° ; in a severe case it may rise to 102° or 103° F. The submaxillary and sublingual lymphatic glands are sometimes swollen and tender, and in some cases, as a result of the drivelling of saliva, superficial erosions occur at the angles of the mouth having a white sodden appearance, a condition to which the French have given the name of "perleche." The dura- tion of the symptoms varies from four or five days up to two weeks or even longer : probably the average duration is about a week. Etiology and Pathology.—There can be no doubt that the depressed vitality which ac- companies many disorders, especially gastro- intestinal disturbances in childhood, favours the onset of aphthous stomatitis, but the actual exciting cause of this condition remains un- known. Some observers have regarded it as comparable to cutaneous herpes, and have attributed it to a nervous origin, but there is little or no evidence in favour of this view. The condition rather suggests a microbic origin, but no specific micro-organism has been discovered ; the writer has occasionally observed an eruption of pustules on the oral region of the face during the attack of aphthous stomatitis, an association which is at least noteworthy in connection with the microbic theory. Even the nature of the aphthse themselves is uncertain: by some they are regarded as analogous to a blister on the skin, the super- ficial epithelium being at first raised by an exudation of fluid, and then shed, so that the vesicle breaks, leaving a small ulcer ; by others, it is thought that there is no exudation of fluid sufficient to form a vesicle, but that the appear- ances in most cases are consistent with a simple inflammatory proliferation of the epithelium with death of the superficial layers. Treatment.—In the case of an infant, refusal of the breast or bottle may make it necessary to feed with a spoon, and for older children a fluid diet may be advisable for a few days, but it is important that the food should be nourishing and plentiful: milk, lightly boiled or poached eggs, custard, raw meat juice, or red gravy from underdone meat—all these are useful foods. Some antiseptic mouth-wash or application should be used frequently: for the younger children and infants the mel boracis or glycerine of borax may be applied with a soft piece of clean linen; or the following application may be used:—Potassii chloratis gr. x., boracis gr. X., mucilag. tragacanth. 5ij., glycerini 5]., aq. ad §j. For older children and adults a mouth-wash of pot. chlor. gr. x., sanitas lH.x., aq. ad gj. is convenient. There is some diversity of opinion as to the value of potassium chlorate internally in these cases, but in the writer's experience it has seemed to be of very decided value for aphthous stomatitis in children. Ulcerative Stomatitis Ulcerative stomatitis occurs most often in children of four to twelve years, that is, at a later period than the aphthous variety. It