SYPHILIS, RECENT ADVANCES IN THE KNOWLEDGE OF 488 probably it will continue to be known best as spirochsete pallida until its exact relationships are ascertained. For the present it is best simply to regard it as one of the protista. A good general account of spirochsetes will be found in Science Progress, July 1908. In the body, the spirochsete enters the vessels and lymphatics and is found in the blood stream. Its chief predilection is for the walls of the lymphatics, whence it enters the intercellular and interfibrillary spaces of the tissues. It is found especially in connection with mono- nuclear infiltrations, and Metchnikoff believes that it exerts a chemotactic influence on these cells. It undergoes phagocytosis at their hands, and perhaps by the glandular and epithelial cells also. Nothing more is known as to its life-history. It is evident that there is likelihood, verging on certainty, that s. ^mllicla is the cause of syphilis. Its almost constant presence in the lesions of acquired syphilis, and its absence from those which are not syphilitic ; its presence in experimental syphilis in apes; its abundance in the viscera in congenital syphilis—seem to exclude its being a saprophyte. The facts that the organisms disappear under efficient treat- ment, that, like the virus, they do not resist drying, that they are absent from fluids which are not infectious (cerebro-spinal fluid) and present in those which are (saliva), point in the same direction. That they have escaped recog- nition in the semen is remarkable, while the failure of attempts to cultivate them outside the body renders the fulfilment of all Koch's postulates an impossibility. In the disease yaws, which bears so much resemblance to syphilis, Castellani discovered a spirochtete (s. pertenuis) which is very similar to s. pallida (.see " Parasites," vol. vii. p. 344). Serum Diagnosis of Syphilis. — Wasserman has lately introduced a method of serum diag- nosis for which it is claimed that a positive result is conclusive : negative reactions have no evidential value for or against. The test is applicable to all stages of the disease, and to parasyphilitic maladies as well. The method is complicated, and can only be applied by an expert, hence reference to it will be brief. It depends on what is known, in the language of immunity, as "fixation of the complement." If an animal A be injected with the red cor- puscles of another species B, A's serum acquires the power of lysing B's corpuscles in vitro—it has become an immune serum. If A's serum is heated (inactivated) it loses this power, which, however, is restored to it when normal fresh serum containing complement is added (see art. " Immunity," vol. iv. p. ,370). Thus three sub- stances are concerned in haemolysis—corpuscles, amboceptor (in the inactivated immune serum), and complement (in the normal serum) : these make up a hsemolytic system. If, instead of normal servim, syphilitic serum is the comple- ment-containing partner in such a hsemolytic system, and if before adding it we can by any means " fix" its complement in another com- bination so that it will not be available to unite with the hsemolytic immune body, lysis will not occur. In effect, this is Wasserman's re- action. To a mixture of red blood corpuscles and inactivated serum, the serum of the sus- pected patient is added. Before addition, how- ever, it is treated with an extract of a syphilitic liver which contains antigens. Should the serum in question be syphilitic also, the anti- bodies in it will combine with these antigens, and in doing so will fix all the complement, so that none is available to complete the haemolytic system. A positive result, therefore, is con- stituted by absence of lysis. As in all such observations, a number of controls are required for each test. SyphilO-.—In compound words syphilo- means relating to or belonging to syphilis; e.g. syphilogeny (origin of syphilis), syphilomania (insane dread of syphilis), syphilonychia (onychia of syphilitic origin), and syphiloma (a gumma). Syphon.—A tube bent at an angle in the shape of an inverted D, one arm, however, being longer than the other; it is used for trans- ferring fluids from one vessel to another (as in the syphon water-closet), from a vessel to a part of the body (as in the syphon vaginal douche), or from a body cavity to a vessel (as in the syphon aspirator). Syring's or Syringa.—An apparatus of the nature of a pump (Gr. crJpty^, a pipe) for injecting or drawing off fluids; e.g. a hypo- dermic syringe, an ear syringe, or an aspiratory syringe; in a special sense, the Eustachian tube. See Aseptic Treatment op Wounds {Hypodermic Syringes); Diphtheria {Treat- ment, Rotix's Syringe for Serum); Ear, Ex- ternal, Diseases of {Ceruminous Obstruction, Treatment) ; Prescribing (Administering Drugs by Injection through the Skin); Tetanus {Treat- ment, Injection of Antitoxic Sera). Syringitis. — Inflammation of the Eus- tachian tube. *See Ear, Middle, Chronic Non- suppurative Disease, etc. Syring-o - Cystadenoma. — A cutaneous disease originating probably in the embryonic sudoriparous glands, and charac- terised by the appearance of numerous small, round, hard papules, white at first but becoming bluish red later. See Skin, Diseases of Sweat AND Sebaceous Glands. Syringomyelia. Historical ...... 489 Pathological Anatomy .... 489 Etiology 490