404 STOOLS size from an orange-pip to a hazel-nut, and com- posed of organic matter and of calcium and magnesium salts. In the same year Mathieu and Richaud recorded 2 cases : the first that of a woman of twenty-eight years, the second that of a woman of fifty-two. The sand in both cases consisted of organic matter and lime salts in varying proportions, and in the second case the sand had a resemblance to plaster. In 1896 Oddo likewise reported a case. The patient, a woman of fifty and of gouty stock, passed large quantities of intestinal sand, com- posed of organic faecal matter and of salts of lime and magnesium. The largest concretions were of round form and the size of a small lentil. Of the four last-mentioned patients two suifered simultaneously from membranous colitis. Dieulafoy in 1897 put on record 8 cases which had been under his own observation. The youngest patient was a girl of four and a half years, the oldest a lady of fifty. From a study of these cases and of those previously recorded, Dieulafoy concluded that there is an intestinal lithiasis, comparable to biliary and urinary lithiasis, manifested by sand, gravel, or calculi, consisting in each case of ftecal organic matter and of inorganic material in variable proportions, the inorganic matter being mainly salts of calcium and magnesium. He stated that in many cases intestinal lithiasis should be considered merely as an indication of chronic colitis and of membranous colitis, as in the majority of patients mucous casts were passed from the rectum simultaneously with the passage of sand or gravel. In other cases intestinal lithiasis is a manifestation of the gouty diathesis. In some of Dieulafoy's cases the passage of the sand was accompanied by few subjective symp- toms of a mild character. Other patients suff'ered from attacks of severe abdominal pain lasting usually for some hours, and terminating on the passage of sand or gravel from the rectum. The frequency of these attacks varied greatly in diflFerent cases. In some they recurred every few days, in others only at intervals of some months. Dieulafoy's account of the clinical manifestations of intestinal lithiasis and his pathological observations are the most import- ant that have been recorded, and although fresh cases have been reported since 1897, there has been hardly any noteworthy addition to our knowledge of the subject. A case occurring in a lady, aged thirty, was recorded by Thomson and Ferguson. The sand when placed in water rapidly sank. It was of brownish-yellow colour and resembled uric acid. There was no trace of sclerenchymatous tissue or of magnesium, and the murexide test gave negative results. The sand consisted of 28-5 per cent of organic and of 71*5 per cent of inorganic matter, the composition of the latter being:—calcic carbonate 11-7 per cent, tricalcic phosphate 87'3 per cent, and insoluble residue (silica) 1 per cent. The pigment was thought to be a substance intermediate between the ordinary bile pigments and stercobilin, whilst, from the ready solubility of the sand in dilute acids, it was thought that the sand was probably formed in the ileum. Two cases of intestinal sand in women between thirty and forty years of age were published by Eichorst in 1900. Both patients were aff"ected with membranous colitis. The sand in the first case was of greyish-yellow colour and of earthy consistence, whereas in the second case the sand particles were globular or irregular in form, of a greyish-yellow or pale brown colour, did not exceed 2-8 mm. in dia- meter, were hard, and consisted mainly of calcium carbonate. Sir Dyce Duckworth and A. E. Garrod recorded a case in 1901. The patient was a woman aged thirty-three, of gouty stock. She suff'ered from intractable diarrhoea for two months before sand was found in the motions, but on every subsequent examination sand was detected. It resembled uric acid, was reddish-brown in colour, finely gritty, and con- tained 12'4 per cent of water, 26 per cent of organic material, and 61 per cent of inorganic matter, calcium phosphate being the chief mineral constituent. Two cases have been recorded by Barton (1901). In the one the sand resembled uric acid, with occasional small pieces like quartz or mica, and appeared to consist mainly of insoluble lime crystals; the other case was that of a boy who, it is said, passed from the rectum large quantities of sand, consisting of ammonia magnesium phosphate. Deetz (1901) records the case of a woman aged fifty. In this case there was no history of gout either in the patient or in her parents, and she was not affected with membranous colitis. The small brown sand particles were spherical or hemispherical in form, with pointed crystalline offshoots from them. They contained no cholesterin, and did not give the reactions of bilirubin or cellulose. The main inorganic constituent was calcium phosphate. From a consideration of these cases, it appears that intestinal sand and gravel is most common in women between the ages of thirty and fifty, but that men and children may also be affected. In some cases the gouty diathesis seems to be an etiological factor of some im- portance, and in the majority of cases the patient suffers from colitis, diarrhoea, or con- stipation, or gives a history indicating some antecedent inflammation of the intestinal mucous membrane. The quantity of sand passed at any one time varies from an amount so small as only to be detected on careful examination of the faeces, to several teaspoon- fuls, or, as in some cases, to "an enormous quantity." The passage of the intestinal sand or gravel may be unaccompanied by subjective symptoms, but in most cases there are attacks