SUPPURATION 443 of the middle layer of the abscess wall. Rest and splinting are as necessary here as in the palliative treatment. In the operative treatment of carbuncle, in which adherent necrotic tissue is abundant, scrap- ing with a sharp spoon is required. It is usual to apply pure carbolic acid to the surface thus exposed, but the writer has seen many cases do perfectly well without that precaution. In passing, it is worth noting this, because by the use of a sharp spoon the newly scraped surface is necessarily infected, and so the question of immunity, perhaps local, perhaps general, is wrapped up in the explanation of the favourable progress of the case in the absence of a powerful germicide such as carbolic acid. A carbuncle may be excised, and the resulting wound stitched up. But if too much tissue has been removed to permit of this course, the I'esulting wovnid can be skin-grafted at the time oi', better still, at a later period. In the case of acute abscess, scraping out the interior of the cavity with a sharp spoon is quite unnecessary, and in fact only adds traumatism to an already badly dis- eased part. It is also said that scraping away an abscess wall may cause generalisation of infection. This, of course, is possible, but the precise value of the abscess wall will be dis- cussed later. Washing out an abscess cavity with antiseptic lotions in order to kill micro- organisms is quite useless, because those actually killed or inhibited are a very small minority. Again, the main source of micro-organisms is left behind in the middle layer of the abscess wall which the lotion will not reach. Further, antiseptic lotions may act as irritants. In treatment the fact should be recognised that profound changes are occurring in the fluids and tissues of the host, upon which ultimate recovery depends. Drainage. — Artificial drainage should be avoided as far as possible. The disadvantages of drainage are—(1) Tubes act as convenient tracks for the access of fresh contaminating micro-organisms. (2) As inert, lifeless foreign bodies, tubes are incapable of actively combating the micro-organisms in the cavity, and by this neutrality a tube will permit the existence and possibly the multiplication of such micro-organ- isms as become deposited upon it. The writer has frequently bacteriologically examined the serous discharges from healing abscess cavities, some of which were drained, while some were not; in all cases the causal micro-organisms were not only present as long as the discharge continued, but were also virulent to lower animals. (3) After a very few hours the only part of the abscess cavity drained is that which is in actual contact with the tube. If drainage tubes be employed, they should be as large as possible and discontinued early. The indications for the removal of a tube are diminution of discharge, and the natural expulsion of the tube by the contraction of the cavity and the granu- lation tissue. However, a drainage tube is essential in a deeply situated abscess. Care should be taken that the external extremity of the tube is level with the surface of the skin. Hilton's method of opening an abscess is usually adopted in those cases where the pus is deeply situated and is in close proximity to important structures. Here an incision is made over the region, and the tissues are carefully divided in layers till the dangerous area is reached. A pair of sinus forceps is pushed into the cavity, and in withdrawing them the aper- ture is dilated by opening the blades in the direction longitudinal with the structures it is necessary to avoid. The freely escaping pus and the superjacent tissues may hide the open- ing into the cavity if the hole is not marked by inserting a probe before permanently with- drawing the forceps. Dressing.—This should be the same as applied to an ordinary aseptic wound. When abscesses are opened by the above methods, fresh tissue spaces, lymph - vessels, and blood - vessels are opened, and generalisation of the micro-organism will, it is said, be rendered possible. The writer has never seen this occur after opening an acute or subacute abscess. It is often necessary to cut through the healthy tissues in order to reach an acute abscess. But these tissues immediately heal without signs of infection, as quickly as though no microbes had traversed them. As will be later pointed out, some im- portant questions of artificial immunity and protection possibly arise out of this fact. Some foreign surgeons lay great stress upon the importance of this possibility of infection to generalise, and to prevent it, open abscesses by slowly burning a passage into them by means of some form of actual cautery. Constitutional. — A purge may be ad- ministered at the commencement of treatment, and the bowels should be subsequently kept open by mild laxatives. Nourishment should be constantly given in an easily assimilable form ; this, together with fresh air, is the most important feature of constitutional treatment. Change of air, particularly change to the sea- side, sometimes stimulates repair when progress is delayed. Tonics, quinine, iron, bark, may be required. The internal administration of yeast is a remedy which has in some hands met with success in cases of boils, that is to say, in staphylococcic infection. Stimulants should be employed when indicated. Serum 'Treatment.—In streptococcic abscesses the question will arise as to the advisability of exhibiting antistreptococcic serum. The writer has frequently injected this serum in cases of pure and mixed streptococcic infections, but he has never seen the least benefit result from its employment. If this particular serum, in its present condition, has any use in surgery