TEETH 513 times penetrate. Layard's whale {Alesojdodon) has also a curious arrangement of teeth, which passes from the mandible upwards and back- wards, crossing each other from left to right over the beak of the animal. The forms assumed by teeth are very diverse. Teeth, or organs analogous, are found in the gizzard of the common crab and in some insects, notably the cockroach of our kitchens. In several of the Protozoa a complicated arrange- ment of tooth-like bodies is found. The garden snail has a crescentic jaw-plate in the roof of the mouth and the radula, a membranous ribbon bristling with teeth in the lower, the radula being used as a saw for cutting down leaves, etc., upon which it feeds. The whelk of our shores has its tongue or lingual ribbon bristling with a regular arrangement of sharp- pointed teeth. The echinus or sea-urchin has at the entrance to its oral cavity five sharp- pointed teeth, which are implanted in separate movable portions of the jaw. The teeth grasp the food, and it is then passed on to be ground down by the movable segments of the jaw. In the higher vertebrate fishes simple conical teeth abound, the highest form being found in the pike with its bristling array of strong, curved, pointed teeth, or in that of the wolf-fish {Anarrhichas Lupus) with its powerful jaws and caniniform teeth in front, for tearing from the rocks shell-fish, and its equally powerful, pavement-like, crushing teeth behind. In the skate family flattened plates generally represent the teeth, several of the rays having in addition a sharp-curved denticle growing out from the plate. The shark possesses a wonderful armament of teeth, composed of a series of triangular serrated flattened cones arranged tier upon tier, in the two jaws, and attached to the tough fibrous membrane covering them. Their teeth are constantly being renewed as the marginal ones drop off. The next row takes their place. This is brought about by the upward movement of the membrane carry- ing the teeth. Some of the extinct sharks had enormous teeth, and must have been very formidable animals. The myxine has a single pointed tooth in the palate, and two serrated plates upon the tongue. The tench has one grinding tooth on the occiput, opposed to which are two jaws in the pharynx below, which carry teeth. Some fishes have the bones of the fore- part of their head blended together, forming a kind of sharp-cutting beak. This is well shown in the globe-fish {Tetrodon fahaka). Other toothless fishes are the sturgeon, padde- fish, etc. Reptilia arid Batrachia.—In this group of animals are found some remarkable forms of teeth, exhibiting, however, only a higher development of the cone. The teeth are neither so numerous, nor so widely distributed upon the bones of the oral cavity, as in fishes. VOL. IX Nearly all Batrachians and Reptiles have a constant succession of teeth, with the exception of some of the lizards [Hatteria). Generally, they possess two rows of teeth extending back- wards beyond the line of vomerine teeth. The Australian lizard has broad, crushing spheroidal crowns to its teeth instead of points. The toad is edentulous, while the frog has only one row of short teeth upon the margin of the maxilla; there are none present in the mandible. The teeth of the newt and sala- mander are very similar to those of eels, and are tipped with enamel. The siren has on its man- dible a horny sheath and several rows of small teeth, while the maxilla is toothless. The ex- tinct Batrachian Labyrinthodon was an enormous animal. It had rows of very large pointed teeth in the mandible and maxilla, and also palatine teeth. The structure of their teeth is most interesting. The whole tooth is made up of dentine, and presents a series of pulpules, with numerous dentinal tubules radiating from the centre of pulpule to the periphery, and intercommunicating with the systems in their neighbourhood, producing a most elaborate pattern when viewed by the microscope. Turtles and tortoises have no teeth, but the margins of their jaws are sheathed in horny cases. The vegetable feeders have blunted margins to their jaws, the carnivorous having sharp margins. Crocodiles, gavials, and alligators have their jaws armed with powerful sharp conical teeth, which vary much in form and size in the different species. In the crocodile the number of teeth seems to remain the same throughout its lifetime, but they increase in size with age. The teeth are lodged in distinct sockets, and are constantly being renewed; the successional teeth in various degrees of development lie telescoped, one within the other, in the hollow root of the tooth, so that when one is broken or worn out, the next in succession replaces it. Among lizards there is great variation in the form of their teeth, some being blunt and rounded, others having thin serrated edges. The successional teeth are developed at their inner bases. The monitor lizard has a complicated arrangement of the pulp in its teeth, which divides into a number of processes at their base. Vascular dentine, so common in fishes' teeth, is likewise found in the teeth of some saurians. The enormous extinct Iguanodon had powerful palmate-shaped teeth—the inner side composed of vaso-dentine, the middle of dentine, while the other serrated surface is enamel only. Aves.—None of the known species of birds possess true teeth, although numbers of them have tooth-like bodies on their mandibles, such as the motmot and toucan. The plant-cutters, Phytotomidse, have, in addition, tooth-like bodies in the interior of their mandibles as well. Parrots in the foetal condition are said to possess germs of teeth, which, however, disappear later 33