STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 363 holism which are excreted in the buccal fluids. The condition of the mouth itself, carious teeth, etc., must not be overlooked in this connection. Another subjective sensation is nausea, which is especially likely to be called forth by the sight or thought of food, or may be felt apart from such association. It is always combined with an impaired appetite, and readily passes on to vomiting. It is usually due to some altered state of the mucous membrane of the stomach, and is hence a frequent though not invariable symptom of catarrh both acute and chronic, hwt its precise pathology is not certain. The chief objective signs of gastric disease, besides such as are ascertained by physical examination, are flatulence, eructations, and vomiting. Flatulence.—The stomach ordinarily contains a small amount of gas, partly consisting of air that has been swallowed, and partly of COj, derived from fermentation of the food-stuffs. From either of these sources the amount may be very considerably augmented, and in addition gases, such as COg, H, SHg, and even CH^, may pass upwards from the intestines through a relaxed pylorus. Under certain conditions, not well understood, an interchange between the gases of the blood and those in the stomach may take place in such a way as largely to increase the latter. When the quantity in the stomach is such as to cause distension, or is eructated in appreciable amount, then flatulence is understood to occur. Since the fermentation of carbohydrates is the chief cause of the con- dition, it follows that it commonly indicates such an error in their digestion as permits a longer delay of the food in the stomach than should be, or a deficiency of hydrochloric acid by which the fermentations are held in check. Other forms of mal-digestion, however, are sometimes responsible, and paralytic distension of the organ, as may occur in some nervous states, after great pain or with peritonitis, is associated with an extreme amount of flatulence. Apart from the discomfort and even pain induced by the distended stomach, disorders of the circulation, such as fainting, palpitation, and pseudoanginous attacks may ensue, consequent on the impediment offered to the heart's action. Eructations.—Besides the belching up of gases, which may be sometimes very distressing in amount, coming on an hour or two after meals, or much later, some of the liquid contents of the stomach may be brought up into the mouth. These may be neutral or alkaline (water-brash), consisting generally of saliva that has been swallowed, or of the fluid remains of digestion in which the acids have been neutralised or reabsorbed. Or, as is more com- mon, the ejecta are acid (pyrosis), whether hydrochloric or organic, and frequently associ- ated with hyperchlorhydria, and as a consequence give rise to cardialgia. Such fluid may rise into the mouth at any time after a meal, but more often about one to three hours after. When not due to hypersecretion, it signifies some delay in the digestive process, and in the propulsion of the chyme into the duodenum. Vomiting.—Next to pain this is probably the most significant sign of gastric disorder, but it must be remembered that it is induced by conditions quite apart from the stomach, as in some cerebral and meningeal diseases, certain blood states and poisonings, and in a reflex manner. When strictly dependent upon local causes, these are to be found in the nature of the food, quantity or quality, an irritable state of the stomach from catarrh or ulceration, the former of which occurs in most gastric diseases, and hence vomiting comes to be a very frequent manifestation of stomach affec- tions. Its time of occurrence and relation to the ingestion of food, the relief or otherwise it may bring to discomfort or pain, whether it be easy of performance or accompanied by much retching and straining, are among the chief characters to be taken notice of. Still more informing is the nature of the vomit, such as the quantity and appearance, its reaction, and the nature and percentage of the acids present, the condition of the food-remains, and the presence of bile or blood—points that ai-e fully dealt with in the account of the individual diseases (see article " H^ematembsis," vol. iv. p. 13). Inasmuch as the digestion which takes place in the stomach is in the main preparatory to the more elaborate changes which take place in the intestines, it is obvious that the latter are liable to be influenced by the completeness or otherwise with which the stomach performs its functions, and hence such peristaltic distur- bances as constipation and diarrhoea, although directly dependent upon the intestines, may really owe their causation to gastric inefficiency. Space precludes more than the bare enumera- tion of the REMOTE SYMPTOMS of gastric indi- gestion, which may be thus grouped. Nervous. —Headache, vertigo, giddiness, subjective sen- sations of sight and hearing, drowsiness, heavy sleep, torpor, wakefulness, mental irritability or depression, hypochondriasis, melancholia, referred pains, muscular cramps. Dr. Ford Robertson has recently drawn attention to severe catarrhal changes in the stomach and intestine associated with various forms of in- sanity, especially genei'al paralysis, and attri- butes the lesion in the mucosa to the irritant effects of toxic bodies developed during digestion. Circulatory.—Palpitation, cardiac irregularity, intermittent action, syncope, cardiac pain, angina, flushing of face, coldness of extremities. Respiratory.—Cough, dyspnoea, sighing. Cut- aneous.—Various urticarial and erythematous rashes, acne, muddy or dirty complexion. Urinary.—Deposits of urates, phosphates, oxa-