339 STERILITY treatment if the general health is at fault, and enjoin a period of abstinence. We must here remark that when we find only some condition of doubtful influence in the causation of sterility, the husband should be examined before any treatment is carried out on the wife. " It is a too common assumption that in cases of sterility the fault is on the side of the woman. In 250 cases in which notes are given by Brothers,^ information concerning the condition of the husband was obtained in 72 instances, with the result that 50 of them were shown to be responsible for the sterility of their wives. The cases in which the condition of the man was inquired into were those in which no cause of sterility was found in the woman. In 12 cases nothing abnormal could be found in either husband or wife. Thus of all the cases of sterility one in every five was attributable to the husband. This is a point to be borne in mind when the practitioner is consulted for this cause, for otherwise minor operations, such as dilatation and curetting, may be performed unnecessarily. Brothers records that 14 women had been treated by sounds, dilators, pessaries, etc., when the semen of the husband did not contain a single spermatozoon." ^ The natural aspiration of a healthy woman is to be a mother ; and sterility is to many a cause of lifelong unhappiness. Some of this unhappi- ness may be removed by proper treatment. Thus in 70 cases Brothers was able to trace the results of treatment, and of these 12 per cent became pregnant. The percentage of results in other cases has been even higher. It is there- fore reasonable to urge that every case of ster- ility should receive careful investigation, followed by suitable treatment, and that those women who crave for the high boon of motherhood should not be merely met with an attitude of unmasterly inactivity. Sterna,!.—Belonging to the sternum or breast-bone; e.g. the sternal angle, the sternal glands. See Lymphatic System, Physiology AND Pathology {Table of Glands, Thorax). Sternal is Muscle. — An occasional muscle, found perhaps rather more frequently in anencephalic foetuses, lying parallel to the sternum on the origin of the pectoralis major; it may be regarded as a relic of the panniculus carnosus. Sternbergf's Disease.— A form of pseudo-leuksemia, tuberculous in nature. Sterne bra. — One of the segments of which the sternum is composed. SternO-—In compound words sterno- (Gr. (TTepvov, the breast) means relating to the ster- ^ The Post-Graduate, February 1901. ^ Giles, article "Sterility," Medical Annual for 1902. imm or breast - bone ; e.g. ster7io-cleido-mastoid (relating to the sternum, the clavicle, and the mastoid process of the temporal bone), sterno- costal (relating to the sternum and the ribs), sternodynia (pain in the sternum), sterim-hyoid (relating to the sternum and hyoid bone), etc. Sterno-Clavicular Joint. Injuries ...... 339 Diseases 340 See also Joints, Diseases op {Synovitis, Hy- drops, etc.). This joint is subject to different forms of in- jury and disease, although to a lesser degree than most other articulations. The most com- mon surgical affection is dislocation. In the order of frequency, the displacement is (a) forwards, (5) backwards, and (c) upwards. The accident is usually brought about by violence applied to the outer end of the clavicle, e.g. by a fall or blow on the front of the shoulder, which displaces the sternal end forwards. The back- ward dislocation is more commonly induced by direct violence, which drives the sternal end of the clavicle backwards. The rarest dislocation is the upward one, which may be induced by violence acting on the outer end of the clavicle from above, whereby the shoulder is forced downwards and inwards. A case has been recorded where spontaneous displacement in a forward direction occurred in a weak subject from muscular exertion. Dislocations occur in this joint as a sequel to a chronic tuberculous or other diseased process in the joint. The frequency with which the forward dis- placement occurs is explained by the relative weakness of the anterior sterno-clavicular liga- ment. As the posterior ligament is stronger, dislocation backwards is less frequent. Further, the fibres of the rhomboid ligament on the pos- terior aspect of the joint are not easily ruptured, and they are a powerful preventive against either the posterior or vipward dislocation. Clinical Features.—The clinical features will vary according to the completeness of the dislo- cations. In theforivard dislocation the diagnosis is readily determined by the marked projection anteriorly, recognisable without difficulty as the articular end of the clavicle. If it be necessary, the diagnosis can be confirmed by various move- ments ; e.g., if the elbow be raised, the projection is depressed, and if the shoulder be raised and thrown forwards, the prominence tends to dis- appear. The clavicular tendon of the sterno- mastoid is prominent, and the patient's head is inclined towards the affected side. The possi- bility of the condition being mistaken for a fracture near the sternal end of the bone should be borne in mind. Treatment.—The reduction is easy, but its maintenance is attended with much difficulty. The most satisfactory method is by the patient