SMALLPOX 236 inmates of the house who may be employed in large works or offices, etc., to be re-vaccinated. If they refuse, an intimation should be sent to the employer that it is advisable for them to remain from work for fourteen days. The infected house must be visited, and all contacts visited every day for fourteen days, a.nd every few days for another period of two weeks, to ascertain if any further sickness -occurs; and if any ailment is reported, a medical officer should visit the sick person forthwith, to ascertain the nature of the illness. A special staff ought to be employed exclus- of the hospital for other forms of infectious diseases. These requirements make the selection of a site difficult, more especially as a large area of vacant land is necessary around it, approxi- mately within a radius of 400 yards or upwards. It must be remembered also that means must be taken to prevent future encroachments upon this land by dwellings or buildings likely to attract people to the vicinity. Construction.—The hospital should be con- structed upon the pavilion system, and in conformity to the well-known principles in Fig. 7.—Simon M., aged 28. Twelfth day of disease. Represents the customary severity in an unvaccinated man. ively for smallpox in regard to ambulance, dis- infection, etc. tjit must always be remembered that the patient is infectious from the commencement of the illness until the final removal of all signs of scabbing and scaling; in fatal cases the cadaver is highly infectious, and the coffin enclosing it should be packed with disinfectant and conveyed direct from the mortuary to the grave, or to the crematorium. '^Smallpox Hospitals and Isolation Houses.— Some circumstances in connection with hospitals for the isolation of cases of smallpox call for ■observation. T^-Site.—The site of the hospital is an important matter. This should be remote from dwellino-s, highways, public footpaths, and places of public resort, and it should be altogether independent regard to lighting, ventilation, cubic and floor spaces, etc. : it should contain a liberal margin to allow of the isolation of suspected cases, and it is also necessary to make provision for the temporary accommodation of persons who have been in intimate contact with the patient before removal. Hence a city, say of 250,000 inhabit- ants, should have always available not less than 50 beds for the appropriate isolation of the incidental cases of smallpox which are liable to be imported into such a town, as well as those who have been in immediate contact with them, and also for the accommodation of suspected cases ; and it is not less necessary that means of providing more extended accommodation should be available to meet emergencies Avhich may arise. Administration.—With regard to the admin-