566 TETANUS of antitoxin the mortality from tetanus amounted to about 80-90 per cent, although only about 45-50 per cent in the milder cases having a prolonged incubation period. With antitoxin treatment the mortality is reckoned at 34"4 per cent by Kohler (1898), 39-5 per cent by Lund (1898), and 43 per cent by Holsti (1899). The antitoxin must be given as early as possible, in sufficient amount, and part thereof should be injected in the neighbourhood of the seat of infection. According to Behring, one must inject the serum not later than thirty hours after the appearance of the first tetanic symptoms, give not less than 100 units at one time, and repeat the dose frequently. Statistics show, however, that the sooner antitoxin is injected the greater is the mortality. Thus Haberling (Brun's Beitr. z. Min. Chir. Bd. xxiv.) in 14 cases in which antitoxin was given within thirty-six hours after onset of symptoms, found the mortality to be 71 per cent; and Ullrich, having collected 41 cases in which the serum was injected within thirty hours, found the mortality to be 72'9 per cent; whereas in 72 cases in which antitoxic treatment was com- menced between the second and fifth days of the illness, the mortality was 45*5 per cent. The explanation of these facts is that those cases in which treatment was commenced early were the more severe cases. The unsatisfactory results obtained by the subcutaneous injection of antitoxin have led to intravenous, intracerebral (Roux and Borrel, 1898), and subdural or subarachnoid (Blumen- thal and Jacob, 1898) methods of injection being tried. In subarachnoid injection the needle of the syringe is introduced between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrse, 10-20 c.c. of cerebro- spinal fluid are withdrawn, and then the same quantity of antitoxic serum is slowly injected. In intracerebral injection, 2-3 c.c. of serum are slowly injected into the substance of the brain in front of the motor convolutions on both sides. Intracerebral injection appears, from the results of experimental research, to be the most efficacious method, but in practice it is of very doubtful value. Lambert (1900) has collected 52 cases treated by this method, the mortality being 63-46 per cent; 24 of the cases were acute, and in them the mortality was 87-5 per cent. On theoretical grounds the subarachnoid method is to be preferred. Descos and Barthelemy {Compt. rend, de la soc. de Biol. 1902) in 2 cases of well-marked experimental tetanus have obtained a cure by this method, whilst von Leyden and Blumenthal (1900) and others advocate the employment of this method, either by itself or in association with subcutaneous injections. There are a number of dried and fluid anti- toxic sera obtainable : Behring's, Burroughs and Wellcome's, Parke Davis', and Tizzoni's sera, and the serum of the Pasteur Institute, etc. Whichever preparation be used, the dose for subcutaneous injection is 10-50 c.c. of fluid serum, or five grams of dried serum dissolved in sterile water. The frequency with which the injections are repeated and the total quantity of serum given will depend on the severity of the case. The syringe must be cool, aseptic, and free of all trace of antiseptic. The injection of brain substance as a thera- peutic measiire is based on the experiments of Wassermann and Takaki (1898), who found that tetanus toxin combines in vitro with brain substance and is thereby rendered innocuous, and that mice could be saved even when brain or spinal cord substance was injected several hours after the toxin. These facts have since been amply confirmed by Danysz (1899), E. Marx (1902), and others. Cases successfully treated by subcutaneous injection of brain substance have been recorded by Kadyi (1899), Krokiewicz (1899, 1900), etc. But in the hands of many others the treatment has not been satisfactory. And as tetanus toxin com- bines more readily with antitoxin in solution than with the preformed antitoxin of the central nervous system, the hypodermic injec- tion of brain or cord substance is not to be recommended. Baccelli's method of treatment by subcutaneous injection of 2-3 per cent solution of carbolic acid is reported to have been successfid by many Italian writers. Ascoli (1899), for example, re- cords thirty-three cases treated by this method with only one death. But experimental investi- gations prove Baccelli's method to be valueless. Courmont and Doyen (1899) have found that it hastens the progress of the disease in guinea- pigs. Von Torok (1900) has observed that it does not save rabbits after injection of tetanus toxin, and Guillaumin (Jour, de Physiol, et de Pathol. Gen. 1902) has found that Baccelli's treatment, even when commenced at the begin- ning of the incubation period, does not check the course of tetanus experimentally induced in the horse. The wound should receive local treatment in order that the tetanus bacilli and other bacteria present may be destroyed. The wound should be enlarged, all foreign matter removed, and an antiseptic dressing applied, with drainage if necessary. The patient's strength must be maintained by careful feeding. Liquid food is the most suitable, and if it cannot be admin- istered by the mouth, it must be given through a nasal tube or per rectum. And, lastly, treat- ment must be directed to the symptoms induced by the toxin. The reflex irritability of the central nervous system must be diminished by strict isolation of the patient. He must be in a darkened room and protected from all noise. Narcotics must be given. Morphia in large doses is the most beneficial; chloral hydrate, bromides, curara, cannabis indica, or other nar-