141 SHOCK the " shock " of former days, when being roughly bundled into a cab and propped up in a corner was the usual method of conveying the injured to hospitals. Modern ambulances are fitted up with stretchers, and carry dressings and splints for all ordinary emergencies, and are sent out with a competent senior student or surgeon. Until the arrival of this hospital on wheels, the policeman on the beat—if a street accident— has rendered valuable first aid from the store of knowledge acquired by him from demonstra- tions and lectures conducted by the police surgeon. Hospital surgeons see daily the great good accomplished in this manner. The patient is to be placed horizontally to allow the circulation of the blood to proceed with least impediment; if marked ansemia from loss of blood, the foot of the bed or couch should be elevated 6 or 12 inches. The quick removal of any tight clothing interfering with respiration, making free use of a scissors if necessary, exer- cising care not to expose a large surface of the body during undressing, and the avoidance of rough handling and shaking. VVarmth is to be applied in the quickest available manner, by wrapping in hot blankets, putting the patient to bed surrounded by hot bottles (bricks, flat-irons, or oven-shelves are often nearer to hand in private practice). Flannel wrung out of hot water over the pre- cordia if the heart's action is very weak, and in some cases of severe burn where the clothing has been charred into the skin—immersion in a warm bath acts beneficially by its heat, and allows the burnt clothes to be removed. Rest and quietness are important—the absence of noise and strong light, the prevention of worrying questionings by anxious friends, and the fussy interference of ubiquitous busybodies. The administration of stimulants in the form of brandy or whisky in small doses diluted with hot water are most generally resorted to on account of their wide distribution. Sal volatile or ether serve the same purpose, but it must be remembered that absorption from the stomach may be at a standstill, and the inju- dicious administration of large doses often do more than distend the stomach and hamper the already feeble heart. The effect on the pulse must be carefully watched. The hypodermic injection of half a drachm or a drachm of ether, of gr. of digitalin, or, better still, or more of strychnine, produce good effects, and can be repeated in 20 minutes or half an hour if necessary. When the respiration is failing, atropine, gr. J^-, is often useful, and when great pain exists {e.g. "burn" cases), if the patient is able to swallow, an ounce of brandy with 15 or 20 minims of tincture of opium calms the ex- cited nervous system and stimulates the heart. When great excitement, or fear of impending death, alarms the sufferer, the hypodermic in- jection of ^ or ;J of morphia hydrochlor. has a beneficial effect. In a recent case of bullet wound of the chest and feared injury of the heart, where the young man was in a terrible state of alarm, a dose of morphia put him to sleep, from which he awoke after a few hours wonderfully improved and calm. In the use of hot normal saline solution we have the most powerful means of combating shock. A high rectal injection of a pint or two of hot saline solution (a drachm of common salt to a pint of hot water 105° to 110° F.) with or without an ounce of brandy and grain of strychnine, is at once absorbed, like water on a blotting-pad, and produces a more rapid effect than stomach medication. The pulse responds quickly, and the injection can be repeated hourly, or less often, as judged requisite. The injec- tion may be made into the submammary and axillary connective tissue by hydrostatic pres- sui-e—using a funnel, tubing, and the needle of an aspirator, care being taken not to allow air to enter, but in extreme cases when circulation is feeble and absorption at a standstill, and particularly where there has been great loss of blood, the injection must be made directly nito a vein—a superficial vein of the arm being generally chosen. An elaborate apparatus is not necessary ; a cannula to fit the vein, two feet of rubber tubing, and a four-ounce glass male syringe with sterile gauze packing for the piston (instead of the worsted and dirty tow generally sold), being all that is necessary. The apparatus is readily sterilised by boiling, the piston having been withdrawn, and the solution made sterile (for all practical—emerg- ency—purposes, some boiling water may be poured on to the requisite amount of salt, or soloids made for the purpose, and cold water added until the right temperature is attained). The whole apparatus is filled with the solution before fitting the cannula into the exposed vein, to prevent, of course, the entrance of air. The cannula is tied into the vein, which is clamped or tied below, and the syringe elevated; if the solution does not flow in quickly enough, the piston is inserted and force applied to it. A finger and thumb clamp the tubing at the nozzle, and enable the syringe to be withdrawn to be filled again and reapplied, and this is re- peated until 1, 2, 3, or even 4 pints have been injected. A doze of strychnine can be added if thought necessary. After an injection of one or two pints, if rallying occurs, we prefer to keep up the effect by rectal injections rather than repeat the intravenous operation. Artificial respiration should be immediately resorted to when breathing has been arrested by shock from lightning, or electricity of high voltage, and continued for twenty minutes or half an hour—after which time it has not proved of any service. {See also "Asphyxia," vol. i. p. 305.) When reaction has been established, nourish-