528 TEETH discoloration due to staining of the dentine by the decomposing pulp. {b) Chronic Periodontitis. —Si/mjjtoms.—These are very much less severe; in fact, at first they are of such an ill-defined nature that they easily escape the notice of less observant patients, until in course of time severe pain is felt at the apex of the root, intermitting, however, and the tooth elongates, or the gum becomes in- flamed, and a yellowish mucous or purulent fluid of an offensive odour oozes out from between the gum and tooth on pressure being applied. Time after time the same thing happens, and the tooth is eventually lost from alveolar abscess. The process continues through- out a local one, and the general system is not disturbed. In chronic inflammation the peri- dental membrane gets very much thickened, and is often aff"ected by degenerative conditions, fatty, calcareous, etc. In teeth the subjects of chronic periodontitis there is liable to be produced exostosis, or absorption and redeposition may take place alternately. General Periodontitis.—Several teeth may be affected by periodontitis, the inflammation spreading to periosteum of jaw and gums. This form occurs frequently as a result of typhoid, syphilis, necrosis, or the administra- tion of Hg. or phosphorus. The symptoms are the same as those of the local form, and the treatment depends on the origin. To prevent suppuration free incisions of the gum are necessary, and the application of an astringent, such as tannin or phenate of soda, as a mouth- wash is useful. The majority of these cases are a result of septic conditions of the canals of tooth, which, therefore, should be attended to, and the gum also treated. Massage is viseful. When the tooth is much elongated a portion of it or its opponent should be cut down. Dr. Kirk has recently drawn attention to cases of what he calls inti'a-peridental abscesses occurring in teeth with live pulps. Alveolar Abscess Periodontitis in connection with carious teeth leading to alveolar abscess is common to both jaws, or there may be developed an abscess in the substance of the maxilla or mandible. The symptoms of alveolar abscess are very similar to those of acute periodontitis—the tooth is loose, the pain severe, and of a dull throbbing character, the intensity of the pain at this stage being proportionate to the penetrability or im- penetrability of the surrounding bone, which is removed by absorption produced by the abscess sac and its contents. The disease com- mences at the apex of the root of a carious pulpless tooth by the effusion of plastic material from the inflamed peridental membrane, which forms a sac at the extremity of the root, pus being formed in the interior. As the sac in- creases in size the surrounding osseous tissue is removed by absorption, and in some cases a considerable portion of the root may be destroyed by the same process. Acute Alveolar Abscess.—The symptoms are very severe, and the consequent oedema more intense, the neighbouring teeth and alveolar periosteum being also aiTected by the extension of the inflammation. There are frequently febrile symptoms, quickened pulse, furred tongue, and general indisposition. As soon as pus forms rapid absorption of the surrounding bone takes place, and the pus finds an exit, either tlirough the alveolus over the apex of the Skiagram illustrating abscess funiialiun in relation to teeth and proximity to nasal fossa. root, or it oozes out from between the gum and socket of the tooth. After evacuation of the pus the symptoms decrease rapidly, and the tooth regains its former state or assumes the chronic condition. The sac is sometimes brought away with the tooth on extraction. The sac of acute abscess is thin and smooth, in contra- distinction to that of the chronic, which is very thick and rough, and sometimes contains cal- careous matter or bony spicules. The extremity of the root in such teeth is sometimes sur- rounded by a deposit of tartar derived fi'om the exuded blood or serum. Chronic Alveolar Abscess. — The symptoms are slight and local. There is generally a dis- charge of pus, more or less constant, through