SCLEREMA NEONATORUM 70 Cases described under the name of sclerema neonatorum for the most part belong to this latter category, but it is acknowledged that the clinical features of the two varieties are much alike ; that the two are often hard to distinguish, especially in their later stages, and that they may occur in association. The infants who suffer from this disease are often premature, or if born at full term have an aspect of prematurity. It has been met with more frequently in the colder than in the warmer seasons, and in children born under unfavourable hygienic conditions than among those of the better-to-do classes. It is specially frequent in foundling hospitals. The first symptoms usually develop when the child is a few days old, but in some cases the disease is present at birth. The conspicuous signs are a peculiar coldness of the surface, accompanied by a conspicuous fall of the internal temperature; induration of the subcutaneous tissue over a greater or less area; slow respira- tion, and a slow and feeble pulse. The skin of the affected parts cannot be pinched into folds, as can that of a healthy infant, and the surface is smooth and tense, and somewhat raised above the level of the surround- ing skin. The sclerematous areas feel firm and elastic and seldom pit on pressure. The tint of the skin may be normal or dusky red or even purple, and an icteric tinge is also frequently noted. The pink tint disappears under the pressure of the finger. The induration which is at first localised may remain so, or may spread to parts previously unaffected, until it becomes almost universal. As a rule the dorsal surface is first involved, the face and ventral aspect become affected later, but even in the worst cases the induration seldom spreads to the front of the chest. Hard patches may be present on the cheeks even in the milder cases, and in severe ones the features may be rendered immobile, and sucking may become impossible. When induration is very general, rigidity of the limbs becomes a prominent symptom, so that the infant may be lifted as a rigid whole. These features were observed in the earliest recorded case, that of Usenbenzius (a.d. 1722), who described a foetus vivus, frigidus et rigidus. The fall of the temperature is very con- spicuous in such cases, and, according to G. Somma, who regarded it as the essential and primary symptom, may even reach to 23째 C. (73"4째 F.), but in some more benign cases the same author quotes 35째 C. (95째 F.) as the lowest limit reached. Such temperatures are obtained in the internal cavities, such as the rectum, and the icy coldness of the surface is often referred to by authors. Ballantyne states that the pulse rate, which is normally 120 to 150 per minute during the first days of life, may fall to 80 or even 70. At the same time the pulse is extremely feeble, and the heart-sounds may be hardly audible. The respirations may be slowed from the normal rate of 40 to 30 or even 20 per minute. The cry is feeble and has a peculiar squeaky character. In cases of severe generalised sclerema the prognosis is extremely bad, and death usually occurs within a few days of the onset of the disease, as a rule in the first week of life. From a review of the various published figures Ballan- tyne concludes that the average mortality is about 50 per cent, but some of the statistics of foundling institutions show a much higher mortality than this. The favourable prognostic points are limita- tion of the induration, a not excessive fall of temperature, the absence of pulmonary or in- testinal complications, birth in a warm season, and good nutrition and robustness of the infant when born. In the out-patient departments of our hos- pitals, cases are occasionally seen which show a localised induration on the back and limbs, most pronounced about the buttocks, and extending in a tapering form down the backs of the thighs and arms, and in which the induration has all the characters assigned to scleroedema. Such infants usually come under observation when a few weeks old, after the initial fall of tempera- ture and the other constitutional symptoms are things of the past, and when it only remains to watch the gradual resolution of the sclerematous lesions, a process which in the cases which have come under the writer's notice has usually taken some five or six months. The areas of indura- tion gradually decrease in size and break up into discrete islets, which undergo softening, but at no time pit on pressure. If these be cases of true scleroedema they are certainly less rare than the fatal cases, at least among the poorer classes in London. In fat sclerema the changes described in the skin and subcutaneous tissues consist in an in- crease of connective tissue and atrophy of the fat cells, which are always devoid of fat and show conspicuous nuclei. In scleroedema, on the other hand, a well-marked oedematous in- filtration of the subcutaneous tissue is observed. Visceral changes are also met with in fatal cases, such as broncho-pneumonia and atelectasis, sub- pleural and sub-pericardial hsemorrhages and congestion of various internal organs. Comba lays special stress upon an intense and diffuse affection of the renal tissue, evidenced during life by scanty urine containing albumen and renal elements. The theories which have been advanced to explain the phenomena of sclerema are many. The earliest observers regarded the induration as inflammatory, and some looked upon it as a kind of erysipelas, others as a special form of inflammatory lesion, and others again as ana- logous to phlegmasia alba dolens.