TERATOLOGY 558 functions exhibit marked independence. The surgical possibilities of these cases will be con- sidered in a special paragraph at the end of this article. Parasitic Tivins.—The last group of the polysomatous terata contains the cases in which one well-formed twin has attached to it or embedded in it another twin, usually of a very rudimentary type. These monstrosities may be classified after a regional plan into (1) those in which the parasite is attached to or embedded in the head of the autosite, cephalo-parasites; (2) those in which the union is in the neigh- bourhood of the face or neck, prosopo- and trachelo-parasites; (3) those in which it is in the region of the thorax, thoraco-parasites; (4) those in which the parasite is abdominal in position, gastro-parasites; and (5) those in which it is pelvic, lecano-parasites. In each of these divisions there are subdivisions, according as the parasite consists of a more or less recog- nisable foitus, or only of a mass of miscellaneous foetal tissues (teratomata, teratoids, dermoids). Included among these monstrosities, therefore, are to be met the instances of epignathus (rudi- mentary foetus attached to the mouth), of heteradelphus (headless foetus attached to the front of the thorax, such as the well-known boy Laloo), of included foetus or foetus in foetu (foetus or teratoma contained in the abdominal cavity), and of sacral parasites and tripod foetuses (more or less defective foetuses attached to the pelvic bones of the autosite). Many of these are quite non-viable, but some others are not incompetent for a post-natal life, and have even survived to adult life {e.g. the man Dos Santos, the human tripod). In a few instances surgical separation or excision of the parasite has been attempted, but seldom with success. Triple Monsters.—It is hardly necessary to do more than name triple terata here, for they are exceedingly rare. A case of tricephalic infant was reported in the year 1834: it con- sisted of three heads set upon two united trunks, supported by two lower limbs; there were three upper limbs and a single set of male genitals; all the heads had to be perforated in labour, and two of them amputated. It was described fully by Reina of Catania and Galvagni. Types of Monosomatous Terata.—So numerous are the types of single monsters and malforma- tions that only the outstanding ones can be referred to here. Some of them, such as exstrophy of the bladder, encephalocele, dia- phragmatic hernia, polydactylism, anencephaly, exomphalos, spina bifida, cleft palate, hare-lip, etc., have been described under other headings. Malformations of the Crariium and Face.— Putting on one side the anomalies of the cranial vault, of the face, of the brain, and of the special sense organs, which have been con- sidered elsewhere, the writer must give a few words of description here to cyclops and hypo- agnathy. The cyclops foetus is, as the name indicates, one possessed of a single orbital cavity containing two more or less completely fused eyeballs. The composite eye is median in position, and a nasal proboscis is usually found lying above it (very rarely below it). The malformation known as cebocephalus is evidently a connecting link between the true Cyclopean foetus and the normal, for in it there is no nose and the two eyes are approximated but not fused. Cyclops may be combined with other malformations {e.g. anencephaly, hypo- agnathus) in the same foetus. The single eye- ball may possess two cornese, two pupils, and two lenses; or it may be an apparently perfect single eye ; or it may show intermediate types. Sometimes a single orbital cavity with no trace of an eye has been observed. Cyclops is sup- posed to be due to an arrest in the development of the anterior cerebral vesicle, but there are many obscure points in its teratogenesis still to be investigated. A somewhat similar mon- strosity is hypoagnxithus (also called otocephaly, agnathy, and synotia); in it the lower jaw is more or less completely absent, and the external ears are approximated towards each other under the lower part of the face. The mouth may be absent or represented only by a small aperture; the tongue and hyoid bone may be absent or rudimentary; the sphenoid bone may be mal- formed ; and the external auditory meatuses may open directly into the pharynx. As stated, it may be combined with the Cyclopean anomaly. It is due to an arrested development of the first branchial arches, perhaps on account of amniotic pressure. Sometimes in the region of the face there is no trace of eyes, nose, or mouth; the monstrosity is then called aprosopus. Malformations of the Spine.—In addition to the well-known spina bifida (evident or occult) this region of the body may show the curious deformity of retroflexion. The whole body of the foetus may be bent sharply back upon itself, so that the occipital region of the skull may come into contact with the gluteal region, and even become united to it, so that the glutei muscles may, as it were, arise from the occiput. This retroflexion of the foetus is often combined with defective development of the lower part of the occipital bone, when the name inien- cephaly is sometimes given to it; it may also be combined with anencephaly, and sometimes with exomphalos. It is possibly an arrested development, for it would seem that there is a stage in early embryogenesis when the spine is thus contorted; perhaps here also amniotic pressure may be invoked. Tailed infants have been described; the " tail" is usually a modi- fied spina bifida sac {see " Homo Caudatus "). Mal formations of the Thorax and Contents.— In addition to polymastia (presence of super- numerary mammae), fissure and lordosis of the