SEX 138 (formerly called sexus sequior, the worse sex); it is of importance in relation to the incidence of disease, diphtheria attacking females more often than males, etc. Sex-.—In compound words sex- (Lat. sex, six) means relating to six; e.g. sexdigitism (the anomaly in which six digits instead of five are found on a hand or a foot), and sextan (a form of malaria in which there is a paroxysm on every sixth day). SextupletS.—The occurrence of six at a birth ; it is an extremely rare phenomenon in the human subject, but now and again a case is reported, e.g. Vassali's in the Annali di ostet- ricia, p. 343, June 1894. Sexua.1.—Related to or belonging to sex; e.g. the sexual act (copulation), the sexual organs (male or female reproductive organs), sexual perversion (abnormal sexual feelings and in- stincts), and sexual diseases (maladies of the organs of generation). See Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Tumour, Symptomatology, Sexual Functions); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Insane Defects of Inhibition, Nymphomania, etc.); Generation, Female Organs of ; Ovaries, Diseases of the ; Prostate Gland ; Scrotum AND Testicles, Diseases of ; Sterility ; Syph- ilis ; Tabes Dorsalis {Etiology, Sexual Ex- cesses) ; Urethra, Diseases of ; Uterus, Mal- formations AND Diseases of; Vagina, Disorders of the ; Vesicul^ Seminales ; Vice. Shadow Corpuscles. — Colourless erythrocytes or achromacytes of the blood ; red blood corpuscles which have lost their colour by reason of endoglobidar degeneration; Ponfick's corpuscles. Shadow Test. See Retinoscopy {Syno- nyms). Shakings Palsy. — Paralysis agitans. See Paralysis (With Tremor, Paralysis Agitans). Shan kl i n. See Mineral Waters {Chaly- beate). ShapwellS. See Balneology {Great Britain, Sulphur Waters). Sharpey's Fibres.— Fib res in bone which connect the lamellte in the walls of the Haversian canals. Shearing'. — The overlapping of the cranial vault bones of the infant during its expulsion from the mother's uterus ; thus the depression of one of the parietal bones under the other is known as the lateral shear, while that of the occipital bone under the parietals is the antero-posterior shear; equitation or over-riding. See Labour, Mechanism. Sheath.—A covering; e.g. the medullary sheath of nerves, the crural or femoral sheath, etc. Sheep. See Anthrax {In the Lovjer Animals, Sheep); Foot and Mouth Disease {Animals Attached); etc. Shellfish. See ToxicohOOY {Food Stuffs, Shellfish); Typhoid Fever {Etiology, Food). Sheringfham's Valve.—An inlet for air in the ventilation of a building, which is situated high up on the wall but not too near the ceiling, and which can be opened or closed at will. See Ventilation and Warming {Vacuum System, Inlets). Sherrington's Law.—The fact that anastomoses are formed between the peripheral branches of the spinal nerve roots (anterior and posterior) in such a way that any region of the cutaneous surface is supplied with the branches of three roots. Sherringrton's Solution.—A dilut- ing fluid for use in htemocytometric observa- tions, where the blood has to be diluted without the shape of the corpuscles being altered. It consists of distilled water, 300 parts; neutral potassium oxalate and sodium, of each 1"2 parts ; and of methylene blue O'l part. Sherrow Cautery. See Cautery {Sherroiv's or Paquelin's). Sherry.—Vinum Xericum, a Spanish wine used in Pharmacy to make nearly all the Vinxi. See Alcohol. Shiga's Bacillus. — The bacillus dysenteria). See Dysentery {Bacteriology). Shima Mushi.—The river fever of Japan. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Constitutional Infective Diseases with Skin Lesions). Shingles. See Herpes {Herpes Zoster). Ship Fever.—Typhus fever {q.v.). ShipponS. See Milk {Milk Production, Coivsheds). Ships. See Cholera, Epidemic {Pro- 2jhylaxis, Disinfection of Ships); Plague ; Quarantine ; Typhus Fever. Shiver. See Rigor. Shock. Symptoms . . . ■ ■ .139 Signs of Recovery . . . .139 Pathology . . . . . .140 Treatment . . . . ■ .140 Treatment of Wounds . . .142 Operations during Shock . . .142