468 SYPHILIS through the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal: it may be taken up by the cells of the sebaceous and sweat glands of the skin, or it may be introduced directly into the lymphatics of the connective tissue. Internal Administration.—It should be re- membered when mercury is given by the mouth, that it is liable to act as an irritant during its passage over a long tract of delicately adjusted mucous membrane, whose tendency is towards inflammation if the balance be disturbed, and whose secretions, now acid, now alkaline, aided as they are by the unknown action of the in- testinal micro-organisms, may alter the chemical constitution of the mercurial preparation so as to make it a violent irritant. Mercury in long-continued doses is a de- pressing remedy, and is especially badly borne by those who are predisposed to tubercle. In syphilis, mercury must be given for many months, and in sufficient doses. Other con- siderations, therefore, have to enter into the course of treatment besides that of the particular form in which the drug is to be administered. The hygiene of the patient, both locally and generally, must be carefully attended to, and he must be maintained in the pink of condition, so far as his circumstances will allow. The surgeon must become thoroughly acquainted with the physical, mental, and moral peculiarities of his patient, for in the case of a prolonged course of treatment he will often have need to deal with every aspect of his character. The local hygiene will consist in a careful regulation of the teeth by a competent dentist. Tartar should be removed, caries should be arrested, and every cause of local irritation should be averted. The patient should be told plainly that the irritation of smoking tends to promote the formation of mucous patches in the mouth, and that by their presence he may infect others. The function of the alimentary tract should be brought to the highest level of perfection by correcting dyspepsia and relieving constipation, whilst the most strict moderation is enjoined both in eating and drinking. The general hygiene consists in wai-ning the patient against any excess, whether of fatigue or luxury. Regular habits, early hours, and moderate exercise will amply repay the patient by shortening the term of his cure, and these simple means have built up the reputation of many a spa as a syphilis-curing watering-place. Indeed, the only way to secure these advantages to a patient is often to send him to such a place, for so long as he stays at home he will take no care of himself. I think it is best to begin the administration of mercury in syphilis by the method of internal administration, and of all the preparations of mercury it is certain that for English use grey powder or hyd. cum cret. is the best. It is easily carried about in a compressed form, each " tabloid " containing three grains. The patient should be ordered to take a " tabloid" three times a day directly after a meal. Perchloride of mercury comes next in favour, and it has the advantage that it can be readily prescribed with iodide of potassium when it is considered ad- visable to give the two drugs together. The dose is a drachm of the solution of perchloride of mercury, containing a sixteenth of a grain of hyd. perchlor., in an ounce of chloroform water. The protiodide of mercury, hyd. iod. viride, or hydr. iod. flavum, is also very largely used in the treatment of secondary syphilis. The dose is a quarter or a third of a grain given three times a day directly after food, the quantity of the drug being increased during the first fort- night to a grain and a half or two grains thrice a day. It may often be usefully combined with 2 to 4 grains of the green extract of hyoscyamus. Tannate of mercury in half-grain doses with sugar of milk has attained considerable repute, but its action must be watched rather more carefully than the other preparations, as it may cause much gastro-intestinal disturbance. Many other preparations of mercury have been brought forward from time to time, calomel and blue pill being the older forms ; carbolate, salicylate, and alanilate the more recent; but they do not seem to be so satisfactory in their actions as those recommended above. Zittman's method of giving mercury is described at page 471. It must be borne in mind, however, that no single preparation of mercury can be ad- ministered in a routine manner, because a pre- paration which suits one patient cannot be taken equally well by another, nor by the same patient at all times. The surgeon, therefore, has to vary both the preparation and the means of administering the drug. Symptoms of saliva- tion, pains in the chest, and gastro-intestinal disturbance are the most common symptoms which prove troublesome during a course of mercury, and it is well to try and combat these symptoms by a temporary reduction in the dose, a modification in the food, and a limitation of the quantity of fluid ingested, rather than to fly at once to the administration of opium or Dover's powder. A little essence of ginger, peppermint, or other carminative will often be sufficient to give relief. The administration of mercury must be carried on for at least six months from the time the diagnosis of syphilis has been first made. I prefer to give the patient a rest from mercury by the mouth for three days at the end of each month, and a fortnight at the end of the third month, and it is often necessary to suspend or reduce the dose for a day or so on account of trifling digestive disorders ; but so long as the weight of the patient is maintained, and he appears to be improving, the dose of mercury should be steadily administered. For this purpose I cause the patient to be weighed every Saturday, if