176 SKIN—DISEASES OF SWEAT AND SEBACEOUS GLANDS selects the organism to which he has given the name of the morococcus. In the scalp, however, organisms are so numerous that it is extremely difficult to identify any one as the cause of a disease. From the scalp, where it originates, the disease spreads to other parts of the body. Sometimes it spreads upon the forehead, where there is at once shown the difference in the reaction of the skin, for the eruption on the forehead shows by its hypersemia much greater evidence of reaction of the skin than does that upon the scalp. Other common seats of the disease are the sternal and interscapular regions, where the eruption takes a ringed form, and is often confused with ringworm. Behind the ears, where the skin is peculiarly thin and intolerant, the reaction is great, and fluid is frequently exuded upon the surface, so that in this region the eruption is moist. The flexures, too, are often affected, and in the axillse and groins the circinate character of the eruption and the resemblance to ringworm is often pronounced. All these eruptions on the body have associated with them a peculiar yellow colour, most marked in the centre of the patch, and Unna suggests that that is due to stimulation of the sweat or coil glands, which excrete fatty substances to a greater degree than they normally do. Herein, indeed, lies one of the main differ- ences between Unna and Sabouraud; for Sabouraud does not appear to attach any importance to the oily secretion of the sweat glands, while he regards dandruff, which has all along been regarded as synonymous with dry seborrhoea, as a totally different disease, for which he suggests the use of the old name of pityriasis. It is one of the difficulties of dermatology that its exponents have too often felt constrained to endeavour to fit new theories on to the old names. When the eruption spreads, as it not infre- quently does, to the limbs, the tendency to the exudation of fluid becomes much less. There is but little evidence of any increased secretion of oil, and the spots, usually rounded, are pink in colour, are covered with silvery scales, and are indeed in the opinion of many, including the present writer, indistinguishable from the lesions of psoriasis. This, however, is hardly the place to discuss this modern doctrine. On the scalp one of the commonest results of seborrhoea is alopecia, and the term of alopecia prsematura is practically synonymous with that of alopecia seborrhoica. It would seem that when the coil glands are stimulated along with the epidermis, there is not the same tendency to alopecia. It is the dry form of inflammation which leads to the casting of the hair, and to its succession by a less perfect one; and this process continually going on results in conver- sion of the ordinary hair of the scalp into a fine down. Another disease which is in all probability connected with seborrhoea is that known as rosacea. While that disease has long been associated with, and is undoubtedly aggravated by digestive disturbances, flushings, etc., it will be found on careful examination that dry seborrhoea of the scalp is present in the majority of cases, and it is suggested that the scales falling from the scalp on to the face irritate the skin, and lead to its reacting with hypersemic dilatation of the vessels, and the formation of pustules on the central region of the face, in the manner which is associated with this disease. Treatment. — The successful treatment of seborrhoea depends on the recognition of the all-important fact, that the disease commences, and has its most important seat in the scalp; and the disease on the body, though it is more easily got rid of, will inevitably return unless the scalp is brought into a healthy condition. This is best attained by frequent washing, and for that a fluid soap is to be preferred to a hard one. The well - known Hebra's soap spirit, which consists of two parts of soft soap and one of spirits of wine, is certainly as efficacious as any. The head should be wet with warm water, then some soap spirit poured directly on the scalp, which should be vigorously shampooed for five minutes, thereafter the lather must be thoroughly washed out and the head dried. Females often complain that the proceeding is very irksome, and that the hair is apt to be matted after its use. This, however, is gener- ally owing to the fact that the soap has not been thoroughly washed out of the part. In slight cases the repetition of this twice a week will suffice to keep the disease under, and eventually to cure it; but if the disease is more severe, further means must be employed. There are two drugs which have a very marked influence on the catarrh of seborrhoea, viz. sulphur and salicylic acid, and they may be applied to the scalp in a very much more concentrated form than they can to the rest of the body. Indeed it is usually necessary to warn the patient that the hands must be washed immediately after making the applica- tion, for if an ointment of say 10 per cent salicylic acid is applied with the fingers, these very soon show signs of its action in persistent desquamation. A useful application for ordinary cases con- sists of half a drachm each of sulphur and salicylic with 1 oz. of vaseline. The modifica- tion of vaseline known as vasol, which is an oily-looking fluid, may be used instead of vase- line. It is more easily rubbed in, and is not so greasy as the ordinary preparation. For the eruption on the body washing is