374 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF to the condition, and from a state of apparently sound health the individual rapidly passes into one of extreme danger. Such cases as these, in which these grave symptoms suddenly appear without previous discomfort sufficient to warrant complaint, have been termed " latent," a designa- tion, it may be observed, which is still more applicable to those ulcers found after death, whose presence has been qviite unsuspected during life, and have given rise to no recognis- able symptoms whatever. The actual proportion of cases of ulcer of the stomach which end in perforation is hard to determine, owing to the doubt as to what is exactly included under this name; probably it does not exceed 10 or 12 per cent. A curious diiference has been noticed as regards the age at which this complication occurs in the two sexes, the average in women being between twenty-five and thirty, and in men between forty and forty-five. The symptoms indicative of this accident are indistinguishable from those attending perfora- tion into the peritoneum of the hollow viscera generally. There is commonly an attack of acute and agonising pain, not necessarily felt at the epigastrium, quite as often at the um- bilicus or even diffused over the abdomen, the patient rapidly falls into a state of collapse, the temperature falls, the surface and ex- tremities are cold and bathed in a clammy sweat, the heart's action is greatly reduced in force, and the radial pulse may not be felt, or is quick, small, and thready, the breathing is shallow and hurried, and consciousness remains. Unless death take place, peritonitis begins to be manifested within twenty-four hours, and to this the fatal end may be due, unless operative inter- ference should have been successful. When perforations have occurred on the posterior surface of the organ, and more par- ticularly if there have been any adhesions previously set up by the extending ulcer, death is avoided, and an abscess of a short but more commonly of some considerable duration is formed in the post-peritoneal connective tissue —sub-phrenic abscess—though this is said to more usually follow a duodenal than a gastric lesion. (c) Cicatrisation.—The healing of a gastric ulcer is known rather by post-mortem observa- tion than by any special manifestations during life, and this is particularly so since, though the lesion be healed, many of the symptoms are by no means necessarily removed. Pain after food ma,y continue, whether from the scar being irritable or from the interference to the peri- stalsis offered by the interposition in the muscular coat of a band of fibrous tissue, or it may be from adhesions which have been developed externally to adjacent parts. The vomiting may also continue, and this with the pam may maintain the general ill-health of the patient. Very many cases, however, do recover completely, and in such it is allowable to assume a satisfactory cicatrix has been formed. The subsequent contraction of the scar is very liable to set up a fresh set of difficulties. If it have been in the neighbourhood of the pylorus, stenosis of the orifice, even to an extreme degree, may ensue, and lead to very considerable dilatation; or should the ulcer have been situated on the lesser curvature and extend over both surfaces of the stomach, an " hour-glass contraction" is very likely to be the result. {d) Chronic Progressive Ulceration. — Some cases which have at the outset conformed to the general character and course of gastric ulcer, instead of recovering or of ending in perforation or cicatrisation, continue to exhibit symptoms more or less continuously, or perhaps only at intervals over many years. Here again it is in great measure what is found post-mortem that enables us to assign the case to its proper group. There is found after death an ulcer perhaps of considerable size—several inches in diameter—that has completely extended through the walls of the stomach, the base being formed by the pancreas, liver, or other adjacent struc- tures. At the same time, it must be admitted that such a lesion has been met with that has given rise to little or no symptoms during life, and has run an entirely "latent" course. It would seem very probable that such a condition is due to firm adhesions having been developed in the progress of the ulceration, thus averting what would otherwise have been a perforation into the peritoneal cavity, and that these same adhesions have at the same time prevented cicatrisation, with the result that the ulcer has slowly extended, finally to terminate by perfora- tion or by erosion of a large vessel and fatal hfemorrhage. When this state of things has existed in the pyloric region, the chronic inflammatory process, giving rise to a consider- able formation of fibrous tissue, comes to form a tumour which may require very careful consideration to distinguish from a malignant growth. Diagnosis.—The recognition of the existence of ulcer of the stomach is under usual condi- tions easy. Special attention should be directed to the definitely localised character of the pain and tenderness, the relation of the pain to the taking of food and its relief by vomiting, to the occurrence of htematemesis, the presence in the vomit of an excess of hydrochloric acid, together with the age and sex of the individual, bearing in mind that exceptions to the general rule may be met with in respect to each of these condi- tions. According to the view taken as to how far simple erosions which, it has been, demon- sti'ated, may give rise to all the cardinal symptoms of ulcer, are to be included within the term ulcer, so will be the diagnosis of many