SCLEROTIC, DISEASES OF THE 75 travelled all round the circumference of the cornea, a process which may occupy many months. It may also recur after a lapse of several years, and sometimes the eyes are affected alternately. Episcleritis periodica fugax—the name given by Fuchs to a condition termed by von Graefe sub-conjunctivitis or tenonitis anterior, ai^d de- scribed long ago by Hutchinson under the name of " hot eye "—is a somewhat rare disease. It is generally found attacking persons in middle life, and may be distinguished from the usual form by the absence of typical nodules and of any marked atrophy of the sclerotic. While it is frequently found associated with the gouty or rheumatic diathesis, it makes its appearance in many instances without any very definite ascertainable cause. There is inflammation of the conjunctiva and of the episcleral tissues, and the latter may be considerably swollen. The inflammation may affect one or both eyes, or may confine itself to one part of the sclerotic, or involve the whole area between the equator and the margin of the cornea. Pain, photo- phobia, and lachrymation always exist, and in severe cases contraction of the pupil and spasm of the ciliary muscle are added. The attack may last for only a few hours, or for several days, and while hot eye always disappears without doing permanent harm, it is, like the ordinary form, very apt to recur. Opportunities for the study of the pathology of episcleritis have been, of course, far more numerous, but examination of the few eyes available post-mortem has demonstrated that the typical nodules are caused by an infiltration of the superficial layers of the sclerotic, the connective-tissue bundles having become separ- ated by fibrinous and cellular exudation, which shows no tendency to break down, but gradually becomes absorbed. As a result of this process the area of sclerotic affected becomes thinned, and the bluish stain which so frequently marks the site occupied by a nodule is therefore obvi- ously due to the pigment in the underlying choroid. In spite of the protracted course of the disease, which may last for months or even for years, the prognosis is always favourable. The sight is never implicated, nor is any per- manent or serious damage ever done to the eyeball. The chief indications for treatment are to combat the different stages as they arise, and to try to prevent recurrence. As the superficial is only to be distinguished from the deep form of the disease by the absence of iritis and similar complications, it is in every case, in the first instance, wise to instil atropine. If the pupil dilates fully the course is likely to be favourable, no matter how severe and distressing the symptoms may be. The application of a blister to the temple, and the administration of a mercurial, followed by a saline purge at the very outset, will often at once cut an attack short; but if the pain be excessive, and the injection of the eyeball livid in colour, more speedy relief will be obtained by the applica- tion of three or four leeches to the outer can- thus. The blood-letting should always be fol- lowed by the application of fomentations or of the Japanese warmer. In chronic cases atropine continuously used is apt to excite increase in the intraocular tension, and consequently eserine and pilocarpine, combined with cocaine and adrenalin, are more beneficial. Where there is a gouty or rheumatic diathesis, alkalies, iodides, and salicylates are clearly indicated, and when the attack is acute these should be administered in large doses, the patient should be kept in bed, and everything should be done to encourage the free action of the skin. An acute attack treated in this way usually passes off in a few days, but the slightest ex- posure to cold or to damp may at any moment bring about a relapse, and it is therefore neces- sary, even after the recovery seems perfect, to continue the treatment by alkalies and tonics. Indeed, if the patient's circumstances permit, the best results are likely to be obtained by sending him to a spa where the waters are mildly alkaline, and where the climate is dry and bracing. He must also be warned never to expose the eyes to bright light or to cold winds, or to overtax them in reading. As a safeguard against the first two he should be furnished with protective glasses, and against the last by the provision of suitable spectacles if there be any error of refraction- If a lotion be necessary nothing is more soothing than a warm solution of boric acid, to which opium and chamomile have been added, but all eye- washes and ointments containing irritants, such as zinc, alum, perchloride of mercury, etc., are to be avoided. It must never be forgotten that in diseases of the sclerotic the eyes are very intolerant of local applications. Sclerotitis This is a very dangerous disease, for although in the early stages the signs are slight, yet its progress is most insidious, and in the long run it is likely to involve all the tissues of the eye- ball. Its consequences are all the more distress- ing from the fact that it very frequently attacks young adults, and usually affects both eyes. Females suffer oftener than males, and those whose constitutions are tainted by scrofula, rheumatism, gout, or syphilis become victims all the more readily. At the outset a few en- larged and varicose blood-vessels appear over the surface of the sclerotic, and at one part the white of the eye quickly becomes bluish, with here and there a thickened patch of porcelain- like appearance. As the diseased area spreads the deeper structures become involved, the iris gets discoloured, and very frequently the intra-