88 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE the most serious of the hernial conditions. It may occur at any age, its symptoms are always acute, strangulation is severe, and early opera- tion is called for ; the anatomical arrangements of the parts is often puzzling, and the satis- factory completion of the operation by radical cure of the hernia and removal of the testis if necessary is not always easy. It usually happens in these cases that instead of the hernia passing down into the scrotum, it turns up- wards on emerging from the external abdominal ring, ascending upon the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, appearing in the groin as a superficial tumour reaching outwards from the external abdominal ring towards the an- terior superior iliac spine. Misplaced testis may be complicated with any of the varieties of hydrocele, and may be re- lieved by puncture or cured by removal or castration. Abnormal Position of the Testis in the Scro- tum.—The testicle is occasionally anteverted, i.e. the posterior and attached border becomes anterior, so that if a hydrocele occurs the testis is situated in front, and the tunica vaginalis behind and below. The testis is also sometimes, though very rarely, inverted, i.e. its upper end is below, so that the vas deferens starts from an epididymis, the tail of which is above the testis. Hypertrophy and Atrophy of the Testicle. —Hypertrophy may occur when tlie other testis has become atrophied, or has failed to be de- veloped, or after removal of the opposite testicle. In some cases in which one testis has been retained within the abdomen, or has been absent altogether, the other testicle has been more than double the normal size and weight. Atrophy of the testicle may be congenital, or may be due to arrested development ; it occurs also from the prolonged administration of the iodides. It is usually seen, however, in one of two forms—the results of different vital pro- cesses : (1) In those cases which are due to inflammation, whether traumatic, syphilitic, or otherwise, there is a marked shrinking and sclerosis of the testis; all the connective tissue of the gland is increased and shrunken, and by its compressing effects the secreting structure is destroyed. The gland shrivels to the size of a horse-bean, or even less, is hard and nodular, and on section shows nothing but bands of connective tissue, with here and there a few scattered seminal tubules. (2) The other form of atrophy is much rarer, and results from the cutting off of the arterial supply, or from nerve lesions, and not from inflammation. It is of the nature of a fatty degeneration of the glandular structure unaccompanied by any sclerosis of the connective tissue. The testicle in this form of atrophy becomes much reduced in size, but is soft and flabby instead of being hard and nodular. A section of the gland is ansemic, and fatty tissue may also be found beneath the visceral tunica vaginalis between the epididymis and back of the testis. The atrophy associated with varicocele, hydrocele, or due to truss pressure is of this kind. In both forms the epididymis shares in the atrophy. Arrest of development is to be distinguished from atrophy of a once well-formed organ. This arrest is commonly found in undescended and ectopic testes. The common sequelae of atrophy of the testis are neuralgic pains and sterility. Treatment of atrophy can only be preventive; the cause should be removed when possible. Injuries of the Testicle.—With the excep- tion of contusion, traumatic lesions of the testis are rare, owing to its firmness and its slipperi- ness in its scrotal bed. Punctiired Wounds.—These are almost always of surgical origin, their most frequent cause being puncture with a trocar and cannula in tapping for hydrocele. A very acute pain is felt, in some cases inducing syncope, and the escape of a little blood through tiie cannula as soon as the trocar is withdrawn, and then of blood-stained hydrocele fluid as soon as the end of the cannula is withdrawn from the tunica albuginea, and has come back into the vaginal sac, are the indications of this accident. The consequences of such an accident are orchitis and hsematocele. Suppuration and gangrene have followed, but they are rather the result of infected instruments, and are sometimes seen without the testicle being wounded. Incised Wounds.—These are rare, and if superficial heal quite readily, but if the wound deeply involves any considerable length of the organ, it may subsequently atrophy, as all the tubular structures on the distal side of the wound become functionally useless, and the con- traction of the cicatricial material unduly com- presses the gland. Hernia of healthy testis tissue is said not to occur after clean cut woimds. Contused Wounds.—These are the most fre- quent of the traumatic lesions of the testicle. They are caused by blows, falls astride, kicks, squeezes, and other forms of violent pressure. Symptoms. — The pain of such injuries is acute and unsupportable, and is often severe enough to produce syncope. It radiates to the thigh and extends along the cord, often to the loin. Death from shock even may be the result of contused wound of the testicle, occurring some- times instantaneously, but more often perhaps after the lapse of several hours. Prognosis.—The immediate result of such in- juries as a rule is good; but subsequently per- manent atrophy often occurs. Chronic orchitis is occasionally seen, and encysted hydroceles of the epididymis and of the testicle itself may be met with at a later period. The diagnosis of these several injuries is simple enough, and their treatment is conducted on the ordinary lines of surgical practice.