SUPPURATION 438 later definite encysting wall is developed is certainly the supporting dense fibrous tissue of the part. Fat and loose fibrillar tissue is gener- ally seen to be undergoing degeneration and death, and off'ers little or no resistance to the attacking micro-organism. After four or five days the fibrous wall has become quite definite, but in parts it is very thin. In many acute circumscribed abscesses the pus is more or less completely in contact with it, but in others has not yet reached it. In the latter case leucocytes and micro-organisms are traversing the adipose and loose tissue in an irregularly spreading margin towards the fibrous wall. By the seventh day the fibrous wall Fig. 2.—Section of an abscess seven days after inoculation. It demonstrates the three layers of the abscess wall: A, the external fibrous layer; />', the middle capillary layer suspended in fibrous tissue and pus cells; C, the internal layer of pus cells only. shows marked increase of density, and fairly represents the appearance of the wall of a fully formed abscess, and in it are seen well-marked and organised vessels. This fibrous tissue be- comes denser and wider and less vascular with increasing age. The pus is nearly everywhere in contact with it, and the wall shows three fairly distinct layers. These are from without inwards:— 1. A layer consisting of newly formed and vascularised fibrous tissue only {see Fig. 2). The cicatricial tissue of an abscess wall is not only a repair of damaged parts, it is chiefly a new formation from existing and imdamaged tissue due to the stimulus of irritants. 2. A layer of young connective tissue ele- ments, among which are distributed in an in- separable crowd the same kind of leucocytes. It is in this layer that the chief clusters of micro-organisms which formed the previously described tortuous ring can be seen, and to this layer, under low powers, they are apparently abruptly limited. However, this is not really so, for a few can be seen in the next layer, and occasionally still fewer outside the abscess wall. The blood-vessels from the outer layer extend into this layer and break up into a network of thin-walled capillaries which, in some cases, appear to be almost as large as sinuses (see Fig. 3). The capillaries are so feebly supported —merely by pus cells and a little connective tissue—that they readily rupture. They are the source of the haemorrhage which occurs when an abscess bursts or is incised. In one large abscess this cap- illary haemorrhage was so profuse that the writer had to plug the cavity. 3. A layer mostly of multi-nucleated neutro- philic leucocytes or pus cells, taking nuclear stains well. The three layers at their margins merge one into the other. By the seventh day an acute circumscribed abscess has frequently assumed an oval or circular shape, and en- circling the wall just described is a concentri- cally arranged anasto- mosing network of newly formed fibrous tissue, the crescentic meshes of which are filled with adipose and loose con- nective tissue. The size of these meshes gradu- ally diminishes the nearer they are to the abscess. The encircling arrangement of the abscess wall is caused by its own elastic pro- perty inducing centripetal pressure, and also by the centrifugal pressure exerted upon the wall by the gradually increasing collection of pus. As the abscess advances towards the skin, but befoi'e it actually reaches it, many (and sometimes all) hair follicles, sebaceous glands, and sweat glands, and even the surface epithe- lium, atrophy from the subjacent pressure. Before the rupture of the abscess the pus burrows to a certain extent between the horny layer of the epithelium and the underlying layer of cells. The length of time necessary for an acute circiirascribed abscess to become fully developed depends upon its size and its depth from the