STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 351 its acidity is increased, as frequently occurs, is itself responsible for certain morbid states by exerting a digestive action on limited areas of the stomach walls, the vitality of which has been impaired by mechanical damage, by degeneration, by obstructed circulation, or by other conditions of disease. It is this which is undoubtedly the most potent factor in the production of gastric ulcer. Less often, but still with a frequency greater than is probably supposed, the causation of a stomach affection is to be found in irritating or toxic bodies, such as albumoses, excreted by the mucous membrane. Such substances may con- ceivably have been formed and absorbed lower down in the alimentary canal, and subsequently excreted by the stomach, or they may have originated in perverted tissue metabolism. In this way the gastric symptoms in irregular gout may be explained, though a precipitation of crystalline sodium biurate in the stomach coats has also been held to account for them. The association of duodenal, and less often gastric, ulcer with extensive cutaneous burns has been supposed to be due to poisonous bodies formed at the seat of injury and eliminated by the bile, causing a duodenitis with ulceration. The influence of cold and davip in the causa- tion of gastric and gastro-intestinal catarrh is undoubted, and especially in infants and children, whose alimentary mucous membrane is quite as likely, if not more so, to be affected as their respiratory surface. Individual proclivity in this direction is often to be noticed among adults, with whom changes in the weather are apt to be marked by gastric indigestion, diar- rhoea, etc.; and the intensifying effect of cold and wet upon an existing chronic catarrh is well known. The exact pathogeny of these climatic states is still uncertain, but a disturbance of the circulation, with engorgement of the portal area, seems to be an important factor ; whether special poisons are formed by the altered vascu- larity of skin and viscera is unknown, or whether the congestion simply renders the mucous mem- branes more susceptible to ever present injurious influences. Extreme heat appears to act by the general exhaustion it tends to produce, rather than by any direct effect on the stomach. Secondary to other Diseases.—^There is scarcely any bodily ailment, however slight or however severe, that does not tend sooner or later to interfere with the digestive function, be it only a transient impairment of appetite or a lasting state of catarrhal disturbance. Space forbids more than a reference to the chief groups of disease. Indigestion and severe gastric catarrh are the usual accompaniments of an infective disease, at least during its acute stage, and this has been attributed to an eliminative effort on the part of the gastro-intestinal mucosa to get rid of toxic substances formed. An extreme ex- ample of this is typhoid fever, though the stomach seldom exhibits ulceration, and the duodenum very rarely. A family history of tuberculosis has been met with in a considerable proportion of cases of gastric cancer, and in many post-mortem exami- nations of this disease retrograde tubercle has been found by Drs. Kingston Fowler and Martin. As might be expected, an imperfect digestion frequently complicates general states of mal- nutrition, such as chlorosis and other severe blood affections, rickets, obesity, malignant disease outside the alimentary tract, syphilis, etc. The perverted metabolism which in various ways characterises these maladies affects the structures of the gastro-intestinal canal, and with that it maybe supposed the completeness of their functional activity, and hence indigestion. Very marked are the gastro-intestinal de- rangements that are associated with obstructed portal circulation, whether this be due to hepatic disease or to morbus cordis, and very obvious digestive improvement will often follow a relief of the congested vessels. Affections of the stomach secondary to dis- eases of the respiratory tract are not infrequent. Vomiting is a common sequence of severe cough- ing. Gastric catarrh may be set up by the exposure which has brought about a bronchitis, and the stomach may with the lungs exhibit the effects of pneumococcic infection. Tuber- culous disease of the alimentary tract has been attributed to the swallowing of sputum from phthisical lungs. Reference has already been made to the dependence of gastritis, and it may be added of other affections, upon mal-excretion from renal disease. The relationship of nervous maladies to functional derangements of the stomach is rather to be seen in those cases where pain is a marked feature, or in other affections of the higher brain powers, nervous exhaustion, emotional outbursts, hysteria, neurasthenia, or mental perversions. The influence of these conditions upon appetite and digestion are well established, and the nervous temperament, even within a range consistent with health, has been mentioned as the cause of a large proportion of dyspeptic conditions, presumably by impairing the nerve control of the gastro- intestinal secretion and motility. The violent attacks known as gastric crises which occur in the course of tabes dorsalis claim a more obvious structural change in the nerve centres for their causation. The vomiting in certain cerebral diseases comes within the same category. Lastly may be mentioned, among the causes of diseases of the stomach and duodenum, affec- tions of those organs themselves which stand in a primary relationship to other morbid states.