562 TETANUS wound of the surface, and the cases are there- fore known as "traumatic tetanus." The wound is usually situated on one of the limbs. Lacerated, contused, and especially deep punc- tured wounds are most liable to be followed by tetanus, but still more so if the wound have been contaminated with soil or manure, or have become septic. Wounds caused by wooden splinters and nails are notably dangerous, and gunshot wounds are not infrequently followed by tetanus, as is shown by the frequency of what is termed in the United States " Fourth of July tetanus." The occurrence of tetanus after surgical operations is now relatively un- common. Tetanus has lately been recorded as occurring after vaccination, but as the vaccine lymph in question was proved by animal experiment to be innocuous, secondary infection of the vaccine wound had evidently taken place at some period subsequent to the act of vaccina- tion. Tetanus has been known to follow hypodermic injections, as has recently been recorded by Moty (1901) in the case of quinine injections. In such instances the disease is usually the result of secondary infection. Of late a few cases of tetanus have been observed subsequent to the subcutaneous injection of gelatine in the treatment of haemorrhage or inoperable aneurysm, and tetanus bacilli have been detected in commercial gelatine by Levy and Bruns {Mitteil. a. d. Grenzg. d. Med. u. Chir. 1902), and also by Schmiedicke (1902). A number of cases of tetanus, twenty of them being fatal, have been recently recorded after the use of antidiphtheria serum prepared in Milan and St. Louis. The Milan serum was, on investigation, found to contain tetanus bacilli, whereas the St. Louis serum was sterile, but contained tetanus toxin in considerable amount. Such accidents as these must be of exceptional rarity, and cannot occur in the case of sera which have been properly tested on animals. Tetanus is a not infrequent complication in soldiers wounded in war. In the recent Mada- gascar campaign there was considerable mor- tality from tetanus, and in the French colonial wars during the latter half of the last century the mortality due to tetanus among the wounded averaged 3 to 5 per cent (Calmette, 1900). In the Spanish - American war the Spanish losses from tetanus were severe, whereas in the last Boer war the disease was almost non- existent. Puerperal tetanus and tetanus neonatorum may be regarded as special forms of traumatic tetanus, infection occurring from the female genital tract and from the umbilical wound respectively. In the tropics tetanus is often observed in epidemic form in new-born children, illustrating the fact that when there is a wound contaminated by soil or other infective material, and when asepsis or antisepsis is not carried out, tetanus is likely to supervene. In exceptional cases no wound can be found, nor is there any history of a wound. These are the cases designated "idiopathic tetanus." In some of these instances there has probably been a wound so trivial as to have escaped detection ; in others we may conclude from the researches of Thalmann (1900) and others that a lesion of the nose, mouth, respiratory or alimentary tract, served as the point of entrance of the virus. The disease is more frequent in negroes than in white persons, but affects the latter more than the yellow races, and is more prevalent in tropical than in temperate or cold climates. It is common on the west coast of Africa, in the West India Islands, and in Cochin-China. In New York there were in 1899 seventy-three deaths from tetanus; in Baltimore in 1901, thirty-two deaths; in the hospitals in Vienna during 1899 there were 14 cases, of which 8 terminated fatally. In Great Britain the disease is relatively infrequent. The tetanus bacillus is a small thin bacillus, about 2-5 ju. in length ; in cultures it often forms longer filaments. The bacillus possesses ten or more flagellse, is slightly motile, and in cultures forms a terminal round spore, the diameter of which is greater than that of the vegetative cell, the bacillus thus assuming the drumstick or pin form. The bacillus can be stained by any of the ordinary stains, and retains the stain when treated by Gram's method. The spore may be differentiated from the rest of the bacillus by the usual methods for demonstrating spores. The bacillus is more readily cultivated at a temperature of 37° C. than at the room temper- ature ; growth ceases if the temperature be below 14° C. The bacillus is usually regarded as an obligatory anaerobe. Growth is certainly most readily obtained in the entire absence of oxygen, and the addition of glucose or sodium formate to the medium favours growth. On the surface of gelatine the colonies are small, irregular, of greyish white colour; the margin of a colony, when seen under the microscope, presenting numerous thin, radiate projections. The medium is slowly liquefied. On the surface of agar each colony is whitish in colour, and is surrounded by a thin halo of fine, wavy, thread- like projections from its margin. Stab cultures in glucose agar or gelatine present in the deeper part of the medium abundant fine lines of growth, projecting at right angles from the needle track, the growth thereby assuming a resemblance to a bottle-brush or fir-tree. Gas is formed, and if the medium be gelatine it becomes liquefied. Glucose bouillon is rendered tui'bid, and gas is evolved, whereas milk remains unaltered. Of late years a number of observers (Carbonne and Perrero, 1895; Kruse, 1896; Grixoni, 1899 ; Debrand, 1902 ; etc.) have shown that the bacillus is by no means so