TEMPERATURE 542 consequently on the degree of dilatation or con- traction of its blood-vessels. Division of the sympathetic in the neck of the rabbit is followed by dilatation of the blood-vessels and elevation of temperature in the ear of the same side, whereas irritation of the peripheral end of the divided nerve causes contraction of the blood-vessels in the ear with a fall of temperature in the part. The constancy of the temperature of the body is due to the intimate relationship between the amount of heat produced and that lost from the body. Loss of heat occurs to a considerable extent from the lungs, but is chiefly due to radiation, conduction, and evaporation from the skin. The loss of heat by evaporation diminishes the more moisture there is in the atmosphere, hence a high temperature of the atmosphere is more readily withstood the less moisture it contains. The loss of heat from the skin is reduced by clothing, but apart from this, the loss of warmth from the skin is automatically regulated. Exposure to cold tending to cause loss of heat from the skin surface, induces at the same time contraction of the cutaneous blood-vessels, and thereby lowers the temperature of the skin, diminishes ' the evaporation of moisture from it, and checks j the loss of heat from the body. On the other hand, if the temperature of the medium ' surroimding the body be high, the blood-vessels of the skin dilate, the amount of blood circu- lating through the skin is much increased, and there is consequently increased loss of heat from the surface of the body. Thus, in the event of circumstances tending to cause a rise of temperature, there is a compensating lower- ing of the temperature; or if there be a tendency for the temperature to fall, there is a simultaneous and compensating rise of temperature. In this manner the range of temperature in normal individuals is very slight, a rise or fall of temperature is of brief duration, and the normal temperature is quickly re-established. The Temperature in Relation to Age.— In new-born infants the mean temperature is 99-0° to 99'6° F., and in both infancy and childhood variations in temperature are more frequent and more pronounced than in later life. New-born infants not infrequently present an evening rise of 0-9° F. In advanced life the temperature is often slightly higher than in the normal adult, being usually about 99° to 99-5° F. Diurnal variations op temperature occur both in health and in disease. In the former, and probably also in the latter, the variation is mainly dependent on mviscular movements and ingestion of food. According to Ogle the minimum temperature in health is about 6 a.m. (97'2° F.). A rise of temperature then com- mences and continues until the maximum temperature (about 98-7° F.) is attained between 3 and 5 p.m., and thereafter the temperature again falls. Jlirgensen observed the daily minimum between 2 and 8 a.m., the daily maximum between 4 and 9 p.m. The temperature is uninfluenced by the sex of the individual. Menstruation causes a very slight and transient rise of temperature; pregnancy has no effect on the temperature. During parturition there is a rise of about jjj" F.; during the normal puerperium the tem- perature remains the same as that of other normal women. Tea and coffee induce a slight rise, usually about -|° F. or less ; alcohol in large doses lowers the temperature in consequence of dilatation of the superficial blood-vessels, and of oxidation being retarded, but after this fall the tempera- ture rises to a higher level than formerly. Localised Abnormal Temperature. — A localised abnormality of temperature is most frequently and readily observed in a peripheral part of the body such as the limbs. The two chief factors concerned in bringing about this change are the vascular and the nervous supply of the part. Arrest of blood-supply, as by ligature of the main artery to the part, causes a marked fall of temperature locally, which is in turn succeeded by a rise as the collateral circulation becomes established. Disease of the blood-vessels, causing diminution of blood-supply to a part of the body, is usually accompanied by a fall of temperature in the affected part. Such a change is well seen in the fingers in Raynaud's disease, and may be observed in cases of advanced arterio-sclerosis. Paralysis of a peripheral nerve, whether resulting from section or injury of the nerve trunk, neuritis, or other lesion of the lower neuron of the motor path, is frequently accompanied by diminution of the temperature in the paralysed part, and the difference between the surface temperature of the healthy and of the paralysed side may amount to 10°, 15°, or 20° F. A localised elevation of temperature is essen- tially due to an increased volume of arterial blood in the part. Claude Bernard's classical experiment on division of the sympathetic in the neck of the rabbit with consequent elevation of temperature of the ear on the same side has been already mentioned. A localised elevation of temperature consequent on local dilatation of the blood-vessels is observed in association with cutaneous hypertemia of superficial parts, whether it be induced by mechanical means or be a manifestation of inflammation, but the temperature of the affected part is never higher than the general temperature of the body. Alterations op General Temperature.— The general temperature of the body may either fall below or rise above the normal level. A. Depression.—It is evident that a fall of the general temperature may be due (1) to