515 TEETH from 4 to 27. African elephants differ in many respects from Indian. The tusks are large in both sexes; the molar teeth present lozenge- shaped plates, and the nmnber of plates is very much reduced. Of extinct Proboscidea the well- known mammoth, Elephasprimigenius, possessed two enormous tusks 8 feet long, strong, thick, curving upwards and backwards, and altogether was a much larger animal than any known elephant. The mastodon, another extinct animal, resembled the elephant, the molars, however, being much simpler in character, more tubei'cular, and free fi'om cement. It had two small tusks, incisors, in the mandible. Ungulata. — As examples of this class we might take the horse. Dental formula, I C -j- Prm |- M f = 44. The incisors present a curious dipping down of the enamel, constituting the pit or peculiar mark, from which horse-dealers are able to tell the age of any animal they inspect—the regular rate in which it is worn down in the different incisors indicating this. This mark is due to the inflection of the enamel, or a raising up of the singulum. The incisors meet with an edge to edge bite, causing a rapid wearing away of the teeth. The molars are long and sti'ong, the enamel plates assume very intricate patterns, the interspaces being filled up with cementum. As the teeth get worn down they continue to grow, though they have not persistent pulps. Rhinoceros.—Dental formula, I |- C ^ Prm ^ M §. This dentition differs in many respects from that of the horse. The molars are of very intricate pattern, though not so complex as that of the horse, and present a rough, raised surface admirably adapted for grinding the tough roots, etc., on which it feeds. Wild Boar.—Dental formula, I | C i Prm § M § = 40. The upper incisors stand apart from each other. The same teeth in mandible stand straight up in an almost horizontal position; the canines are large, conical, and prominent, and have persistent pulps. The maxillary ones incline downwards, then outwards and upwards ; the lower ones, outwards and upwards; the molars increase in size from before backwards, their masticating surfaces presenting rounded conical cusps. Another member of the family, Sus Bahirusm, is remarkable not only for having enormously long maxillary tusks, canines piercing the upper lip, and curving upwards and backwards, but also for the curious structure of their last molar teeth; these are very massive and composed of prisms of enamel, surrounding a central mass of dentine, embedded in the cementum which unites them into one tooth. Rodentia.—The capybara is the largest rodent. The molars and incisors grow from persistent pulps. Molars ^ are large in size, and are com- posed of a series of irregular plates of dentine And enamel fused together with cementum. The incisors are long and scalpriform, and have persistent pulps. Enamel is only present on the front surface of the tooth, which keeps the tooth always sharp, by the wearing away of the softer dentine behind. In hares and rabbits the molars have persistent pulps, but in cats, mice, and beavers the teeth have roots; there is a wide diastema between the incisor and molar teeth, and sometimes between premolars and molars. Edentata.—This name is given to animals in which there are no incisors present in the intermaxillary bone. Though true of most of them, a few have upper incisors, the centrals in all cases however being absent. As a rule, the dentitions in this group are homodont or mono- phyodont, except the two-toed sloth. The teeth are very simple in form, and do not differ to any extent, except in size, in the various parts of the mouth. The teeth have persistent pulps, and consist chiefly of dentine and vaso-dentine. The armadillo has on an avei'age some 32 teeth ; priodon, 100 teeth. Sloths have 18 teeth, prin- cipally composed of vaso-dentine. Marsupialia.—The typical marsupial denti- tion is I I C I Prm f M i = 44. They are peculiar in having only one deciduous tooth, a molar on either side of the jaw. They all possess tubular enamel except the wombat. The dental formula of this animal is I ^ C § Prm Y M A = 24. Its dentition greatly resembles the rodent type. Like them it has large chisel- shaped incisors, covered with cementum, and with long fangs growing from persistent pulps ; its molars also are of persistent growth, and it has no deciduous teeth. Insectivora.—The best-known animals in this class are hedgehogs, shrews, moles, and flying lemur. In the hedgehog the dental formula is I I C f Prm A M 1 = 38. In the maxilla there is a wide space between the central incisors, which are caniniform in shape and larger tiian the others ; all the other teeth up to the third molar resemble premolars in shape. The fourth premolars and the three molars have strong square crowns, with four well-defined cusps, and have each four roots. In the mandible the teeth present similar appearances, but are rather smaller in size. Another member of the family, the flying lemur, Galeopethicus, has a very curious dentition. The mandibular incisors are divided by a number of longitudinal divisions, giving an appearance similar to that of a comb. It has a well-marked primary dentition. The teeth of Insectivora have all a very thick coating of enamel, and pigmentation of this tissue is well marked. Chiroptera are divided into Insectivorous and Frugiverous. Dental formula of first, I | C i Prm I M f = 38. The insectivorous bats have very small incisors, rather large canines and premolars; the molars are covered with sharp cusps similar to insectivorous teeth; some