257 SPASM centre. These latter are again dependent on conditions directly affecting the nutrition of the nerve cell itself, toxic or otherwise, and to a large extent on stimuli reaching the nerve cell from other neurons, stimuli received from the peripheral skin, joints, etc., and especially from two important sources, the cerebral cortex and the cerebellum. Lesions may be irritative or paralytic, and it is to be expected, therefoi-e, that diseases affecting either the muscles directly, or the peripheral nerves, the spinal centres, or the cerebral or cerebellar cortex, or their conducting paths to the lower medullary and spinal centres, should in certain cases produce excessive muscular tonus or spasm, and in others diminution of muscle tonus or flac- cidity. As examples of simple reflex spasm from irritation of peripheral nerves may be quoted spasm of the adductors of the glottis due to a foreign body in the larynx, trismus from carious teeth, renal and biliary colic from calculus, and rigidity of the abdominal muscles in peritonitis, diaphragmatic pleurisy, appendicitis, etc. Stimu- lation of the peripheral nerves generally increases the muscle tonus in the corresponding segment, as is seen in the increased knee-jerk produced by rubbing the skin over the vastus internus, though, on the other hand, painful stimulation of the periphery may sometimes diminish tonus, as is seen in cases of persistent violent ankle clonus, which can be arrested by forcible pain- ful flexion of the great toe. Impairment of the conducting power of the sensory nerves, by preventing afferent stimuli from reaching the spinal nerve centres, tends to abolish muscle tonus, as is seen by the loss of knee-jerk in peripheral neuritis and in tabes, which latter is often characterised by marked hypotonia. While afferent impulses reaching the spinal nerve centre from the periphery tend to heighten muscle tonus, those reaching it along the pyramidal tracts from the cerebral cortex are of a two-fold nature. Tonic impulses from the cortex appear to inhibit muscle tonus, as seen in the inci'eased knee-jerk when the attention is distracted by gripping with the hand. Simi- larly, paralytic lesions of the hemisphere are followed by rigidity with increased deep reflexes, while irritation of the cortex as in meningitis may abolish the knee-jerk. On the other hand, intermittent explosions of nerve force in the Rolandic area so stimulate the lower spinal centres as to produce spasm and convulsion. While the cerebrum has thus a crossed control on muscle tonus of the opposite side of the body, the cerebellum, conversely, appears to exert an uncrossed effect, partly through Deiters' nucleus and the descending antero - lateral tract, and opposite in kind to that of the cerebral hemi- spheres. Thus, tonic impulses from the cere- bellum appear to increase muscle tonus, causing rigidity, while intermittent explosive stimuli from the cerebellar cortex produce the opposite VOL. IX effect, viz. relaxation. As an illustration of this- fact, we may quote the results obtained by Horsley and Lowenthal after removal of both cerebral hemispheres in the dog and cat, when active extension tonus of the limbs is obtained. Sherrington names this condition decerebrate rigidity, and states that the spasm is so great that a cat in this condition placed on its four feet will remain so for several days. Hemisec- tion of the spinal cord, or of the bulb just above the pyramidal decussation, abolishes this rigidity on the same side, proving that this excessive- tonus is the result of an uncrossed influence. Horsley and Lowenthal, moreover, found that when this decerebrate rigidity has been pro- duced by removal of both cerebral hemispheres, faradic stimulation of the upper surface of the cerebral hemisphere caused immediate relaxa- tion on the same side, the tonus being immedi- ately re-established on shutting off the current. The uncrossed influence previously referred to is therefore almost certainly the tonic impulses proceeding from the cerebellar cortex, increasing muscle tonus and causing rigidity, while the intermittent explosive stimuli from the cere- bellum cause relaxation, being the opposite effects to those due to the cerebral cortex. All forms of spasm are diminished during sleep. Varieties of Spasm.—Spasm may be either tonic or clonic. Its varieties may be classified under five headings—(1) Organic, (2) Toxic, (3) Keflex, (4) Fuactional, (5) Hysterical. 1. Spasm, either tonic or clonic, may be pro- duced by various organic lesions of the cerebral cortex and its pyramidal fibres, the medullary and spinal nuclei, and of the motor nerves, and the lesions may be either irritative or paralytic. When discussing the physiology of spasm we referred to the part probably played by the cerebellum in producing the late rigidity of hemiplegia, and of paralysis agitans, which may be looked on as a form of double hemiplegia, yet there is little clinical evidence to show the effect of irritative or paralytic lesions of the cerebellum in producing spasm. Irritative lesions of the cerebral motor cortex, causing intermittent explosive discharges of nerve force, such as a tumour or localised patch of softening, cause spasmodic mizscular clonic contractions of the type familiar to us as Jacksonian convulsions. These may be limited to one limb, or the face on one side, or may become general. Paralytic lesions of the cortex or of the internal capsule are followed after a few weeks by a condition of spasm, most intense in the most paralysed part, known as late rigidity, which is permanent. The destructive lesion may be actual loss of substance from injury or operation, or the re- sult of hsemorrhage, thrombosis, or embolism, or tumour, or of pressure from hydrocephalus. The late rigidity may be combined with recur- ring chronic convulsion, as in post-hemiplegic epilepsy, or in tumour in the Rolandic area.