STRABISMUS 409 the fixing eye look along the scale from cipher to cipher until the corneal image on the squint- ing eye appears to be no longer eccentric. "Any vertical element in the squint can be similarly measured by the temporary adjust- ment of a vertical scale after measuring the horizontal element; the vertical scale being placed under the figure on the horizontal scale which has been previously settled on, the patient being made now to look at that figure on the vertical scale which brings the reflection to the fixation position " (Maddox). Yet another method consists in holding a small candle-flame before the fixation point of a perimeter, and then moving the flame along the arc of the perimeter until the observer's eye, the candle-flame, and the centre of the cornea of the squinting eye are all in line. If the fixing eye has all the time been directed to the zero of the perimeter, the degree of deviation of the squinting eye can be easily read on the perimeter scale. All of the above are objective methods, but in some cases where double vision can be elicited, a subjective method can be employed. For this purpose we may most conveniently use the Maddox five-metre tangent scale and rod test, the patient himself reading off" the figure on the scale which appears crossed by the streak of light. The Etiology of Squint.—Very few infants squint at birth. Uncertain movements, slight temporary nystagmus, and transient spasms of convergence are occasionally noted in the earliest months of life. Strabismus more often appears after the intellectual faculties have expanded sufficiently to allow of a desire for accurate visual impressions. It must be remembered that whatever in- herited tendency to harmonious co-ordination of the ocular movements a child may receive from its parents, it must learn for itself to direct its eyes simultaneously to a common point and to maintain binocular fixation upon that point even during movements. Javal has emphasised the extreme precision which is required to secure perfect coincidence of the retinal images. Out of this experience grows a sense of satis- faction in the avoidance of diplopia, a fuller appreciation of the solid shape, size, distance, and relative position of objects, and the "fusion faculty" once aroused becomes an instinctive habit. Such appears to be the normal evolu- tion of binocular vision. If there be perfect symmetry of the orbits, of the ocular muscles and their controlling nerve centres, if the refraction of each eye be similar and the capacity for retinal perception be equally acute, the habit of fusion must be easily acquired. But if one eye has for any reason a difficulty in playing its part in the visual duet, the faculty of fusion may never be properly developed or may be beyond the possi- bility of acquisition by that individual, and the eye which is under disadvantage is likely to become a squinting eye. It is interesting further to note that after the fusion faculty has been acquired, it may be lost by disease. Thus it is a common experi- ence that if an eye suff"ers a serious loss of vision, e.g. by the incidence of corneal opacity, or long-standing cataract, or destructive dis- ease of the fundus, it tends to diverge from its fellow. In some persons, however, the habit of harmonious direction having been once acquired is so well preserved by the innervating centres that even blind eyes may maintain an appear- ance of normal equilibrium. The most fanciful explanations are often put forward by the laity as to the cause of a squint. Some impediment to the vision of one eye while lying in the cradle, the evil example of a squinting nurse or playfellow leading to imitation, or some sudden shock or fright are among the commonest causes assigned. These may generally be dismissed as factors of no real importance. Let us look into the matter more closely. Convergent strabismus is by far the com- monest variety. Its most usual onset is be- tween the ages of two and six, when a child is beginning to exercise accommodation with pre- cision, learning to enjoy picture-books, or later commencing lessons. Bonders first drew attention to the frequent association of hypermetropia and hypermetropic astigmatism with this form of squint. He pointed out that in normal eyes the functions of accommodation and convergence go hand in hand. A young hypermetrope must exert his accommodation to focus even a distant object, and if the instinctive human habit of conver- gence of the eyes is not resisted at the same moment, he will find himself looking at a nearer point than he intended and receiving a double image of the object which he desired to fix. He must then either relax his accommodation and convergence and accept a single ill-defined image, or dissociate his accommodative from his convergent impulse, or maintaining accommoda- tion and convergence to the extent required for clear definition must turn both eyes to the right or left by a conjugate lateral impulse so as to allow one eye to fix the object and let the other appear to do all the squinting. That this latter plan is the one usually followed in the production of convergent strabismus there can be no doubt. It affords at once an ex- planation of the reason why when both eyes are open the "fixing" eye is always the eye with the keener vision, why when one eye is covered the squint commonly " alternates" as mentioned in the earlier part of this article, and to some extent why it is " concomitant." While there is much truth in this ingenious explanation, it is not the whole truth. There