SCARLET FEVER 51 Characteristics between Rubella, the " Fourth Disease," and Scarlet Fever—continued. Kubella (Rose-Kash). 17. The Duration of Infective- ness.—From 10 to 14 days where efficient disinfection is in force. 18. Sequelce.—Practically none. 19. Termination. —Usually com- plete recovery in a fortnight. 20. Treatment.—The patient re- quires about 5 days in bed, followed by 3 days indoors; then about 6 days in the fresh air ; and after complete disinfection he may safely mix with others. Abortive cases of rose-rash are frequent, and are responsible to a large extent for the spread of this disease. It is difficult to distin- guish them, as no actual illness occurs. 1. Pinkeyes.—A group of cases of epidemic roseola may occur, which exhibit no symptoms that I have yet ascertained except pink conjunctivae. And these cases are capable of passing the illness on to others, and are immune against a subsequent attack themselves. 2. There is another group of cases of epidemic roseola which I believe —but I cannot at present advance beyond belief, for I have not yet satisfied myself by actual proof— may occur without showing any symptoms beyond slight feverish- ness and enlargement of the lym- phatic glands throughout the body. The "Fourth Disease." 17. The Duration of Infectiveness. —From 10 to 14 or even 21 days where efficient disinfection is carried out. 18. Sequeloe. — Practically none, but I have seen the submaxillary glands enlarged. 19. Termination.—Usually com- plete recovery in a fortnight. 20. Treatment.—The patient may be permitted to get up on the fifth or sixth day, or as soon as his strength permits, irrespective of the desquamation and without danger from sequelfe. He then requires 3 or 4 days indoors, followed by 5 or 6 in the fresh air, and may safely join his schoolfellows at the end of from 14 to 21 days, notwithstanding desquamation, provided the disinfec- tion has been complete. Scarlet Fever. 17. The Duration of Infectiveness. —From 6 to 8 weeks or more, i.e. when the desquamation has ceased. But I am far from believing that the infection endures so long after efficient disinfection, though at pre- sent I can adduce little proof. 18. Sequelae.—Nephritis ; suppur- ation of the submaxillary, lymphatic glands and others ; otitis ; rheuma- tism ; endocarditis. 19. Termination. — Usually com- plete recovery ensues, but sometimes convalescence is prolonged on account of the sequelae ; but the disease shows a high mortality in the very young. 20. Treatment. — Every case of scarlet fever, however slight, re- quires 21 days of absolute confine- ment to bed. The patient should be clothed in a flannel night-shirt, and the skin daily greased with carbolic or eucalyptus oil. No food should be given for the first week except milk and farinaceous food, however mild the illness, in order to guard against nephritis. The patient should not be permitted to join his friends for 6 or 8 weeks ; but I do not think it essential to isolate cases until all desquamation has ceased from the hands and feet, for this process sometimes occupies several additional weeks. I have acted on this assumption for many years without harm, even trans- ferring boys to their own homes. Of course, complete disinfection is imperative. (v.) Measles.—-A universally confluent erup- tion of measles, which, however, is very marked on the face, and so should not mislead, may exceptionally assume an appearance resembling scarlet fever. But the earliness of the eruption of scarlet fever, without the preceding catarrhal symptoms of measles, and the characteristic tongue of the fourth day, followed by general desquamation, should remove doubt. The pres- ence of Koplik's spots on the mucous membrane of the mouth and palate may also assist in the diagnosis. (vi.) Smallpox.—The sharply defined indi- vidual spots, which shade off gradually into an erythema, should guide the diagnosis, but can only induce error at the very early stage. The severe backache of smallpox should further assist. (vii.) Erysipelas. — The distinction on this point lies in the fact that in scarlet fever, besides the other characteristic symptoms, the rash presents the punctate appearance, while in erysipelas the surface of the eruption is not elevated, and marked oedema of the connective tissue arises, with the formation of vesicles. In scarlet fever the desquamation may occur in places where no antecedent eruption has ap- peared, but this never happens in erysipelas. (viii.) Diphtheria. —■ Scarlet fever, with a sloughy-looking exudation on the fauces, may be mistaken for diphtheria when accompanied by an erythema of the skin. Here again it is simply an erythema and not a punctate eruption. This, besides being merely transient, is usually restricted to the neck and trunk, while the extremities remain unaffected.