161 SINISTKO Sinistro-i—In compound words sinistro- (Lat. sinister, left) means towards the left side or left; e.g. sinistrocerehral (relating to the left cerebral hemisphere), sinistrotorsion (twisting towards the left), etc. Sinkingf. See Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symptomatology, Local Sensory Affections). Sinks. See Sewage and Drainage {Lava- tories, Baths, and Sinks). Sinus.—A cavity in a bone {e.g. an air sinus) or other tissue, a recess {nasal sinus), a space containing blood {placental sinus or venous sinus), or a fistula or tract which does not close up by healing. See Bone, Diseases of {Results of Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis); Brain, Physiology of (Venous Circulation); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Throm- bosis in Cerebral Sinuses); Brain, Surgery of {Cerebral Abscess, Diagnosis); Ear, Middle Chronic Suppuration {Thrombosis of Lateral Sinus); Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Sup- purative Mastitis, Persistent Sinuses); Nose, Accessory Sinuses of {Inflammation); Urachus {Development, Sinus tirogenitalis) ; X-B,ays {Treatment of Sinuses). Sinusoidal Current.—An electrical current in which there is a regular periodicity of the curve, representing the rise and fall of electromotive force. See Electricity. SirenomeiUS.—A teratological type in which the lower limbs are rotated inwards and more or less completely fused into one; the pelvis is deformed, and the organs which usually occupy the pelvic cavity are wanting or rudi- mentary. See Teratology. Siria.SiS. See Sunstroke {Synonyms). Sismotlierapy or Seismo- therapy.—Vibration treatment (Gr. cretcr/xos, a shaking); a form of massage. Site.—A place, position, or situation; e.g. the placental site (the part of the uterine wall to which the placenta is attached, the placental surface which is so attached being named the placental area), a building site (the portion of ground upon which it is intended to erect a building, and which must possess certain quali- fications to make it suitable from a hygenic point of view). SitO-.—In compound words sito- (Gr. o-ito5, wheat or food) means relating to food; e.g. sitogen (a food product) and sitotoxin (a poison produced in vegetable food-stufFs by the action of bacteria or fungi). SitoiOgry.—Dietetics. See Diet ; Food ; Invalid Feeding; etc. VOL. IX Sitomania. — A morbid craving for food ; bulimia. Sitophobia.—A morbid aversion to food, or anorexia. Situs iVIutatUS.—The displacement of an organ or group of organs; ectopia. Situs Viscerum inversus.— A peculiar displacement of the organs, in which those normally on the left side of the body are found on the right, and vice versa, the appear- ances produced being those seen in a mirror image ; this teratological state is also known as heterotaxy, transposition of the viscera, and inversion of the viscera. The transposition is usually very complete, down to the minutest details in which the one side of the body differs from the other, e.g. the level of the testicles in the scrotum. See Teratology' {Heterotaxy). Sitz-batll. — A hip-bath. See Balne- ology (Varieties of Bath). Sixtll Nerve.—The sixth cranial nerve, or abducens. See Brain, Physiology {Cranial Nerves); Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symp- toms, Sixth Nerve); Ocular Muscles, Affec- tions OF {Etiology); Physiology, Neuro-Mus- cular Mechanism {Medulla); Syphilis {Tertiary, Internal Squint). Size - making^. — An offensive trade, dealt with by the Public Health Act (England and Wales) of 1875 : and by the Public Health (London) Act of 1891. Skatoi. — A decomposition product of albumen and proteids in the alimentary canal, having the formula C9H9N. See F^ces {Chemical Examination); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Bacterial Action in the Ali- mentary Canal). SkatOXyl. — An oxidation product of skatoi, found in the urine in cases of disease of the large intestine, and having the formula C9H9NO. See Urine, Pathological Changes IN {Aromatic Substances). Skeleton. See Bone ; Fractures ; Knee-Joint; Spine; etc. Skeleton, Livingf. — An individual affected by such a degree of atrophy of the subcutaneous tissue as to reduce him to little more than skin and bone; the anomaly may be congenital. Skene's Glands.—Properly speaking, Skene's glands are two small glands just inside the orifice of the urethra, while Skene's tubes or tubules are relics of the Wolffian ducts found in the ligamenta lata of the uterus or (occasion- ally) lower down in the neighbourhood of the cervix uteri and urethra. See Generation, 11