552 TERATOGENESIS TeratOg^enesiS.—The formation or de- velopment of monstrosities (Gr. repa?, a monster, and yevvdd), I beget). See Teratology (Causa- tion). Tera.toicl.—Resembling a monstrosity ; especially used as the descriptive name of tumours composed of misplaced blastodermic tissues. Teratolog^y. Definition ...... 552 General Principles .... 552 Causation (Teratogenesiis) . . . 553 Classification ..... 556 Types of ..... . 556 Double Terata ..... 557 Single Terata . . . ' . . 558 Treatment— Obstetric ...... 559 Surgical . . . . . .560 Definition.—Teratology is the science which deals with antenatal malformations and mon- strosities (terata), and it forms the better-known part of the large subject of Antenatal Patho- logy. With the other and less known part the author has already dealt (" Intra-Uterine Diseases and Death of the Fcetus," vol. viii. pp. 254-264). Further, certain portions and some aspects of teratology have been considered under other headings, e.g. under " Deformities " (vol. ii.), "Heredity" (vol. iv.), "Hermaph- roditism" (vol. iv.), "Labour" (vol. v.), "Maternal Impressions" (vol. vi.), "Preg- nancy, Multiple" (vol. viii.), and "Spina Bifida" (vol. ix.); and the description of the diseases of several organs and parts of the body has occasionally included references to their malformations (vide " Bladder," " Brain," "Cheek," "Chest," ''Colon," '' Diaphragm," "Ear," "Eyelids," "Generative Organs," "Heart," "Intestines," "Iris," "Mouth," etc.). In this article, therefore, the author deals only with the general principles of terat- ology, with teratogenesis or the causation of monstrosities, and with such individual types of monstrosity as have not been referred to else- where. General Principles. — Monstrosities and malformations are produced at an earlier date in antenatal life than congenital diseases: the former occur when the new organism is still in the embryonic phase, while the latter arise in the fcetal stage. Teratology, in a word, is embryology in disorder; monstrosities and mal- formations are the results of disturbances in the normal organogenesis of the individual before birth ; there is defective ontogeny; the vital dynamics of the antenatal formative pro- cesses are under the influence of morbid agencies. Teratology being then the pathology of the embryo, it of necessity follows that a knowledge of the physiology of the embryo must precede the inquiry into its pathology, for the physiology of any part of the life of the individual gives a special character to its pathological manifesta- tions. Now the physiology of the embryo differs markedly from, say, the physiology of the foetus: almost the sole function of the embryo is to form its parts and organs, it is constructive; on the other hand, the foetus has functions which resemble in the main those which are found after birth, and the chief result of the right performance of the foetal functions is growth of tissues and organs as distinguished from differentiation of tissues and organs. The physiology of the embryo is em- bryology, or rather the anatomy and physiology of the embryo are inseparably bound up together in embryology. For the proper understanding of teratology, therefore, it is necessary to have a good working knowledge of embryology. Un- fortunately, a good working knowledge of em- bryology is not at present obtainable : there are, as regards the human embryo at least, many points in its construction over which darkness rests, and there are lacunse in our information, more especially of the earliest phases of embryogenesis, which cannot yet be filled up. There is little wonder, therefore, that teratology has many vexed questions and many unsettled problems. Since we cannot yet tell precisely how the embryo forms in the womb it is not surprising that we cannot under- stand exactly by what means it is sometimes malformed. Such knowledge, however, as we possess is of value, and the reader will do well at this point to peruse or reperuse the article on the Development of " Fcetus and Ovum " (vol. iii.). The first factor which gives to teratological phenomena some of their most striking and puzzling characters is, therefore, the embryo- logical one : in embryology rightly understood is the solution to many of the problems of teratology. Let us consider one or two in- stances of this. Not the least striking feature of embryological processes is their complexity : the whole progress of the development of the embryo is from the simple towards the complex, from the general towards the specialised. In this ontogenetic progress, however, the elabora- tion and specialisation is not continuous, but interrupted. Apparently the framework of the body is not laid down once for all, but is rather constructed in portions, and even in overlapping portions, so to speak. One part of the frame- work may be replaced in whole or in part by a new substructure, often of a type quite different from that which has preceded it. Readjust- ment, adaptation, alteration, and variation are processes constantly at work in the life of the human embi-yo: it is by reorganisation that order is brought out of the seeming chaos of blastodermic activity. Temporary scaffoldings