SALIVARY GLANDS, DISORDERS OF 27 out and is lightly stuffed with cyanide gauze. It soon heals by granulation, if the mouth be washed out two or three times a day with a solution of 1'60 carbolic acid. Submental Ranul^ are much less often seen than the sublingual variety, but I recently had a case in a man of thirty. The swelling appears beneath the chin as an ill-defined and fluctua- ting swelling, which has none of the tense elastic feeling which is so marked in the more common form of ranula. Submental ranulae in- crease very slowly in size, and do not give rise to any troublesome symptoms for a long time. Pathology.—Their origin is unknown, but it has been suggested that they may be the result of cystic degeneration of outlying parts of the submaxillary or of the sublingual gland, or that they may be sublingual ranulse which from any cause are unable to extend into the floor of the mouth, and are thus driven to extend downwards instead of upwards. Such a cause would be the scarring of the floor of the mouth produced by the cure of a previous ranula. Treatment.—A submental ranula which causes inconvenience should be treated through the mouth, if it is possible to make it project up- wards, or if it co-exists with a sublingual ranula. More frequently, however, it has to be dissected away through a skin incision carried beneath the chin. Congenital Ranula is sometimes found on the floor of the mouth in new-born children as a result of the imperfect development of Wharton's duct, though the sublingual or the gland of Nuhn are sometimes at fault. Treatment.—When Wharton's duct is obliter- ated the swelling is often bilateral. The treat- ment consists in snipping off" the imperforate papilla with a pair of scissors. Dermoid Cysts Dermoid cysts occur in the middle line be- tween the genio-hyoglossi muscles. They grow slowly, and usually do not come under observa- tion before the patient has attained the age of fifteen to twenty. They may be distinguished from ranulae by their central position beneath the chin, and their walls consist of skin with hair follicles, sebaceous, and sweat glands. They are filled with sebaceous matter, and are often firmly attached to the surrounding tissues. Similar cysts are sometimes seen in the sub- maxillary region, where they appear to be formed in connection with one of the branchial clefts. Both the lateral and the median dermoid cysts may suppurate. The treatment consists in dissecting them out if they are unsightly, but the operation must be carried out with due care and deliberation. The solid innocent tumours of the submaxil- lary and sublingual glands are adenomata and chondromata, but they are less common than in the parotid. The Malignant Tumours have the same character as those found in the parotid. They are endotheliomata, formerly called mixed celled tumours, sarcomata in their various forms, and in the case of the sublingual and submaxillary glands, epitheliomata secondary to cancer of the tongue. When the submaxillary gland is afi^ected it should be removed as early as possible. Sa.liX.—The willow, several species of which contain salicin (f^.v.). SalkOWSky'S Test.—The nitric acid and potassium nitrite test for indol; also, the chloroformandsulphuric acid testfor cholesterine. Salmon Disease.—A disease afiPecting salmon and other fish, due to the Saprolegnia ferox. Salmon Patch. See Cornea {hiter- stitial Keratitis, Pink Patch in the Cornea). SalOCOll.—The salicylate of phenocoll, given as an antipyretic and antineuralgic (in doses of 15 to 30 grains. Salol.—Phenyl salicylate is a white crystal- line powder, almost tasteless, insoluble in water, and soluble in alcohol. It is composed of sixty parts of salicylic acid and forty parts of phenol. It is split up into its two components by the pancreatic juice, and possesses the action both of the salicylates and of carbolic acid. If given in too large a dose it may produce symptoms of carbolic acid poisoning. It should not be em- ployed when the kidneys are seriously diseased. It renders the urine dark in colour. It has been used chiefly for its antiseptic action on the alimentary canal and on the urinary system. In cases of flatulence, of diarrhoea, of typhoid fever, of dysentery, of cholera, and the like it has proved very disappointing ; but in cystitis and urethritis it is of great value. In rheu- matic fever and muscular rheumatism it has seemed to give better results in some cases than the salicylates alone. It is little used, how- ever, for rheumatic conditions. Sal O n i C h i. See Balneology ( Turkey). Salophen.—A derivative of salicylic acid (acetylparamidophenyl salicylate, CjjHjgNO^), which has been used, in doses of 15 grains, as a substitute for salicylic acid. Salping^ectomy.—Excision of the Fallopian tube (Gr. o-aATriy^, a trumpet, and eKTo/xt], a cutting out). See Fallopian Tubes (Treatment of Salpingitis). Salping'itiS.—Inflammation of the Fal- lopian tube. See Fallopian Tubes {Inflamma- tion) ; Menstruation and its Disorders {Menor- rhagia, Dysmenorrhoea); Mumps {Complications) ; Ovaries, Diseases of {Cystic Tiimours, Complica- tions) ; Sterility {Etiology).