31 SCABIES, OR THE ITCH The anatomy, physiology, and life-history of the Acarus scabei have been minutely studied by Bourguignon, whose monograph and beauti- ful plates are well worth consulting. In this place a mere outline only of this truly wonder- ful creature can be attempted. The adult female acarus picked out of a burrow is just perceptible to the naked eye as a minute, white, globular speck. Magnified, the animal is seen to be somewhat tortoise-like in shape, and provided with eight legs in pairs : two pairs situated anteriorly near the head, and armed with suckers, and two pairs more posteriorly, with a long seta at the extremity of each leg. The legs are supported by chitin- ous frameworks ventrally situated. The fore- legs are employed to afford support in starting burrowing operations. The female may contain one or more oval eggs. The male, whilst agreeing in a general way with the female, is smaller; moreover, the most posterior leg on either side is provided with a sucker instead of a seta for purposes of copula- tion. Posteriorly, too, in the median line there is a horse-shoe shaped chitinous framework with the penis. Megnin gives the following measurements: female 0"30 mm. in length by 0'26 in breadth, male 0-20 by 0-16. The acarus is oviparous, the impregnated female constructing a burrow or cuniculus, which it leaves no more, to lay its eggs. The burrow is situated in the horny layers of the epidermis, just above the rete cells, which as a rule are not invaded, but in a bad case of itch in a leper with numberless acari, RadclifFe- Crocker noted one acarus among a score in the upper part of the rete. In her progress the female leaves behind a trail made up of ova, usually placed transversely, and fseces, perfora- ting each day, according to Bourgiiignon the roof of the burrow for air. The acarus has no tracheal system, but breathes by the general surface of the body (Leuckart) and by swallowing air (Bourguignon). The female is said to lay some fifteen to fifty eggs altogether, and once this is accomplished her mission in life is at an end, and she dies. The eggs are variously stated to hatch out in from five to fourteen days, those first laid maturing earliest. Accord- ing to Dubreuilh and Beille the larvse find their way to the surface through the roof of the burrow. In the figure of a section through a burrow, magnified, the female and ova in various stages of development can be seen. The larva has six legs only, and undergoes several moults, not true metamorphoses, before reaching the final adidt male or female condi- tion. In the first moult it acquires an extra pair of legs and becomes a nympha, that is, a non-sexually differentiated form. Later on sexual characters are acquired, the females then become impregnated, and start on a fresh cycle for the preservation of the parasite (Megnin). A moulting phase is shown by Bourguignon in his plate vi. The impregnated females alone burrow ; the other forms either wander freely about the body, or merely ensconce themselves in the superficial layers of the epidermis to escape detection (Dubreuilh). The animal works and feeds at night. It is not, therefore, the warmth of the bed that gives rise to the irritation. In bakers who work by night, Dubreuilh and Beille have noted that the irritation came on about 4 a.m., and lasted for an hour or two. According to Bourguignon patients told him the irritation was greatest between 10 and 12 p.m. As to the cause of the irritation, the mere movements of the parasite are not sufficient to account for the violent itching. This arises from a venomous fluid (Moquin-Tandon) or irri- tant saliva (Megnin) secreted by the acarus and introduced into the skin. Hardy pounded up eight acari in a drop of water and inoculated the back of his hand with the material thus obtained. It gave rise to marked pruritis (Dubreuilh and Beille). The anatomy of the parasite's head and mouth is extremely complicated. It has been unravelled by Bourguignon, who gives drawings of the magnified component parts. According to him, the acarus punctures its victim's tissues with the sharp ends of its mandibles, and then by a process of squeezing presses out the fluids and blood corpuscles on which it feeds. Geographical Distribution and Incidence. —The itch is widely distributed all over the globe. As far as England is concerned, it is very common among the poor and not rare in the better classes. Radcliffe-Crocker's figures are 8 per cent for hospital and 3 per cent in private practice. In Scotland it is more pre- valent than in England. In M'Call Anderson's practice it occurred in about 16 per cent of his hospital patients, and about 3^ per cent of his private cases. On the continent of Europe it is very common : Brittany, Norway, Italy, Greece, Corsica, and so forth. In the United States it was at one time very uncommon, but of late years it has become more prevalent. White of Boston noting an increase from 9 cases in 1880 to 165 in 1888. There is no doubt the increased immigration of Jews from Poland, Russia, Galicia, etc., has influenced American figures, for in London it is comparatively common among the Yiddish who apply for relief. I am informed that among the Tamils of Ceylon scabies is almost universal. The fact is the disease is world-wide, the parasite being everywhere the faithful attendant of man. Itch is more prevalent in winter than in summer, for reasons not far to seek. Symptoms.—The features of the disease are the characteristic burrows and multiform lesions,