247 SNAKE-BITES AND POISONOUS FISHES Half the number of fatal cases are stated to die from fear, not having the heart at the time to apply any remedial measures (KrafFt). Serum Therapy The analogy between certain toxins produced by pathogenic micro-organisms, as diphtheria, tetanus, etc., and the products of snake venom, together with the effects that they produce on most mammals, led to the belief that some antitoxin might be prepared for the latter, which would give protection against the virus. In spite of the opinion of Sir J. Fayrer and others that any idea of finding a physiological antidote was Utopian, it has to a great extent been actually accomplished: the preparation and dispersion of a most valuable antitoxin is now being carried on in large quantities by Professor Calmette of Lille and his assistants. There is also to be a special laboratory, under the care of Major Semple, to supply this antivenine on the spot for the use of India.^ History.—Sewall in 1886 experimented on pigeons. By very gradual and repeated in- jections of rattlesnake poison, he produced in them very marked resisting powers to that poison. Cunningham, by experiments at Calcutta, found that though a fowl may be immunised against cobra bite by repeated injections of the virus, yet that it was not then protected from Daboia poison and vice versa, in contradistinction to the statements of Calmette and Fraser, that an animal immunised to cobra poison was also immune from all other snake venoms—a doctrine quite contrary to Behring's law, "that the action of an immunising serum is specific." Phisatrix, Bertrand, and Calmette advanced knowledge a step further. Experimenting with rabbits and the venom of vipers, cobras, etc., they found that not only were they able to immunise the animal itself, but they also found that the serum of these animals had distinct antitoxic powers if administered within an hour of the ingestion of the venom, causing what would have been a lethal dose to be less so or non-effective. Professor Fraser in 1895 administered large doses of cobra venom into the stomach of a cat, producing no poisonous effects on it; but the cat was found to be immune to the poison when given hypodermically, and that its blood serum had antitoxic properties. He also found that its kittens acquired protection through the milk supplied by the mother. Snake men are believed to acquire a certain amount of immunity by the repeated inunctions of small doses of venom on the hand, or, in Africa, by eating the head of the snake—at least that is a common opinion held in South Africa. Captain Elliot, I.M.S., from his recent ^ This laboratory is now in active existence. observations in India, brings forward evidence to favour the following conclusions :— (1) That "snake men" in India, as a rule, have no knowledge of acquiring any immunity, but trust to their own intimate familiarity with the habits of the snakes, or to the previous mutilation of them, by removing their fangs, or sometimes by producing an internal fistula from the poison gland into the mouth. (2) That Sifeiu do practise swallowing venom, or the inunction of venom into the limbs. (3) That they confine their work entirely to the cobra, the Daboia being very irritable, uncertain, and not at all amenable to their charming. Calmette has shown that the antitoxic pro- perties present in the serum of animals im- munised against venom are not due to the direct action of the antitoxin on the virus, but that it is exerted through the tissue elements of the animal. He next proved that by mixing the venoms of various snakes, including Naja, Daboia, and Hoplocephalus, etc., and removing the coagulable irritative proteid, using only the active toxin of the dialysed non-coagulable form, he was able to produce an antitoxic serum (from horses) which immunised animals and man from lethal doses of any venom, although each snake venom has per se well-marked toxic peculiarities producing several and various local phenomena. In 1898 Major Semple, R.A.M.C., Captain Lyons, I.M.S., and Staff-Surgeon Andrews, R.N., under the supervision of Professor Calmette, by a very complete set of experiments demonstrated that antivenomous serum could be prepared from horses which had a very high antitoxic power : that its preservative action shows itself almost instantaneously when injected intraven- ously, but if injected subcutaneously, only after a period of one to three hours; that under certain conditions it acts as a vaccine. They also proved that the duration of immunity so produced is short; the greater the quantity of serum injected, the longer this immunity re- mains. Its principal characteristic was its rapidity of action and its efficacy against all venoms, whether from Colubrine or Viperine snakes. They found that this antivenine is easily kept, as it does not lose its protective properties when heated to 140° F. This antitoxic serum is prepared in the following manner. Injections over the shoulder were given to healthy horses subcutaneously of a solution of dialysed venom in increasing doses for a period extending over months, generally sixteen, each injection usually producing severe local reaction and abscesses. When the horse is sufficiently immunised, he is bled from the jugular, the blood is kept in a dark room for twenty-four hours, after which the serum is syphoned off, divided up into 10 c.c bottles; these are sterilised at a temperature 10° C. on three successive days, the bottles being kept in