TABES DORSALIS 497 view, together with the fact that it has been noticed that tabes has come on after the stress and hardships of a campaign in military men. Leyden and Goldscheider lay great stress upon exposure to cold, wet, and unequal temperature, but most authorities consider it as only a con- tributory factor. Sexvxil excesses were formerly considered to be the cause—the essential cause—of tabes, but the undoubted satyriasis which occurs in many cases is not the cause but the result of the increased irritability, prior to death, of the nervous structures of the spinal cord, subserving the function of the sexual instinct. Still, one cannot get away from the fact that people who suffer with tabes dorsalis are those especially who have lived a fast life and indulged in Baccho et in Venere. Alcohol.—It is improbable that alcohol of itself without syphilis can, when taken in excess, produce tabes. It can, however, produce neur- itis, consequently is a potent agent in the pro- duction of irritation and destruction of nervous tissue, and may therefore act as an important contributory factor in the production and the rapidity of progress of the disease. Trauma.—Klemperer collected a number of cases in which there was a histoiy of injury preceding the onset of the disease. A classical monograph by Hitzig dispossessed Klemperer's observations of much of their import; and it may be accepted that there are but few cases in which true tabes, apart from syphilitic and other factors, exists. To sum up the etiology, it is the opinion of the author that syphilis, if not the one essential factor, is proved to be by far the most important factor, but that it operates only when in conjunction with several contributory predisposing or determining factors, namely, stress (physical and mental), exposure to cold and wet, alcoholism, sexual excesses, insufficient sleep, and occasionally trauma; also the psychopathic, neuropathic, or neurotic temperament, the conditions which, without syphilis, would determine neurasthenia. The same factors are contributory to the production of general paralysis, but more frequently in the latter than in tabes there is an hereditary history of insanity. Symptomatology.—Tabes is a polymorphic degeneration; although there are certain car- dinal symptoms, one or more of which, in con- junction with some other or others, is necessary before a diagnosis can be made. Still no two cases present exactly the same clinical features, although there is, by the presence of one or more of these cardinal symptoms, a universal similarity. They are as follows :—The Argyll- Eobertson pupil; absent knee-jerks ; lightning pains; visceral disturbances, especially bladder troubles ; disturbances of sensibility. The most important symptom undoubtedly is the Argyll-Robertson pupil, for in no other VOL. IX disease except general paralysis does this sign exist, and, as pointed out by Sir William Gowers, in some cases of syphilis it may be the sole objective evidence. In fact, the existence of the phenomenon alone would justify one in saying that the patient was a candidate for either tabes or general paralysis. This is the strongest argument in favour of the unity of these two diseases and of their syphilitic origin. Eye Symptoms.—We will consider first affec- tions of the optic nerve. One of the earliest subjective symptoms which will bring a patient under the doctor's observation is failure of sight; thus, a large number of cases in the preataxic stage are seen by the oculist. The patient may complain of dimness of vision, " things look as if smoky," or "as if a veil were in front of the eyes "; one eye is usually affected much more than the other, and it may be that not until he has lost the sight of one eye, which may happen, apparently quite suddenly, owing to the destruc- tion of the macular fibres, does the patient seek advice. Examination of the fundus shows the disc with a sharp-edge dead-white appearance, or greyish-white, with often the lamina cribrosa shining through, giving it a mother-of-pearl appearance, the vessels normal in size and ap- pearance, and, in advanced cases, sinuous on account of the cupping of the disc. Sometimes there is amblyopia without ophthalmoscopic changes. The optic atrophy will cause failure in colour vision, and if tested perimetrically there may be a marked limitation of the field of vision; and colour-blindness may occur, red and green disappearing usually before blue and yellow. Patients suffering with optic atrophy frequently remain for long periods of time in the preataxic stage; in fact, may never show ataxy at all. One of my patients was twenty years in that stage. It is usual for neurologists to give comfort to their patients by telling them that although they are blind, they will probably remain free from locomotor troubles for a long time to come. There is another side of the picture which is seen especially by the alienist, and it is my experience that a large number of these cases become tabo-paralytics. From the observations made on 60 cases of tabo-paralysis with 30 post-mortem examina- tions, including microscopical examinations, I have been struck with the large number (40 per cent) that have suffered with optic atrophy, and in many instances complete blindness. Ocular Paralysis.—Another cause of the patients seeking advice at an eye hospital is double vision ; they do not go there because of the squint, as a rule, but because the vision of two objects attracts their attention and inter- feres with their occupation. The ocular paral- ysis may be paralysis of a single muscle, that of the external rectus on one side being the most 32