STOMACH: SURGICAL 393 with an intestinal fistula is pitiable in the extreme. Ulcbr-Cancbb There is usually a long-standing history of ulcer, and the gastric contents show the presence of free hydrochloric acid, frequently in excess. There is usually more pain and tenderness than in other forms of cancer. The growth most often develops in the region of the pylorus or at the constriction of an hour-glass stomach. The diagnosis is very difficult, the presence of a tumour not being conclusive evidence of cancer, and even after the abdomen is opened it may be difficult or impossible to differentiate the induration of simple ulcer from that which is due to the addition of malignant disease. The doubt may only be cleared up on micro- scopical examination of the specimen after re- moval. A radical operation is usually possible and successful. Cancer op the Cardiac End of the Stomach is either unattended with localising physical signs or it closely simulates the features of malignant stricture of the gullet. The question of gastrostomy may require consideration. In our own experience, while it averts starvation, and may prolong life for many months—the longest survival known to us being two years and five months—in the majority the patient drags out a miserable existence, and is unable to participate in any of the ordinary duties of life. Tumours of the Stomach other than Cancer Innocent connective-tissue tumours are very rare, and do not cause gastric symptoms unless they involve the pylorus or they are pedun- culated and block this opening. The myoma is the best known ; it may project into the interior of the organ and cause hsemorrhage, or project externally, giving rise to a slowly growing, firm tumour, sometimes of considerable size. It is rarely diagnosed, but when met with after open- ing the belly it should be removed along with the portion of stomach to which it is attached. Sarcomxi of the stomach is comparatively rare. Being associated with the same clinical features as cancer, it is usually mistaken for it until the specimen is examined after removal. Its treat- ment is conducted on the same lines. With isolated exceptions, the patient dies from recur- rence of the disease. Adenoma usually causes symptoms of pyloric obstruction, and is also liable to be mistaken for cancer. Sometimes it is decidedly pedun- culated ; more often it is sessile and impossible to diff'erentiate from malignant disease. It is best removed by a radical operation. Dilatation op the Stomach Gastrectasis.—This, which is a common accom- paniment of gastric affections, has been already studied in relation to ulcer and to cancer. It may also result from external pressure on the pylorus or duodenum, as by tumours of the pancreas, gall-bladder, liver, or retroperitoneal tissues. The pylorus or duodenum may be drawn upon or kinked by perigastric adhesions, especially those resulting from gall-stones, or by a movable right kidney. In a limited number of cases there may be no discoverable cause of the dilatation, and the condition is then regarded as a neuro-paresis. Such idiopathic dilatation sometimes supervenes on operations, especially those which concern the abdomen, and it may be a factor in causing death. The physical signs of gastrectasis are sufficiently well known. Treatment is primarily directed towards the removal of any existing cause, and this may necessitate surgical intervention. Failing the fulfilment of this indication, or in addition to it, it may be necessary to drain the stomach by means of a gastro-enterostomy, and the size of the organ may call for reduction by means of gastroplication. Tuberculosis and syphilis of the stomach, and phlegmonous gastritis are beyond the scope of this article. Operations on the Stomach Gastrostomy.—The object of this operation is to establish a gastric fistula. It is indicated in malignant stricture of the gullet, in order to feed the patient; in innocent stricture, to per- mit of retrograde dilatation; in recent injuries, as from impacted foreign bodies and corrosive liquids, to rest the gullet and favour healing. The method associated with the name of Witzel yields the best results. Under local anaesthesia the belly is opened by a vertical in- cision through the left rectus. The stomach, which'in oesophageal obstructions is small, empty, and hidden behind the left lobe of the liver, is drawn out at the wound. Having selected an area between the curvatures, it is secured by a couple of sutures, the ends of which are held by an assistant. Having packed the operation area with gauze, an opening is made in the anterior wall in the centre of the area selected. The opening should be large enough to admit a flex- ible rubber tube, about No. 12 English catheter scale. The tube should project one inch or more into the interior of the organ, and it is fixed to the edge of the opening by means of a catgut suture. In order to invaginate the opening, two parallel folds of the anterior wall, one on either side, are then raised and approxi- mated by a series of Halsted's sutures, two above and two below the tube ; the sutures are knotted and the ends cut short. The invagina- tion may with advantage be deepened by raising two similar folds on either side by a second series of sutures (Kader), the ends of two or more of these being left long to allow of their being passed through the edges of the parietal peri-