SKIN—PARASITES 195 both medical attendant and the persons in charge. Every now and then wonderful remedies are trumpeted forth in the journals, which cure ringworm in a very short time. These announce- ments should always be received with scepticism. At times authors of these brilliant cures dis- play much ignorance of the subject. In other instances cases put down as cured are really not cured at all. There is no doubt, however, that some cases are very amenable to treatment, especially if the parents carry out instructions carefully, or perhaps owing to the condition of seed or soil. But this is not the rule in prac- tice, especially among the out-patients of a hos- pital, when treatment is carried out in a very perfunctory manner. The prognosis should therefore always be very guarded. It has been said that the tricho- phyton endothrix are more readily cured than microsporon cases, but this cannot be relied upon. I have seen cases of the former kind prove extremely obstinate and last a very long time (two years or more), although the children were well looked after. Moreover, the admit- tedly chronic microsporon cases form the great majority of the ringworms of the scalp observed in this country. In this connection kerion {trich. meg. ectothrix), which looks very for- midable, is more readily cured, the acute sup- purating process being curative in itself. Where it is possible, the head should be shaved when the diseased areas are numerous or the ringworm diffuse, leaving, if necessary, a fringe of hair all round ; but complete shaving is preferable. It should be done every week, and instead of using a shaving-brush, which is liable to become infected, pads of wool should be employed and burnt after use. An ethereal liquid, or at least a mild antiseptic soap, should be used. After shaving it is well to rapidly swab the scalp with some wool and a diluted antiseptic solution (sanitas, 1 in 10, or carbolic acid, 1 in 40), and dry, without rubbing, with another clean piece of wool. When shaving is not possible the hair should be kept closely cropped all over the head. Hats and caps must be lined with clean tissue paper every morning, and the paper lining burnt at night. The important point is to have the affected areas well under the eye to allow of the remedies being applied to the right places, and not smeared over the hair and scalp promiscuously, as is so often the case. Ointments should be applied not only to the patches themselves, but all round them also, where the disease spreads. The applications are legion; but I have found the following answer well in Dr. Rad- cliffe Crocker's clinic, and in private, viz. Cupri oleat. 3j., adipis §j., rubbed into the diseased areas night and morning. This loosens the affected hairs by leading to a mild foUiculitis. The stumps should be systematically removed when loose (otherwise they will break off in the follicle), with epilating forceps. When the patches appear denuded and smooth, a good sign, one of the following ointments may be used every day at first, then three or four times a week:—Hydrarg. iodidi, pot. iodidi aa gr. ij.-iij., aquse lanolini 3iij-) adip. benz. 3iv.; or, Resorcini 3j-) adip. benz. ad 5j. ; or, Sulph. subl. gr. xx.-3j., thymoli oss., adip. benz. ad jj. One of these, or some milder parasiticide ointment, should be continued to the patches once or twice a week for some time after the ringworm is apparently cured, especially if there should be areas of scurfiness or scaliness present. With regard to washing the head, it is im- portant to do this carefully. Careless sham- pooing is but too apt to spread the disease, and want of success can sometimes be distinctly traced to it. When the head is shaved there is no need for such a procedure, but when it is done the affected areas should be covered while the other parts are carefully dried. When on careful examination with a lens a diseased stump or two are still found, these should be treated individually by means of a drop of croton oil introduced into the hair- follicle on the point of a needle on a holder. This gives rise to a slight pustular folliculitis, when the loosened stump can be readily removed with forceps. Croton oil should not be applied to stumps lying close together, to avoid coal- escence of the pustular lesions. Formalin was at one time strongly advocated, but it appears to have already gone the way of other much-vaunted cures. I have seen scars the size of a sixpence and over as a result of its application. It is easy enough to cure ring- worm in this way, but parents do not bless you for producing indelible scars on the heads of their children. Ghrysarobin is apt to lead to erythema, and, when applied near the eyes, to smart conjunc- tivitis. Besides, it stains linen badly. But it is sometimes useful, with care as to above draw- backs, thus :—Chrysarobini gr. x., ung. zinci oleat., sj., also combined with cupri oleat. 3j., or with ol. amygdal. 3iij., lanolin 3v., instead of the ung. zinci oleat. In infants the disease is more like tinea circinata {vide infra), and is more readily cured by sulph. sublim. gr. xv., acidi carbolici iTixx., adipis ^j. (or ol. amygd. 3iij., lanolini 3v., instead of the lard). In older children Coster's paint (pigmentum iodi et olei picis, U.C.H. Pharmacop. = iodine 120 grains, light oil of wood tar one ounce) sometimes answers well. It should be applied with a stiff brush (a paste-brush, with the bristles cut short), after well shaking the bottle. The scab produced is removed with forceps, bringing away diseased hairs. The paint can be again applied after rubbing with soap and