323 STAMMERING by Alexander Melville Bell in 1849. In it the consonants are placed in parallel lines:— Voiceless. Voice. Voice + Nasality. p b m f V wh w t d n til th (dh) 1 r s z sh zh y k g ng On referring to the table, it will be seen that in order to form the breath consonants the breath is completely obstructed at three points :— (1) By contact of the lips. (2) By contact of the tip of the tongue with the anterior part of the palate. (3) By contact of the back or root of the tongue with the posterior part of the palate. At the first of these points are formed the articu- lations p and h; at the second t and d; and at the third k and (" hard "); the former of each of these parts being the " breath," and the latter the "voice" forms of the articulation. While the oral organs are in obstructive contact the breath or voice may be made to issue by the nostrils. This is the mode of formation of the English elements m, n, and ng. For m the lips are closed, as in forming p and b ; for n, the tongue is on the palate, as for t and d; and for ng, the posterior organs are in contact, as in forming k and g. F and v are formed by partial contact of the lower lip and upper teeth; th and th {dh) by partial contact between the tip of the tongue and the upper teeth, and I by partial contact of the tip of the tongue and forepart of the palate, while the sides of the tongue vibrate freely. In trilled r the tip, and not the side of the tongue, is allowed to vibrate, thus differing from I with which it is often confused. In wh and w there is merely approximation of the lips, and in s and z, sh and zh, and y approximation of different parts of the dorsum of the tongue to the hard palate. In the formation of these consonants it is well to bear in mind that I, m, n, ng, r, dh, z, zh, w, and y can be compared to the vowels, in that they are all continuous voice sounds, and like them are seldom a cause of trouble to the stam- merer. Any or every one of the other conson- ants, however, may present the greatest diffi- culty. In the formation of the breath consonants there is one point of the utmost importance, which, so far as the writer is aware, is men- tioned by Melville Bell, and by no other writer on the subject. As it is important not only in the correction of speech affections, but also con- stitutes a crucial distinction between good and bad voice production, it will be best to give it in his own words ■.'^— " The voice-organ and the articulating organs are entirely separate and independent; and the elements of their respective utterances are not coalescent, but merely sequent, however rapid and close may be their apparent connection. All actions of the vocal organs which partially or wholly obstruct, or which compress the breath or voice, are called articulations (or con- sonants). The necessary effect of such obstruc- tions or compression is a degree of explosiveness in the breath when the conjoined or approxi- mated organs are separated. Hence arises an element of audibility produced by or with the mouth. When the current of unvocalised breath is altogether stopped by organic contact, as in p, t, k, the only audibility that the letter so formed can have is the puff or explosion which follows the separation of the organs. This must therefore be clearly heard, or the letter is partially lost. In the mode of produc- ing this little effect lies one of the most import- ant principles of speech—a principle on the right application of which depends much of a speaker's distinctness, and all his ease. Here lies the point of importance. If only the breath in the mouth, and not any from the lungs, be ejected, a distinct sharp, qidck percussion will be heard, ivhich gives to these breath articulations all the audibility of which they are susceptible. The want of pharyngeal power manifests itself by distension of the lips and cheeks for p and b; by incontinency of breath for t, k, d, g, by laborious actions of the chest to create the ex- plosive audibility of these letters ; by scattering the saliva for .s, /', and other continuous elements; and by general indistinctness of articulation. It is the want of power to retain the breath after consonants which causes the great diffi- culty that stammerers experience in joining consonants to succeeding vowels. They will often get smoothly over the consonants and stumble at the vowel. They must bear in mind that the breath in articulation is exploded from the mouth, and not from the chest. The space within which the air is compressed is above the glottis ; and the effect of the compression must not be communicated below the glottis. The quality of clear-cut articulation depends on the due separation of the functions of the vocal- ising and articulating organs. The vocal sound seems to be unbroken, because the actions of the tongue and the lips, while interwoven with it, do not interfere with it. "All singers and all speakei's may attain this bright excellence of articulation by forming con- ' Postscript on Elocution.