390 STOMACH: SURGICAL tumour which occupies the epigastric region and extends upwards beneath the costal margin on one or other side. There is considerable inflammatory infiltration of the muscles and fasciae. The tumour is fixed, painful and tender, and unfits the patient for any occupation. Operation, although diflicult, is strongly indi- cated. On separating the adhesions a "pene- trating ulcer" is usually opened into, and it may require to be excised along with the infil- trated portion of the abdominal wall. The gap in the stomach is closed by sutures. The omen- tum may be brought up and fixed between the surfaces which were previously adherent. If it be impossible or dangerous to separate the adhesions, relief may be given by a gastro- enterostomy. Hour-glass Stomach.—-It is beyond the scope of this article to discuss the causation of this affection. We agree with Moynihan that it is practically always acquired, and is nearly always related to a pre-existing chronic ulcer. The ulcer leads to the hour-glass deformity by giving rise to adhesions, especially such as fix the central area of the viscus to the anterior abdominal wall, or by cicatricial contraction of its base, especially when the ulcer extends circularly around the body of the organ. The ulcer wlaich is associated with hour-glass con- traction may perforate, and it not infrequently becomes the seat of cancer. There is frequently pyloric stenosis in addition. The clinical features are usually those of dilated stomach supervening on a chronic ulcer. The hour- glass condition can usually be diagnosed with certainty if attention is paid to the character- istic physical signs pointed out by Wolfler, Jaworski, Jaboulay, von Eiselsberg, Moynihan, and Eichhorst. Most value attaches to the phenomena observed on washing out the stomach and on inflating it with air or gas. The two conditions for which hour-glass stomach is most liable to be mistaken are stricture of the lower end of the gullet and pyloric stenosis. The chief source of mistake hitherto has been that the existence of hour- glass stomach has been entirely unsuspected. The treatment of the condition is necessarily operative, but it is surrounded with difficulties. The whole stomach up to the cardiac orifice must be investigated, as there is considerable risk of assuming that the pyloric segment, which may alone be visible beneath the costal angle, is the entire organ, and, on the assump- tion that the dilatation of this segment is the cause of the symptoms, of performing a useless operation, such as a gastro-enterostomy on the distal side of the stricture. If the stricture is near the cardia and buried beneath the ribs, or if the cardiac pouch is surrounded by adhesions, it may be extremely difficult to perform any curative operation. Again, if there is a stricture at the pylorus as well as the hour-glass contraction, two operations will be required—one to eliminate each obstruction. If the condition be one of uncomplicated hour- glass in an accessible situation with a narrow isthmus and without marked induration or adhesions, gastroplasty will suffice. If the two pouches sag downwards and almost touch below the isthmus and there are no extensive adhe- sions, a gastro-anastomosis should be preferred. If the pyloric outlet is also stenosed, a gastro- enterostomy should be performed in addition, especially if ulceration is still going on in the stomach. If an ulcer adherent to the ab- dominal wall be found, and on separating the adhesions a fistula is discovered, the thickened edges should be excised and the gap sutured at right angles to the long axis of the stomach. If the hour-glass cannot be remedied by gastro- plasty or gastro-anastomosis, then one must fall back on a gastro-enterostomy, and the question then arises as to which segment of the stomach should be united to the jejunum. If the cardiac pouch be much the larger of the two, it should be selected, while if both pouches need drain- ing, both of them are anastomosed with the intestine. If the hour-glass be the seat of cancer it should be freely excised, and the divided ends are then brought together by sutures (circular resection of the stomach). Gastroptosis Prolapse of the stomach, whether occurring alone or along with ptosis of other viscera, may not give rise to any symptoms. We are only concei-ned with cases in which there is decided impairment of the functions of the stomach. The chief symptoms are epigastric pain ag- gravated by standing and exercise, apparently due to stretching of the nerve plexuses of the stomach, and stagnation of the gastric contents necessitating the frequent use of the stomach- tube. On examining the patient, most import- ance attaches to the position of the lesser curvature and of the pylorus. If a large amount of water is swallowed in the erect posture, the stomach stands out prominently, and the lesser curvature and pylorus may be found to have descended as low as the um- bilicus ; the greater curvature may be found near the pubes or in the left iliac fossa. The pancreas may sometimes be palpated as a transverse cord a little above the level of the umbilicus. There is usually splashing on succussion after prolonged fast, and other evidences of dilatation of the stomach. When sufficient relief does not follow on the use of a supporting bandage, massage (especially along with Weir Mitchell treatment), attention to diet, and occasional use of the stomach-tube, and the patient is unfitted for his or her oc- cupation or the ordinary duties of life, recourse may be had to surgical interference. On open- ing the abdomen the stomach may be found to