94 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE the usual broken down cell products, intimately mixed with incompletely fibrillated tissue, the central portion being composed almost entirely of fatty granular debris. Gumma of the testis rarely suppurates, but in the majority of cases the morbid product is in part absorbed and in part becomes con- tracted. Destruction of the secretory portion of the gland is rarely avoided, and with it, and in proportion to its extent, occurs a diminution in the amount of semen secreted, or even total aspermia, or a decrease of sexual desire and im- potence. At the end of many months the testicle is found diminished in size; its general shape may be preserved, the surface remaining smooth, or else we find depressions alternating with elevations. At times the organ is reduced to a shapeless nodular rudiment of a testicle. Occasionally the gummatous infiltration forms a tumour of considerable size, and foci of soften- ing are found in it; when this occurs all the coverings of the testis are generally also in- volved. Should these become perforated, the gumma will grow exuberantly fungus-like to- wards the surface, as a soft granular mass. Diffuse Interstitial Orchitis.—This is simply a chronic interstitial inflammation of the inter- tubular connective tissue. The swelling origin- ates with the appearance in the intertubular connective tissue of crowds of nuclei-like bodies or " indifferent cells." This early stage is followed by an overgrowth of young connective tissue, which gradually becomes more and more fibrous. When the whole testis is affected, owing to the lobular segmentation which is normal to the organ, the masses of fibrous tissue take a somewhat conical form, the base of each cone lying against the usually thickened tunica albuginea, while its apex is directed towards the mediastinum testis. By the pres- sure and contraction of the overgrowth of connective tissue the seminal tubes become separated from each other. Their walls are at first thickened, then their epithelium wastes, becomes fatty, and is detached. Occasionally, by the unequally distributed contraction of the new-formed connective tissue, some of the tubes are dilated into irregular gaping lacunse-like spaces. Nothing is ultimately left of the testis save a hard resistant mass of fibrous tissue, with here and there fatty debris pointing to the relics of the seminal tubes. The epididymis and sac usually remain intact. The tunica vaginalis is also affected. At first more or less fluid occupies its sac, but later on this becomes absorbed, as the two serous surfaces, thickened and altered, begin to adhere at several spots until the whole cavity may be obliterated. The tunica albuginea, too, is also much thickened. Congenital Syphilitic Disease of the Testicle.— This form of orchitis is usually of the inter- stitial variety, sometimes associated with gum- mata; but the pure gummatous form is rare. Both organs are often simultaneously attacked. The gland is hard and nodular, is not painful or tender, or large. It is often associated with hydrocele, and is prone to subsequent atrophy. Fungus testis has been recorded in a child of ten months old, and typical gummata have been seen in a boy of six years. Symptoms of Syphilitic Testis.—As a rule the general health keeps good. If both testes are affected the interval since the primary disease will usually be found to have been short; but if only one be affected, it may have been of several years. Syphilitic affections of the testis are seldom seen either in the early second- ary or the later tertiary stage. They belong distinctly to the intermediate group, occurring from two to four years after primary symptoms. It is important to remember that in this affec- tion we occasionally meet with distinct masses of deposit in the epididymis. The most common condition, however, is a general enlargement of the whole gland, with a smooth rounded exterior. The size attained varies from that of a hen's egg to that of a small fist. The enlargement is slow in development, and usually painless. Abscesses may occur if no treatment is resorted to, and these may lead to fungus testis. The syphilitic testis sometimes attains a large size, and may then be known by its peculiarly rounded outline and light specific gravity A gumma feels decidedly lighter in the hand than either haematocele or malignant growth. The vas deferens is seldom thickened, and the gland is quite devoid of the ordinary testicular sense. The scrotum is unaffected except when hernia testis threatens, and there is often fluid in the tunica vaginalis. One testicle only may be affected, or both may be so, either consecutively or simultane- ously ; the second testis may be attacked whilst the patient is under specific treatment. The function of the testis is lost if the disease is not successfully treated. Syphilitic orchitis may follow immediately upon an injury in a syphil- itic subject. Diagnosis.—Syphilitic orchitis has to be diag- nosed from simple chronic orchitis, tubercular disease, and new growths—innocent and malig- nant. Simple chronic orchitis occurs in the absence of syphilitic history ; it is usually the result of injury ; the swelling rarely attains a large size ; testicular sensation is present, and the effects of antisyphilitic treatment are negative. It is rarely difficult to distinguish between syphilitic and tubercular disease, at least in their early stages. The well-marked and easily recognised nodules in the epididymis in the latter cannot well be mistaken ; but in those cases where a primarj' gumma forms in the epididymis it is often extremely difficult to dis- tinguish between them, and the same termina- tions may await both, with the exception that