158 SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF as well as to the fibrous and fatty degeneration of the muscles. Ligature of Arteries.—The third part of the subclavian and the third part of the axillary arteries are the only vessels which need ligature in their continuity near the shoulder. The line of incision for ligature of the third part of the subclavian artery is parallel with the middle third of the clavicle and half an inch above it, the shoulder being depressed as much as possible to diminish the depth of the supraclavicular fossa. Care is taken not to wound the external jugular vein, an accident which is best avoided by pulling the skin downwards and making the first incision over the clavicle, for the vein passes through the cervical fascia just above the bone, so that it is not pulled down with the skin. The platysma and the deep fascia are next divided to the full extent of the skin incision. A plexus of large veins lies just behind the clavicle, which should be carefully drawn aside, and, if necessary, divided after ligature. The posterior belly of the digastric is usually seen at this stage and is drawn upwards, whilst deeper than this lies the third cord of the brachial plexus, which forms the best guide to the artery, for it lies immediately below the cord, crossing the first rib. When there is any difficulty in finding the artery, the outer border of the scalenus anticus is traced downwards to the scalene tubercle on the first rib, and the artery lies immediately above and behind this tubercle. The aneurysm needle is passed from above downwards, as the lower cord of the brachial plexus is more likely to be included in the liga- ture than the subclavian vein, which lies below the artery and well away from it. The sheath of the artery must be opened and gently separ- ated before the needle is passed, to diminish the risk of including the nerve to the subclavius muscle, which usually gives a filament to the phrenic. The third part of the axillary artery is liga- tured in its continuity through an incision three inches in length carried along the junc- tion of the outer with the middle third of the axilla when the arm is fully extended and drawn away from the side, being at the same time rotated outwards. The inner border of the coraco-brachialis muscle is thus thrown into relief, and forms the guide to the artery. The inner border of the coraco-brachialis is defined, and is raised by a blunt hook, when the axillary vein and the median nerve immediately come into view. The artery lies between these two structures, and the needle should be passed away from the vein. " Show."—The blood-stained mucus which comes from the cervix uteri and vaginal canal in the first stage of labour; it is due to active dilatation of the cervical canal, and indicates the commencement of parturition. See Labour, Stages and Duration {First Stage, Phenomena). Shrapnell's Membrane. See Schrapnell's Membrane. Shuttle Bone.—The scaphoid of the carpus; os naviculare. S.I. — The initials S.I. stand, in Public Health, for Sanitary Inspector, an official acting either under the special directions of the Sani- tary Authority (S.A.) or of the Medical Officer of Health (M.O.H.), or alone on his own initia- tive when performing the duties of an Inspector of Nuisances (I.N.). It is now generally re- quired that he hold some certificate of which the Local Government Board (L.G.B.) ap- proves ; he shall report all nuisances to the Sanitary Authority (noxious trades, and breaches of the laws regulating the same), shall visit shops supplying food-stufFs and stop the sale of such as are unfit for use as food; he shall give notice of the occurrence of infectious diseases, and he shall take measures to prevent the spread of the same, etc. SialO-.—In compound words sialo- (Gr. criaXov, spittle or foam) means relating to saliva; e.g. sialodochium (a salivary duct), sialodochitis (inflammation of the ducts of a salivary gland), sialostenosis (occlusion of a salivary duct), and sialosyrinx (a salivary fistula). SialOgOgues.—Medicines producing a flow of saliva or increasing the secretion of the salivary glands ; this they do either by acting on the cells of the glands or the terminations of nerves in them {e.g. in the case of jaborandi, the iodine compounds, or mercury), or by act- ing reflexly and stimulating the peripheral ends of afferent nerves {e.g. in the case of acids, alcohol, mustard, and most emetics). See Pharmacology. Sialolith. — A salivary calculus. See Salivary Glands, Disorders of {Inflamma- tions). Sibbens. See Venereal Disease {Allied Diseases). Sibilant.—Making a hissing sound (Lat. sihilare, to hiss), e.g. a sibilant rale. SibSOn'S Groove.—The furrow on the chest wall formed by the projection of the lower border of the pectoralis major muscle. SiCChasia.—A morbid loathing of food (Gr. o-iKxos, a squeamish person. Sicily. See Balneology {Italy, Acireale and Sciacca); Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Italian).