582 THERAPEUTICS: HEALTH RESORTS backs of Egypt, for the contrast between sun and shade temperature is very great, and fatigue vinder the hot sun followed by chill may have disastrous consequences. If the question has not been settled before arrival, an invalid had best take advice in Cairo as to the most suitable means of going up the river. Egypt owes its reputation chiefly to the desert, of which it is largely composed, and the real problem for the invalid is to make the most of the desert air. The air is extraordi- narily pure and very bracing ; the rainfall south of Cairo almost nil, and the number of bright, warm, sunny days very great. On the other hand, the winds are often very cold, especially the north wind, which is prevalent during a large part of the winter, and there are not infrequently dust storms or spells of hot wind blowing oif the desert, and laden with dust of a very irritating character. The season is from November to March or April, after which it becomes very warm. On the whole it is one of the best of climates for phthisical patients and other pulmonary sufferers, for chronic renal and cardiac disease, for many rheumatic patients, and for others who need a warm climate which is also bracing. French Health R,bsorts Apart from the Riviera, the only places in France much frequented by English visitors are Pau, Biarritz, and Arcachon, the two latter on the Atlantic coast, the former some little distance inland. Pau is about 600 feet above sea-level, and surrounded, but not shut in, by hills. It is somewhat colder than the Riviera, but rather more equable. There is more rain and less sunshine, and the climate is less exciting, therefore better suited to those of nervous temperament. Biarritz is a bright, cheerful place, moderately bracing, though the Atlantic brings a good deal of rain at times. It is a good climate for many moderately robust invalids. Arcachon resembles Bournemouth in being surrounded by pine woods, which are a great protection both against the Atlantic breezes and the winds from the land. It is on a basin connected with the main ocean by a channel; and the climate is rather damp, but free from rapid changes, and sedative. There are, of course, a large number of health resorts, marine and otherwise, frequented by French people, but few are visited by the English, except such as, possessing baths and springs, come under the section of Balneology. There are probably places in the Pyrenees which would meet many requirements, but they have not as yet been exploited for visitors. Germany and Austria What was said about the French health resorts applies very much to those of Germany and Austria, viz., that few except those with baths are frequented by English people. The Black Forest and the Harz Mountains are of course largely visited by tourists, and in Austria Tirol has always a large number of English visitors in summer, some of whom may be invalids. Meran, however, and in the last few years Innsbruck, both in Tirol, have come somewhat into favour as winter resorts, and a few words should be said about the former. The climn.te of Meran is, for the most part, sunny, still, dry, and warm. It has an elevation of 1050 feet, and, except to the south, is surrounded by mountains rising up to 10,000 feet, and is therefore well sheltered. The rainfall is small, and there is rarely any fog. It is frequented chiefly by the robuster class of pulmonary invalids, who do not mind the winter cold. Great features of Meran are the grape cure, which naturally can only be administered in the autumn, and the whey cure, which is given during the spring. American Health Resorts Owing to the great distance, the health resorts of America cannot be said to be much frequented by English visitors, but a consider- able number of English people go out for reasons of health in the hope of settling down in some part or other, more especially on the high plateau which forms a large portion of the Western States including Colorado, or in Southern California. The enormous size of the country and the amount of development con- stantly going on seems to offer prospects of employment, often unfortunately unfulfilled, and tempt many who are unable to live and work in the English climate. Colorado State takes in a considerable section of the Rocky Mountains, which run through it from north to south. The best part for health is on the eastern side of the Rocky Mountains, which there rise almost abruptly out of the plain, already at an elevation^of from 5000 to 6000 feet. From the Mississippi westward there is a gradual but almost imperceptible rise until this great elevation is attained. The rain- fall is small owing to the protection of the Rocky Mountains Range on the west; and the climate is therefore very dry, with a large amount of sunshine and particularly bracing qualities. In its effects it resembles that of other high altitudes, such as the Engadine, but is much drier, warmer, and comparatively quite free from snow in winter. In fact, snow rarely lies in Colorado Springs for more than a day or two. This is not wholly an advantage, as the dust is one of the great drawbacks of this region, and owing to the high winds, which are not rare in winter, it is very unpleasant; in fact, the wind and dust are the great drawbacks to the climate.