SYPHILIS 470 when an acute inflammation of the bowels, lungs, liver, or throat make it unwise to give mercury by the mouth. Then there are the unhappy class of patients who are always wanting some alteration of treatment, or who, demanding that something more may be done, receive some moral support by the slight physical pain attending this administration. The chief soluble salts of mercury which have been recommended for hypodermic administra- tion are corrosive sublimate from a twelfth to three quarters of a grain : asparagin-mercury made by dissolving two and a half drachms of asparagin in warm water and adding oxide of mercury to saturation. The solution is filtered, and the mercury being estimated, fifteen minims of a 1 per cent solution are injected. The succinimide of mercury, the oxycyanide, the iodo-tannate, the carbolate, the formamide, the alaninate, and the benzoate have all been employed with varying success. The insoluble forms are mercury itself, calomel in doses of one-half to two grains, the yellow oxide, the neutral salicylate, the thymolacetate, and many other forms. CJrey oil, oleum cinereum, was introduced by Dr. E. Lang, the Professor of Dermatology and Syphilography at Vienna. It is made by making an ointment of mercury with lanoline as a basis and then diluting with oil of vaseline. (The actual formula is, Lanolini anhydrici 3iv., chloroform §jss. Eva- porate in a large mortar with continual stirring, then add Hydrai-g. vivi depur. sj. Stir slowly until the chloroform is wholly evaporated and the metallic mercury can be no longer distin- guished. Add 135 grains of this ointment to 45 grains of vaseline oil, the oil being added so gradually and with such constant stirring that a smooth, oily mixture is obtained. Keep in a wide-mouthed phial with a glass stopper.) The dose of this preparation is one minim for an injection. Perchloride of mercury seems, however, to give the best results in the hypodermic in- jection of mercury. The solution must be freshly made, and should be so standardised that ten minims contain a quarter of a grain of corrosive sublimate. Five minims of this solu- tion are injected on the first occasion, and the dose is gradually increased to a quarter, five- eighths, or even three-quarters of a grain. The injection should be given every second or third day, though the intervals must be longer if symptoms of commencing salivation appear. The injection is made into the subcutaneous tissue, care being taken to avoid the puncture of a vein. A point is selected which is not liable to accidental irritation or contamination, and for this reason the depression behind the great trochanters of the femur is often chosen. Many surgeons, however, prefer to throw the injection deeply into the substance of the gluteal muscles. It is absolutely necessary that the skin of the patient, the solution, the hypodermic syringe, and the needle should be absolutely sterile, and the greatest care must be taken to secure this asepsis. A piece of cyanide gauze soaked in collodion should be applied over the seat of puncture. Yet in spite of every precaution abscesses may be formed at the punctures, because a patient debilitated by syphilis is prone to suppurate on the very smallest provocation. An attempt has been made to administer mercury by means of baths, the best-known form of bath being one of corrosive sublimate with or without the use of electricity. Gaert- ner's bath consists of two cells, which should be divided by a properly fitted diaphragm. Each cell is attached to one pole of a battery con- sisting of about fifty large Leclanche elements ; the box which contains the battery is supplied with a finely graduated rheostat, a galvano- meter, and a commutator. About half an ounce of corrosive sublimate is thoroughly dis- solved in a warm bath, and as soon as the patient is immersed the diaphragm is put in place, the poles of the battery are attached, and the current is gradually increased by means of the rheostat until it is of the strength of 200 milliamperes. The current is allowed to flow through the bath for a quarter of an hour; it is then reduced, reversed, and again increased from 100 to 200 milliamperes. At the end of a second quarter of a hour the current is shut off and the bath is finished. These baths are said to be especially serviceable in the treatment of mucous patches and other forms of cutaneous syphilis. Salivation.—People vary greatly in their susceptibility to mercury : some can take the drug in considerable quantities for long periods of time, whilst others are readily affected by small doses only given for a short period. In the slighter cases of salivation which warn the surgeon that his patient has reached the limit of tolerance, there is a slight inspissation of the saliva, which becomes tough, stringy, and in- creased in quantity. The teeth are tender when the jaws are snapped together. The patient begins to look pale, he loses his appetite, and may complain of headache, giddiness, and tran- sitory pains in his limbs. The muscles of the face twitch, the fingers tremble when they are spread out, and the tongue is tremulous when protruded. The patient often becomes shy and nervous when he thinks that he is being watched; he sleeps badly and often has night- mare. A rash may also appear on the skin, either as an erythema, a wheal, or an ecchy- ' mosis. The rash runs its course in a few days, !} ending in degeneration. In the more marked cases of salivation the patient complains of a coppery taste in his mouth, his breath smells offensively, there is some ulceration of the gums with congestion and oedema of the mucous <j