516 TEETH develop milk teeth, others do not. The vampire bat, Desmodus, has a specially modified denti- tion. It has only one incisor on either side, which is large, but thin and sharp edged, and with which the womid is made. The inferior incisors are small and slightly notched, the canines large, but the posterior teeth are some- what dwarfed. PYugiverous bats, dental formula, I # C 1 Prm f M |. The teeth have a diastema between them, the incisors small, canines rather large; both premolars and molars are of a simpler form, slightly compressed, and have slight cusps on their outer surface. Quadrumana. — This group embraces lem- uridse, lemurs, simiidee, old and new world monkeys, anthropidse, man. The lemur is a native of Madagascar, and its dentition differs somewhat from that of the monkeys. The majority of them have the maxillary incisors very small and widely separated from each other. In the mandible there are present four long, thin, narrow, incurved incisors, and two canines ; the premolars are narrow, sharp teeth, the molars armed with long sharp cusps. The maxillary molars in many lemurs have four cusps connected by an oblique ridge, as in man and monkeys. A curious member of this family, which, both in appearance and in its denti- tion, approaches closely that of the rodent, is found in the aye-aye {Chiromys). It has a pair of narrow, curved upper and lower incisors, which grow from persistent pulps. Owing to the obliquity with which they strike each other, and the absence on the lingual surfaces of enamel, the edge of the teeth, like the beaver's, is always kept sharp. There is a considerable diastema between the incisors and the next teeth present in the jaws, which have the appearance of molars—four maxillary and three mandibular ; they are rooted teeth, are not of persistent growth, and resemble the molars of rodents. The deciduous dentition present in the animal, which differs entirely from the rodent type, proves its lemurian origin. SimiidfE are divisible into two groups : the old and new world monkeys. The latter differ in many respects from the old world monkeys, notably in their dental formula, which is I # C i Prm t M I = .36. In a large number of the members of this family the anterior and pos- terior cusps of the molars are joined by an oblique ridge. The old world monkeys have the same dentition as man, I f C i Prm # M | = 32, with some modifications as regards size, shape, and arrangement of roots. The anthropoid apes which approach nearest to man are the orang and gorilla. In the orang the centrals are larger, the laterals somewhat caniniform in shape, the canines stronger and much longer than any other tooth, and are less in size in the female. The first maxillary premolar is caniniform, with a large outer cusp and small inner one, a ridge of enamel uniting the two. | The second premolars are three-rooted. The mandibular incisors are large and strong teeth; the first premolar has scarcely any appear- ance of an inner cusp; the second premolar has a well-developed inner cusp. The molars are similar to those of man. Although the gorilla has a configuration very like man, the dentition differs considerably. The jaws are massive, and there is a considerable space between the maxillary incisors and canines. The first mandibular premolar is shaped like a canine, and the third molar is the largest of these teeth, differing from man. The maxillary canines in the male appear after the eruption of the third molar, and are about half as long again as any of the other teeth, being used as sexual weapons. All the Quadrumana have well-marked dentitions. Teeth of man, I # C ^ Prm I M f = 32. Deciduous, I | C i M I = 20. The maxillary central incisors are the largest; the anterior approximal surfaces are longer than the distal, making the inner angle more acute than the outer, the labial surface is concave, the lingual convex, the root is cylindrical, taper- ing from the neck to the apex. Lateral incisors are smaller, the distal surface is rather concave, the mesial convex, while the shape of the root is similar to that of a central. Lower central incisors are smaller than the upper, and are also smaller than the lower laterals ; the distal angles are only slightly rounded off, differing- from the upper ; the roots are much compressed laterally ; maxillary canines, labial surface con- vex both ways. There is a well-marked longi- tudinal ridge, dividing the tooth into two unequal parts; the cutting edge at the mesial part is sharp, the distal sloping gradually. The roots are large and cylindrical ; the lower canine is somewhat smaller in size, and the root more compressed from side to side. Premolars: upper larger than the lower, labial surface greater than the lingual ; there are two well- marked cusps separated by a transverse fissure. This tooth usually has two roots. Second premolar resembles the first, excepting the root, which is generally single. First mandibular premolar : the inner cusp is considerably smaller than the outer; its root is somewhat rounded. Second premolar : the inner cusp is larger than the outer; the outer distal side is often thickened, giving it the appearance of three cusps ; the root is the same as the first premolar. Molars : maxillary somewhat square in shape, with rounded edges on the grinding surface ; there are four well-marked cusps ; the antero-internal is the largest, being connected by an oblique ridge with the postero-external : there are two fissures between the cusps, buccal and lingual. These teeth have three roots—palatine, anterior, and posterior buccal. Third molars vary greatly in shape and size; the roots are usually fused together ; it has three cusps, two of which are buccal.