AND PHYSIOLOGY 163 SKIN—ANATOMY corium which underhes and supports them, by their origin as well as by the minute structure of their elements. The Superficial Architecture op the Skin. —The surface of the skin is everywhere tra- versed by ridges and furrows which vary in different situations in regularity, arrangement, and size, and which to a considerable extent determine the shape of many of the elementary lesions of the skin, such as macules and papules. The existence of these ridges is dependent on three factors: (1) the arrangement of the fibrous bundles and elastic fibres of the under- lying corium; (2) the direction of the move- ments to which the parts are subjected; and (3) the attachment of the skin by fibrous bundles to deeper structures, such as the capsules of joints. There are two distinct varieties of furrows on the surface of the skin: (a) Fine furrows, which tend to run parallel to one another, and are best marked on the flexor aspects of the tips of the fingers and toes, where they form more or less regular patterns which differ in each individual; and, (6) Coarse or deep furrows, which are most pronounced in the neighbour- hood of the joints, and are due to the fixing down of the skin by fibrous bundles to under- lying structures, such as the periosteum of bone and the joint-capsules. In old age, and as the result of wasting diseases, wrinkles or folds of emaciation occur, from the removal of the tension caused by the disappearance of the subcutaneous fat. The Epidermis.—For purposes of description the epidermis is divided into five distinct layers, named from within outwards : the stratum ger- minativum, the stratum Malpighii, the stratum granulosum, the stratum lucidum, and the stra- tum corneum. This division, though useful, is arbitrary, and these layers are ill-defined ; they indicate the stages in the evolution of the epi- dermal cell from its simplest type in the stratum germinativum, till it becomes a perfect horn- cell. The epidermis as a whole is thickest on the palms and soles, and thinnest on the elbows, forehead, and cheeks. (a) Stratum Germinativum.—This constitutes the basal layer of the epidermis, and usually consists of a single row of columnar cells with oval nuclei. These cells are arranged at right angles to the imaginary wavy line which separ- ates the epidermis from the corium. They are constantly dividing by mitosis, and their whole function is that of reproduction; they have been named the " mother - cells" of the epi- dermis. Between them and above them smaller "daughter-cells" may here and there be de- tected ; these latter do not as a rule exhibit mitotic figures, and their function is that of differentiation ; they are simply pushed towards the surface of the skin by the addition of new layers of cells beneath them, and in their passage they are gradually differentiated till they become horny squames. The cells of the basal layer are united by fine protoplasmic threads or fibres, which towards the corium are collected into tufts, giving the line of demarca- tion a denticulated appearance. (5) Stratum Malpighii.—This layer consists of a varying number of rows of polygonal cells, built up in the form of a mosaic; these cells tend to become flattened towards the surface of the skin. They possess large, round or oval nuclei, and are united by delicate protoplasmic fibres continuous with the spongioplastic net- work of the cells. In this way the cells of this layer are in organic connection with the other. Owing to the presence of the intercellular pro- toplasmic fibres the cells of this layer were named " prickle-cells" by Max Schultze. In spite of the delicate appearance of the proto- plasmic fibres the latter are relatively resistant structures, and are unaffected by boiling water, and weak acids only cause them to swell. Be- tween the cells lymphatic spaces occur which are bridged over by the prickles, and in which the fibres of the interepithelial nerve plexus are distributed. Peculiar spiral fibres situated be- tween the prickle-cells and the cells of the basal layer have been described by Herxheimer. These are generally believed to be either threads of fibrin or protoplasmic fibres passing between cells of different layers. (c) Stratum Granulosum.—Towards the sur- face the prickle-cell layer merges into a layer consisting of two or three rows of flattened granular cells with shrivelled nuclei lying in spaces, and shrunken protoplasmic fibrils. The granules are most numerous in the cell- protoplasm near the nuclear space. They vary in shape and size from small roundish specks to course irregular lumps, and are strongly light- refractive. They consist of a semi-solid sub- stance known as heratohyalin, which is insoluble in alcohol, ether, chloroform, and weak acids, is digestible in pepsin and hydrochloric acid, and is not stained by osmic acid. Its origin is still sub judice, but it is most probably a separation product of the proto- plasm of the cell. (d) Stratum Lucidum.—This layer has been so called because in unstained sections it may be seen as the semi-transparent line resembling a narrow oily streak across a sheet of paper. It consists of one or more rows of somewhat swollen irregular cells, in which the nuclei are much shrunken and frequently replaced by a mass of debris. In these cells the keratohyalin has disappeared and been replaced by an oily substance named eleidin, which is present not only within, but also between the cells. This substance is slightly soluble in alcohol, in- soluble in ether, digestible in pepsin and hydro- chloric acid, soluble in acids and alkalies, and it does not stain with osmic acid. Fat