SCOLEX 79 worm-shaped appendage (appendix vermiformis) has been called scolecitis or scolicoiditis, and excision of the appendix, colectomy. See Hydatid Disease {Development, Formation of Scolices). Scoliosis.—-Lateral curvature of the spine (Gr. (tko\l6<;, crooked); and formed from this word are such compounds as scolio-lordosis, scolio-rachific, scoliosiometry, etc. See Spine, Surgical Affections of {Lateral Curvature); Chest, Deformities op {hi Scoliosis); De- formities {From Spinal Paralysis, etc.); Hip- Joint, Diseases of {Coxa Vara); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Pelvic Deformities, Kypho-scolio-rachitic Pelvis); Paralysis {Spastic, Clinical Aspect) ; Paralysis {Infantile Hemi- plegia) ; Syringomyelia {Scoliosis and Kyphosis). Scoop.—A spoon-shaped instrument for removing pieces of bone, for scraping the uterine cavity, or for extracting foreign bodies from the body cavities or canals. Scoparii Cacumina.—Broom tops. See Broom Tops. Scoparina. Broom Tops. See Alkaloids ( Vegetable) ; Scopolamine. — An alkaloid (Ci7H22NO^) isomeric with cocaine; hyoscine; combined with hydrochlorate of morphine, scopolamine hydrobromate has been used sub- cutaneously to produce antesthesia in surgery and obstetrics, and may be associated with lumbar anaesthesia (with novocaine or stovaine); scopolamine has also been employed in hyper- emesis gravidarum, in paralysis agitans, etc. ; scopolamine hydrobromide has been employed as a mydriatic in ophthalmology. Scorbutus. See Scurvy, Infantile; Scurvy in Adults ; Dysentery {Complications, Scorbutus); Ulcers and Ulceration {Due to Constitutional Causes, Scorbutus). Scorpions. See Myiasis {Scorpions). Scorpoenidae. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Fish). Scotch Broth. See Invalid Feeding {Soup Making). Scotland. See Balneology {Great Britain, Strathpeffer, etc.) ; Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Scotch); Medicine, History OP {Cullen, Broivn, etc.); Medicine, Forensic {Procedure in Scotland); etc. Scotodinia.—A clinical symptom con- sisting in the occurrence of vertigo with the appearance of black spots floating, as it were, before the eyes (Gr. o-koto';, gloom, Srvos, an eddy or whirl). See Vertigo. Scotoma.—A region in the field of vision from which rays of light are not perceived, either entirely {absolute scotoma) or partially {relative scotoma) ; it is due to a lesion of the retina or of the ophthalmic centres in the brain ; other varieties are central scotoma, ring scotoma, scintillating or flittering scotoma, and colou,r scotoma (localised area of colour-blindness). See Amblyopia {Toxic, Tobacco Scotoma) ; Choroid, Diseases of {Coloboma, Plastic Chor- oiditis) : Eye, Clinical Examination of {Ex- amination of Visual Fields); Vision, Field of. Scotometer. An instrument for measuring scotomata. See Eye, Clinical Ex- amination OF {Field of Vision); Vision, Field OF {Examination). Scotopsia.—The symptom characterised by the appearance of black spots {muscce voli- tantes) in front of the eye. SCOtotherapy.—The treatment of dis- ease by darkness; it has been employed in malaria. Scott-Moncrieff Filter.—A filter bed through which the sewage passes by up- ward filtration; the effluent from the top is then passed downwards through trays filled with coke. See Sewage and Drainage {Methods, Upivard Flow Cultivation Tank). Scott's Dressing". A mixture of un- guentum hydrargyri compositum (Scott's Oint- ment) with emplastrum picis on leather; it is used in chronic affections of joints. Scott's Ointment. — Unguentum hydrargyri compositum. See Mercury. Screaming". See Meningitis, Tuber- culous {Symptoms). Screw Worm.—L^icHia macellaria, one of the Diptera, whose larvse constitute a variety of Myiasis. See Myiasis. Scrivener's Palsy.—Writer's cramp. See Neuroses, Occupation. Scrobiculus Cordis.—The pit of the stomach, or epigastric region (Lat. scrobs, a ditch). Scrofula.—A term not now used in an exact sense, but indicating a variety of tuber- culosis, or the condition of body predisposing to infection with the tubercle bacillus; struma. See Tuberculosis ; see also Lung, Diseases of {Tuberctdosis). ScrofulO-.—In compound words scrofulo- (Lat. scrofa, a sow) means relating to scrofula or tubercle ; e.g. scrofuloderma (tuberculosis of the skin), scrofido-tuberculosis (an attenuated form of tuberculosis), scrofulophyma (another name for scrofuloderma), etc. See Skin, Tuber-