SETON 132 or maintain an opening for discharges. See Issue. Seven-Day Disease.—Tetanus neo- natorum. See New-born Infant, Diseases of. Seven-Day Fever. See Typhoid Fever {Synonyms). Seventh Nerve. See Facial Nerve and Cross References. Sevum Praeparatum.—The fat of the abdomen of the sheep, or suet ; it contains olein, palmitin, and stearin; and it is used in pharmacy in making ointments. Sewag^e and Drainag^e. Essential Conditions . 132 Drains ...... . 132 Sewers . .... . 133 Traps ...... . 133 Cesspools ..... . 134 Water-Closets .... . 134 Lavatories, etc. .... . 135 Excrement and Kefuse Disposal . . 136 Sewage Disposal .... . 136 See also Air, Examination of {Sewer Air); Conder's Process ; Tonsils, Diseases of [Acute Tonsillitis, Causes); Toxicology {Gaseous Poisons, Sulphuretted Hydrogen, Sewer Gas); Typhoid Fever {Etiology). In dealing with the question of house drainage, sewerage, and the disposal of sewage and house refuse, it must be understood that the conditions laid down are applicable both to town and country districts unless when special distinction is made in the case of the latter. The following are the essential conditions applicable to all drainage systems :—■ 1. Immediate and thorough removal. 2. Free ventilation of drains and sewers. 3. Perfect disconnection. In judging of the efficiency, therefore, of any sanitary appliance or drain their self-cleansing capacity is an all-important consideration, and no system can be considered satisfactory which does not, in all its details, comply with this condition. Of course, as regards the drains themselves, it is hardly possible that flushing can be carried to such an extent as to insure perfect cleanliness; and, in order to guard against nuisance, the second essential, ventila- tion, must be complied with, the inlets being so placed as to allow a current of air to pass along the whole course of the drains towards the outlet ventilators, which should be carried up the houses, with as few bends as possible, and terminate at points as far removed as practicable from windows and chimneys. Still, notwith- standing these precautions, there is always a risk that the resistance offered by house traps will be overcome, owing to air pressure in the drains, the result of a sudden inrush of sewage or the accidental stopping of the ventilation openings; and to guard against this the third essential becomes necessary, namely, that no house wastes shall communicate direct with a drain, but discharge on to an outside trap, the main drain itself being disconnected from the sewer or cesspool, as the case may be, by a free opening, on the house side of which is the terminal trap of the system. An exception to this rule of disconnecting house wastes has to be made, however, in the case of soil-pipes and slop sink - wastes, which, for obvious reasons, must be directly connected with the drain ; but as it is, or should be, the invariable practice to carry up these wastes as ventilators, there is little risk of the house traps being forced, as the air pressure will relieve itself at the point of least resistance. In most houses the soil - pipe ventilator answers the purpose of the drain ventilator; but if it should happen that the soil-pipe con- nection is not at or near the top end of the drain, or if there are any long tributaiy drains with which soil-pipes are not connected, it is necessary to provide special ventilating shafts. In such cases, as the ventilating pipe will spring from the dumb end of a drain, if iron is the material used, what is known as a rust trap must be placed at the bend of the ventilators, other- wise the scaling which invariably takes place will cause rust to collect at this point and ultimately entirely close up the pipe. If lead pipes are used as ventilators this precaution is unnecessary. There are two systems of sewage and excre- ment removal in operation—the water-carriage system and the conservancy system. In the former case solid fsecal matter is discharged into the drains from water-closets in, or in connection with houses, while in the latter slop water only enters the drains, provision being made for excrement disposal by privies, pails, or earth closets, the last-mentioned being only practicable in the case of villages or individual houses. There can be no question that the water-carriage system is the right one, and it is now gradually replacing the objectionable conservancy system in most towns. The term separate system is applied to a water- carriage system in which separate channels are provided for the rainfall; and, from a sewage disposal point of view, it is important that every town should adopt this system as far as possible, and so keep the volume of sewage to be treated within reasonable limits. Drains.—It is not an uncommon practice to use six-inch pipes for house drains; but this is a mistake, as, even in the case of very large establishments, four - inch drains are amply sufficient, and by increasing the diameter beyond that which is necessary, the rate of flow of the sewage is lessened, and the self-