436 SUPPURATION "laudable " nature of the pus, for "laudable" pus can be seen in acute abscesses due to bacillus typhi (typhoid) and bacillus mallei (glanders), etc. To describe pus more minutely it must be separated into its solid and fluid elements. A. The solid elements are held in suspension in the fluid, from which they can be separated by centrifugalisation or by filtration, after mix- ing the pus with an equal volume of a saturated watery solution of sodium sulphate which has been diluted with nine times its volume of water. The cellular elements consist of:— 1. Leucocytes, in by far the greater propor- tion of all cells. The majority of the cells found in pus are the leucocytes that have left the blood system. The leucocytes circulating in normal blood are the following :— (a) The polynuclear cell with neutrophilic granulations (Erhlich). This is present in the proportion of 70-73 per cent of all leucocytes. (6) The lymphocyte, a small cell with large nucleus, present in the proportion of 22-25 per cent of all leucocytes non polyocytes. (c) The coarsely granular polynuclear eosino- philic cell, present in the proportion of 3-4 per cent of all leucocytes. (d) Large mononuclear cells devoid of granu- lations, the hyaline cell of some writers, present in about 1 per cent of all leucocytes. The nucleus is round or kidney-shaped in a compara- tively large amount of protoplasm. (e) Coarsely granular basophilic, mast cell (Erhlich), present in normal blood to about ^ per cent of all white corpuscles. Varieties a, b, c, and d of these cells are certainly amoeboid; and e is almost certainly amoeboid. Of these amoeboid cells only the neutrophilic and the hyaline are phagocytic, that is to say, capable of incorporating live or dead micro-organisms. The numerical strength of the neutrophilic cell suffices to make it the most representative cell of pus in acute abscesses. Besides the neutrophilic cells, there are present in pus other leucocytes in a minor degree (minor, that is to say, as regards their numbers), viz. eosinophilic cells, lymphocytes, and hyaline cells. Although white corpuscles may play an im- portant part in immunity and in protection, there can be no doubt that their role is a funda- mentally more complicated one than mere cell incoi'poration. 2. Red blood corpuscles are seen here and there, and care must be taken to exclude the possibility of their entrance during the htemor- rhage that occurs in the act of rupture or incision, but red blood corpuscles are present independently, and wlien present in any quantity they indicate great intensity of disease. 3. Young connective tissue cells, probably detached from parts of the abscess wall. 4. In the latter stages, plasma cells, cor- puscles of Gluge, and fat globules. 5. Other cells of more doubtful origin. Among other solid constituents are shreds of dead tissues, elastic and fibrous. Epithelial cells may also be found if an epithelial structure has been involved. There is no necessity to describe here the preliminary changes seen in inflammation. By " inflammation " is meant those changes which occur in living tissues when they are affected by injury or infection. The writer defines inflammation in this manner because it is difficult to imagine an injury or an infection severe enough to cause the changes constituting inflammation without causing an element of death, however slight. Let it suffice to say, that before the leucocytes emigrate they are creeping along the sides of the capillaries and small veins, whilst the heavier red corpuscles occupy the axis of the blood-stream. In the arteries the rush of blood is too great to permit the same phenomena ; in these vessels the white and red corpuscles and the various organised elements of the blood are hurried along together. In suppuration the neutrophile, the lympho- cyte, the eosinophile, and the hyaline leucocytes emigrate by amoeboid movement through the thin-walled veins and capillaries. It will be seen in the article on inflammation that the transit of leucocytes from the blood is assisted by physical conditions, and possibly by active protoplasmic changes in the wall of the blood-vessel. Metschnikoff", who, as its founder, lays the greatest emphasis upon the importance of the phagocytic theory, points out how easy it is for a polynuclear cell (of which the nuclei are small) to pass out of a small opening, and how difficult the same process may be for a cell with a single large nucleus which may block its passage through an opening of the same size. In a case of lieno-myelogenous leukaemia the writer has been able to observe the kind of cells collected in aseptic blisters, the myelocytes—a leucocyte typical of this disease—could in no single instance be found. This observation tends to show that the different forms of leuco- cytes react in varying degrees to different stimuli—a point considered in detail later. Once they are out of the vessels the leuco- cytes soon collect in masses among the micro- organisms and dead tissue. In the many preparations the writer has examined, the leucocytes are not at first seen inside the area immediately killed by the in- oculation, but nearly all of them are collected immediately around the margin of the necrotic area, though a few have actually attempted an entrance. This can be seen one or two hours after a staphylococcus infection. After a few hours they become indiscriminately mixed with pus and liquefied necrotic tissue, the liquefac- tion of which is possibly in the first instance