413 ST. RAPHAEL St. Rap h a,e I • See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Riviera). StraSSburg^'S Test.—The sugar and sulphuric acid test for bile acids in the urine; if violet colour, indicates the presence of the acids. StrathpefFer. See Balneology {Great Britain) ; Mineral Waters {Chalybeate and Sulphated); Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Scotch). Stratum.—A layer, lamina, or mem- brane ; e.g. the various strata of the skin {stratum corneum, granulosum, lucidum, and Malpighii), the stratum bacillorum of the retina, and the stratum zonale of the corpora quadrigemina. See Skin, Anatomy and Physiology of. Strauss' Reaction. See Glanders {Diagnosis). Strauss' Sig'n.—A means of determin- ing the central or the peripheral origin of facial paralysis: in the central form, the injection of pilocarpine causes no difference in the amount of perspiration on the two sides, whereas in the peripheral form the secretion on the affected side is retarded. Strawberry Tongue. See Scarlet Fever {Symptomatology, Tongue). Streak.—A line, stripe, or furrow, e.g. the primitive streah in Embryology. Streams.—Rules for the prevention of the pollution of streams and rivers by solid matters, sewage, trade and mining effluents, are stated in the Rivers Pollution Prevention Acts of 1876 and 1893, and in the Public Health (Scotland) Act of 1897. Streets.—The rules for the making of new streets and for the scavenging and cleans- ing of them are embodied in various Acts of Parliament, including the Public Health Act of 1875, the Public Health Act Amendment Act of 1890, the Towns Improvement Clauses Act of 1847, the Public Health (London) Act of 1891, and the Public Health (Scotland) Act of 1897, etc. StreptO-.—In compound words strepto- (Gr. (TTpe-n-T6<;, twisted or pliant) means twisted or chain-like, e.g. streptohacilli and strepto- hacteria (bacilli or bacteria in chains). Streptococci.—Cocci linked together in chains; e.g. the streptococcus diphthericB, the streptococcus erysipelatis, the streptococcus pyo- genes, etc. See Bone, Diseases op {Osteomyelitis due to Pyogenic Infection); Diphtheria {Moi-hid Anatomy and Pathology) ; Disinfection (Ways of Egress of Infection); Ear, Acute Inflamma- tion OF the Middle {Causes); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Bacteriology) ; Ery- sipelas {Etiology); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Malignant Endocarditis) ; Im- munity {Streptococcal Infections) ; Intestines, Diseases of {Bacteria in the Intestinal Tract); Joints, Diseases of {Pyogenic); Lung, Tubercu- losis of {Pyrexia, Cause of); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Purulent Meningitis, Etiology) ; Nose, Examination of the {Character of Secre- tion) ; Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation OF {Etiology, Bacteriology); Peritoneum, Peri- tonitis {Bacteriology); Pharynx, Acute Pharyn- gitis {Hospital Sore Throat) ; Pleura, Diseases OF {Pathology, Bacteriology); Pneumonia, Bac- teriology OF; Rheumatism, Acute {Etiology, Exciting Cause) ; Scarlet Fever {Etiology, Bacteriology). Streptomycosis. See Suppuration {Etiology). StreptopyOSiS. See Suppuration {Eti- ology). StreptOSOmuS.—A teratological type in which there is abdomino-thoracic eventration with twisting of the spine so that the limbs are displaced from right to left. Streptotllrices.—Micro-organisms in- termediate in position between the bacteria and the moulds. See Actinomycosis ; Micro-organ- isms {Streptothrices); Mycetoma {Pathology). Stress. See Tabes Dorsalis {Etiology, Stress). Stretchers. See First Aid {Means of Transport). Stretch ing^.—The operation of forcible lengthening of a part or of separation of that part {e.g. the sciatic nerve) from adhesions, e.g. in cases of neuralgia. Stria. — A streak, pigmented stripe, or linear ridge or marking; e.g. the strice acusticce (transverse white lines on the floor of the fourth ventricle of the brain), st7-ice gy-avidarum (the purple and white streaks seen in the skin of the abdominal walls during and after pregnancy), and the striae musculares (the transverse markings on striped muscular fibres). See Post-mortem Methods {External Examination, Strice Gravi- darum) ; Pregnancy, Physiology {Local Changes, Abdominal Wall); ^gleroo^bmia {Circumscribed, Morphcea). Stricture. See Colon, Diseases of {Malignant, Stricture); Ear, External, Dis- eases OF {Malformations); Gastro - Intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Congenital Stricture of Pylorus); Larynx, Affections of the Cartil- ages {Stenosis); (Esophagus {Stricture from Malignant Growths); Rectum, Diseases of the {Stricture); Stomach, Surgical {Cicatricial