STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 361 it is the normal habitat for the ankylostoma duodenale. General Symptomatology The various morbid structural conditions above described determine the occurrence of certain signs and symptoms, some of which are more or less common to all stomach affections, as others, whether singly or in combination, are more peculiarly distinctive of individual lesions. But besides these definite diseases of the stomach and duodenum, with the manifestations they give rise to, there are many phenomena which are referable to improper digestive changes in these organs which may have been caused by circumstances quite apart from the viscera concerned, and that are properly those of indigestion or dyspepsia. No doubt primary digestive disturbances that may be set up in the stomach, and not directly due to diseases of the viscus itself, will sooner or later bring about morbid changes in the organ, and a vicious circle be established; and on the other hand, primary affections of the gastro-intestinal tissues will, in addition to the indications furnished by their existence, also tend, in proportion to their severity and continuance, to set up indigestion. It is not, therefore, sought to attempt any sharp distinction between the clinical pheno- mena due to the structural lesions and those attributable essentially to the ill-digestion of the contents; but in forming a diagnosis and proposing a treatment it is desirable, so far as possible, to keep these two fundamental sources of symptoms distinct, and to discriminate between what is dyspeptic or functional trouble and actual structural lesion. The subject of indigestion, at least so far as the stomach is concerned, has already been considered (see article "Indigestion," vol. iv.). Inasmuch as digestion properly signifies the physico-chemical changes which take place in the food in the alimentary canal, it seems to the writer undesirable and inaccurate to include in its purview the function of the absorption of the digester, and still less the phenomena of metabolism which concern the destination, changes, and uses of the absorbed material, and for imperfections in which neither the digestive organs nor the process of digestion may be in any way responsible. Hence "in- digestion " or its synonym "dyspepsia" is here taken to mean some imperfection in the diges- tive process as above defined, whether it be oral, gastric, or intestinal. The signs and symptoms of structural dis- eases of the stomach and duodenum, together with those referable to mal-digestion of their contents, whether there be obvious lesions of these organs or not, may be conveniently grouped into (a) local and (h) remote. With respect to the former it is certain that they are present in a greater or less degree whatever may be the character of the cause, and in the more pronounced and graver structural affections they may almost be regarded as paramount, the remoter manifestations being in the greater number of cases scarcely e.xistent. On the other hand many dyspeptics, in whom the condition is chiefly functional, with little if any recognisable change in the stomach, manifest symptoms which are in a great measure distant from the organs in which the faulty process is at work. At the same time it is not suggested that it is possible to draw therefrom a symptom- atic distinction between the organic and the properly functional diseases. The LOCAL SYMPTOMS of gastric or duodenal disorder are separable into (a) subjective sen- sations and (6) objective phenomena. The process of digestion is normally carried on without any conscious sensation thereof, and the only sensory impressions connected with the process are a feeling of hunger referable to the stomach, which may in some cases become pain- ful in its intensity, and the sense of pleasurable well-being which follows on the healthy grati- fication of the appetite. This last, however, is rather of the nature of a general sensation than in being specially associated with the stomach; similarly the sensation of thirst is of a general character, probably connected with a want of fluid by the tissues, and though perhaps most felt in the pharynx, really originates in the nervous centres. Perversions of these sensa- tions—hunger and thirst—are among the com- monest symptoms of disordered digestion, and also in some measure of structural diseases of the stomach. They have received special con- sideration in the article " Appetite " (vol. i. p. 256). The strictly local sensory affections accom- panying indigestion and gastro-duodenal dis- eases exhibit the widest range of degree and character. The channels by which they are probably conveyed to the sensorium have been mentioned in the section treating of the ana- tomy of these organs. The generally accepted terms in which these sensations are convention- ally described are for the most part very in- adequate, but the limitations of language in this respect offer no better alternatives. Vague discomfort referred to the gastric region, a sense of " weight," " fulness," " tightness," or "oppression," or a "sinking" feeling before or after food, are some among those most fre- quently complained of, and are oftenest attri- butable—at least the three first named—to a larger bulk of contents, whether solid, liquid, or gaseous, than the stomach can cope with, whether this has been due to a larger meal than was suitable to the individual, or to the develop- ment of gases during the process of digestion, or to the presence of some specially indigestible article of food. Speaking generally, such symp- toms are an expression of a delayed digestion,