507 TA.BES DORSALIS more after the first onset of symptoms; ten to fifteen years is probably a fair average after the symptoms have become pronounced. If a patient suffers with continuous bladder trouble and cystitis through neglect of catheterisation when there is residual urine, he is apt to develop pyelo-nephritis, which may terminate fatally. Again, cystitis too often arises from the use of a dirty catheter: too much care, there- fore, cannot be exercised in attending to this detail—so important in the treatment. One feature in tabetic cases is the marasmus, partly due to the influence of the withdrawal of sensory stimuli or muscular metabolism, partly to the pains, gastric crises, and often to the drugs, such as morphia, etc., taken to relieve them, which interfere with assimilation and nutrition. In the third paraplegic stage, when the patient is bedridden, or when he is obliged, from diseased joints, to take to his bed, bed- sores are liable to supervene and give rise to septic infection. Such patients in their weak exhausted state are more liable also to a low form of pneumonia or broncho-pneumonia, which may end fatally. Occasionally a patient may die from laryngeal spasms with epilepti- form convulsions. Death may arise from aneurysm, valvular disease of the heart, chronic Bright's disease, or bronchitis and emphysema with which the tabetic condition may be asso- ciated. For the conditions which give rise to tabes also tend to chronic arterial degenerative changes. The PROGNOSIS is unfavourable in all cases, for the disease in most instances is progressive : it cannot be cured, it can seldom be arrested. The cases of supposed cure and very often of supposed arrest of the disease are merely an alteration of the subjective attitude of the patient towards the symptoms from which he suffers, under the influence of suggestion of a new doctor with a new specific. Cases, how- ever, do occur in which the disease remains in statu quo for a great number of years, or even shows symptoms of improvement: opthalmo- plegia passes off, bladder troubles cease, laryn- geal crises no longer occur, and the writer has met with cases in which pains or gastric crises have been very severe for numbers of years and then become less and less marked. As a rule, however, the pains last during the whole course of the disease : it is remarkable that a large number of cases commencing with optic atrophy remain, as Benedikt, Gowers, Marie, and D^jerine have pointed out, in the preataxic stage. The writer has already alluded to his experience in this, but he has also pointed out how frequently such cases of optic atrophy become tabo-paralytics. It is a fact that with the onset of dementia in tabo-paralysis, the ataxic symptoms and lightning pains markedly diminish and even altogether cease, as if the affection of the brain was associated with an arrest of the spinal disease. Treatment.—No drugs can replace the degenerated nervous tissue, nor prevent the premature decay with which certain structures of the nervous system are affected. When once the disease has manifested itself, the first indication is to adopt such measures as will lead to arrest of the rapid development of the morbid process upon which the symptoms of the disease depend. We have already empha- sised the importance of stress as a contributory factor in the production of the disease, there- fore all occupations involving muscular fatigue should be avoided if possible. Prolonged standing, exposure to wet, cold, and changes of temperature are all liable to injurious conse- quences ; and worry, excitement, and the stress and mental anxiety associated with business responsibilities, are liable to lead to aggravation of the disease; but of all the causes against which the patient should be warned, excesses in Baccho et Venere are the most important. In fact, all conditions which would tend to neurasthenia are to be avoided. We have already seen that the toxine of syphilis is acknowledged (by most authorities) to be the most important, if not the essential cause of this disease ; one wovild expect mercury inunction or a course of iodide of potassium, as in syphilitic diseases, to produce beneficial results. As a matter of fact, it is seldom that this course of treatment does any good; some- times it does harm, lowering the patient's strength and aggravating the disease. Still, there are some cases in which a course of in- unction judiciously applied, or iodide of potass- ium in 10 or 15 grain doses, combined with a drachm of Liquor Hyd. Perchlor., is advisable. These are early cases of optic atrophy or ocular paralysis, or cases in which the symptoms have come on within five or six years of syphilitic infection, especially if the patient has not before been treated by a course of mercury. The writer has seen a few cases improve upon this treatment. The remedies that are usually employed with some measure of success are arsenic and strych- nia, either separately or in combination. Nitrate of silver in olden times was a favourite remedy in the form of a pill; it had the disadvantage of producing argyria and consequently has fallen out of use. The coal-tar preparations, anti- febrine, antipyrine, phenacetin, exalgin, are in many cases very successful for alleviating the pains. The writer has found antipyrine the most successful in 10 to 15 grain doses, repeated every hour or two for three doses. Methylene blue in 1 grain doses ; chloride of aluminium in 2 to 4 grain doses; and salicylate of soda in 15 to 30 grain doses in combination with Tincture Cannabis Indica have been foiind use- ful : this latter drug may also be combined