416 STUPOR {Differential Diagnosis); Chorea {Choreic In- sanity) ; Insanity, its Nature and Symptoms {Types of Episodic Insanity, Stupor); Toxic- ology {Opium and Morphine). Stupor Vigfilans. Catalepsy. Stupra.tiOn.—Rape (Lat. stuprum, de- filement). See Medicine, Forensic {Rape). Stuttering'. See Stammering. St. Vitus'S Dance. See Chorea {Synonyms). Stye. See Eyelids, Affections of {Hor- deolum or Stye). Stylo-.—In compound words stylo- (Gr. o-ToJXos, a pillar) means shaped like a pillar or style, or, more particularly, relating to the styloid process of the temporal bone; e.g. stylo- glossal, stylo-hyal, stylo-mastoid, and stylo-phar- yngeus. StymatOSiS.—Erection of the penis of a violent type (Ur. (rrS/xa, stiffness); chordee. Stypticine. — The hydrochlorate of cotarnine ; an amorphous yellow powder which acts as a general and local haemostatic ; it may be given internally in doses of | of a grain, two or three times a day, or it may be used locally in the form of stypticine gauze (30 per cent) or ointment (with lanoline and vaseline); it has been strongly recommended in the obstetrical and gynaecological hiemorrhages (threatened abortion, bleeding at the menopause, etc.), in bleeding from the nose, bladder, and after tooth- drawing, and in cases of bleeding piles. Styptics. See Astringents ; H^matem- ESis (Treatment); Pharmacology ; etc. Styptoi.—A haemostatic remedy; it is cotarnine phthalate, and forms a white crystal- line powder, soluble in water; it is said to be less irritating than stypticine; like stypticine, it has been strongly recommended in gynaeco- logical haemorrhages, such as the bleeding from endometritis, fibroids, cancer, polypi, and sub- involution, as well as in puerperal bleeding and that of a threatened abortion; the dose is f of a grain from three to five times a day; externally, it has been used in the form of a 1 to 5 per cent solution in superficial inflammations, eczema, etc.; it has the chemical formula of (Ci2Hi,N03)AH4(C02)2. Styracoi.—The cinnamate of guaiacol, a white crystalline powder, with the formula CgH^(CH30)CgH702; it has been strongly re- commended in pulmonary tuberculosis, in in- testinal catarrh, in rheumatoid arthritis, and in chronic diarrhoea; it is insoluble in water and in the acid contents of the stomach, but is absorbed from the intestine; it probably owes its effects to both the guaiacol and the cinnamic acid which it contains; the dose is from 8 to 15 grains. Sty rax. See Storax. Styrol.—Cinnamene (CgHg) or phenyl- ethylene, a liquid hydrocarbon got from benzene by heating it with calcium hydrate; it has an odour resembling that of benzene. Styrone.—An antiseptic substance, in thin needles, formed with styrax and balsam of Peru; cinnamic alcohol (CgHj^O). Sub-.—In compound words sub- (Lat. sub, under, below, or beneath) signifies beneath or less than ; in Chemistry sub- means the lower of two compounds of any one of the elements, e.g. the subacetate of lead (Pb20(C2H30.2)2) as com- pared with the acetate (Pb(C2H302)2); subacid means moderately acid ; subacromial, below the acromion process; subaponeurotic, below an aponeurosis ; subcalcarine, beneath the calcarine fissure of the brain; subcrepitant, indistinctly crepitant; etc. Subaraciinoid Space.—The space lying below the arachnoid membrane, between it and the pia mater; it contains the cerebro- spinal fluid, and it has communications with the ventricles of the brain ; it is this space (in the spine) which is tapped in drawing off fluid for diagnostic purposes and in injecting anaesthetic liquids in spinal anaesthetisation. See Meninges OF THE Cerebrum {Anatomy); Spine, Surgical Affections {Lumbar Puncture, Spinal Cocain- isation). Subclavian. — Situated under the clavicle, e.g. the subclavian artery, groove, nerve, and vein. See Aneurysm {Situation, Neck); Arteries, Injuries of ( Wounds of Special Arteries); Arteries, Ligature of {Subclavian Artery); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of {Ligature of Arteries). Subconsciousness.—"Subconscious- ness is that whole mass of cerebral activity to which the mind does not attend" (G. R. Wilson). See Insanity, Nature and Symp- toms {Relation of Mind and Brain, Plwrality and Subconsciousness). Subculture.—In Bacteriology, a second- ary culture made from a previous culture. Subcutaneous.—Beneath the skin (subdermal) or beneath the cuticle (subcuti- cular) ; e.g. subcutaneous injections {see Trans- fusion), subcutaneous naevus {see Electrolysis, in Angioma), and subcutaneous nodules (see Rheumatism in Children, Rheumatoid Ar- thritis). Subdural Space.—The space below