OR NEGRO LETHARGY SLEEPING SICKNESS, 220 ported negroes. Some years ago a negro lad succumbed to sleeping sickness in England after three years of good health in this country. Race.—So far there is no well-authenticated case of sleeping sickness in a European. Mul- attos and Moors are susceptible, and there is no adequate reason to suppose that the European, provided he is exposed to the infection, what- ever this may be, would pi-ove insusceptible. Epidemic Characters.—Within the endemic ^rea the disease clings to particular villages. It is not generally diffused throughout the endemic districts. It affects particular foci, but may be introduced into villages hitherto immune. When so introduced it may spread and cling to the place for years, leading" in the course of time to a heavy aggregate mortality. In this way villages, and even whole districts, have become depopulated. When it appears in a. house, parents and children, young and old, males and females, are equally liable to attack. In the villages in the endemic regions on the Congo it is usually possible to find several cases in progress, so common does it become. Si/mptoms.—There is considerable variety in the character and grouping of the symptoms of sleeping sickness, as well as in the rate of pro- gress of the disease. As regards the latter, about one year seems to be an average duration, but a rapid case may prove fatal in three months, and a more chronic case may last for several jears—up to three at least. An average case proceeds much as follows. With or without occasional attacks of feverish- ness, headache, or rachialgia, the patient, pre- viously quite healthy, becomes conscious of impaired muscular power and endurance. He tires easily at his work. His mind is similarly affected ; he comprehends slowty and with diffi- culty, conversation becoming an increasing burden to him. At the same time, apparently in consequence of the physical and mental languor, he is prone to fall asleep at unusual times, even while at work, during his meals, or during a con- Tersation. Gradually this lethargic condition "becomes aggravated. There may be temporary improvements, but on the whole the condition becomes more pronounced. The patient, from weakness or indifference, is apt to stagger in his walk ; or he may shuffle slowly along, neglecting, or being unable, to lift his feet off the ground. When standing or sitting, his body tends to lean to one side, as if the effort to maintain the erect posture were too much for him. His upper eyelids droop, and the tonicity of the facial muscles relax, the expres- sion of the face becoming vacant or mournful. He is dull or morose. Spontaneity ceases. He will eat when food is brought him, but he does not ask for it. He takes no part in conversation, and confines his answers to monosyllables. His answers, though delayed, are to the point. At this stage the patient passes most of his time asleep, or apparently asleep, indifferent to every- thing about him. He can be roused easily enough, but drops off asleep very quickly. While eating he may fall asleep. Up to this stage, if the patient be carefully tended, nutrition and the organic functions are adequately fulfilled; but sooner or later he begins to lose weight, bed-sores may form, muscular spasms or epileptiform seizures may set in, or some grave intercurrent disease may be established, such as dysentery, diarrhoea, pneumonia, sepsis, phthisis, and so forth, and the patient dies. In the majority of cases muscular tremor and fibrillar twitchings are marked features, either throughout the disease or towards its ter- mination. Sensation is not manifestly affected. Spasm of certain groups of muscles, often followed by paresis, is not uncommon. Retrac- tion of the head is not unusual, especially towards the end of the disease. Two additional symptoms may be noted in nearly every case of sleeping sickness, namely, pruritus and enlargement of the lymphatic glands, especially those of the neck. The pruritus, which may be accompanied by a papvilar or papulo-pustular eruption, is gener- ally most intense over the chest and abdomen. The skin loses its natural gloss, and is scored all over with long white lines of abraded epi- thelium produced by the incessant scratching. The enlargement of the lymphatic glands may be marked or slight. The individual glands are discrete, not matted, and not adherent to the skin. They may be tender, but do not suppurate. In size they vary from that of a small bean to a walnut. The senses are not manifestly involved. The fundus oculi, the superficial and deep reflexes, are normal. No abnormality has been remarked as regards the secretions except, perhaps, that the saliva may be increased in amount; at all events, whether it be from increase of the amount or from inattention to swallowing it, in many instances large quantities of saliva dribble from the patient's mouth as he lies asleep. It not infrequently happens that the disease is ushered in by a violent maniacal attack, or such may be interpolated during its progress. Similarly, there may be initial or intercurrent epileptiform seizures. Morbid Anat07ny.—Recent and carefully made examinations have shown that there is no gross lesion essential to sleeping sickness; so far as naked-eye appearances are concerned, the en- cephalon may seem to be healthy. It is not unusual to see some thickening and opacity of the pia-arachnoid over the convexity of the cerebrum, and perhaps slight turbidity of the cerebro spinal fluid. In other cases similar evidences of meningeal inflammation are more pronounced. The essential lesion, however, is