SYPHILIS 466 disappears, and for a time the inflamed mucous membrane appears reddish-brown from con- gestion. Mucoiis patches are most frequently found upon the tonsils, the uvula, the velum palati, and pillars of the fauces, the sides of the tongue, and the mucous surface of the lips, especially the lower. They are often found, too, at the angles of the lips, on the inner surface of the cheek near the last molar tooth, or opposite any point of irritation, and their presence should not be overlooked when they occur on the gums. At first the mucous patches are very slightly elevated, circular or elliptical in shape, and they are often multiple. At a later stage they become the seat of shallow ulcerations with a greyish-yellow surface and uneven edges. This colour makes the patches appear as if they had been formed by pencilling the surface with nitrate of silver, and it is in allusion to this characteristic that they are often called " Plaques opalines " by the French writers on syphilis. Prognosis.—Mucous patches disappear with- out leaving any trace in about a month, under simple treatment, in people who are careful to keep their mouths clean and free from irritation, but the patches recur again and again, as a rule, during the first period of secondary syphilis, and as they are a constant source of infection the practitioner should keep them well in mind when he sees his patient. In unhealthy people, and in those who are careless and dirty as regards their mouths, mucous patches may cause considerable trouble, because they may ulcerate rather deeply, or they may coalesce to form larger masses. They often become cracked, especially at the corners of the mouth, where they may lead to permanent scarring, as is often seen in children who have been the subjects of syphilis. Treatment.—The patient should be warned of the risk he runs of conveying the infection to other persons by kissing, using drinking- vessels or eating - utensils in common. He should be exhorted to use gargles of borax, chlorate of potash, or alum at frequent intervals. I usually paint the patches with chromic acid solution of the strength of 10 grains to the ounce, alternating it occasionally with potassium bicyanide, 15 grains to the ounce. Local ap- plications of chloride of zinc, 20 grains to the ounce, or of nitrate of silver, 30 grains to the ounce, are also useful, and the application of tincture of iodine is sometimes very serviceable. But it is well in every case for the practitioner to make the application himself, either with the patient in a good light or with his throat illuminated from the head mirror of a laryngo- scope, as he will then be able to make a methodi- cal investigation of the whole of the mucous membrane of the mouth and pharynx. All causes of irritation should be removed as far as possible, so that smoking should be prohibited, and stimulants forbidden. The mucous membrane of the tongue, like that of the mouth generally, may be the seat of an erythema or of mucous patches, but as it is somewhat more liable to irritation, and has a thicker covering of epithelium, it proves more refractory to treatment. Various fissures are developed, and the epithelium undergoes modi- fication into the condition known as psoriasis of the tongue, or leukoplakia. Secondary symptoms of syphilis are rather rare in the nasal raucous membranes. They are usually nothing more than a slight hypersemia of the mucous membrane, leading to a chronic catarrh with a muco-purulent secretion. Mucous patches can sometimes be seen at the external angle of the nostrils, or just inside the nasal fossse either on the anterior part of the septum or on the inferior turbinate bone. Similar patches may be seen by posterior rhinoscopy on the margins of the posterior nares. The treatment consists in the administration of a nasal douche of Condy's fluid, two drachms to a pint, or of bicarbonate of soda, 30 grains to the ounce. The larynx is affected with tolerable frequency during secondary syphilis, either in the form of a chronic hypereemia, superficial ulceration, or as condylomata. The condylo- mata generally appear as smooth yellow pro- jections, either round or oval, and varying in diameter from an eighth to a third of an inch. They are usually situated on the epiglottis and on the inter-arykenoid commissure, more rarely on the vocal ends themselves, and being less exposed to irritation they are not so liable to ulceration as the condylomata occurring on the pharynx. The laryngeal manifestations of secondary syphilis generally occur from six to twelve months after infection. The symptoms are generally slight, a little cough and hoarseness, which may pass on into complete aphonia, being all that the patient complains of. A perchloride of mercury spray of the strength of 1 in 1000 is often of great service when it is combined with the internal administration of mercury. The neighbourhood of the anus, the vulva, and the inguinal folds are often the seat of flattened ulcerated patches, secreting a scanty viscid secretion, which are known as condylo- mata lata. The discharge is often stinking, and is highly infectious Condylomata are associated with a great want of cleanliness on the part of the patient. They are cured by keeping the parts perfectly clean and dry, whilst the patient is put upon a course of mercury. The drying is ensured by dusting the condylo- mata with a mixture of calomel and oxide of zinc, or if the discharge is too profuse the patient may be placed in a bath of perchloride of mercury of the strength of one-half to one per cent. Condylomata of long standing, or