SUPPURATION 439 surface, and each of these conditions m turn depends upon the profoundly important factors concerning infection laid down under the head- ing of etiology. However, roughly speaking, the time taken by an acute circumscribed ab- scess to develop is from seven to ten days, perhaps a few days more, and, possibly, if the abscess be small and superficial, a few days less. The sequence of events that occur in the formation of an acute circumscribed abscess can thus be summarised:— (1) The introduction of the micro-organism. (2) The necrosis of tissue. (3) The exudation of fluid from the blood- FiG. 3.—Section of an abscess seven days after inoculation, show- ing tlie capillary layer in ttie abscess wall. It appears to be suspended in pus only, but with a higher power the capil- laries are suspended by connective tissue cells among which pus cells are freely distributed. vessels and emigration of leucocytes at first only up to, and after liquefaction into, the dead area, i.e. the abscess cavity. (4) The formation of encircling membrane from the pre-existing fibrous tissue of the part. This appears to be the most convenient place at which to remark that although the essential difference of one abscess from another is causal, the general significance—whatever it may be— of suppuration from all causes is probably the same in every case. Clinical Symptoms.—These are due to the absorption of toxic products, some of which are micro-organismal in origin, while others are derived fi-om the broken-down tissues of the host. Their absorption is probably aided by the internal pressure of the abscess con- tents. The clinical symptoms may be divided into those which are local, and those which are constitutional. Local.—After the inoculation—the fact of which may or may not be within the knowledge of the patient—the first notification of trouble is a feeling of tension in the aff'ected part; at the same time the patient may complain of either a well-marked rigor, or feelings of chilliness, or an inclination to shiver. The local trouble increases into a definite throbbing pain, more or less spontaneous, the intensity of which is increased by making the part dependent, and diminished by its elevation or immersion in warm lotion. The lowering of the part will increase venous congestion, elevation will dim- inish it, and immersion in the fluid supports the over-distended capillary and venous systems. The pain now increases to extreme tenderness; there is a marked redness, which disappears on pressure and instantly reappears on its removal; heat, swelling, and hardness have also become prominent features of the lesion. The glands which receive the lymphatic vessels of the part in which the developing abscess is situated are next noted to be enlarged and tender, imparting a sensation of stiffness to the axilla, groin, or other site of affected glands. It is not always the lymphatic gland nearest the abscess which first becomes enlarged. From enlargement the glands may go on to actual suppuration, giving rise to the additional symptoms of an abscess at their site. Often, more particularly in streptococcus lesions, the lymphatic vessels leading to these glands are mapped out as diffuse, red, longitudinal streaks. Suppuration may occur in any part of the track of these vessels. In cases of lymphangitis of this nature the writer has frequently observed that bursse —notably the bursa patelte, and that over the olecranon—suppurate when no other secondary suppuration occurs; he has sometimes seen the occurrence when there was no suppuration even at the site of infection. In the centre of the hard red swelling the redness now disappears slowly upon pressure, reappearing sluggishly when the pressure is removed. The red centre soon becomes blue, and appears soft to the touch ; the fingers may now actually pit into it. This is the first trustworthy clinical sign that suppui'ation has occurred. The swelling grows more prominent and tense m\t\\ fluctuation determines the fluid nature of the lesion. The skin shines from the polish of tension developed by the subjacent pressure. Around this tense and shiny swell- ing thei-e is much redness and oedema, which gradually diff'use into the normal parts, and there disappear. The skin over the blue centre slowly becomes a thin, translucent membrane, through which the white or yellowish pus can