RUBELLA: ROSERASH 18 sponsible to a large extent for the spread of this disease. The difficulty is one of definite detection, as no actual illness takes place. 1. Pink Eyes.-—A group of cases of roserash occurs which have no symptoms that I have yet ascertained, except pinh conjunctival. And these cases, while capable of transmitting the illness to others, provide immunity against a subsequent personal attack. 2. Another group of cases of roserash may, I believe, occur (but I cannot, at present, advance beyond belief, as I have not yet satisfied myself by actual proof), without show- ing any symptoms beyond slight feverishness and enlargement of the lymphatic glands, parti- cularly the post-cervical, the axillary, and the inguinal. Symptomatology. — (i.) Premonitory Symp- toms.—In many instances none are discoverable — neither headache, vomiting, catarrh, nor cough, though some amount of sore throat usually exists. If the attack be severe there may be some malaise, anorexia, and drowsiness. (ii.) Sensations of Illness. — Even where a very full eruption occurs, as intense as in a typical case of measles, the patient usually states that he does not feel ill, although other indications to the contrary may be visible. While in measles, I have heard the most vigorous declare that they never felt so ill in any previous illness. (iii.) The Temperature.-~The variation ranges from normal to 103° Fahr. or even 104° Fahr. In the latter case the temperature, in my judgment, arises from idiosyncrasy. (iv.) The Pulse.—The pulse is normal, or may be increased in frequency; it always bears, however, a ratio to the temperature. (v.) The Tongue.—The tongue is clean, or slightly furred. It is never coated with a thick white fur, and never peels. (vi.) The Throat.—The fauces are dry in appearance, of a motley red hue, much re- sembling the eruption on the skin. This condition of the pharynx may occasion some amount of cough. (vii.) The Glands.—The lymphatic glands throughout the body are enlarged, tender, and hard like peas—notably the posterior cervical, the axillary, and the inguinal. But they never suppurate. (viii.) The Eyes.—The eyes are generally pink red and suffused. (ix.) The Eruption. — The first noticeable symptom is usually the eruption. Its appearance, at first, is that of minute rosy red dots raised somewhat from the surface of the skin, but not patches. It is first visible behind the ears, on the scalp, and on the face, especially on the oral circle. From these situa- tions it extends to the neck and chest, and ultimately may cover diffusely, or in patches, the entire body. The minute dots become larger and gradually coalesce, forming patches of the bat's wing pattern, which so extend and alter in colour as to be indistinguishable from the rash of measles. In other cases the spots become so diffused that the rash, in patches, resembles the rash of scarlet fever; but in this disease the diffuse scarlet fever looking rash never manifests itself from the commencement. The eruption lasts from one to five days, according to the nature of the attack, and first fades where it first appeared. Itching of the skin occasionally occurs, as it is apt to do in all cases when hypersemia of the skin is present. It is evident that, in diagnosis, the eruption must not be relied on, but a consideration of the collateral symptoms is imperative. (x.) Desquamation.—There may, perhaps, be a little brawny desquamation ; but frequently, or rather usually, none occurs. (xi.) Albuminuria. — Where albiiminuria is found it is, I believe, that form only which is incidental to adolescents. Stages.—(1) The Period of Incubation.—By this is meant the interval between exposure and the manifestation of symptoms. The first noticeable symptom in all ordinary cases of this disease is the rash, and it is from this epoch—from rash to rash—that the period of incubation can alone be calculated. It must, however, be borne in mind that the disease is undoubtedly infectious prior to the exhibition of any symptoms which the minutest scrutiny can discover. In investigating the period of incubation of infectious diseases generally, it is essential that every case should be instantly removed on its occurrence from the house to hospital, and no communication whatever should be permitted between the sick and the healthy. Any less stringent mode of isolation is absolutely fallacious and inoperative. The period also can only be calculated from well-marked isolated cases; or from the beginning and termination of epi- demics, when the cases occur slowly. An at- tempt to measure the incubation period during the height of an epidemic when many are succumbing daily, or to calculate it when the disease is epidemic in towns, is entirely futile. I desire to emphasise this statement, because the incubation period of this ailment is so diversely assigned. One of the leading epi- demiologists, for instance, knowing my deep interest in the question of incubation, informed me some years ago that he had found an instance where the term was barely twenty-four hours, because he showed a case one afternoon to a young medical man who desired to see the erup- i tion, and on the succeeding day the young i practitioner himself was attacked with roserash.. I pointed out to him, however, that the disease was exceedingly rife in London at the time;