STOMATITIS 402 treatment. One caution, however, may be given in such cases : there seems to be a tendency to cardiac syncope during convalescence from this disease, a tendency which is perhaps ex- plained by the necrotic foci in the myocardium, and other cardiac lesions which were found in animals inoculated with the bacillus described by Lingard. Treatment.—It is all-important that treat- ment should be prompt and energetic in this disease : the saving of the child's life depends largely on early recognition and efficient treat- ment. It is now generally recognised that the only satisfactory method of treating cancrum oris is by complete removal of the affected part, and by the application either of powerful anti- septics or of the actual cautery to the apparently healthy tissue which is immediately adjacent to the sloughing area. These measures fall rather within the province of the surgeon than of the physician, and the present writer, there- fore, can hardly do better than quote the very full directions given by his colleagues Mr. Watson Cheyne and Mr. Burghard :—" All the parts which are gangrenous must be clipped away; not only the soft parts, but the portion of the jaw affected must be removed, and this should be done till a surface which bleeds every- where is exposed. Having in this way got rid of all the gangrenous tissue, pressure is applied and the bleeding arrested, and then strong nitric acid is painted over or rubbed into the raw surface. This is best done by means of a stout glass rod or glass brush. The acid is allowed to act for about ten minutes, fresh applications being repeatedly made during that time. When the surgeon is thoroughly satisfied that every portion of the disease is destroyed, the action of the acid is arrested by the applica- tion of a saturated solution of carbonate of soda, which is poured on the part until the acid is completely neutralised, as is shown when bubbles of carbonic acid gas cease to form. . . . The part should then be powdered with iodoform, and full-strength boracic oint- ment spread on butter-cloth applied with boracic lint outside it. The mouth or vagina should be washed out with sanitas and water, about 1 part in 12, several times a day. The wound will begin to granulate in five or six days, and then the weaker boracic ointment may be substituted." Messrs. Yates and Kingsford record three cases in which recovery occurred after removal of the sloughs, followed by swabbing the ad- jacent tissues with a solution of perchloride of mercury (1 in 500); the parts were then dressed with lint soaked in a weaker solution of the same drug (1 in 1000). In one case this treat- ment arrested the disease when the application of nitric acid had been unsuccessful; but re- petition of the treatment on several days may be necessary if the sloughing recurs. The possible causal relation of streptococci to this disease has suggested the injection of antistreptococcic serum, and recovery has followed its use after other means had failed to arrest the gangrene (Cahall). Every effort must be made to support the child's strength by nourishing food and stimu- lants. Egg-and-brandy mixture, yolks of egg mixed with beef-tea, custard, "trifle" (made with sponge-cakes, sherry, milk, and eggs)—any such foods may be used, and should be given at short intervals. Any signs of cardiac failure will call for further stimulation by strychnine, and perhaps digitalis or ammonium carbonate, and it may be necessary to keep the child in the recumbent position to prevent syncopal attacks. Parasitic Stomatitis (Thrush) Thrush is a disease chiefly of early infancy: it is only rarely seen in older children or adults. In infants it occurs most often as a complica- tion of gastro-intestinal disorders, but is seen also in any enfeebled condition, and in adults at the end of phthisis or other exhausting disease. It is due to an invasion of the epi- thelium by a fungus, the saccharomyces or oidium albicans, which consists of oval cells and longer mycelium-like threads which dip down between the superficial layers of the epithelium, but not into the deeper part of the mucosa. The white patches consist of this fungus together with epithelial cells and bacteria. Symptoms.—Small creamy-white raised specks which enlarge and coalesce are seen first, usually on the mucous membrane of the cheeks, then on the tongue, lips, palate, and fauces, making in a severe case a thick curd-like coating over considerable portions of the mucosa. At the edge of these patches the mucous membrane can be seen to be slightly reddened in some cases, showing that some degree of catarrhal stomatitis is associated with the parasitic growth ; but in many of these slighter cases there is nothing whatever, so far as naked-eye appearances go, to suggest any inflammation whatever, and it may be doubted whether the parasitic invasion is necessarily associated with any stomatitis. The mouth is usually rather dry than other- wise in cases of thrush ; there is no tendency to drivelling of saliva. The saliva is almost in- variably acid. In severe cases thrush may interfere with suckling, and in this way hinder nutrition, but otherwise it seems to add little if anything to the constitutional disturbance due to the gastro-intestinal or other disorders which usually precede it. Thrush rarely extends beyond the mouth, but occasionally it spreads down the oesophagus, and still more rarely into the stomach. Cases 1