32 SCABIES, OR THE ITCH either due directly to the Acarus scabiei, or arising secondarily as a result of the scratching induced by the irritation. The burrows or cuniculi appear as more or less sinuous, irregular lines, varying in length. They are usually short, from an eighth to half an inch in length, but much longer ones have been observed. In cleanly people these lines may be white, but in the great majority of cases they are more or less black from dirt. The lesions directly caused by the acarus may be papules, vesicles, and pustules, but these are not present in connection with all burrows. Scratching gives rise indirectly to excoria- tions, secondary pus inoculation lesions of vary- ing degrees of severity, scabbed papules, wheals, and eczematous complications. The distribution of the eruption, besides being present about the hands and wrists, is found in men to extend from the level of the nipples to the knees in front, the genitalia being very frequently involved, and occupies the buttocks only posteriorly, especially in tailors, carmen, and cobblers. In women, the lower part of the back, being within reach of the hands, is also involved. In them, too, the breasts are often affected. In infants the feet are commonly the seat of pustular lesions. The head and face, except in infants, are free. The above description applies to an ordinary case, but the eruption is at times so much modified by the individual habits and occupa- tion as to be misleading. In the first place, no burrows may be found, as in bricklayers, washerwomen, and so forth. With very cleanly people, who use plenty of soap and water, and nail brushes, the hands may show very little, and the lesions about the body be slight and indefinite. In such cases the diagnosis may be extremely difficult. On the other hand, in the so-called Norwegian itch the whole of the body, including the face, may be involved. These extreme conditions have been observed chiefly in lepers, in whom, owing perhaps to apathy and insensibility, the disease goes on for years uncontrolled. In a young tuberculated leper, who was under the care of Radcliffe-Crocker, the limbs were thickly encrusted with an epithelial mortar-like deposit. Scabies was not suspected during life, as the itching was never very great. A portion of skin removed at the necropsy showed the epi- dermis to be riddled with acari in all stages. Animal Scabies.—An extreme case of itch contracted from a horse has been recorded by Besnier and Megnin, in which the latter found the Sarcoptes scabiei, var. equi. The man's eyebrows, beard, and hair were thickly crusted, and his body was covered with closely aggre- gated papules, giving the skin the appearance of shagreen leather. Willan and Bateman figure a bad case of itch contracted from a pig. An ill-defined, slight papular eruption has also been observed in the human subject, con- tracted from dogs and cats, but the acari of these animals do not thrive on man. ^Etiology.—Scabies is a contagious disorder due to a parasite, and from what has already been said, for the disease to arise it is necessary that an impregnated female should find her way to a new host, upon whom she may start her burrowing proclivities. For this to take place, prolonged contact with itchy persons or things, such as occurs in sharing the same bed, and so forth, must take place. Popularly it is thought that shaking hands is sufficient, but this, to say the least of it, must be a most unusual mode of infection. Wearing infected gloves leads to recurrences in patients who have been cured, and Radcliffe-Crocker has pointed out that the trousers' pockets may be a source of reinfection. In connection with the latter ob- servation, it is possible that the well-to-do may contract the disease from their clothes, for male wearing apparel is made up by tailors in their own homes. Of late years much of this kind of work has fallen into the hands of Jews from Poland and Russia, who are steadily populating Soho and other parts of the West End of London, and, as 1 have said, scabies is not uncommon amongst them. The Acarus scabiei is no respecter of persons, the young and old, rich and poor, are all one to him in his determination to perpetuate his species. But where the victim is dirty and careless the parasite stands a better chance in the struggle for survival. Burrowing operations are best carried out undisturbed. Diagnosis.—In well-marked cases the dia- gnosis is easy, although from want of attention to all the facts the disease is not infrequently overlooked. To avoid errors the patient should be thoroughly examined. This can be done even in the case of private female patients with a little tact. The distribution as a whole is of primary im- portance. The lesions about the hands and wrists, scattered about these parts without order or regularity, is a striking feature. Burrows should be sought for, with a watchmaker's lens, between the fingers and about the bends of the wrists. With a little care the recent end of a burrow can be made out—indeed, the female acarus can sometimes be discerned as a minute rounded elevation, and by inserting a pin or a finely pointed needle on a holder at this spot the parasite can be picked out. An important point to bear in mind is that the acarus is not to be found in vesicles or pustules. To convince the unbelieving the parasite should be shown under the microscope. On the other hand, ill-developed cases may present great difficulties in arriving at a correct conclusion. It is here that the social position must not be allowed to influence the judgment