373 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF fulness and sinking. But such symptoms as these by no means necessarily occur, and they are not peculiar to nor even essential mani- festations of ulceration. They may have existed for long previous to those due to the ulcer, or they may set in when those caused by the specific lesion have in great measure passed away, or they may be wholly absent through- out. Other evidences of perverted function which may be met with it the course of gasti-ic ulcer are probably only remotely related to that con- dition, and are rather the secondary expressions of disturbance, or result from the general state of bad health accompanying the special stomach affection. The temperature, apart from any inflammatory complication, is normal or even below. The heart, which is generally undis- turbed, may become irregular and develop various murmurs when the anaemia is consider- able ; from lack of sufficient nourishment the force and tone of the circulation is likely to be depressed. To the general state of ill-health and dyspepsia may also be ascribed such specially nervous phenomena as headache, vertigo, and sleeplessness. Dr. Dreschfeld records three cases in which general convulsions occurred, probably in connection with hfemorrhage, and the same observer also saw tetany in one case, occurring independently of washing out the stomach. The subjects of the malady being most frequently young women, the symptoms of neurasthenia or of hysteria are not unlikely to coexist. The urine may show some abnor- malities due to the altered gastric state; the hypersecretion of hydrochloric acid may con- siderably reduce the acidity of the renal excre- tion, in which also the chlorides maybe diminished and the phosphates increased. Both albuminuria and albumosuria may occur, and glycosuria is not unknown; indican and ethereal sulphates bear witness when in excess to unhealthy bacterial fermentations in the intestines. Amenorrhoea is a very constant occurrence in the chlorotic young women. Course and Termination.—Within the limits of the foregoing account almost every case of gastric ulcer would find a place; it is in pro- ceeding to consider the course and termination of the disease that marked differences of type are disclosed. (a) Recovery.—By far the greater number of cases of what is a far from uncommon affection get well, and this is pre-eminently so when the subjects are chlorotic young women, who form the greater proportion. Coming on in a patient profoundly ansemic, and with a vitality and capability much impaired therefrom, or super- vening suddenly in a girl who is only just able to drag through her day's work, she is in a very short time reduced to an alarming state of prostration from loss of blood, which, as said, may recur on two or three days. Yet with care recovery almost always follows, though the patient is left more anaemic than before, but with no specially marked gastric symptoms either of pain or vomiting. In a few months or a year these indications set in again, and another haemorrhage takes place, again to be followed by recovery, and this may be again repeated, or the first outburst may be the only one. It is important to notice that a very large number of young women, especially of the servant class, are admitted to hospital suffering from repeated attacks of great pain and vomiting and all the recognised symptoms of gastric ulcer, except that there is no htemorrhage ; and it is customary to include at least the severest of them as gastric ulcer, thus helping to swell the preponderance of the disease in females. Some observers, however, hesitate to diagnose ulcer unless there be a loss of blood, and have been satisfied to designate such cases as gastrodynia. The special feature here insisted on is that the greater number, whether there be bleeding or not, recover, and many ultimately become per- fectly healthy women as the chlorosis disappears. The recently introduced practice of treating gastric haemorrhage by opening the stomach and ligaturing the bleeding vessel has given the opportunity for the exploration of the viscus after haematemesis; and in a certain number of such cases no ulcer has been found, and nothing more than a minute erosion of the mucosa. This fact has shown that a definite ulcer such as previously described is by no means necessary for the production of the intense pain, vomiting, and haemorrhage, and it also suggests that it is not the actual lesion itself, but rather perhaps some general sensitiveness of the gastric mucosa, which may or may not be associated with bleed- ing according as the erosions happen to involve a vessel of any size, that accounts for the pain and vomiting. This would bring the bleeding and non-bleeding cases, as they occur in chlorotic girls, be it understood, within the same category, the haemorrhage being, so to say, an accidental complication. (6) Perforation.—Whilst the greater number of cases run an uncomplicated course towards ultimate recovery, a certain proportion terminate in this serious and usually fatal event. No indications exist that foreshadow such a result, and the clinical course of the case up to the occurrence of perforation may be in nowise different from those which recover. Post-mortem, however, as might be expected, a very definite ulcer extending through the several coats is discovered, presenting all the anatomical char- acters previously described. Inasmuch, however, as the "peptic" or "perforating" ulcer, there is reason to suppose, starts from a simple erosin, the difference in the clinical as in the anatomical characters of these cases is only one of degree. As with haemorrhage, so with perforation, it may be the first symptom that calls attention