STRABISMUS 407 by a trained observer unless some special test is applied. There is a popular notion that to create a squint one has only to converge the visual axes forcibly towards the root of the nose. But since in this movement both eyes turn through an equal angle and are directed towards a common point of fixation, there is no actual squinting. Latent Strabismus.—A tendency to squint may be latent but habitually overcome by voluntary effort in the interests of binocular vision. This may be termed a superable squint. Being thus disguised when both eyes are avail- able for simultaneous fixation, no deformity is visible, and yet the patient may suffer much discomfort from the extra strain on one or more of the ocular muscles. A squint which cannot be overcome by volun- tary effort may be described as insupey-ahle, and to this class the great majority of obvious squints belong. The Detection of Strabismus.—Alternate Exposure Test.—The simplest means which can be employed without any apparatus is to direct attention to some small, remote, but well-defined object, preferably on a level with the eyes (or with the head thrown back it may be at a higher level, e.g. a chimney-top). The observer should place himself before the patient in such a position that he can easily watch the eyes with- out interfering with their lines of vision to the object selected, and then rapidly slip the back of his hand or an opaque card in front of one eye of the patient. If the remaining exposed eye possesses sufficient vision to see the object and has been exercising correct power of fixation, it will remain unmoved, but if it instinctively turns towards the object of regard, it reveals at once the faultiness of its previous position. Let the cover next be quickly transferred from the first to the second eye, and note whether the former remains with fixed gaze on exposure or alters its position. If the muscular equilibrium of the eyes is perfect ("ortho- phoria"), no movement will be detected. If any movement of adjustment occurs, strabismus is at once revealed. A converging eye must rotate out, a diverging eye must rotate in, a vertically deviated eye must turn down or turn up to correct the faulty direction of its visual axis. 'It is well to repeat the alternate covering several times in succession to secure the relaxation of a latent or superable squint, and to make certain that the patient is trying to fix steadily and not moving the eyes needlessly. A glance behind the obscuring hand or card will in most instances show that, if the exposed eye has adjusted itself, the covered eye has assumed the squint. It now becomes evident that the movement of adjustment (" redress") is not due to the rotation of one eye alone, but to a conjugate movement of both eyes. If one eye be very amblyopic or have a central scotoma, it may fail to correct its position through inability to see the object selected. In such cases the squint is usually very pro- nounced, constant, and " monolateral." If the vision of one eye is decidedly keener than that of the other, the possessor learns instinctively to use the better eye by preference for fixation, and when both are uncovered, the less keen eye appears as the habitually squint- ing eye. There is usually an associated diff'er- ence of refraction. There may be an unequal retinal capacity for vision. Alternating Strabismus.—One may often ob- serve a squinter spontaneously fixing first with one eye and then with the other, while squint- ing all the time. This is usually a sign of approximately equal acuteness of vision in the two eyes, and a good omen for successful treat- ment. By the alternate exposure test, as above described, the great majority of squints can be made to exhibit alternation, but only the spontaneous cases deserve the title "alter- nating." A squint may sometimes not reveal itself until a definite stress is thrown upon the function of convergence. Having applied the alternate cover test to the eyes, fixing a distant object, it should be repeated, while attention is fixed on a near object such as the tip of the finger or, better still, a pin-point held at ordinary reading distance. The alternate covering may now reveal a perfect maintenance of equilibrium or a true convergent strabismus, or the covered eye may appear to turn outwards by relaxation of convergence. Variable Squint.—In many persons, but especially in children, the degree of squint may vary greatly at diff'erent times, being increased by emotions of excitement, surprise, joy or fear, by digestive disturbance or fatigue. It may so completely disappear at times that it is difficult to reveal its presence by any method. This is one of the best proofs that squinting depends on a disturbance of central innervation and not on peripheral muscular inequalities. To detect the smallest deviations in the visual axes and especially those which are latent, there is no surer method than the Maddox Rod Test ("Ocular Muscles"). The only difference between " heterophoria" and " squint" is in the application of the former term to designate the minuter deviations which can only be revealed by refined methods of investigation. Classification of Concomitant Squints.—Look- ing to the relative position of the eyes, the usual classification is as follows :— 1. Strabismus Convergens (" Esophoria ").—- The visual axes turn inwards and cross in front of the eyes.