STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 383 from the stomach are headache, alterations in mental state varying from irritability to depres- sion, which may be extreme. With this goes considerable physical prostration and disinclina- tion for exertion, both muscular and mental. In the severest cases the torpor and lethargy deepens into coma, which may be fatal. Cut- aneous eruptions of an erythematous or urticarial character have also been noted in the course of the malady, presumably toxsemic in origin. And to the same cause is perhaps to be assigned the vertigo which often occurs. A form of insomnia which sometimes arises is distinguished by the patient waking regularly after the first few hours' sleep, and remaining awake the rest of the night in spite of all ordinary efforts to sleep, and perhaps dropping off into a heavy slumber from exhaustion when the night's rest should have terminated. This has been attri- buted to flatulence, and if this can be relieved by rubbing the abdomen, walking about, a draught of a hot carminative, etc., sleep can be induced. It cannot be said that this symptom is in any way peculiar to gastroectasis, although it is distinctly characteristic of some perversion of gastric digestion, and is very liable to occur in persons the subject of mental anxiety or strain in whom digestion is delayed. One of the most interesting symptoms associated with gastroectasis, which the recent researches of Drs. Halliburton and M'Kendrick have gone far to show is toxic in origin, is the so-called "gastric tetany." It is not of very common occurrence, and is marked by contraction of the fingers or toes, or both, the spasm sometimes involving the arms and legs, and more rarely the muscles of the trunk, neck, and face. Alternating with the tonic seizures may be clonic convulsions, though these are sometimes very slight. The attacks are often preceded by severe pain in the stomach, and are occasionally accompanied by unconsciousness. Washing out the stomach or vomiting frequently induces the paroxysm. The coexistence of transient albuminuria has been occasionally noted, but this is not to be regarded as indicating the cause of the tetany to be ursemic in nature, but rather is it the result of the renal epithelium being damaged by the elimination of the irritant toxin. In the rare cases of gastric dilatation of sudden onset, and usually terminating fatally in a few days without any obvious cause, and apparently of the nature of an acute paralytic distension with enormous hypersecretion, the patient quickly passes into a yevy grave state of collapse. The physical signs of the condition exist in a marked degree, vomiting and gastric pain are manifested until the prostration is far advanced, and the emptying of the stomach is rapidly succeeded by a further copious secretion of gastric fluid ; the skin is dry and shrunken, and the urine almost or quite suppressed. Intermediate, as it were, between such cases as these and the more chronic forms just described are those which complicate acute infective diseases, in which the symptoms for the most part correspond to the description given, but are more quickly established, and perhaps sooner recovered from. Diag7iosis.—This should not be difficult, at least so far as the recognition of the existence of the dilatation. A careful consideration of the physical signs, of the character of the vomiting and nature of the vomit, and of the remote symp- toms, should be sufficient to establish the diasr- nosis, though it may not always be easy to ex- clude extreme dilatation of the transverse colon. But it is otherwise as regards a diagnosis of the cause of the condition, and for that other circumstances have to be considered, such as the history, presence of an epigastric tumour, etc., some assistance being obtained by re- membering that the cases of greatest distension are often due to non-malignant stenosis of the pylorus, and the cases of non-obstructive causa- tion give physical evidence of more distension upwards, the stomach on the whole tending less to fall in the abdomen. Prognosis.—Reference has been made to the usual fatality attending the very acute cases, and those of more chronic character are mainly influenced in their course and termination by the cause, death being due in malignant obstruc- tion to other circumstances. Among the symp- toms of serious import tetany is prominent, but even this may be diminished in its gravity by prompt treatment. Besides being directly responsible for a fatal termination, gastroectasis is not infrequently the immediate cause of death in persons the subject of cardiac degeneration, in whom the disturbance of the heart's action by the dilated stomach is, so to say, the " last straw." Treatment.—Undoubtedly much may be done for this condition. Whilst cure is not possible, from the nature of the cause in some cases, relief is possible for almost all. The question of the treatment of an existing pyloric stricture is dealt with elsewhere, but for the dilatation itself, however it has originated, the main in- dications are to prevent accumulations in the stomach, and to check fermentation therein. The vomiting is the natural effort to relieve the first indication, which is even more efficiently met by emptying the stomach with a tube at regular intervals, and subsequent washing out of the organ. This should be done once in the twenty-four hours, preferably in the evening, and the lavage should be carried out with several pints of water at a temperature of 85° Fahr., in which boric acid (4 drachms to the pint), or sodium bicarbonate in same proportion, is dissolved. By this means the decomposing food-stuffs are removed and their toxic effects are avoided, and at the same time the mucous membrane is given a chance of recovery. It is