SYPHILIS 472 To the dregs of No. 1 decoction add :— Rad. sarzse contus. gij., cort. limon. contus., semin. cardamom, contus., rad. glycyrrhiz. con- tus. aa 3j., aquse C. iij. Boil gently down to one gallon, strain and put into four forty-ounce bottles. Label—The Weak Decoction. R Hyd. subchlor. gr. ij., ext. colocynth. co. gr. v., ext. hyoscyami gr. ij. M. Ft. pil. ii. signa.—the Pills. The patient is kept in a room at 80° F. The diet consists of:— Breakfast—Boiled egg or bacon, tea, no sugar or spices. Lunch—Butcher's meat, vegetables, no fruits. Dinner—Soup, fish, poultry. The evening before beginning the treatment, the two pills are taken, and for the next four days, at 9 a.m., 10 a.m., 11 a.m., and 12 noon, half a pint of the strong decoction is to be drunk very hot, and at 3 p.m., 4 p.m., 5 p.m., and 6 p.m., half a pint of the weak decoction cold. The patient is kept in bed except for an hour in the evening. He is allowed to get up on the fifth day; he may then have a hot bath and dress, and is allowed, if he asks for it, a little brandy, or whisky and soda. In the evening two pills are administered, the patient starting the de- coctions as before. So the treatment goes on until the fifteenth day, when it is discontinued. Any one who has not witnessed the results obtained by this method of treatment, when the iodide and mercury plan have been pursued with no apparent benefit, will hardly credit us when we state that we have seen many cases in which ulceration was progressing rapidly in spite of ordinary antisypliilitic treatment, quite heal up under a course of Zittman." So, too, among the subjects of chronic syphilis affecting the nervous system, we have had many success- ful instances treated by this method, and strongly recommend it in selected cases. Course of Tertiary Sf/philis.—Cases of malig- nant syphilis, however, are fortunately of rare occurrence—much more rare, indeed, than the cure of syphilis in the secondary stage. The usual course is for the patient to present slight but continuous symptoms of syphilitic poisoning in the form of eruptions on the skin, which gradually cease to show the symmetry character- istic of the secondary rashes. The mouth and throat are implicated in the changes, and the lesions no longer show a tendency to run a de- finite course and to disappear, but are rather inclined to become chronic, ulcerate, and even slough. The connective tissues are still most affected, and the stress of the disease generally falls upon one part of the system more than upon another, so that in one person the bones and periosteum are widely and deeply inflamed, in another the viscera, in another the nervous system, and in another the arteries. No reason can be given for these variations in the mani- festation of the syphilitic poison except by saying that the stress of the disease falls upon the least resistant form of connective tissue in each person. Lastly, the iodides administered internally have a greater curative effect than the salts of mercury, though the two metals must often be combined to obtain the best results. Pathology.—The gumma is as characteristic of the tertiary syphilis as the condyloma is of the second stage of the disease. A gumma appears as a new formation varying in size from a grain of wheat to a large tumour. It may be sharply circumscribed, it may be diffuse, or it may present radiating processes. It is always derived from connective tissue, and it consists microscopically of a delicate intercellular stroma tilled with small round cells, and sometimes provided with newly developed blood-vessels. Some of the cells undergo further changes, becoming epithelioid and polynuclear, and though a gumma is very chronic, it sooner or later undergoes disintegration. The cells are subject to fatty degeneration, which causes the gumma to become purulent and discharge its contents externally. An ulcer is then left which heals and leaves a scar. In other cases the cells forming a gumma may disintegrate into a granular mass which is afterwards absorbed, or the cells may increase in size, fuse to form giant cells, which afterwards caseate—the whole gumma being absorbed without leaving any apparent trace, or causing any permanent injury to the physiological function of the organ in which it grew. More usually, however, this disappearance is less complete, for the gumma in its growth destroys the original tissue in which it grew, and when it has been absorbed, its place is taken by cicatricial tissue which may distort the tissue and materially impair its use. Very often, too, the growth of the gumma is associated with a new formation of connective tissue caused by the irritation to which it gives rise. This scar tissue interferes with the nutrition of the cells, which undergo caseation, and at the same time prevents their absorption, so that a hard fibrous nodule or mass is produced which may suppurate if it becomes infected with pyogenic organisms. The central mass of caseating material is then ex- truded, and an ulcer with indurated edges remains. The infectivity of tertiary lesions in syphilis is unknown. It is probable that the secretions containing cells from the earlier tertiary mani- festations are capable of conveying syphilis, whilst those from the latest forms ai-e inert. Vascular System.—The heart, arteries, and veins are all liable to be affected by the syphilitic poison, for both contain abundance of connective tissue. Heart.—Gummata of the heart have been re- peatedly observed, and they attain their largest size in the ventricular septum. Syphilis also