494 SYRINGOMYELIA symptoms suggesting syringomyelia prior to the acute onset. Rapid extension of the lesion through a considerable vertical extent of the spinal cord is suggestive of hsemorrhage into a pre-existing cavity. Morvan's Disease.—No article on syringo- myelia, however brief, would be complete without a reference to the symptom-complex which is known as Morvan's disease. Morvan, a French physician, described in 1883 a group of cases which he had met with in Brittany, the chief symptoms of which were extensive whitlows, analgesia of the upper ex- tremities, atrophy of the arms and hands, pains in the arms, arthropathies, spontaneous frac- tures, etc. At the first glance the resemblance of these symptoms to those of syringomyelia is striking. In the cases described by Morvan, however, the trophic lesion of the fingers occupied such a prominent place in the clinical joicture that many authors, among them Charcot, held that Morvan's disease was a distinct condition ; other observers were of opinion from the first that syringomyelia and Morvan's disease were identi- cal, a view which received support from post- mortem evidence, for it was found that central gliosis and cavity formation were present in both groups of cases. In more than one case of Morvan's disease changes were found in the peripheral nerves, a fact which the supporters of the independent nature of the two diseases were not slow to grasp. Hoffmann, however, who paid particular attention to this question, showed that in some cases which answered to the clinical description of Morvan's disease there were no discoverable peripheral changes ; while he found, on the contrary, that changes in the peripheral nerves were sometimes present in syringomyelia. According to Hoffmann, " Die maladie de Morvan unterscheidet sich also ebensowenig anatomisch von der Syringomyelie wie klinisch " {zur Lehre von der Syringomyelie, s. 58). The opinion that Morvan^s disease is nothing more than a type of syringomyelia is almost universally held by neurologists at the present time. A possible etiological relationship between syringomyelia and leprosy was suggested by Zambaco in 1892. This author di-ew attention to the circumstance that in Brittany, where Morvan's disease was first recognised, leprosy was somewhat prevalent, and pointed out that some cases which had been classed with Morvan's disease were probably examples of the former affection. When it is remembered that in leprosy, muscular atrophy, various kinds of trophic lesions, and even dissociated anaesthesia occur, the possible resemblance will be apparent. That the tivo diseases are quite distinct and depend upon a different pathology appears to have been proved by Laehr, who has devoted much attention to the study of this question. Laehr came to the conclusion, from the ex- amination of a large number of cases of leprosy, that in every case of leprosy changes were present in the peripheral nerves, and that the pathological changes in the spinal cord which occur in leprosy, especially in the posterior roots and posterior columns, could only be regarded as secondary. Central gliosis and cavity forma- tion are not found in leprosy. In a considerable proportion of cases of leprosy the bacillus of that disease is detected in the spinal canal and peripheral nerves, whereas in no case presenting the undoubted characters of syringomyelia or Morvan's disease has it been found. Prognosis.—Syringomyelia is an incurable disease. Its course varies greatly in different cases, and is, as a rule, very chronic. Although showing a tendency to slow progression, inter- missions, with temporary slight improvement, are not uncommon. Occasionally the disease appears to be arrested for long periods of time. I have seen a case, for example, where for thirteen years the patient remained in statu quo, when the symptoms again began to progress. Patients with syringomyelia have been known to live thirty or forty years. Dejerine has even reported the case of a man in whom muscular atrophy commenced fifty years previously. The prognosis is less favourable where the lumbo-sacral region of the cord is involved and bladder symptoms are present, for in these cases there is always a risk of cystitis and subsequent general septic infection. Schlesinger states that in bulbar syringomyelia the prognosis is much more favourable than in other subacute or chronic bulbar lesions; he mentions the case of a man who has had wide- spread bulbar symptoms for twelve years and who still goes about fairly well. Often the symptoms are exaggerated after an infective process, e.g. influenza. Sudden apoplectiform attacks, which have been ascribed to haemor- rhages into the tumour tissue and to variations in the intraspinal pressure, may occur at any time and may prove fatal. Cystitis, general septic infection from a whit- low or other local cause, extension of the process to the medulla, and intercurrent affections, such as phthisis, are the most common causes of death. Treatment.—No treatment is known which influences the progress of the disease. The patient should be advised to avoid over- exertion, more especially of those muscles in which there is commencing atrophy. He should be warned to take the greatest precautions to avoid local injury, for a slight abrasion of the skin may be the starting-point of a trophic sore. If pain is a troublesome feature various anal- gesics may be employed. Other symptoms are to be treated as they arise by appropriate remedies. Occasionally it may be considered advisable to excise a joint: favourable results