286 SPINAL CORD the neurones further than that the white matter ie much more affected than the grey matter. The earUest pathological changes are found in the immediate neighbourhood of the terminal arterioles. Since the axis cylinder suffers last at the site of the lesion, and since secondary degeneration occurs very late, if at all, it is certain that the morbid process must commence either in the medullary sheath, neuroglia, or vessel wall. The evidence is somewhat strongly in favour of the medullary sheath being primarily damaged as the i-esult of some fault (probably toxic) in the blood-supply. Infections.—These diseases are the result of micro-organisms which, gaining access to the spinal cord, usually by the blood-stream, pro- duce focal lesions, in some diseases invariably confined to certain regions of the spinal cord, in others widely diffused or spreading lesions. The morbid process is one of inflammation, and the result local or widely spread necrosis, in some diseases suppurative, in others non-sup- purative. Anterior polio-myelitis is the example in which local non-suppurative necrosis occurs. Acute infective myelitis and acute meningo- myelitis are examples in which diffuse necrosis, ■sometimes of a suppurative nature, occurs. Neio Growths.—Neoplasms may arise in the substance of the spinal cord itself (intra-medul- lary growths) or in connection with the nerve roots and membranes. Intra-meduUary growths are commonly sarcomata, less frequently glio- mata, and rarely tubercular and syphilitic growths. It is very rare for secondary growths to arise from intra-meduUary tumours, and the spinal cord is hardly ever the seat of secondary deposits from malignant growths elsewhere. Extra-medullary growths may be situated within the theca, or may be attached to its outer surface, or may involve its thickness. The commonest form is a benign myxoma; sarcomata occur not rarely. Hypertrophic pachymeningitis is probably a form of new growth peculiar to the theca. It is not of syphilitic origin, and is met with, almost with equal frequency, in the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar regions. Lymphadenoma in this situa- tion is sometimes met with. Localised gummata are not common. Multiple fibromata of the nerve roots are ■occasionally met with, especially in the region of the Cauda equina. Secondary growths are very common as extra- medullary tumours of the spinal cord ; they are usually multiple, and are generally associated with involvement of the vertebrae. Mammary carcinoma is especially prone to affect the spinal meninges. Compression Myelitis.—When gradually in- creasing pressure is exerted upon the spinal cord there ensues a physiological severance of con- tinuity of the paths. The conducting tracts are not simultaneously affected by the pressure. Voluntary motion is the first to be lost, then the muscular sense, next the control of the sphincters after common sensibility (pain first), and, lastly, the muscle tone and knee jerks. In accordance with the degree of pressure and the length of time it has persisted, the effects of the evascularisation which such pres- sure naturally involves become manifest, and a condition of necrosis, generally of a dry variety, ensues. The spinal cord may be subjected to consider- able pressure, and the condition of the part of the body below the lesion may be one of spasticity, with complete motor and sensory palsy for many weeks and even months before irrecoverable structural changes set in. The onset, however, at any period during the com- pression, of flaccidity in the paralysed parts, precedes by a few days only the commencement of ischsemic necrosis. The flaccid paralysis in- dicates total physiological interruption, and the amount of pressure upon the spinal cord neces- sary to produce this effect must prohibit the circulation almost entirely in the compressed region of the cord. The effects of compression merit the term compression myelitis, in that both this condition and acute myelitis ai-e the effects of local ischgemia—the former from pressure, the latter from thrombosis. In neither case, however, is there anything approaching the phenomena of inflammation. "Spin a. I Dog." See Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Mode of Action of the Neural Arcs, " Spinal Dog "). Spindle. See Physiology, Cell (Mitosis, Nucleus). Spine, Surgical Affections of. Injuries .286 Curvature, etc 292 Spinal Caries, etc 298 Other Affections, Lordosis, etc . . 304 Lumbar Puncture 306 Spinal Cocainisation .... 307 Caisson Disease 307 See also Spinal Cord, Medical. Injuries. Contusions and Sprains. . . . 286 Fractures ...... 287 Fracture-Dislocation .... 287 Dislocation ...... 290 Railway Spine or Traumatic Neuroses OP Lumbar Plexus .... 290 Sacral Plexus, etc. .... 292 Contusions of the Spine.—Contusions of the spine and the soft parts of the back merit attention, not so much by reason of the injury I