TETANY 570 a mild form often called carpo-pedal spasm. Several authorities, including Henoch, have sought to draw a distinction between cases of this kind in young children and the true tetany of older subjects ; but there does not appear to be any sufficient reason for doing so. A siibject of great interest is the relationship between tetany and rickets. This association was supported by Cheadle, and recently Kasso- witz has argued with great vigour that tetany, as well as laryngismvis and other nervous affec- tions of young children, are to be regarded as manifestations of rickets. This view has been opposed by Kalischer, Loos, Romme, and others, who assert, on the one hand, that many children who suffer from tetany are not rachitic, and on the othei', that if tetany is a rachitic affec- tion it ought to be much more common than it is. Upon this question it may be said that cases of tetany unconnected with rickets certainly do occur in childhood. These cases closely agree clinically with those met with in adults. They occur in association with the acute infectious fevers, with acute diseases such as pneumonia, with acute dyspepsia, with entozoa, with acute, and much more frequently with chronic diar- rhoea. The symptoms may be slight, but are often severe. The onset of tetany in the course of measles or of some other general disease appears to have a grave prognostic significance. A much larger group includes the ordinary cases of carpo-pedal spasm. This variety of tetany is met with chiefly in children younger than those just referred to, the majority of cases occurring in children in their second year. These cases are visually very mild; the spasm is usually confined to the extremities ; as a rule it is continuous, or if paroxysms occur they are very slight. Facial irritability is almost always well marked. Trousseau's sign is often absent or difficult to obtain. Diarrhoea is present in a large proportion of the cases. The occurrence of general convulsions is an important compli- cation which may siipervene at any time during an attack. The general opinion in this country would agree with Kassowitz in regarding these cases as rachitic. As to the statements of some continental physicians that a considerable proportion of children suffering from tetany present no evi- dence of rickets, so far as such observations are not to be explained by the inclusion of a con- siderable proportion of cases belonging to the first series, we can only say that in the early stages of rickets the symptoms are often not very definite, and even good observers may disagree as to whether a child is to be called rachitic or not. The comparative frequency of laryngismus in children suffering from tetany is a feature of much interest. Some observers state that it is present in one-third of the cases. This has led Escherich to go so far as to maintain that laryn- gismus is a pathognomonic sign of tetany even when the characteristic spasms are absent (latent tetany). Martin and other recent French writers have described as tetany certain cases of isolated spasms in different parts of the body {les formes frustes). These are alluded to in the section on Diagnosis. Morbid Anatomy.—As the mortality in tetany is very low the number of post-mortem exam- inations has been small. In those which have been made, changes in the nervous system have been slight or absent. Necropsies on children have been made by Tonnelle, de la Berge, Abercrombie, Baginsky, Berger, and others. In some cases nothing abnormal was discovered. In others there was an excess of serum in the subarachnoid space or in the ventricles, hyperaemia of the pia, and areas of hypereemia and oedema in the brain and spinal cord. Schultze found slight sclerosis in the cervical region of the cord on microscopic exam- ination in the case of a child of eleven months, in which the nervous system appeared normal to the naked eye. In another child which he examined there were no microscopic changes. Evidence of myelitis has been found in the cervical and lumbar enlargements of the cord in two children examined by Bonome and Cervesato. The principal alterations were found in the grey matter, and included degenerative changes in the nerve cells, especially those of the internal group of the anterior horn. Some redness of the sheaths of the peripheral nerves has been noted in a few cases, but this may not have meant very much. Berger found nothing abnormal in the nerves on microscopic examination. Weigert, Loos, and Oddo have also failed to find changes in the nerves. Observations made upon adults give practi- cally the same results as those upon children. Trousseau describes, in the case of a young man, slight softening of the spinal cord, which he regarded, not as the cause, but as an effect of the disease. Langerhans found slight thickening of the small vessels—just such changes as might be expected in an elderly patient, and his patient was forty-eight. Very few cases have been examined in which the disease was of great duration. Imbert-Gourbeyre examined the body of a tailor, twenty-one years of age, who had been subject to tetany for six years. Injection of the surface of the brain with slight ecchymosis was present, and there were also slight changes in the spinal cord, especially in the cervical and lumbar enlargements. Death in this case was due to smallpox. In cases of tetany due to extirpation of the thyroid the nervous system has been found normal, or any changes present have been slight and indefinite. Similar negative results have been obtained in the case of animals suffering