557 TERATOLOGY intra-uterine life is due to the communication existing between their umbilical vessels and those of the normal twin. The theories which have been advanced to explain their origin are not satisfactory. The more generally accepted view is that of Claudius as modified by Ahlfeld, according to which the twins are unioviilar, and one gets the start of the other in development, and preoccupies all the available chorionic space with its vessels, so that no room is left for the vessels of the second, which in conseqvience becomes a parasite on the first, and has its em- bryogenetic processes much retarded. Another theory is that there is a primary defect of development of one of the twins, so great that if it were not for the fact that it establishes a con- nection with the placenta of its co-twin, it would never be able to develop even so far as it does. The writer inclines to the second view. There seems to be no doubt that the circulation is reversed in the malformed twin, and that the heart of the normal foetus usually does double duty in driving the blood through both twins. United Twins or Double Monsters.—Most of the polysomatous terata belong to this group. Some of them are quite evidently double, two complete foetuses being united together by a more or less broad band of connection ; in others the duplicity apparently affects only a part of monstrosity, as in the cases of a single head and two bodies, or a single body and two heads : in both these groups of terata the union is practi- cally symmetrical. In another variety, however, the union is asymmetrical, there being one fairly well-formed twin with a more or less rudimentary one attached to its body or embedded in its sub- stance : the former foetus is called the autosite, and the latter the parasite. Syncephalic Double Terata.—The first group of the symmetrically united twins contains those in which the cephalic ends are more or less closely joined, while the bodies are more or less separate. There are, for instance, the cases in w^hich two well-formed twins are joined by their crania (craniopagus); sometimes the union is in the region of the vertex, sometimes in that of the forehead, and sometimes in that of the occiput. The general rule is followed, that like parts are joined to like. The union in such cases is sometimes relatively superficial : the cranial vault-bones may be fused, but the brains are usually separate. Again, there are the cases of syncephalus, in which the two heads are more or less intimately fused together, and in which there may be two complete faces or two incom- plete faces (two mouths, two noses, three orbits, and two ears). To these the name of Janus mon- strosity is not uncommonly given, for a reason which is evident. The thoraces may be also more or less fused together. When there are two complete faces, each face may represent, not that of one twin, but the halves of the two belonging to the two twins, which are so perfectly joined as to show no sign of original separation. Yet again, there are those syncephalic double monsters in which the fusion of the heads and bodies is so complete that only in the pelvic organs and lower limbs is duplicity evident (syncephalus dilecanus) : these are very rare in the human subject, being represented chiefly by the cases of diphallus (double penis). Dicephalic Double Terata.—In the second group of the symmetrically united twins the union chiefly involves the pelvic ends of the foetuses. Here also there are different grades of union. There are, for instance, the cases in which the pelves are closely joined and the four lower limbs retained (pygopagus and ischio- pagus); there are those in which not only the pelves, but also parts of the trunks, are united with four, three, or two lower limbs, and four, three, or two upper limbs ; and there are those in which there is such a degree of fusion that only the heads and sometimes also the necks show duplicity, the body and limbs being those apparently of one fcetiis. Tho^-acopagous Double Terata.—To this section belong some of the best-known examples of united twins, such as the Siamese twin-brothers, the sisters Radica-Doodica (operated on by Doyen), and the sisters Maria-Rosalina of Brazil (operated on by Chapot-Prevost). The union is by means of a more or less extensive part of the anterior aspect of the thoraces and abdomens. The name xiphopagus may be reserved for those which are joined by the epigastric region and by the lower end of the sternums, while that of sternopagus may be given to those in which the whole of the sternal and epigastric areas are fused. In the latter group it would seem that one of the twins always shows in- version of the viscera, and that sometimes the two hearts are separate and sometimes more or less closely united. In both groups it is common to find a prolongation of the peritoneal sacs, and sometimes a band of liver tissue in the structure connecting the two twins. The stomach and part of the intestinal canal may be single, but often the alimentary tract is double throughout. There is usually a single umbilical cord. In a rare type of sternopagus the union is more marked, with the result that the two contiguous arms are fused into one limb, which may show signs of its double origin {e.g. two hands or more than five fingers); when this is so the single median limb springs from the posterior aspect of the united thoraces. In a still rarer type the two contiguous limbs may be entirely aborted and the monstrosity be provided only with two upper extremities. Many interesting physiological observations have been made on united twins of the thoraco- pagous type, for in not a few cases these children have survived birth; it has been generally found that while they show a very considerable simi- larity in tastes, feelings, etc., their chief bodily