61 SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL CHILDREN, MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF later by the Board of Education. As at Nuremberg, so at London, great masses of material bearing on medical inspection were produced, and will be made available in the Report of the Congress. The third Congress meets in Paris in 1910. These facts show that the medical inspection of school children is no isolated phenomenon. It is part of a world movement towards personal hygiene. Hitherto, the energies of the Public Health movement have been mainly exercised in securing a good environment. The new public health departure of the Twentieth Century is the effort to increase the capacity and fitness of the organism. The fundamental proposition of this movement is that the early nurture of the child is a primary factor in the development of the adult. Incidentally, the school child is selected for detailed examination because the schools are public institutions, great masses of children are easily found there, and it is on every hand recognised that educa- tion, either physical or mental, cannot produce effective results where the children suffer from disease or physical defects. Hitherto it has been assvimed that the children are normal; this assumption has been displaced by masses of facts to the contrary. And, practically within three years, the public mind of Great Britain has been won over to the view that medical inspection of school children at the public cost is a necessity of our present social condition. 2. The Scope and Nature of Medical Inspection.—The work that falls to a medical inspector of schools will best be understood from a concrete case. The following is a summary of the duties required of school doctors in the town of Wiesbaden. The school doctor exercises a general super- vision over the pupils, the school-rooms, sanitary appliances, bathing installations, and all other conditions affecting the health of the children. He must make a systematic examination of all pupils on admission, recording the results in a schedule. He must mark off those that require special medical supervision during their school course, all those to be exempted from gymnastics or any special class, all those that are not equal to the full course of instruction, all those requiring special positions on account of de- fective eyesight or defective hearing. The schedule containing these details accompanies the child all through his school course ; it is handed from teacher to teacher as the child passes from class to class, and if the child is transferred to another school, he takes the schedule among his papers. The doctor, under the heading " General Constitution," must state for each child whether the constitution is good, medium, or bad. The term " good" is to be used only where the health is perfect, and "bad " only in pronounced cases of illness or chronic ailments. The pupils are weighed and measured by the teachers, and the results are also recorded on the schedule every half-year. The height is taken to the half centimetre and the weight to the quarter of a kilogram. The chest measurement is made by the doctor, but only in children suspected of lung diseases. Every fortnight, and oftener if there is infectious disease, the school doctor visits the school. Usually a room is placed at his dis- posal in the school. He consults with the head master; he visits the class where any case has been set aside for his inspection ; he spends part of the time observing the conditions of the class; he examines systematically any cases brought before him, and he records his observations and instructions. Each class must, if possible, be visited twice during the half-year. This examination of the class is very brief. Usually the teachers prepare a list of the cases. The doctor, at those visits, makes a rapid inspection of the ventilation, the heating, the deportment of the children, etc. The particular class teacher must be present at the medical examination. Medical treatment of the children is no part of the school doctor's duties. Children requiring treatment are, through the headmaster, recom- mended to the family physician or to the Poor Law doctor or any available dispensary or clinic. With the older children, such recom- mendations are given by word of mouth, but in many cases a written recommendation is sent to the parent. Where no result follows the verbal recommendation, a special report form is filled up. But this is done only where the illnesses are serious. The head master is responsible for sending this report to the parent. Where no other sufficient medical certificate is forthcoming, the school doctor must, at the instance of the head master, visit the homes in order to ascertain whether absence from school is justified. Twice a year—once in summer and once in winter—the school doctor must examine the school premises and installations. His observa- tions must be recorded in a register kept for the purpose. If any defects found are not remedied, he reports the matter to the School Hygiene Committee. In special cases, he may give notice to the school inspector and to the Medical Ofiicer of Health of the district. In winter, the school doctor gives to the teacher short expositions on the most important questions of school hygiene. Each year he prepares a report to the educa- tional authority (the municipality). This re- port includes (1) a tabular, numerical statement of the results of the admission examinations; (2) the number of medical visits to the classes; (3) the number and kind of the more important cases of illness discovered at those visits; (4)