532 TEETH removed. The third molar assumes various irregular positions : its crown may be projected against the root of the second molar, and cause caries or absorption of it, or it may incline backwards, outwards, or inwards. Abnormalities of the Jaws and Teeth. 1. V- shaped Maxilla.—In this deformity the arch is very much narrowed by the approximation of the bicuspids towards the middle line. In some cases the two centrals meet at an acute angle and project very much. The condition is fre- quently an hereditary one, though in some cases the presence of adenoids or enlarged tonsils may aid indirectly in producing this deformity. Some authorities have also asserted that congenital idiocy is frequently associated with it. Treatment.—If an inherited condition, treat- ment is very often unsatisfactory, as the teeth have a tendency to return to their original positions. The usual method is to make a split vulcanite plate, on which is fixed a jack-screw capable of being tightened up, and acting on the alveolus and teeth on either side in the neighbourhood of the bicuspids. Or a split plate with piano-wire spring may be employed. Underhung Bite.—In this irregularity the four or six front teeth of the maxilla bite at the back of those of the mandible, giving the mandible a very prominent appearance. To correct this irregularity the bite is raised by capping the posterior teeth, and the teeth affected are forced outwards gradually by means of screws, piano-wire springs, or hickory wedges, till they overlap the lower teeth, when the plate can be removed. Open Bite.—This is a very disfiguring de- formity, in which the upper and lower teeth are separated from one another by a wide space, the only teeth touching being the bicuspids or molars. A large number of those cases are due to thumb or finger sucking, which is sometimes continued well into adult life. The alveolar process of maxilla and teeth are gradually forced upwards and outwards by the persistent pressure, and the mandibular teeth are forced downwards and outwards from the same cause. Other causes are tongue-sucking, the persistent use of artificial teats, arrest in development of the anterior segments of the maxilla, or defective development of the ascending ramus of the mandible. Treatment consists in grinding down the antagonising teeth so as to allow the jaws to approximate, or the extraction of the first molar teeth, and the use of a chin and skull cap for six or eight months may lead to some improvement. Dental Necrosis A pulpless tooth still has a certain amount of vitality through the nerves and blood-vessels of peridental membrane which supply the cementum and probably a layer of the dentine also. Partial necrosis is the proper term to apply to such a tooth. When the peridental membrane as well as the pulp is destroyed (complete necrosis), the tooth becomes loose, and is speedily cast out as a foreign body. Partially necrosed teeth last wonderfully well, but are more prone to caries owing to the loss of vitality. One root of a multiple-rooted tooth may become necrosed, and is liable to be very troublesome. Heat and cold affect it, likewise pressure, the cause of the latter being the irritation produced on the soft tissues at root apex by the roughness or sharpness of root caused by absorption. Discoloration of necrosed teeth is common. A pinkish or dark grey hue is commonly produced. Necrosed teeth some- times cause severe inflammation and neci'osis of a portion of alveolus. Treatment.—In partial necrosis of a multi- rooted tooth, amputation of aff'ected root is re- commended, or extraction of tooth. When the crown of any of the anterior teeth is discoloured as a result of caries and partial necrosis, it is advisable to bleach it. The carious tissue is removed, the pulp canal antiseptically treated and filled. The cavity should then be wiped out with absolute alcohol, and hot air applied, then washed out with dilute ammonia, dried with hot air, and a piece of cotton-wool saturated with HflOo or pyrozone inserted, and hot air applied to this. This treatment, applied every three days or so, three or four times, has a wonderful effect in restoring the colour of badly discoloured teeth. Electric cataphoresis with pyrozone is, however, more speedy in its action than the above. In cases of total necrosis it is better to remove the tooth at once. Abrasion and Erosion In certain conditions of the bite, notably that of edge to edge, the teeth get rapidly worn down till near the gum margin, leaving a smooth and polished surface. As the process advances the pulp is encroached upon, and frequently the teeth get very painful, though more commonly the pulp calcifies in advance of the wear. In countries where little pains are taken in preparing their flour, which conse- quently contains sand, the teeth are rapidly worn down from this cause till there is nothing left but roots. Erosion may be described as a gradual de- struction of the labial portion of a tooth, occur- ring as a transverse, smooth, open groove at the neck of the tooth, more especially of the incisors, canines, and premolars, and gradually progressing till the tooth is broken across. Erosion is a condition little understood, though recognised by some of the old writers—Fox, Hunter, etc.—many years ago. Various theories have been adduced to account for it. It has been attributed to friction of the lips, excessive