137 SEWAGE AND DRAINAGE Now, however, in the majority of cases, there is no need to incur this large expense, as the first as well as the last stage in the treat- ment can be effected by one or other of the bacterial methods set forth in the table. Cameron's Septic Tank.—This is a tank of sufficient capacity to hold from one to one-and- a-half day's sewage flow. The sewage, after straining and subsidence of the detritus, enters the tank a little below the level at which it stands in it, the overflow being similarly arranged; the object being to cause as little disturbance of the surface as possible, and thus allow of the formation of a thick scum which gradually becomes more or less solidified, until a comparatively firm permanent covering forms all over, thus excluding light and checking loss of heat. Under such conditions the anaerobic organisms multiply with enormous rapidity, and, the putrefactive process being correspond- ingly hastened, in the course of from twenty- four to thirty-six hours the solid organic matter is digested and liquefied, the nitrogenous portion being converted chiefly into ammonia, the carbonaceous into carbonic acid, and nitrogen, hydrogen, and other gases are evolved. The sludge difficulty, therefore, has been overcome, and the organic matter has been so altered in character as to allow of its being more readily dealt with by the aerobic organisms in the second or purifying stage proper. Tn Scoit-Moncrieff's upivard-Jlotu cultivation tank the sewage enters at the bottom, and, passing through large stones or flints with which the tank is filled, it discharges at the top, the theory being that the liquefying pro- cess is rendered more rapid and complete be- cause the stones form a breeding-ground for the bacteria, which are thus brought into more intimate contact with the sewage as it slowly passes upwards. Experience seems to show, however, that the results obtained by either form of tank are practically identical. Large grain filters, or, more correctly speaking, percolation beds, will accomplish the same objects, and it is likely that the process in this case is aerobic as well as anaerobic. The tank is filled with particles of some hard, non-friable material, and the sewage enters at the top and discharges at the bottom, an arrangement which, of course, involves loss of fall. There are two methods of working such a tank—it may be used as a filter (percolation bed), or what is known as a "contact" bed. In the former case the sewage is distributed over the surface and passes downwards in a continuous stream through the bed, whereas in the contact method the bed is rapidly filled, the outlet being closed, and the sewage is allowed to remain stationary in contact with the particles for, say, two hours, at the end of which time the outlet is opened and the sewage is rapidly discharged, the bed being allowed to remain empty for a like period. Various efficient means are available for the filling and emptying of the beds automatically. With regard to the comparative merits of the above methods, all may be considered satis- factory ; but, if the available fall is sufficient, probably the large grain filters worked on the percolation principle are the most satisfactory. As regards the final or wholly aerobic stage of the treatment, in which the unstable pro- ducts of the first stage are converted into more stable non-putrefactive inorganic salts, if suitable land is available and can be procured at a reasonable cost, there need be no difficulty, and the method which will yield the best results is intermittent doivnward filtration, the beds being thoroughly drained at a depth of at least five feet, and the liquefied or precipitated sewage being discharged over the surface by the ridge and furrow method. Unless the land is thoroughly satisfactory, however, it is pure waste of money to attempt to make it so, as the same result may be achieved by means of fine grain filters. As in the case of the large grain beds used in the first stage, these may be worked on the " contact" method or as percolation beds, but as thorough aeration is the all-important object in the second stage there is no question what- ever that percolation is superior to "contact." It is difficult, however, to devise means of dis- tributing the sewage finely and uniformly over a large surface of filter, consequently the un- scientific " contact" method is at present most in favour. No doubt this difficulty of obtaining uniform distribution will ultimately be overcome, and in that event the contact method will unquestionably become a thing of the past. Had the " contact" method not been introduced, the probability is that the difficulty of distri- bution would have been solved ere now; but with such a simple though less efficient alter- native available, engineers have, unfortunately, shown little desire to solve the difficulty. By a combination of the biological methods described it is now a comparatively simple matter to devise a plant for disposing of the sewage of individual houses or groups of houses in rural districts, and in such cases the perco- lation method of working the beds is easily provided for by a system of trough distributors. Sewer-g^£lS.—-A mixture of noxious gases (ammonia and nitrogen or other forms, chlorine, etc.) generated in drains, and capable of setting up various maladies, such as tonsillitis (sewer- gas throat) and pneumonia (sewer-gas pneu- monia). See Air, Examination of {Sewer Air); Sewage and Drainage; Tonsils, Diseases of {Acute Tonsillitis, Causes); Typhoid Fever {Etiology). Sex.—The distinction between male (for- merly called sexusfortior or potior) and female