371 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF cannot be looked for when the catarrh is the con- sequence of a chronic congestion from portal obstruction, or is the accompaniment of dilata- tion or cancer of the stomach, and palliative measures alone are possible. The indications for treatment are threefold— to do what is possible to restore the damaged mucosa, to make up for the deficiencies in the digestive process, and to treat the symptoms to which these conditions give rise. Working as they do in a vicious circle, relief at any point contributes to the general improvement. If complete rest could be given to the stomach, the chance of its self-restoi-ation to a normal state would doubtless be much advanced, but this is of course impossible, as the patient must be fed, and in such cases the demand for nourishment is often especially great. General tonics, change of air, and treatment at chaly- beate or other spas, e.g. Harrogate, Homburg, Ems, Vichy, etc., where the dietetic require- ments are enforced, are called for in severe and long-standing cases. Bismuth and nitrate of silver are the drugs that probably exert the most directly beneficial effect on the mucosa, and it is said that their efficacy is increased by their intra-gastric application in the form of spray. Karlsbad salts are a beneficial adjunct to any treatment that is adopted. Digestive deficiencies may be in great measure remedied by regulation of the diet, etc., since in chronic catarrh the active agents of the gastric juice are commonly diminished in quantity, and by the administration of hydrochloric acid and pepsin with vegetable bitters. The general principles that should be observed in this respect (and further detail is impossible in the space available) have already been set out in the preceding section, and the same may be said as regards the lines of treatment for the individual symptoms of the resulting dyspepsia, which are in the main alike, whether the under- lying cause be a structural change (chronic catarrh) in the mucosa, or a perverted nervous control of the motor secretory and sensory functions of the stomach. Special Symptomatology and Treatment of Ulcer of the Stomach The symptoms of a typical case of gastric ulcer are few in number and precise in char- acter, presenting a clinical picture concerning the nature of which there can be little mistake. But in the consideration of all cases which may fairly and properly be comprised within this categoi-y, very considerable exceptions have to be made, and no one of the symptoms, even of those most definite, is of invariable occurrence. Severe epigastric pain, much intensified, or called forth by food and unrelieved until the stomach be emptied of its contents by vomiting or by propulsion through the pylorus, with a more or less profuse hsematemesis, occurring in a young person, especially a female, constitute the leading features upon which a diagnosis would be made without much hesitation. There exist, however, great differences in the general condition of the individuals in whom such symp- toms may occur, in the subsequent course and complications which may arise, and, so far as is known, in the character of the gastric lesion ; so much so, that whilst closely corresponding in the essential manifestations, patients suffer- ing from what is with good reason recognised as ulcer of the stomach nevertheless are widely contrasted in the entire clinical characters of their disease. Hence it will be convenient first to refer seriatim to the several symptoms in detail, and subsequently to descinbe the general course of the main types of the malady. Pain.—Of the three leading symptoms—pain, vomiting, and hsematemesis—pain is the most constant, and in cases of extremely rapid course which terminate by perforation it may be the only symptom, to be followed at once by col- lapse and other evidences of peritoneal involve- ment. Sometimes the pain is almost or quite continuous, and sufliciently intense to interfere with sleep, but far more often there are periods of relief, a paroxysm being excited by the food that is swallowed, setting in within a few minutes to half an hour or more afterwards. Some attempts have been made to locate the situation of the lesion by the time that elapses between the taking of food and the onset of pain, the longer the period the nearer to the pylorus; but since the pain is often partly of neuralgic nature, being induced by other condi- tions, such as exposure to cold, excitement, exei'tion, or even by menstruation, the result is not altogether satisfactory. The character of the pain is variously described as burning, boring and shooting through to the back, some- times so severe as to cause fainting, and tending to become more intense as the case progresses. As a rule, it is strictly localised, and the patient points to a spot just below the ensiform carti- lage, sometimes as well, or it may be only, at a spot in the back immediately to the left of the tenth or eleventh dorsal vertebra. Occasionally the pain radiates from the epigastric region, or, like so many pains of gastro-intestinal origin, may be felt about the umbilicus, or be referred to a higher point along the spine between the sixth and eighth dorsal vertebrae, or even to either shoulder or arm, or along the intercostal spaces. How far these variable situations are connected with the actual site of the ulcer is uncertain, although some indication of this may sometimes be obtained by noting variations in the degree of pain that follows alterations in the position of the patient; thus when relief suc- ceeds to lying on the face, the ulcer may be on the posterior wall, or at the cardiac end when the right decubitus is assumed. Pressure over the epigastrium almost always increases the