TERATOLOGY 560 the unborn child can be prevented the mal- formations and anomalies produced by them will be eliminated. The most hopeful line of possible advance in this matter will be that of treating syphilis and alcoholism in the parents before and during the progress of gestation ; the shielding of pregnant women from infection of all kinds will also be a logical procedure. Surgical Management.—The management of malformations and monstrosities after birth in the infants which survive their advent in extra- uterine surroundings has, of course, always en- gaged the attention of the medical man, and more especially of the surgeon. It is unnecessary in this article to describe the various operative procedures which have been devised to remedy in the most effective manner such anomalies as hare-lip, cleft palate, exstrophy of the bladder, exomphalos, encephalocele, and defective states of the limbs, for these have been dealt with by competent surgical writers, but a few lines may be devoted to the question of the propriety of operating upon united twins, a matter which has quite recentlycome somewhat prominently before the medical world. Attempts to separate united twins are not altogether novelties in surgical pro- cedure. As long ago as 1690 Koenig reported a case in which the connecting band (which con- tained no liver tissue) between the twins was divided, and both children survived ; in a similar case operated on by Boehm (1860) one child only lived. In the instance described by Biaudet and Bugnion (1881) there was a bridge of hepatic tissue, and both twins died from hiemor- rhage from the liver and sepsis. Until the be- ginning of the present century it cannot be said that the new resources of surgery (asepsis and perfected htemostasis) had ever been brought into operation to enable the surgeon to overcome the undoubted difficulties and dangers of the dis- junction of double monsters. Now, however, that these means are in our hands, and that Chapot-Pr^vost and Doyen have led the way, it will be necessary for us to revise our ideas of the feasibility of operating upon such united children, and to formulate the indications for surgical interference. There are some cases in which the fusion of the two organisms is so intimate as to preclude any hope of successful separation, e.g. all the syncephalic types except perhaps some of the craniopagous twins, and most of the dicephalic with the exception of some of the pygopagous varieties ; on the other hand, there seems no reason why attempts to separate most of the thoracopagous double terata should not be hopefully entertained. The cases operated on by Chapot-Prevost and Doyen were both of the last-named kind. In 1900 Chapot-Pr^vost of Brazil separated Maria- Rosalina, then at the age of seven years: he devised a special form of operating-table, which could be divided into two halves after the separation of the twins was effected, and a special means of arresting haemorrhage from the liver, for a bridge of liver tissue was known to exist; one twin (Rosalina) survived, the other (Maria) died about a week after the operation from pleuro-pericarditis. Rosalina, it may be noted, showed transposition of the viscera (dextro-cardia). Doyen operated upon Radica-Doodica, because the Doodica had shown symptoms of abdominal tuberculosis; Radica survived. It is therefore evident that the technical difficulties of separating united twins can sometimes be overcome; but it cannot be said that surgeons have yet agreed as to the proper cases upon which to operate or as to the best means and methods to employ. Tercltoma,!—A congenital tumour con- taining tissues belonging to different layers of the blastoderm, e.g. teeth, hair, bone, nerve tissue, etc., and occurring in a position where these structures do not normally occur, e.g. a dermoid tumour in an ovary. See Liveb, Dis- eases OF {Lipovia and Teratoma). TeratOSCOpy.—The foretelling of the future by means of a consideration of the char- acters of malformed and monstrous infants. Terebenum.—Terebene is a mixture of hydrocarbons obtained from the oil of turpentine; it has the odour of pine-wood, and, given in- ternally in doses of 5 to 15 m. (on sugar), is used as an expectorant in chronic bronchitis ; it may also be inhaled. See Expectorants. Terebinthina Canadensis.— Canada balsam is the oleo-resin of Abies balsamea; on account of its property of drying to form a transparent varnish it is used in the preparation of collodium flexile (q.v.). TerebinthinseOleum. xS'eeTurpen- tine. Teres.—Round ; used especially as a term, in descriptive Anatomy, for rounded muscles and ligaments (e.g. the teres major muscle and the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint or of the uterus). Ter penes. — Hydrocarbons with the chemical formula CjoHj,,. See Turpentine. Terperoin.—A combination of terpene hydrate (| gr.) and heroine hydrochloride (gV S^-) made up with syrup of pine or glycerine base (Squire), and recommended in chronic bronchitis with much cough, in asthma, emphysema, etc. Terpinol.—An oleaginous liquid, soluble in alcohol, recommended as a stimulating ex- pectorant in doses of 3 to 10 minims. Terrors. See Night Terrors (Pavor Nocturnus) and Cross References. Tertian.—A term used in describingafever