SYPHILIS 482 Syphilis in Children A child may be born syphilitic because the disease was transmitted to it at the time of its conception, or because the mother was infected during the earlier months of her pregnancy. It may acquire syphilis at the time of its birth by passing along a recently infected puerperal tract, or it may become infected from extrinsic sources either shortly or at a more remote period after its birth. Hereditary syphilis, as its name implies, is derived from infection transmitted to the child from its father, its mother, or from both parents. It differs in many respects from acquired syphilis, and from a practical standpoint chiefly in the lesser power of transmitting the disease. In syphilis acquired at or shortly after birth it may be possible to obtain evidence of the seat of inoculation, but whether such evidence is or is not forthcoming the child is capable of trans- mitting the disease in the same way and by the same means (p. 459) as an infected adult. Much interest has been aroused as to the means by which syphilis is transmitted heredi- tarily, but there seems to be no reasonable doubt that the semen of a man affected with syphilis in its earlier stages is capable of trans- mitting the disease to a healthy ovum at the time of fertilisation without infecting the woman who produces the ovum: conversely, a woman suffering from syphilis in its early stages will produce an infected ovum which may be fer- tilised by a man who is himself free from syphilis. In either case the product of con- ception may be syphilitic. But it is not neces- sarily syphilitic in the ordinary acceptation of the term, for clinical evidence shows that healthy children are sometimes born when one or other of the parents is suffering from syphilis in its active stage. These children are to a certain extent immune to syphilis, the im- munity being conferred by the mother and not by the father. This fact was elicited by Guiseppe Profeta, and is now known as Pi-ofeta's law. He stated in 1865 that a healthy child born of a syphilitic mother could be suckled by her or by a syphilitic wet nurse with impunity. The immunity of such children is only tem- porary, however, and they may acquire syphilis later in life, and may then suffer as severely as those who have not been protected. In like manner a syphilitic child born of a mother •who has shown no signs of syphilis will not infect its mother though it may transmit syphilis to other persons. This fact, known as Colles' or Beamnes' law, was recognised by Abraham Colles in 1837, who made the follow- ing statement:—"I have never seen or heard of a single instance in which a syphilitic infant (although its mouth be ulcerated) suckled by its own mother had produced ulceration of her breasts; whereas very few instances have occurred where a syphilitic infant had not in- fected a hired wet nurse, and who had pre- viously been in good health." Both Profeta's and Colles' laws are somewhat too absolute, for, like all generalisations in pathology, exceptions have been observed from time to time. There is no definite limit to the time when a parent is able to transmit syphilis to the child. It is usually said that five years after infection a father is unlikely to propagate syphilis, and that he is less likely to do so if he has under- gone a mercurial course than if he has remained untreated. But cases are recorded where a syphilitic child has been born as long as twenty years after the father's inoculation, and it is notorious that syphilitic children may be born in spite of all treatment of the parents. It is advisable, therefore, to dissuade a man from marrying until the expiration of five years after infection, but as this advice will only rarely be taken, the general rule is to forbid a patient to marry until he has been free from any mani- festation of active syphilis for at least three months. He should have been thoroughly treated with mercury (p. 468), and from the time of her marriage his wife should also be put upon a mercurial course. Abortion or intrauterine death occurs in a considerable number of cases of inherited syphilis, and more often when the mother or both parents are affected than when the father alone transmits the disease. Abortion usually occurs about the sixth month, and somewhat later in each succeeding pregnancy in a woman who is well treated, both therapeutically and hygienically, until, in due course, a living and healthy child may be born. An examination of the still-born children will always demonstrate the presence of syphilitic lesions in the skin, viscera, bones, or nervous system. The foetus is often macerated, the spleen and liver are enlarged, the intestines may be matted together by the products of an intrauterine peritonitis, and the bones may show evidence of epiphyseal inflammations. Early Signs and Symptoms.—Children born alive with symptoms of inherited syphilis are often the subjects of gastro-enteritis, and from the beginning are but too often the " wasters " who are such familiar objects in the wards and out-patient rooms of every children's hospital. Such children show in a more advanced con- dition the various signs of syphilis found in the still-born infant. More often, however, a syphilitic child is well nourished at birth, and may remain in apparent health for a period of three weeks to two months, though examination of the spleen will usually show some enlarge- ment. The baby then begins to pine until it may be so emaciated that the skin becomes loose and shrivelled, and it looks like a wizened old person. These children were some of the " changelings " of whom our folk tales are so