89 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE Dislocation of the testis, as distinguished from congenital displacement, is in rare instances produced by traumatic or other injury, the organ being forced from its proper site into the perineum, the femoral, or the inguinal regions. In traumatic displacement immediate reduc- tion must be effected, by manipulation if pos- sible, and this failing an open operation must be made. If reduction cannot be accomplished, castration is probably the best procedure to adopt. Torsion, or Axial Rotation of the Sper- matic Cord.—This is a remarkable accident, in which the testis becomes strangulated owing to twisting of the spermatic cord and consequent chokage of the spermatic blood-vessels. It may occur in a testis lying normally in the scrotum, but is more often seen in an undescended or partially descended organ. It is met with at all ages, but is most common in young adults, and can only occur when the testicle is freely suspended in the tunica vaginalis. The sper- matic cord becomes twisted upon its axis, usu- ally in a Ifevo-rotatory direction, and gorged with blood. The testis or epididymis, or both, may be acutely inflamed or even gangrenous, and atrophy may follow. The symptoms are like those of strangulated hernia or inflammation of the testis and epididymis, for either of which the condition has usually been mistaken : a painful swelling suddenly appears in the groin or scrotum, dull on percussion, tense, tender, irreducible, and without impulse. Pyrexia is usually present, and sickness is a constant symptom. Morris says a diagnosis can be made by (1) the empty condition of the inguinal canal; (2) the unobscured cord ; (3) the imperfectly de- scended testis ; (4) the absence of the testis on one side of the scrotum ; (5) by the epi- didymis being in front of the testis ; and (6) by the existence of a lump or knot on the cord with swelling between the knot and the testis, and the natural state of the vas deferens above the knot. Treatment.—The only effective treatment is by early operation; the cord being untwisted if the testes appear to be in a recoverable con- dition. A retained testis, or one which is much swollen and discoloured, is best removed. HiEMATOCBLE IN THE SCROTUM. This COnsists in an eff'usion of blood into a pre-existing cavity, either the cavity of the tunica vaginalis or into a cyst of the cord. By far the larger number are into the tunica. Extravasation of blood into the connective tissue of the spermatic cord or scrotum, or into the substance of the testis, are simple hsematomas, and differ in no way from similar eff"usions in other parts of the body. HcBmatocele of the Tunica Vaginalis.—Spon- taneous heemorrhages into the tunica vaginalis are occasionally seen, but as a rule such eff"usions are traumatic, and are the result of contusions or of punctured wounds. They most often occur after tapping a hydrocele, and may be occasioned by the puncture of a vessel in the scrotal wall, the epididymis, or the testicle. The nature of the accident may sometimes be recognised by the escape of blood which takes place from the cannula in the withdrawal of the trocar; but more often no outward symptom is noticed at the time, the side of the scrotum which corresponded to the hydrocele being found to become larger within an interval which may range from hours to days according to the rate at which the blood escapes. Bleeding may occasionally follow from weakened and varicose vessels of the tunica vaginalis in the withdrawal of the fluid which had given these weakened vessels support. Vaginal hBematocele is oc- casionally seen where no hydrocele has been present. Pathological changes in hsematoceles vary with the age of the eff'usion. In old cases the sac is greatly thickened, partly by layers of fibrinous membrane or connective tissue, and partly by sclerosis of its own structure. Both the false membrane and the closed sac may be in places cartilaginous or calcareous. The tissues outside the sac are thickened; and the testis, usually healthy, sometimes atrophied and occasionally scarcely recognisable, lies usually at the posterior and lower part of the hfematocele. The contents of an old hfematocele are chiefly solid, and consist either of dirty brown coloured clot, laminated as in an aneurysm, or of soft clot devoid of lamination. The fluid blood, if any be present, will be thick, dark, and treacly. In more recent cases cholesterine may be found, the sac is much less changed, and the fibrinous laminse are but feebly adherent; the contents are a mixture of deep red fluid blood and dark blood-clot partly adherent to the walls. Symptoms.—The formation of a globular or pyriform heavy, opaque swelling in the scrotum, either rapidly or insidiously, after a contusion or puncture, with much ecchymosis of the skin and an absence of acute inflammatory signs, is easy to understand. The tumour is elastic or doughy, not very tender on handling ; pain is dull and aching. Testicular sensation is at first unaffected, and may be found behind the tumour. Acute htematoceles have to be diagnosed from hernia, hydrocele, and orchitis ; and old hsemato- celes from malignant growths. As a rule the diagnosis can be made, but when doubt is felt the tumour should be dealt with in the first instance by aseptic exploration and then treated according to the condition present. Treatment.—Treatment may be either palli- ative or curative. Palliative is applicable in the early stage, and consists of horizontal rest, with the scrotum well raised on a cushion, or in a sling; the constant application of an ice- bag in the robust, and of evaporating lotions