SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 307 space. An excellent summary of the procedure is given by Hand.^ The physical and chemical examination of the cerebro-spinal fluid and patho- logical examination of the same have yielded fair results, but it may be stated at once, while positive evidence is of value, negative results are far from conclusive. It has been shown that fibrin always forms in meningitis when the fluid is allowed to stand, but it is absent in cerebral abscess. Blood is due to the puncture of a vessel, but it also has its origin in injuries to the head or spine, sub-dural haemorrhages, or haemorrhage into the ventricles. If the fluid be turbid, it is said to be an indication of infective meningitis. In tuber- cular meningitis the fluid may be almost clear. The normal amount of glucose is 4-5 centi- grammes per 100, and this is increased in pneumonia, but is absent in the later stages of tubercular meningitis, and that variety caused by Weichselbaum's meningococcus or Fraenkel's diplococcus. In tubercular meningitis and some cases of cerebral tumour and hajmorrhage the normal amount of albumin is increased. In 1898 Stadelmann stated that in tubercular meningitis tubercle bacilli were only found in 22 per cent of the cases. In suppurative men- ingitis the fluid is turbid or purulent, and contains meningococci, pneumococci, staphylo- cocci, and streptococci. But occasionally in undoubted cases of meningitis complicating middle ear disease a clear fluid with no bacteria is found. Typhoid bacilli have been found in two cases, and the bacillus coli communis has also been demonstrated. From a therapeutic point of view lumbar puncture has been disappointing. It does not relieve the symptoms of hydrocephalus nor of tubercular meningitis. Some temporary im- provement may follow the withdrawal of a small quantity of fluid in suppurative menin- gitis, but in cerebral tumour there is no doubt the procedure acts unfavourably. Some punc- tures have been followed by sudden death. In apoplexy, htemorrhage, pachymeningitis, cerebral haemorrhage, and embolism puncture is dangerous. Some transient success has followed its use in uraemia, lead poisoning, and in paraplegia. Spinal Cocainisation to produce Surgical Analgesia It seems that Dr. Korning of New York first employed this method, although the credit has been given to Bier of Kiel, and it has been largely advocated by Tuffier of Paris. The method of injection is as follows: the skin, the Pravaz syringe, and the needle having been very carefully sterilised, the operation may be painlessly performed by injecting some Schleich's analgesic fluid beneath the skin. The needle is then introduced at the following point, ^ American Journal of Medical Sciences, October 1900. the patient being seated. A transverse line is drawn between the posterior superior iliac spines, a point taken slightly to one side of the midpoint of this line, and the spinal canal is entered. After making sure that the needle is in the subarachnoid space, by observing that a few drops of cerebro-spinal fluid can be with- drawn, the injection is made. A 2 per cent solution of cocaine is used, and 15 to 25 minims injected. If, however, 5 minims of a 2 per cent solution of cocaine be mixed with 25 minims of a 4 per cent solution of antipyrin, it is found to be quite sufficient for an extensive haemorrhoid operation by the cautery on a vigorous man, according to G. R. Fowler. Tuffier is the great advocate for the production of analgesia by this method, and has performed 252 major operations with it, many of which were severe abdominal ones. But he notes very unpleasant symptoms in some cases afterwards, and deaths have been reported, though not in his practice. Gener- ally, its disadvantages may be said to be as follows :— The injection of cocaine into the lumbar region does not produce analgesia above the diaphragm. The possibility of septic com- plications following the puncture and injection must be considered. It is much more toxic in its effects than chloroform or ether, and is probably more fatal than ether. It often fails to produce the required degree of anaesthesia, and causes much delay. And the patient, being conscious, realises what is being done to him. Finally, the procedure does not appear to have any advantages over the methods of general anaesthesia, and there is not sufficient evidence that its employment is justifiable. Caisson Disease Syn.—Comp7-essed Air Disease ; Diver's Paralysis A disease produced by immersion in an atmosphere of compressed air. The clinical features involve mainly the nervous system, and comprise pain in the limbs, and paraplegia, with or without loss of control over the sphincters. The symptoms may develop immediately on leaving the caisson, or may be postponed for some hours after coming out. The pain develops suddenly and may be paroxysmal in character, and may be accompanied by some abdominal pain and vomiting. There are usually no local physical signs, but in some cases the legs are tender to the touch. Auditory vertigo with slight deafness and tinnitus is present in a few cases, and sometimes these symptoms are present alone. Epistaxis is occasionally met with, and in some cases the patient may lose consciousness, and the case simulates apoplexy. The etiology of this disease is not fully determined. Numerous theories have been