SYPHILIS 460 liable to spread the disease than the papules and tubercles. Both in the primary and second- ary stages the blood is capable of transmitting syphilis, and the lymph seems to have a similar power, though its action in this respect is less certainly known. It is not known either whether the tertiary manifestations of the dis- ease are infective, though it seems probable that the earlier lesions are dangerous, whilst the later ones are inert. Infants with syphilis, whilst they have mucous patches and condy- lomata, are as capable of infecting others as those who have acquired the disease later in life, biit infants witli hereditary syphilis seem to be less capable of transmitting the disease than those who have acquired the disease just after birth. So far as is known at present, the syphilitic poison can only be inoculated by the transference of diseased cells or the debris of cells from the affected person to an abraded surface on the recipient, and the inoculation of a fluid free from cells or containing only healthy cells is insuthcient to produce the disease. The urine, milk, and sweat, therefore, are innocuoiis vinless the glands from which they are derived are actually syphilitic, but the saliva may transmit the disease, because the mouth is so often the seat of mucous patches. This state- ment, however, finds an exception in the semen, which may be inoculated with impunity, though it has the power of transmitting syphilis to the ovum it fertilises. Syphilis can only be caused by inoculation with the syphilitic poison obtained from a pre- existing case of syphilis, but the poison is of great potency, and has some power of with- standing external influences. It is usually acquired during sexual intercourse, and the seat of inoculation therefore in about 90 per cent of the cases is at, or near, the genital organs. Indeed, the overwhelming proportion of cases of syphilis due to venereal infection has somewhat masked the fact that syphilis, from a pathological standpoint, is a chronic infective granuloma starting from a local lesion, the disease being one which in all probability must be classed between leprosy and cancer. Inoculation with the syphilitic virus at any point is always successful in an unprotected person, and may lead to the disease in all its forms. It is not uncommon, therefore, for persons to contract syphilis accidentally and without venereal intercourse. Syphilis obtained in this manner is sometimes called "Syphilis insontium" or " Syphilis of the innocent," a thoroughly unscientific expression, for ethics have no place in pathology. Women, from their habit of kissing babies and casual acquaint- ances ; surgeons, accoucheurs and midwives, from the nature of their occupation, are specially liable to contract syphilis. Certain occupations have been fruitf\il in the spread of syphilis, notably glass-blowing, where the blowing-tube is passed from mouth to mouth. Outbreaks of syphilis have been traced to arm-to-arm vaccina- tion, and some years ago I saw several Jewish children who had been inoculated during the performance of ritual circumcision. Dr. Bulkley, who has paid special attention to these unusual sources of infection, states that in extra-venereal syphilis, chancres of the lip are miich the most numerous, the principal cause for the sore in this situation being kissing. Chancres of the breast and nipple, which come next in frequency, are becoming relatively rare, as the danger from syphilitic nurslings is better known and appreciated. It is interesting, too, to note that in the reports of 9058 cases of extra-genital chancres, collected by Dr. Bulkley, 571 cases occurred on the tonsils, in addition to 734 cases where the primary lesion was said vaguely to have been " in the buccal cavity," whilst 199 occurred on the tongue and gums, making no less than 1504 cases of primary syphilis within the cavity of the mouth. These statistics show that it is often worth while to inquire about the history of a sore mouth in the numerous cases where it is not found possible to elicit any recollection of venereal trouble. The resistance of the syphilitic poison to ex- ternal influences is shown by the fact that there are many authentic instances of the disease being communicated by contaminated pipes, cups, spoons, forks, towels, sponges, and articles of underclothing, as well as by unclean surgical and dental instruments, and by razors. The risk of infection with syphilis is so real, and people affected with the disease are so careless and so ignorant (for they often believe that they can only infect by sexual intercourse), that every individual should be warned of his liability to spread the disease, and should be definitely instructed in the pi-ecautions neces- sary to prevent him from so doing. Classification.—Syphilis is either acquired or inherited. Acquired syphilis is always due to direct inoculation, the seat of inoculation being marked by a local inflammation known as a sore or chancre. Hereditary syphilis is divided somewhat academically into " con- genital syphilis," where the infant is affected with syphilis contracted by the mother during pregnancy ; and " inherited syphilis," where the disease begins at the time of conception, either from a syphilitic ovum or from contaminated spermatozoa. Acquired Syphilis In acquired syphilis there is a definite inocu- lation followed by a period of incubation before the appearance of the first sign of the disease. This sign, the primary sore, which runs a definite course, if it be protected from injury, is followed by certain additional signs which constitute the stage of secondary syphilis. The