SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 303 when paralysis has existed for some time ascend- ing and descending degenerations set in. The paralysis is usually bilateral. It affects the legs generally, although the arms may suffer later, or both may be paralysed. Its onset is, as a rule, gradual, occasionally sudden, and Sir William Gowers mentions the case ^ of a child aged three, a sufferer from disease of the cervi- cal vertebrae, who lost the power of moving the legs in the course of twenty-four hours. During the second day the left arm became paralysed, and at the end of a week the right arm. The efitect of the peripachymeningitis on the spinal cord itself is as follows :—It suffers slow compression and becomes much narrowed, even to the size of a goose quill or less, and then it imdergoes myelitic softening, which is followed by increase of the neuroglia, sclerosis, and as- cending and descending degeneration. At the same time the nerve roots suffer from pressure and exudation of new material round them. Symptoms of Compression-paraplegia.—These necessarily vary with the site of disease. The onset is in some cases very sudden, and is due then either to displaced bone, rupture of a blood-vessel, acute myelitis, or tubercular men- ingitis. As an instance of acute onset another case of Sir William Gowers may be quoted : "A woman, aged forty-five, who had suffered from pain in the spine, one day sneezed violently three times, and immediately felt ' pins and needles ' in the right knee and foot. The right leg became powerless during the next three days, the left leg followed suit, and at the end of six weeks both legs were motionless. She died six months later." The symptoms may be best arranged, not in the order of their onset, but from a functional point of view. (a) Motor.—The patient complains of being tired easily, and the legs begin to drag and the toes to catch in walking. Then follow loss of equilibrium and inability to move the lower ex- tremities. If the disease is in the cervical region, the arms siiffer before the legs. (6) Sensory.—The most usual sign of onset is a girdle pain due to irritation of the nerve roots. Oftentimes there is no ansesthesia, for sensation is at times present when motion is lost. Anaesthesia dolorosa in patches is not uncommon. (c) Reflexes.—The superficial ones are exag- gerated, and so too are the deep, especially of the knee and ankle, but when degeneration has set in they are lost. {d) The Sphincters.—Incontinence of urine and faeces occur in severe cases. (e) Trophic.—The affected muscles waste, and reaction of degeneration is more or less marked. Before wasting occurs, distinct spasm of muscle is found, notably if the disease is in the dorsal region. Acute bed-sores are not uncommon. 1 Diseases of Nervous System, 2nd edition, vol. i. p. S47. (/) Vaso-motor.—The limbs are often cold, and sometimes perspire persistently. {g) Special to Various Regions.—In the cervi- cal region the pupil may be dilated or contracted, and sweating of one-half of the forehead may be marked. In the dorsal region the intercostal muscles are affected ; and in the lumbar region the knee and ankle reflexes are lost. Prognosis.—A very large proportion of these cases recover under treatment by recumbency and without operation. The number is said to vary between 55 and 83 per cent, and some cases have had four attacks and many three attacks with a good recovery. Treatment.—The treatment is of two kinds, conservative and operative. The expectant or conservative plan of treatment is undoubtedly the best, and its prognosis is exceedingly good. It necessitates complete rest in bed, with exten- sion of the spine, by weights applied to the legs and counter-extension of the shoulders and the neck, or by the use of the convex couch of Bradford and Lovett, or by means of a suspen- sion couch ; and the time needed for recovery varies from a few weeks to fifteen to eighteen months. Bed-sores should be carefully guarded against. Treatment by operation is either by forcible extension of the spine or by laminectomy. Of 31 cases in which paralysis was present, 17 were relieved by forcible extension, 4 were partially relieved, 2 were unrelieved, and no statement was made as to the paralysis in 8 cases. But, unfortunately, there is no information as to whether any attempts to relieve paralysis by this method were fatal. If prolonged treatment by recumbency and by forcible extension fail, then it is necessary to consider the propriety of laminectomy. The statistics of this opera- tion are not very reliable, because it is not dis- tinctly stated in how many cases the treatment by recumbency had been tried. And knowing the great probability of cases recovering spon- taneously in that way, it is justifiable to sur- mise that some of the laminectomy cases would have recovered without the operation. This remark, however, can only be applicable to the minority of recorded cases. Laminectomy, how- ever, can only be considered as a remote hope. The risks of the operation are very considerable. Of 75 cases collected by Lloyd 29 died, and in 58 surviving cases there were 20 recoveries, 7 were improved, and in 8 no good result followed. So that the prognosis of the operation, both as to the possible cure of the disease and as to life, is by no means good, and it is not applicable to those cases where symptoms of extensive de- generation of the cord are found. Deformity. — Deformity may be called a complication of spinal caries, and is by no means a necessary result of the disease. If cases are recognised and treated from the first, it is not too much to say that little or no deformity