SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 103 the end of the cannula should be closed by the tip of a finger, and the instrument quickly with- drawn ; the edges of the puncture being held together between finger and thumb, and sealed with a little flexile collodion or strapping. The scrotum should be tliickly covered with aseptic cotton-wool and supported with a handkerchief or suspensory bandage. It is advisable for a patient to keep quiet for a few hours afterwards. Faintness is occasionally seen. The risks of the operation are the wounding of a vessel in the scrotum, puncture of the testis, and local septic infection and its consequences. The Radical or Curative Treatment.—The methods employed for the radical cure of vaginal hydrocele are (1) injection, (2) incision, and (3) excision. (1) The Tnjectio7i of Irritating Liquids.—This is a safe and usually satisfactory method of treating small and moderate sized simple hydro- celes in which the sac is not greatly thickened or indurated, and where no loose or peduncu- lated bodies are present within it. It is inap- plicable to children and feeble old men. Re- currences are seen in about 5 per cent of cases treated by injection. Of the many liquids which have been employed, mention only need be made of two—tincture of iodine and liquefied carbolic acid. The injection with iodine should be carried out as follows :—The skin of the scrotum and the instruments must be made aseptic. The fluid is carefully drawn off with a medium- sized trocar and cannula. By means of a glass syringe about two drachms of a 5 per cent freshly prepared sterile solution of cocaine or eucaine are injected through the cannula, left for about a minute, and then allowed to escape. About half an ounce of tincture of iodine is now similarly injected, and the opening in the cannula closed. The sac is freely manipulated and shaken to insure its every part coming in contact with the iodine, about half of which at the end of ten minutes is allowed to escape, and the cannula is withdrawn; the sides of the puncture being squeezed tightly about the in- strument to prevent the escape of iodine into the connective tissues. The puncture is sealed with collodion or strapping. The patient should be at once put to bed for a few days, the scrotum supported, and a plain diet given. Within twenty-four hours, as a rule, the scrotum is swollen, hot, and tender, and an evaporating lotion of lead and opium should be constantly applied to the part. Within a week usually the patient may get about again, wearing a sus- pensory bandage; but all swelling does not disappear until the end of three or four weeks. Instead of tincture the following iodine solution may be used:—Iodine, 40 grains; iodide of potassium, 30 grains ; water, one ounce. The pain experienced after the use of iodine varies much, but the acute pain of the injection is very much lessened—often entirely neutralised —by the use of the preliminary cocaine in- jection. The injection of carbolic acid has been more popular in America than in this country. It has advantages of its own ; is quite as effective as iodine, and certainly causes less pain, where cocaine has not been used. After the usual tapping by means of a syringe having a nozzle sufficiently long and slender to reach entirely through the cannula, about one drachm of pure carbolic acid, liquefied with glycerine, is injected and allowed to remain—the sac being freely manipulated for the purpose of distributing the acid freely over its interior. A sense of warmth is produced, which is quickly followed by a decided numbness. Subsequent treatment is practically the same as where iodine has been employed. The mode of cure in either case is either by universal or partial adhesion of the parietal to the visceral portion of the tunica vaginalis by organisation of the fibrinous products of plastic inflammation; or by converting the serous membrane to a dull, dry, fibrinous condition without power of secreting. The untoward effects and accidents that may follow these injections are : excessive inflam- mation, cellulitis, sloughing, suppuration in the sac, or abscess in the scrotal tissues. Recur- rence may take place after each method ; indeed hydrocele occasionally recurs after every known method of treatment. Operative Treatment.—The open method of treatment by incision or by excision of the whole of that part of the tunica vaginalis which lines the scrotum, but without attempting to interfere with that covering the testis or epididymis, should be employed in preference to injection in the following cases:—(1) Where the sac is very thick, cartilaginous, or calcified ; (2) When there is no doubt that the hydrocele is of the congenital variety, or is a hydrocele of a hernial sac with a small opening into the peritoneum ; (3) Where hernia complicates hydrocele, and a radical cure of both is desired ; (4) When loose or pedunculated fibrous bodies are present in the tunica vaginalis; (5) When there is no doubt as to the absence of serious organic disease of the testis; (6) When a vaginal hydrocele is associated with a hydrocele of the cord and an inguinal hernia. Treatment by Incision.—The scrotum having been shaved and the parts sterilised, the tumour is grasped firmly behind, and a vertical incision one and a half to two inches in length is made along the anterior and lower aspect of the swelling. All bleeding points having been carefully secured, the tunica is opened and the fluid allowed to escape. The cut margins of the tunica vaginalis and skin are stitched together by catgut sutures—interrupted or continuous. A wick of iodoform gauze or a large drainage tube is introduced into the