521 TEETH The opinion was held by most of the old pathologists that human saliva had poisonous properties. The writings of Habdarrhamus, yEtius, Machiafava, etc., show this. But the first authors who referred the toxic effects of niixed saliva to the influence of bacteria were Raynaud and Lannelonque, who produced septic poisoning in rabbits by inoculating them with the saliva of a child affected by hydrophobia. Pasteur, who also tried the same experiment, thought that hydrophobia had been induced, but Colin disproved this. Vulpian shortly after this demonstrated that the same condition could be produced by inoculating with healthy saliva, and other experimenters pointed out that the poisonous effects were due to the presence in the mixed saliva of micro-organisms, as sterilised saliva had little or no effect on animals experimented with. Klein (1884) drew attention to the infectious properties of human saliva, particularly in diseased conditions of the oral cavity, showing beyond doubt that large luimbers of pathogenic organisms in the shape of cocci were present in the saliva, which if taken up into the circulation in any number might produce very serious diseases. The mixed saliva of the mouth is a compound of saliva, mucus, and micro-organisms. It is generally alkaline after eating ; after pro- longed fasting or talking, howevei", it is generally acid. Wright (1844) gives some interesting information in regard to this. He says the acidity of the saliva in different diseases is due to the presence of various acids. Lactic acid is found in gout, rheumatism, intermittent fever, gastro-enteritis, and diabetes, acetic acid with aphthse, scrofula, scorbutus, smallpox, dyspepsia, and after the use of acid wines, HCl in connec- tion with simple gastric disturbances. Alkalinity of the saliva occurs in consequence of the presence of an excess of soda. It is considered to imply, pathologically, general or local dis- turbance of the nerves. The local affections of the nerves comprise facial neuralgia and odont- algia, dependent on irritation of the pulp without inflammation of the peridental mem- brane of the root and adjacent tissues. The alkalinity frequently is an important aid in diagnosis, inasmuch as the pui-ely nervous facial pain is accompanied almost always by an alkaline, and the rheumatic pain by an acid saliva. It is not definitely known whether in alkaline conditions of the saliva dental caries can progress, but it has been pointed out that some micro-organisms which are capable of softening dentine have alkaline products. Attention within recent years has been di'awn to the importance of a knowledge of the con- ditions of the salivary secretion as a method of diagnosing nutritional and diasthetic conditions of the body. At the International Medical Con- gress in 1901 Dr. J. C. Michaels pointed out that the salivary secretion was of more im- portance as a method of diagnosing diseased conditions than even virine, since the saliva holds in solution all the crystallisable substances which are the waste products of nutrition, and which, by reason of their crystalline and soluble character, are dialysable through the structure of the salivary gland. In a bad case of neuras- thenia which came through my hands recently attention was drawn to the peculiar condition of the salivary secretion, which was so thick and viscid as almost to preclude the patient from spitting it out of his mouth. In cases less pronounced than this, where the secretion is thick and stringy and exhibits an acid reaction, we always find dental caries progressing at a very rapid rate, indicating to us the necessity of prophylactic measures being used. Prevention of Caries. — The mouth forming as it does an efficient incubator for the various micro-organisms, it is essential that treatment should be on antiseptic lines. All carious teeth should be treated and filled, while all roots unsavable should be removed, as they are just a source of infection to the other teeth. If the teeth in maxilla and mandible are overcrowded, it is advisable, especially in young people, to extract the four first molars, and it is wonderful how quickly the spaces fill up and relieve the overcrowding. It is requisite that an antiseptic and antacid dentifrice should be daily used with the tooth-brush, especially at night, to prevent the active fermentation which would otherwise take place in an uncleansed mouth during sleep. Such a dentifrice as this might be used:—R Pulv. creta praec. 5ij., magnesife carb. ^ij., oil cinnamon 40Tn., misce bene, after which the mouth might be rinsed with Phillips' milk of magnesia, a valuable alkaline antiseptic. That proper cleansing of the mouth and teeth has a beneficial effect is demonstrated by the fact that material taken from a well-brushed mouth and used to obtain a culture from produces very few organisms compared with that from an unclean mouth. Children should be early taught to brush their teeth regularly every night, and the necessity for it explained to them, and in all cases of rapid destruction of the teeth by caries the use of Phillips' milk of magnesia, the last thing at night, will greatly help to retard and control the advance of this disease. Treatment of Caries.—-In the treatment of simple caries two methods are employed. The removal of the diseased tissue, with as much of the surrounding healthy parts so as to leave a smooth and self-cleansing surface, constitutes one method. The removal of the carious tissue, and the replacement of the lost tissue by some indestructible material, the second method. Excision should only be carried out on incisor teeth very slightly affected on their approximal surfaces, the tissue being removed more especi- ally from their lingual approximal surfaces by means of diamond discs or other appropriate