SUPPURATION 431 action. When these phenomena are present suppuration may be said to have occurred, and the fluid which collects in the centre of their area of operation is called " pus." Suppuration is a relative term : there are microscopic con- ditions in which some observers would deny its existence, but all agree that suppuration has occurred where pus is visible. It must be strictly borne in mind that in the early stages of suppuration, even a few hours after infection, the cellular constituents of pus are complicated by a proliferation of the cells of the part, and which therefore may be derived from connective tissue, epithelial tissue, or endothelial tissue, the exact variety depending on the site of the suppuration. It is necessary to recognise that there are other cells in the pus besides leucocytes, for two reasous: first, be- cause it is not often possible to demonstrate pus without at least some of these tissue cells; and, second, because the presence of a cell is always an important feature in a process, the exact nature and significance of which is not thoroughly understood. When considering this point it is worthy of recognition that non-hccmic cells incorporate the micro-organisms of infec- tion ; and it is difficult to exclude these cells in defining suppuration when there is experimental evidence to show that there may be such a condition as local immunity, apart from general immunity. Suppuration may complicate an " ulcer," but to say that suppuration may be a cause of " ulceration" would not be strictly accurate. It would be more correct to say that the same processes which end in suppuration may ter- minate in an ulcer, the surface of which sup- purates. Suppuration may occur in pre-existing cavities, such as the pleural, peritoneal, menin- geal, synovial, and endocardial cavities, in bursal sacks, and many bone-sinuses; when it occurs in a cavity of its own provocation the disease is called "abscess." Suppuration may complicate other morbid conditions, such as biliary, renal, and vesical calculus, and ulcera- tion of malignant disease, when it must be looked upon as the complication of infection and not as a sign of these diseases. Wherever suppuration occurs it may be "acute," "subacute," or "chronic." An acute suppuration may be said to be present when the process is mature in about seven to fourteen days; a chronic suppuration requires from one month to several months to mature ; a subacute suppuration occupies an intermediate time in developing. It may be well to state here that these terms survive from a past era in surgery, when knowledge concerning the etiology of the disease did not extend beyond the limits of clinical observation at the time; these terms were chosen to indicate the length of time before the process of suppuration became mani- fest, and at the same time, by implication, the intensity of the disease. The essential diff'er- ence, however, between one suppiiration and another is not a question of time and intensity, but one of cause. It is now well established that the conditions to which each of these terms apply have a variety of causes. Suppuration can be caused by many different kinds of micro-organisms. Suppurations may differ from one another clinically—they may be acute, subacute, or even chronic—and yet be caused by the same micro-organism, or they may resemble each other clinically although provoked by different kinds of micro-organisms, consequently a diagnosis of "suppuration" or " abscess " with no allusion to the causal micro- organism conveys an inadequate conception of the precise nature of the malady; this is more obvious when it is realised that it can be deter- mined that suppuration is due to staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, or bacillus typhi, or bacillus mallei, and so forth. Such a precise diagnosis has a marked influence on the treatment and prognosis ; hence the cause of the suppuration is an essential feature of the diagnosis, and a bacteriological examination is an indispensable part of the evidence upon which the diagnosis is established. From these observations it can be seen that the nomenclature of suppuration has not advanced simultaneously with increased knowledge of the subject. Doubtless in future the name of every suppuration will in some way be connected with the micro-organism or micro-organisms by whose action it is caused; in this way will be suggested the changes in progress besides the local lesion—changes with- out which suppuration itself would probably be impossible, and without which the mere libera- tion of the pus would be of no avail to stop the disease. Kocher and Tavel have suggested the terms "staphylomycosis" and "streptomycosis" for infective processes due to staphylococci and streptococci respectively, and foreign authors seem to have accepted the titles. Perhaps it would be more precise to term the suppurations due to these micro-organisms " staphylopyosis " and " streptopyosis." It is, however, very difiicult to apply to the many hybrid terms by which the different micro-organisms have gradu- ally become known a method of nomenclature elaborated on this principle; the old nomen- clature will therefore be retained in this article. The old names given to the varieties of sup- puration when looked at in a new light are not without their bacteriological significance, for it will be seen that the micro-organisms which are the causal agents of acute abscess are only in exceptional cases the cause of chronic abscess, and vice versa. Etiology.—Suppuration can occur only as a result of an external cause accidentally or intentionally introduced into the tissues of a living being. The excitant may be living or