162 SKENE'S GLANDS Female Organs of {Vestibule, Meatus Urin- arius); Urethra, Diseases of (Anatomy). Skiagraphy. — The production of pictures of internal parts by the X-rays, the pictures themselves being termed skiagrams; radiography. See X-Rays ; Joints, Diseases of {Ankylosis, Diagnosis); Larynx, Examination of {Skiagraphy). Skiatherapy.—The treatment of dis- ease by the X-rays. See X-Rays. Skin. The diseases of the skin are considered in the following sections :— Anatomy and Physiology . . .162 Bacteriology 170 Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands 174 Tuberculosis 177 Skin Diseases of Tropics . . 184 Parasites ...... 191 Pigmentary Affections (including Hair). 200 Skin Grafting and Allied Procedure . 204 See also Acne; Actinomycosis {Distribution of Lesions, Skin); Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease ; Ainhura ; Alopecia ; Anemia {Symp- toms) ; An/bmia, Pernicious {Symptoms, Pallor of Skin); Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Bacteria of the Skin, etc.); Balneology; Bed- SoREs; Boils and Carbuncle; Brain, Affec- tions of Blood-Vessels {Anaemia of Brain, Symptoms, Skin); Brain, Affections of Blood- Vessels {Results of Vascular Lesions, Trophic Changes in Skin); Bromism; Burns and Scalds ; Cachexia ; Capillaries, Diseases of {Ncevus); Cautery ; Cheek, Fissure of ; Chest-Wall, Affections of {Cutaneous Affections); Children' Clinical Examination of {Integumentary System); Chlorosis ; Cicatrices ; Cretinism {Description); Death, Signs op {The Skin); Deformities ; Dermatitis Herpetiformis ; Der- matitis Repens; Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata in Coal Miners ; Diabetes Mellitus {Symptoms, The Skin); Drug Eruptions; Eczema;Electrolysis; Erysipelas; Erythema; Eyelids, Affections op {Affections of the Skin); Facial Hemiatrophy {Symptoms, Changes in Skin); Favus; Filariasis {Elephantiasis); Foot AND Mouth Disease ; Fourth Disease ; Furun- CULUS Orientalis; Gangrene; Gastro-Intest- iNAL Disorders of Infancy {Chronic Diarrhoea); Gout {Cutaneous System); Hemophilia ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects, Cyanosis, etc.); Hemiplegia {Lesions of Skin); Herpes ; Hypnotism {Skin Diseases); Hysteria {Sensory Disorders); Ichthyosis; Impetigo; Inunction; Jaundice; Leprosy; Lichen; Lupus Erythe- matosus ; Lympathic System, Physiology and Pathology {Diseases of Lympathic Vessels); Malignant Pustule; Malingering {Cutaneous); Mammary Glands, Diseases of {Affections of Nipple and Areola); Measles {Symptoms, Eruption) ; Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro- spinal {Symptoms, Cutaneous); Menstruation AND its Disorders {Vicarious Menstruation, Bleeding from Skin); Miliaria ; Morphcea ; Mumps ; Mycetoma ; Myiasis {External Cut- aneous) ; Nails, Affections of the ; Nephritis {General Diagnosis, Dryness of Skin); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {In Arsenical Poisoning, Pigmentation); New-Born Infant {Skin Affections, Erysipelas Neonatorum, etc.); Obesity ; Parasites ; {Arthropods and Insecta); Pediculosis ; Pellagra ; Pemphigus ; Pigments of the Body ; Pinta ; Plague ; Ponos {Symp- toms, Skin) ; Pregnancy, Physiology {Local Changes, Abdominal Wall, Pigmejitation) ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis ; Pregnancy, Intra- uterine Diseases of the Foetus {Skin Dis- eases) ; Prurigo and Pruritus ; Psoriasis ; Pudenda-Granuloma ; Puerperium, Physiology {Changes in the Maternal System, Skin); Pur- pura ; Raynaud's Disease ; Rheumatism, Rheu- matoid Arthritis {State of Skin); Rodent Ulcer ; Rubella ; Scabies ; Scarlet Fever ; Sclerema Neonatorum; Sclerodermia ; Scro- tum, Diseases op {Erysipelas, (Edema, etc.); Scurvy; Smallpox ; Spina Bifida {State of Skin); Syphilis {Skin Affections) ; Toxicology {Arseni- cal Poisoning, Argyria, etc.); Tuberculosis {Skin, Lupus); Tumours of the Skin ; Typhoid Fever {Symptoms, Cutaneous); Typhus Fever {Symptoms, Cutaneous); Ulcers ; Umbilicus, Diseases of {Eczema, etc.); Urticaria ; Vac- cination ; Varicella ; Venereal Disease ; Ver- ruga Peruana ; Visceral Pain {Cutaneous Hyperaesthesia); Warts ; Wounds ; X-Rays ; Xanthema ; Xeroderma Pigmentosum ; Xerosis ; Yaws ; Yellow Fever. The Anatomy and Physiology of the Skin General Introduction . . . .162 Structure 163 Epidernml Appendages . . .166 Physiology 169 General Introduction. — The human skin, considered embryologically, may be said to consist of only two layers, namely, the epidermis and the corium, developed respectively from the epiblastic and mesoblastic layers of the blasto- dermic vesicle. The subcutaneous tissue, on account of the great difference in appearance which exists between it and the corium, was at one time believed to belong to a different cate- gory and to have developed from a different layer, but most observers are now agreed that, like the corium, it is of mesoblastic origin, and that it should be regarded simply as a deeper layer of the corium, in which some of the cells have become specialised by the deposition within them of fat. The epidermis and its appendages —the hairs, skin-glands, and nails—are in this way clearly differentiated from the fibrous