SKIN—PARASITES 196 flannel. Oil of cade or creasote instead of the wood tar is preferred by some. Diseased hairs can be got rid of by painting on several layers of collodion, and removing it with forceps. This is followed up by an ointment. Harrison's treatment (as explained in the section on Tinea unguium in " Affections of THE Nails," vol. vi.) must be employed with great care, and under the medical attendant's supervision. All strong remedies must be used carefully to avoid scarring. There are many other formulae, but the fore- going will be found all that is required. The mode of application is the thing—that and perseverance. Kerion is more or less self-curative, but i nature can be effectually assisted by art, for if allowed to go on indefinitely the condition may lead to baldness. I can testify to the formula recommended by Dr. Eadclifle Crocker, viz. Sulph. sublim. 5ss.-5j., acidi carbolici Ttlxx.- TTixxx., adipis 5]., and pulling out the loosened stumps. Incisions should not be made, however great the temptation. Certificates.—The medical attendant is some- times asked for a certificate that the case is cured, so that the patient may go to school or enter some public institution. This is a matter which incurs resjjonsibility, and, in the event of an error, gives rise to much mortification and unpleasantness all round. It is no easy thing sometimes to say positively that a ring- worm of the scalp is cured. Careful search should be made with a lens for diseased stumps, and if any suspicious hairs be discovered they should be examined microscopically. Slight scaliness in patches is suspicious. In a cured case the new hair grows evenly and regularly, and has a characteristic set. When there is any doubt the signing of the certificate should be deferred, and an ointment used occasionally as explained under treatment. It is important to be able to say "no" firmly, for parents get restive, and naturally so after a long and tedious course of treatment. Prophylaxis and Social Aspect.—This is a matter which must not be neglected. Every care should be taken that healthy children do not run any risk of contracting the disease. Caps, brushes, combs, and so forth may convey the germs of ringworm to virgin scalps. It is not necessary to segregate the sick from the well, but an eye should be kept on both, and every precaution taken which common sense suggests to prevent spread. In Paris there are special schools for children suffering from ringworm. The sum total of lost schooling is in this country very great. But our educational system, regardless of expense, is so extravagant as it is, that it is doubtful if the pockets of the middle classes can stand more picking for special schools and teaching staffs. It would be money better spent, however, than throwing it away on useless inebriates and making it soft for the careless and idle generally. TiXEA CIRCIXATA {Ti ichophytie circinee; Herpes circinatus).—Ringworm as it affects the skin apart from the scalp and beard must now be dealt with. Tinea circinata occurs, as the name indicates, in rings, either alone or as a complication of tinea tonsurans. The lesions are usually reddened rings with a papular, or sometimes a vesiculo-papular periphery, the papules and the erythema round them forming a border varying in width, the central parts being clear. There may be several rings one within the other (concentric), some- times three or four, or more. Or an inner smaller ring may touch the outer larger ring tangentially. Instead of a distinct ring, com- mencing as a small spot or patch, with a progressively extending border, clearing as it goes, there may be insignificant, slightly reddened or almost pale, raised, scaly patches, of little finger-nail size or less, and uniform on the surface. The latter have been considered to be characteristic of microsjMron Audouini, while the ringed forms, with more inflammatory reaction, have been referred to trichophyton niegalosporon endothrix. I have seen the small imiform patches about the neck in a case undoubtedly due to the latter fungus in some cases, and on the other hand, well-marked, reddened rings in microspcn'on. The rings may be multiple, very numerous, and scattered over the body and limbs. Tinea circinata is not i;ncommon in adults, on the face, limbs, and hands. Mothers may contract the disease from tinea tonsurans in their children. On the back of fingers in an adult man I have found the fungus (trich. vug. endothrix) in the hairs. In the scalp of infants the lesion is usually a distinct ring spreading superficially and sparing the young hair. Occasionally a similar thing is seen on the scalp of older children. About the beard and neck of men, reddened rings, with slight scaliness and little reaction, sometimes occur, but tinea sycosis {trich. meg. ectothrix) is more usual in them. Lesions comparable to kerion of the scalp, but on a smaller scale and with less reaction j and swelling, are seen in adults, about the ! upper limbs usually. The patch is raised, markedly inflamed, with numerous aggregated follicular pustules, especially about the peri- pheral parts. This has been called Coxglo- MERATIVE MULTIPLE PUSTULAR FOLLICULITIS by Leloir, but it is now known to be due to trich. meg. ectothrix. In a case I observed there was a single patch on the forearm, and no secondary pus lesions anywhere. Microscopically the fungus was an ectothrix, and this was confirmed