569 TETANY by the approximation of the lateral borders. Trousseau compared the position to the accoucheur's hand when about to be passed into the vagina. In some cases the fingers are flexed so that the nails press upon and even injure the skin. Rarely they are fully extended, or the position is the "main eii griffe." The wrists are slightly flexed, and the fore-arms pronated. The upper-arms may be closely adducted to the sides, while the shoulders are free from spasm. In the lower extremities the toes are usually flexed and pressed together, and the feet are extended at the ankle-joint and inverted. The knees are usually extended, and the thighs may be strongly adducted. In slight cases the extremities are affected alone, but in severe cases the spasm may be very widely spread. The muscles of the face may be affected, and the angles of the mouth drawn out into a grin. The ocular muscles may be involved, resulting in strabismus. Tris- mus may be present, but is rare. The muscles of the tongue may be affected, producing diffi- culty in swallowing and in articulation. The head is more frequently drawn forwards than backwards. Opisthotonos, however, may be present, usually as a late symptom, and such cases may readily be mistaken for tetanus. The involvement of the thoracic muscles and of the diaphragm may cause serious dyspnoea. The abdominal muscles become tense and rigid, and in some cases spasmodic retention of urine has occurred. The spasms are usually paroxysmal. In an attack of tetany there are usually several paroxysms separated from one another by an interval which varies from an hour or two to several days. The whole attack usually lasts for two or three weeks, but it may continue for several months. The paroxysm may cease suddenly. More commonly it passes off gradu- ally, and in the reverse order to that in which it supervened. Between the paroxysms more or less contracture of the affected muscles may persist, especially in the arms, and if an attempt is made to overcome this either by an effort at voluntary movement or by passive manipulation, a fresh paroxysm is apt to be precipitated. The spasms have been described as continuous, remittent, and intermittent, but these varieties shade off into one another. The spasm may persist daring sleep, and even, according to Abercrombie, during narcot- isation with chloroform. Cold applied to the affected parts will sometimes stop the spasm. Between the attacks, as Trousseau accident- ally discovered, the paroxysm may be repro- duced "by simply compressing the affected parts, either in the direction of their principal nerve-trunks, or over their blood-vessels, so as to impede the venous or arterial circulation." Trousseau's symptom, as this phenomenon is called, is of considerable value in diagnosis, but it may be absent in otherwise typical cases. It has been attributed to ischsemia, but is now ascribed by most writers to direct irritation of the nerve-trunks. Another sign of diagnostic importance is that known as ChvosteFs. This phenomenon con- sists in the presence of such a high degree of irritability of the muscles and motor nerves to mechanical stimulation that a tap over either the muscle or the nerve will produce a muscular contraction. This hyperexcitability is not con- fined to the affected parts. It can often be readily demonstrated by a slight tap over the facial nerve, which will produce a momentary contraction of all the muscles supplied by the nerve, or by the particular branch which is struck. The electrical reactions have been carefully studied by Erb, Frankl-Hochwart, and others, who have found an increased irritability to the galvanic current almost constantly, and to the faradic current rarely. The polar reactions are also altered, so that a more ready response is obtained with the anode than with the cathode. The contraction is more prolonged than in health, and a feature peculiar to tetany is an anodal opening tetanus. (c) Reflexes. — The tendon reflexes vary. They have been found normal (Baginsky), exaggerated (Loos), or absent. The stiffness of the muscles may interfere greatly with ex- amination. {d) Sensory Symptoms.—Premonitory sensory symptoms may be absent, or there may be tingling and formication in the hands and feet before the attack begins. Numbness or anaes- thesia may be present. The muscular spasms are attended by cramp-like pain in proportion to the severity of the paroxysm. Articular pains in the joints of the affected area are also described. (e) Vaso-motor and Trophic Phenomena. — During a paroxysm the face may become con- gested, and the lips purple, and there may be cyanosis of the extremities, especially of the hands. OEdema of the dorsum of the hands and feet may be present, and the skin of the affected area may be red and tender to the touch. (/) General Symptoms.—The temperature is usually normal. In some cases it may be slightly raised, and in one or two fatal cases there lias been a high temperature at the time of death. The intelligence is unaffected, and in fatal cases the mind may remain clear till the end. To this rule, however, there are ex- ceptions. Frankl-Hochwart states that he has met with hallucinatory confusion in three cases. Again the patient may die comatose, in which case the spasm does not necessarily pass off with the onset of the coma. Tetany in Childhood.—Tetany is a much more common affection in children than in adults. It is most frequently met with in