567 TETANUS cotics, are also useful in controlling the spasms, but chloroform is required if the paroxysms are very severe. Tetany. Definition ...... 567 Synonyms ...... 567 History ....... 567 Causation ...... 567 Grouping of Cases .... 568 Symptoms ...... 568 Tetany in Childhood . . . 569 Morbid Anatomy 570 Pathogeny . . . . . .571 Diagnosis . . . . . .571 Prognosis . . . . . .572 Treatment ...... 572 See also Antispasmodics ; Convulsions, In- fantile {Etiology); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications of {Nervous); Rickets {Clinical Features); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases OF {Special Symptomatology, Gastric Tetany); Tetanus {Diagnosis); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Physiology). Definition.—An affection characterised by tonic spasm, intermittent, remittent, or continuous, of the extremities; associated, as a rule, with sensory symptoms, and with an increase in the irritability of the muscles and nerves to elec- trical and to mechanical stimulation. Synonyms. — Intermittent tetanus (Dance); idiopathic contracture (Teissier and Hermel); tetanilla (Trousseau); rheumatic contracture of nurses (Trousseau); tetany (L. Corvisart); intermittent rheumatic contracture ; tonic occu- pation spasm ; arthro-gryposis, etc. History.—The discovery of this affection is usually attributed to Steinberg, who, in 1830, described it as a " rheumatic contraction of the extremities"; and to Dance, who, in 1831, published a memoir upon "A Form of Inter- mittent Tetanus." Before that date, however, as Risien Russell has pointed out, cases in which rigidity of the extremities was associated with spasm of the glottis were described by Clarke in his Commentaries on some of the most important Diseases of Children, published in 1815, these being obviously cases presenting the common association of carpo-pedal spasm and laryngismus. In 1846 Delpech, Trousseau's assistant, wrote a thesis on Idiopathic Muscular Spasms, in which he described a number of cases. In 1852 the name "tetany," by which the affection is now generally known, was proposed by Lucien Corvisart. The disease became generally known in this country through the writings of Trousseau, who collected a considerable number of cases at the Necker Hospital. As the earlier cases were in nursing women. Trousseau at first regarded the disease as special to nurses, and called it Rheu- matic Contraction occurring in Nurses {Contrac- ture rhumatis male des ncmrrices), but, as he himself says, he was not long in discovering that nursing is not the only favourable condi- tion for its development. The association of tetany with dilatation of the stomach was first described by Neumann in 1861, and since that time similar cases have attracted a great deal of interest. A very severe form of tetany sometimes occurs in cases of complete extirpation of the thyroid. An account of such cases, occurring in Billroth's clinique, was published by Weiss in 1880, and the conclusions drawn from clinical observation have found support in the experi- mental investigations of Horsley, Schiff, and others upon the thyroid gland. The toxic theory of the origin of tetany has led to experimental studies by Miiller, Bouveret and Devie, Halliburton and M'Kendrick, and others. Causation.—-1. Age and Sex.—Tetany is met with at all periods of life. If we regard the carpo-pedal spasms of rachitic childi-en as a minor form of tetany, the affection is most common in childhood. Cowers collected 150 cases, of which 142 were available for tabulation according to age and sex. In the successive decades the cases numbered 42, 36, 24, 23, 13, 4. Above the age of twenty, women are more frequently affected than men. Trousseau speaks of the disease as most common in women between the ages of seventeen and thirty. In childhood, on the other hand, the spasms occur much more frequently in boys than in girls. Of the 42 cases in the first decennium 31 were boys and 11 were girls. 2. Heredity.—Sometimes several cases occur in a family. Thus Abercrombie quotes four cases as occurring in each of two families, and three cases in one family, at different times. Again, cases are recorded in which the patient had suffered from convulsions, or was morbidly irritable and impulsive, subject to outbursts of temper for trifling causes, or in some other way gave evidence of nervous instability. On the whole, however, the evidence is against the general existence of any particular neuropathic heredity in the subjects of tetany. 3. Geographical Distribution.—-While tetany has a very wide geographical distribution it is in most places an infrequent disease. In some parts of the continent of Europe, however, it is comparatively frequent, especially in Vienna, where it is said to be becoming more common. In America true tetany is a very rare disease, and in this country it is far from common. The mild form which occurs in children is met with much more frequently than cases in adults. 4. Season.—Tetany is more common in winter and spring than in summer and autumn. 5. Various Special Conditions.—Tetany occurs under such a variety of conditions that it is necessary to attempt some classification of the