359 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF biliary papilla. This must be differentiated from carcinoma arising inside the papilla or in the ampulla of Vater." And he further adds that the former may be rapidly fatal by causing suppurative inflammation of the bile-ducts. Malignant nodules in the stomach and duo- denum, secondary to similar growths in the heart or elsewhere, are not unknown ; Dr. Hale White says 6 or 7 per cent of all malignant gastric neoplasms are in this category. (b) Sarcomata.—New growths of this type occasionally occur botli in the stomach and in the duodenum, presenting in their general features a close resemblance to the carcinomata. They are of the round cell variety, and have been noticed especially to invade the muscular coat, spreading from the submucous (Drs. Perry and Shaw). As a rule, they occur at a much younger age than does carcinoma, very many being in persons under twenty years old. (c) ^m&W Jihro-myomata, lipomata, and papil- lomata have been recorded as of rare occurrence, and the same may be said for the development of lymphadenomatous nodules as a part of a general lymphoid overgrowth. Malformations and Malpositions.—These departures from the normal condition may be either congenital or acquired. On the whole, the stomach is less liable to those of the former class than are many other organs. Complete absence of the viscus has been re- corded, the continuity between oesophagus and intestine being completely interrupted. A stomach congenitally small, or with partial separation into two parts by septa, has been met with, and also a peculiar condition of pyloric stenosis from hypertrophy of the mus- cular ring. The deformity known as the "hour-glass contraction" appears to be sometimes con- genital, and has been regarded as a reversion towards the condition in some lower animals. Atresia of the duodenum by a septum resem- bling a large valvula connivens near the biliary papilla, or at the junction with the jejunum, is an occasional condition, and occlusion of the bowel in all degrees up to completeness may be met with. These organs may share in a general trans- position of the viscera, or the stomach may be situated in the chest from absence or deficiency of the diaphragm. In the foetus and at birth the stomach is more vertical than in the adult, and this position may be maintained during life, though probably not so often as has been supposed. Acquired deformities and displacements of the stomach and duodenum are far from un- common. Owing to the cicatricial contraction which may follow ulceration the viscus may be considerably distorted, especially when the lesion has affected the walls to any depth, and no adhesions have taken place to adjacent organs. The internal surface may be much puckered by radiating cicatrices, or the organ may be constricted in the middle, causing the "hour-glass stomach," with consequent dilata- tion or contraction of the two parts into which the cavity is divided. Such a deformity when once established is, of course, permanent, and must be distinguished from a temporary con- dition, which may be sometimes seen post- mortem, due to a spasmodic contraction of the "pre-pyloric sphincter," corresponding to what normally takes place during digestion. The shape of the stomach is also much altered in advanced cases of cirrhosis ventriculi, or of general infiltration of the walls by new growth. In such the normal pyriform outline is lost, and the shrunken organ is more tubular in character and much diminished in capacity. The stomach may be very much reduced in size subsequent to permanent oesophageal ob- struction. Stenosis of the pyloric orifice is of frequent occurrence, caused by the cicatrix of an old ulcer situated in that region, or by a new growth, or less often by a non-malignant fibrosis or hypertrophy of the pyloric valve. Dilatation of the Stomach; Gastroectasis.—• This is the commonest and clinically most important of the alterations in shape and size to which the stomach is liable. Whilst in a few cases apparently primary in origin, it is far more usually secondary to some definite gastric disease, and of these pyloric or duodenal ob- struction, from whatever cause, is the most frequent. The difficulty and delay in forcing the stomach contents through into the duo- denum leads to their accumulation within the organ, the muscular coats of which may hyper- trophy, particularly in the pyloric region. But this compensatory change is only possible to a limited extent, and should the cause of the stenosis be a carcinomatous infiltration the muscular tissue is displaced by the new growth, and the propulsive efforts proportionately fail. The undue retention of the partially digested food in the stomach soon leads to a catarrhal state of the mucous membrane, which diminishes the general tone and resistance of the stomach walls, and contributes to their yielding, which the bulk of the contents and the gases formed by their fermentation still further assists. Next in frequency as a cause of gastroectasis is a weakening of the stomach walls, such as follows on a chronic catarrh, and occasionally on an acute attack of the same condition. A too frequent ingestion of food—a habit acquired by many persons—has been held as a cause of gastric dilatation. Should there be, as is likely, from the impaired digestion a state of general malnutrition, or any debilitating disease, such as anaemia, chronic renal disease, etc., the resisting power of the stomach walls will be still further diminished, and so favour the dilatation of the organ. The dilatation in these