SCLEREMA NEONATORUM 71 Some have attributed the onset of the disease to circulatory disturbance, others to pneumonia or other pulmonary lesions, and yet others to affections of the digestive tract. Some excellent observers, including L. Somma, G. Somma, and Ballantyne, although they differ on minor points, agree in regarding an affection of the nervous system, attended by disturbance of the thermo- taxic centres, as the primary lesion in sclerema. More recent investigations have been carried out by Schmidt, Comba, Jemma, and others, which render it probable that it results from septicaemia, not due to any specific micro-organ- ism, but to various bacteria such as the bacillus of Friedlander, streptococci, and staphylococci. Such infection best explains the subserous haemorrhages, broncho-pneumonia, and other visceral lesions so frequently present, to which too little attention was formerly paid by ob- servers, whose attention was chiefly centred upon the changes in the skin and subcutaneous tissue. The treatment of sclerema has been largely directed to combating the depression of tempera- ture by warm bottles, friction of the surface, and other means. The use of the incubator appears to be clearly indicated. Massage, from the extremities upwards, has proved of service, and is strongly recommended by Soltmann. Inunctions of warm oil, of cam- phorated oil, or of mercurial ointment have also been advocated. Brandy may be given with the milk, which, when the child is unable to suck, must be given with a teaspoon or by tube. Subcutaneous injections of ether and of citrate of caffeine were employed by G. Somma, and inhalation of oxygen has also been recommended. Sc I e re m i a,. See Sclerema Neonatorum. Sclerenchyma. See Stools (Concre- tions containing Sclerenchyma or Bast Cells). SclerO-.—In compound words sclero- (Gr. crK\rjp6<;, hard) means tough or hard, or, relating to the sclerotic coat of the eye; e.g. sclerosis, sclero-chc/roiditis, sclerotome, etc. Sclero-ChoroiditiS. — Inflammation of both the sclerotic and choroid coats of the eye. See Choroid, Diseases op ; Sclerotic, Dis- eases OF. SclerOCOrneal. —Belonging to the sclerotic and corneal layers of the eye. SclerOCyClOtOmy.—The operation of division of the ciliary muscle of the eye by Hancock's method. Sclerodacty ly. A disease of the digits, characterised by shortening, deformity, and a waxy appearance; it is allied to sclerodermia {<l.v). Scleroderin ia. See also Adrenal Glands (Addison's Disease, Diagnosis); Alopecia ( Varieties); Nails, Afpections of {Nail-changes in Sclerodactyly); Raynaud's Disease {Symptoms). —This term is used to define a group of diseases in which the skin becomes abnormally hard and immovable. There are two main types of this disorder ; the first known as diffuse symmetrical sclerodermia, and the second as circumscribed sclerodermia. Diffuse Symmetrical Sclerodermia This disease is the rarer of the two conditions, and commences as a subacute disorder, or in some cases very gradually and insidiously. In the subacute cases the induration of the skin is preceded by symptoms such as pains in the joints, tingling, etc. Early a feeling of stiffness of the skin in the parts to be affected is noted, and this symptom gradually increases. The skin, usually of symmetrica] areas, is now found either to be slightly though firmly oedematous, pitting on firm pressure, or to be indurated. The induration is the final phenomenon of this stage of the disease, and the period of oedema may have been absent altogether. The indu- rated skin is hard, immovable, incapable of being pinched up between the fingers, and on account of its immobility prevents movement in the parts which it covers. Usually large symmetrical areas are affected in this way, so that the face, neck, upper extremities, and the upper part of the trunk may be completely or more less continuously involved. The upper portion of the body shows the disease most commonly, though it is by no means unknown in the lower extremities. Early in the disease the appearance of the skin may seem to be but little altered, but on examining more carefully, the normal texture is seen to be changed, the natural furrows and " lines of cleavage " are obliterated, and very often a slight amount of patchy erythema is observed. The edge of the sclerodermic area may occasionally be seen, especially in cases where oedema is present; but in other cases the edge or advancing border cannot be easily distinguished except by palpation. On drawing the fingers across the affected area a pale line is produced by expression of the blood, and the normal colour is only gradually resumed as the vessels fill up again. It is not unusual to see minute dilated vessels, either in lines or in tufts, in various parts. A peculiar immovable mask or statue-like appearance is early assumed in the disease without apparent deformity ; but as the earlier stages of the malady pass over, contraction of the affected skin proceeds, atrophy of the subcutaneous tissue and underlying muscles takes place, and great deformity ensues. The joints of the fingers and hands become perman- ently flexed, the finger tips are pointed, and