SKIN—TUBERCULOSIS 183 ragged edges, the comparatively scanty dis- charge, and the tendency to fibroid thickening in the neighbourhood, coupled with the chronic course of the disease, make up a picture which is easily enough recognised. The infection of the skin being secondary, this disease is usually of secondary importance. The underlying dis- ease is the essential element, and on its cure depends the progress of the skin malady. Sometimes the infection develops into true lupus, which may persist after the underlying disease has disappeared, but as a rule the cure of the one is associated with the cure of the other. Treatment.—This really belongs to the sur- geon. The case should be taken in hand by him long before there is any risk of infection of the skin, and with the improved modern methods of dealing with tuberculous glands the disfiguring scrofulodermata of the neck are gradually becoming less and less frequent. When the disease has infected the skin, and the focus beneath is comparatively small, a thorough scraping will in many cases success- fully eradicate the disease. Scraping in scrofu- loderma is followed by a success which does not follow it in the treatment of lupus. But it is well to recall once more what has already been said, that these cases are in the province of the surgeon, and if the medical attendant is not prepared to take them thoroughly in hand and treat them radically, he ought to hand them over to some one who is. The other forms of tuberculosis are rarer, and hide their identity and nature under other names. Erythema induratum scropulosorum, or Bazin's disease, is an affection which occurs most frequently in girls and young women whose occupation involves a great deal of stand- ing. It attacks the legs only, usually the lower part of the calf, posteriorly. One or more nodules develop below the skin, which takes on a livid bluish colour. The nodule increases in size; and ultimately its centre breaks down; a slough separates, and the clinical resemblance to a syphilitic gumma becomes very close. An erroneous diagnosis is made. The patient is put to bed. Large doses of iodide of potassium are administered, and the patient has the ad- vantage of rest and the hospital diet. When recovery takes place, the credit is attributed to the accuracy of the diagnosis and the suita- bility of the treatment prescribed ; nevertheless, the patients do equally well if the iodide of potassium is omitted. Etiology. — Some observers are sceptical of the tuberculous nature of this malady, but bacilli have more than once been found ; inocu- lation experiments have several times been successful; the architecture of the growths is that of tuberculosis, and the positive evidence far outweighs the negative. According to Whitfield, two conditions are confused under this name—one a tuberculosis, and the other a condition of vascular origin. This latter form occurs, he says, in later life, and is associated with phlebitis and some en- dothelial proliferation. This second group of cases is very much more amenable to treatment, and often a week's rest is sufficient to clear up all the lesions. Diagnosis.—The seat of the disease, the age of the patient, the history of prolonged standing, and the peculiar livid-blue colour of the early lesions make the diagnosis comparatively easy. The only condition with which it can be con- fused is the syphilitic gumma, and tertiary symptoms in young girls are at least very exceptional. Erythema nodosum, which is also common in young girls, develops much more rapidly ; the lesions are both painful and tender, they are generally more numerous, and are situated on the front of the leg, whereas those of erythema induratum occur on the back and sides. Prognosis.—This is favourable; rest, etc., as described under treatment, almost always re- sulting in comparatively rapid recover3^ Treatment consists in rest in bed, elevation of the limb, generous diet, and the administration of cod-liver oil. The healing of the ulcers is often promoted by strapping of the part. Lichen Scropulosorum.—^This is an eruption which appears on the trunk of children who are suffering, or will suffer, from some form of tuberculosis. Most commonly it occurs in those who have either bone or lung disease; and in using the expression " will have," one of course labours under the difficulty that the recognition of the skin disease directs attention to the possibility, and leads to the sometimes success- ful treatment, of a tuberculosis which may not be otherwise recognisable. In this respect a knowledge of the disease is important, as it may be the first warning of the presence of tuberculosis. The eruption is usually on the trunk, although in exceptional cases it may spread to the limbs and face. The forms it assumes vary. Some of the papules very closely resemble lichen in their shape, and have the burnished top which is associated with that disease; but this is merely due to mechanical causes, and the papules have not the lilac colour of that disease. Others of them are pustular, while others, again, are covered with a tiny crust. Their distribution is irregiilar; but they show a tendency to group themselves in circles, and segments of such. This is merely due to the accident of a number of pustules being situated in the hair-follicles, whose natural arrangement they naturally follow. The lesions are, however, by no means restricted to the follicles, and for this reason the term of Folliculitis scrofulosorum, suggested by Unna, is probably no great improvement on the one which at present is in use.