319 SPKUE but during an attack of sore mouth there is a slight evening accession, and during the last few weeks or months of fatal cases a temperature between 100' and 102° or 103° F. is the rule. As weakness progresses a dry cough is often present, and the voice, at first hoarse and harsh, may be reduced to a whisper. The skin exhibits patchy brown pigment spots. Profuse night-sweats are frequently complained of. Slight inflammation of the rectum, attended by some blood and mucus in the stools, and with anal discomfort and pain, is common in fatal cases. The immediate cause of death is usually pneumonia or cardiac failure; the patient dies exhausted, worn out by the long period of physiological starvation of his tissues and organs. The duration of the disease is quite indefinite, amounting it may be to many years. Pathological Anatomy.—The body appears shrunken and emaciated, as in a person dead from starvation. Unless some inflammatory changes have supervened, the lungs appear pale and shrunken. The liver may be pale or very dark in colour, or at times bile-stained ; it is much reduced in bulk and weight. The spleen is small and usually anaemic. The stomach and intestine look pearly white, the stomach some- what distended, the small intestines atrophied or contracted, and the large intestine distended and its wall well-nigh translucent. The mucous and submucous tissues are loosely adherent to the muscular walls, and are easily stripped off the intestinal surface. No ulceration is met with in the small intestine, but here and there erosions occur in the large bowel and in the rectum. Microscopically examined, the epithelium of the intestine is found in parts to be lacking; the villi, Lieberkuhn's follicles, the solitary glands, and Peyer's patches are atrophied and in many parts have wholly disappeared. Other observa- tions are a cirrhotic condition of the submucous coat, and cyst-like dilatations of follicles in the submucous coat, filled with a gummy, semi- purulent-looking material. Fatty or amyloid degeneration of the intestinal mucous mem- brane has been noted, and atrophy (occasionally enlargement) of the mesenteric glands. Diagnosis.—Persistent mouth tenderness and diarrhoea are the two diagnostic features of sprue. Until these are established as something more than mere temporary derangements, such ailments as stomatitis, glossitis, and dyspeptic ulcers of the tongue may be mistaken for the be ginning of sprue. When the disease is established the bare surfaces of the oral, faucial, and pharyngeal surfaces, the gastro-intestinal condition, the distinctive stools, and the accom- panying loss of weight and anaemia characterise sprue with sufficient exactitude to allow of a positive diagnosis. The later stages of sprue resemble very closely the later stages of chronic dysentery, and it is chiefly by the antecedent history, in the absence of microscopic or bacterio- logical evidence, that a conclusion is arrived at. Amongst natives the condition of the mouth due to betel-chewing resembles very closely the appearance met with in sprue, but the red staining of the tongue and buccal cavity generally, and the absence of gastro-intestinal derangements in betel-chewers, at once difter- entiate the condition. Prognosis.—Sprue is always to be regarded as a serious ailment. In persons over fifty recoveries are rare, but in younger persons, if the disease is treated early, and especially if the patient can leave the warm climate where he or she contracted the disease and reside in a temperate climate, good hopes of recovery may be entertained. One of the most grave complications of sprue is pregnancy, the patient usually dying immediately or within a few days after the child is born, be it at the full time or somewhat prematurely. The treatment involves so great an amount of self-denial that but few have the fortitude to go through an uninter- rupted course of the dietetic restraint necessary. Treatment.—Dietetic Treatment.—1. The pure milk treatment consists in putting the patient upon milk, and milk only, for some con- siderable period, it may be for many months. It is wise to commence by keeping the patient in bed for say a month at least. The milk may be taken cold, warmed, scalded or boiled, according to taste. There is no doubt that sterilised, freshly drawn milk is the best form in which to exhibit milk when this can be had. The quantity of milk to be given in the twenty- four hours should not be less than four pints nor more than six. The patient should be fed every hour or every two hours; the milk should be sipped slowly, or taken even with a teaspoon. Aeration of the milk by some one of the patent methods of aeration without diluting the milk is to be commended. 2. Meat Diet.—The writer advocates meat diet in place of milk, holding that cure is de- layed by keeping the patient on milk. The effect of giving milk only is to bring about a stool which may be solid, but which is little more than a mass of soft, cheesy material having neither the faecal odour of a healthy stool nor with any of the evidence that the bile or in- testinal juices are called into play. The atrophy of the liver is a marked pathological feature of sprue, and as milk does not call the liver of an adult into physiological activity, that organ continues to atrophy and to become less and less active. The regime pursued in advanced cases of sprue, when the patient is very weak and anajmic, is to put the patient to bed, to feed the patient every hour, even every half-hour, or in desperate cases every five minutes it may be, with teaspoonfuls or dessertspoonfuls of beef juice made from the fresh beef, not the prepared article; and to supplement this with scraped