TETANY 568 cases. The following grouping is that adopted by Frankl-Hochwart in his elaborate paper:— Group I.—Cases ocmrring in Healthy Indi- viduals—Example: Epidemic Tetany.—Tetany may occur in epidemic form, the cases being acute, running a course of two or three weeks, and rarely proving fatal. Such outbreaks have been observed especially in certain parts of the continent of Europe (e.g. Vienna). Tlie victims are for the most part young men of the working- class, and particularly of certain trades. Frankl- Hochwart collected 360 cases from the registers of the General Hospital at Vienna between the years of 1880 and 1889. Of the total, 318 were men, and of these 141 were shoemakers and 72 were tailors. The majority of cases occurred in February, March, and April. Von Jaksch regards the disease as infectious. In 1876 a peculiar epidemic of tonic inter- mitting spasm appeared at a girls' school at Gentilly in France. Probably some of these cases were genuine tetany, and the remainder were hysterical simulations. Group II. — Tetany associated with Gastro- intestinal Ajfections.—Tetany may arise in de- finite association with various acute affections, such as acute dyspepsia, gastro-enteritis, peri- tonitis, and appendicitis. Diarrhoea plays a much more important part in causation when it is chi'onic and exhausting in character than when it is acute. Trousseau speaks of chronic diarrhoea as almost constantly present in his cases. In exceptional instances obstinate constipa- tion has been present, and the symptoms have been relieved by the administration of purga- tives. Catarrhal jaundice and the presence of entozoa have also been regarded as causes. Many cases of tetany have been observed in association with chronic affections of the stomach. Schlesinger speaks of a chronic benign form of tetany of gastric origin, and such a designation may be useful for the description of certain cases. A far more important group is formed by cases of a peculiarly severe type which occur in association with dilatation of the stomach. This association was described by Neumann in 1861, and by Kussmaul in 1869, and since then numerous cases have been reported. This form of the affection is usually very severe, and the mortality is very high. Frankl-Hochwart gives only one recovery in 11 cases of the more serious kind. In most instances of this class pyloric or duodenal disease has been present. In a few cases compression of the duodenum from without has been discovered post-mortem. Primary affections of parts of the stomach other than the duodenum, and primary atrophy of the stomach-walls, are much more rarely associated with this form of tetany. Group III.—Tetany in Acute Infectious Dis- eases.—Trousseau mot with many cases after cholera in 1854, and Aran after typhoid fever in 1855. Cases have also followed or compli- cated small-pox, measles, scarlet fever, diph- theria, influenza, pneumonia, malaria. Group IV.—Toxic Conditions.—Tetany has been attributed to definite toxic conditions, especially to chronic ergotism. It has, however, been suggested that such cases may have been true tetany due, not to a specific poison, but to " general deterioration of the health from a defective supply of nutriment" (C. H. Fagge). Alcohol, chloroform, morphia, and lead have also been regarded as possible causes in particu- lar cases. Albumin has been present in the urine in a number of cases, and glucose and acetone have also been found. Indicanuria is not infrequent, especially in children. Chronic disease of the kidneys has been discovered post-mortem in cases in which no abnormal constituents were noted in the urine during life. It has been suggested that such changes may indicate damage done to the kidneys during the excre- tion of some unknown toxic substance. Group Y.—Tetany in Pregnant, Parturient, and Nu7-sing Women.—In a large proportion of cases of tetany some debilitating influence is present. Prolonged lactation is an important cause which has been mentioned already. In such cases the incidence of the disease may be determined by fatigue or exposure to cold. The disease may occur during pregnancy, in which case the symptoms are more apt to appear in the later than in the earlier months. The affection may reappear during successive pregnancies. Young girls are said sometimes to be attacked shortly before puberty. Group VI.—Extirpation of the Thyroid.— Complete extirpation of the thyroid gland may be followed by tetany. Only one or two cases have been reported as occurring after partial excision. In one, at least, of these cases the part of the gland left behind was obviously diseased. Out of 78 cases of complete excision at Billroth's clinique 13 cases of tetany occurred. Tetany may be produced experimentally in dogs by excision of the thyroid. Symptoms. — (a) Prodromal Stage. — Some writers describe a prodromal stage, characterised by headache, backache, weariness, occasionally giddiness, and frequently digestive disturbance. These symptoms may last for a few days before a sensation of tingling in the extremities ushers in the characteristic motor symptoms. More commonly the affection begins acutely with little or no premonitory sensory disturbance. (b) Motor Symptoms. — Tiie characteristic symptom is spasm of the hands and feet. The spasm is usually symmetrical. The hands are aff'ected first, the feet later. In most cases the thumb is adducted or flexed on the palm, the fingers are pressed close together, slightly flexed at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, and extended at the terminal joints. The palm is hollowed