SPASM 259 the agency of poisons aftecting the spinal centres and nerves. 3. Spasm frequently occurs reflexly through irritation of sensory nerves. Irritation of the fifth nerve from carious teeth or a dental abscess may cause severe trismus or sometimes facial spasm. Joint inflammation may similarly cause spasm of muscles, preventing the joint from being moved, as is seen in arthritis of the temporo-maxillary joint causing trismus. Pain- ful spasm of the bile duct, ureter, and bladder are only too frequent results of irritation by calculus, as is also retention of urine from spasm of the sphincter vesicfe following operations about the rectum. Blepharospasm, or tonic contraction of the orbicularis palpebrarum, is associated with photophobia due to conjunc- tivitis, phlyctenular and other corneal ulcers. The afferent loop of the reflex arc in these cases is the fifth nerve, and the reflex spasm is not due directly to the light. Blepharospasm has indeed been recorded from corneal ulcers in a blind eye. Light falling on the retina rarely produces blepharospasm reflexly, though photo- phobia may be associated with optic atrophy, and unilateral blepharospasm be due to slight diplopia. Spasm of the ciliary muscle is not unfrequently met with in children, the subjects of hyperraetropia. This form of spasm should perhaps be included in the next section amongst the group of occupation neuroses, or fatigue spasms. 4. Clonic blepharospasm or twitching of the orbicularis palpebrarum is an instance of functional spasm more frequent in neurotic subjects, started sometimes by mimicry, but very difficult to cure. It is sometimes called convulsive tic, and is allied to other habit spasms, such as clonic contraction of the zygomatici or frontales, wrinkling of the eye- brows, sudden jerking movements of an arm, or sniffing. A curious spasmodic cough, known as the barking cough of puberty or cynobex hebetis, is also a form of habit spasm. Clonic contractions of the diaphragm, producing hiccough or singultus, is also sometimes functional in origin, though it may at other times apparently be started by irritation of the visceral branches of the vagus nerve. Parainyoclonus multiplex, or myoclonus, was originally described by Friedreich as clonic spasms in symmetrical muscles of all four limbs, ceasing during sleep and during voluntary movements. Further observation of cases has shown, however, that the spasms may affect the muscles of the trunk, and even of the face, in something less than half the number of cases. The ocular muscles always escape. Generally the muscles are affected symmetrically on the two sides of the body, sometimes only parts of muscles, the spasms being shock-like and not necessarily always synchronous or rhythmical. In severe cases, co-ordinated movements, such as walking, may be much interfered with, and in a certain proportion of cases epileptic fits also occur, the muscular spasms being generally worse immediately preceding the fits. Several members of the same family may be affected, males being mucii more frequently affected than females. There is generally complete absence of any trophic symptoms, and there is usually no alteration of sensation. The deep reflexes are generally increased. The disease is most likely to be confounded with chronic chorea, convulsive tic or habit spasm, and hysteria. From chorea, the symmetrical affection of the muscles in myoclonus, and the grouping of the affected muscles not resembling the psevido- voluntary movements of chorea, should suffice to distinguish the disease. In Electric Chorea or Dubini's disease, the acuteness of the onset, with pyrexia, followed by muscular atrophy and loss of electrical reaction, should prevent its being confounded with paramyoclonus. Myo- clonus runs a very chronic course, and though temporary cure may be met with, i-elapses are common. Death is usually due to intercurrent disease. Nodding spasm, head nodding or spasmus nutans, is a condition met with in young infants, due to clonic contractions of the deep cervical muscles, producing salaaming or nodding move- ments of the head. It is generally found associated with nystagmus, often of one eye only, and the children are often rickety. It is not of any serious import. In idiopathic epilepsy the stages of tonic and clonic convulsion in the fit are really instances of functional spasm—functional in the sense that no lesion has been found to account for them, though they no doubt depend on insta- bility of nutrition in certain areas, causing periodic explosions of nervous energy, often started by reflex causes. For the same reason the rigidity of paralysis agitans may be looked on as functional spasm, inasmuch as no lesion has yet been discovered in the nervous system which can adequately account for the disease. This rigidity, aifecting the muscles of the trunk, face, and limbs, and indeed almost all the muscles of the body, is perhaps the most char- acteristic feature of the disease, and has been supposed by Hughlings Jackson to depend on cerebellar influx into parts normally controlled by the cerebrum; the weakness being really due to a double hemiplegia of very gradual onset, often more marked on one side at first, due to some chronic nutritional change aifecting the nerve cells of the motor cortex, too fine, perhaps, to admit of microscopical demonstra- tion. Spasmodic torticollis is another example of functional spasm, sometimes purely tonic, though more often a combination of tonic and clonic spasm of the rotators of the head. Tor- ticollis may be produced by very different causes, and care must be taken to distinguish