205 SKIN GRAFTING AND ALLIED PROCEDUEES and pliable cicatrix, which will subsequently undergo a minimum amount of contraction. Natural Epidbrmisation of a Raw Surface. —The rapidity with which a raw surface is covered with epithelium by natural means depends on various factors, one of the most important of which is the depth to which the skin has been destroyed. As regeneration of the skin takes place from its middle and deep layers, when the destructive process has spared any portion of the rete Malpighi—as, for ex- ample, in a burn of the third degree—the surviving cells form islets of epithelium scattered over the surface of the sore, which by their increase in size materially help the marginal epithelium to form a protecting covering. Any of the lining cells of sebaceous glands, sweat glands, or hair follicles which have not been destroyed act in a similar manner. There is little doubt also that free epidermic cells from the surrounding skin, accidentally transferred to the raw surface—for example, in the serum of blisters, or in other ways—are also capable of starting healing centres on the surface of the sore. Another important factor in determining the rapidity of healing is the capacity of the sur- rounding tissues to contract. Where the skin is firmly bound down to an underlying fascia or bone, or where the tissues are oedematous or indurated, healing is materially impeded by interference with contraction which is so neces- sary to repair by the process of granulation. That a debilitated condition of the patient, or the presence of sepsis in the wound, retards healing goes without saying. Sources of Grafts.—Skin grafts may be taken from the patient himself {autoplastic grafts) ; or from another person (heteroplastic); or they may be derived from one of the lower species (zoo-plastic). There is little doubt that the most satisfactory source is the patient himself. There is evidence that disease has been transmitted from one person to another through the medium of skin grafts; and a reasonable, although partly sentimental, ob- jection may be raised to the use of grafts taken from the cadaver or from a recently amputated limb. Grafts taken from the lower species have been extensively employed, a great variety of epithelial structures having been experimented with. Thus the lining membrane of the hen's egg, the skin of the frog, the inner surface of a pullet's wing, the skin of pups, kittens, pigs, rabbits, and guinea-pigs have all been used, but with few exceptions the resvilts have been less satisfactory than those obtained by grafts taken from the human subject. It is generally recog- nised by those who have had experience of this method that the skin of yovmg animals yields the best results, probably because of its great potential power of growth. Terminology. — Inasmuch as the material used in the different skin-grafting processes, as well as the method of using it, varies con- siderably, it seems desirable to employ terms which are descriptive of the various procedures practised. Some surgeons have suggested the term skin transportation as applicable to such measures as involve the transference of the whole thickness of the skin from one part to another, reserving the term shin grafting for cases where something less than the whole thickness of the skin is used. Such a dis- tinction cannot be maintained, because in the latter case it is merely epithelium which is employed, and in both the grafting process is effected by transportation. A more accurate and practically useful no- menclature would be: (a) Epithelium sowing (methods of See, Lister); (b) Epithelium graft- ing (methods of Reverdin, Thiersch, Oilier, Lusk); (c) Shin grafting (methods of Krause, Wolff; and the method of grafting from the lower animals). Cases Suitable.—Skin grafting is applicable to the treatment of all varieties of external ulcers, especially such as result from burns or scalds. After crushes, machinery accidents, or septic processes, involving wide destruction of the skin also, healing is greatly expedited by the use of skin grafts. The raw surfaces left after excising patches of lupus, epithelioma, or other forms of tumour implicating the skin may be at once covered by skin grafts. Similar measures are frequently employed in rectifying deformities, whether due to congenital defects, such as extroversion of the bladder, or to the results of injury or disease, as in ectropion, destruction of the nose or cheek, and mastoid fistulse. Suitable Surface.—Opinions vary as to the most suitable surface on which to place skin grafts. Some surgeons prefer a fresh raw surface made by the knife ; others are content with a healthy layer of granulation tissue ; while others employ the surface left after scraping away the superficial layer of granulations. All are agreed, however, that the factors of primary importance are, that the surface shall be free of active septic organisms, that it shall have a good vascular supply, and that the tissues surrounding it shall be free of inflamma- tion, oedema, or induration. In the case of a granulating surface, the marginal epithelium should show evidence of proliferation, in the form of a dry, reddish blue zone round the edge of the sore. As the grafts maintain their vitality and power of reproduction by becoming vascularised from below, the surface which most readily facilitates the growth of young capillaries into them is theoretically the best. From its structure, direction of growth, and functional activity, a healthy granulating surface would