139 SHOCK See also Abdomen, Injuries of {Influence of Nervous System, Symptoms, Treatment); Catheters, Uses and Dangers of (Syncope); Chorea [Etiology); Enemata {Saline, in Shock following Haemorrhage); First Aid {Shock and its Treatment); Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis {Symptoms, Shock and Peritonism). The word "shock" is used in surgical literature to denote a state of prostration produced by abnormal excitation of the peripheral nervous system, and is thus distinguishable from "con- cussion," which follows direct force applied to the central nervous system. " Syncope " and " collapse," often considered as special conditions, are in reality only degrees of shock, the former being the first symptom, and collapse the last, in a severe case. Some physicians prefer to use the term " collapse" for that condition of exhaustion brought about by chronic wasting diseases, severe toxic affec- tions {e.g. typhoid fever, cholera), or poisons introduced from without. A more comprehensive enunciation of " shock " would be—the arrest of some func- tions of the nervous system and a partial suspension of others, produced by afferent nerve impulses conveyed to the brain by the sensory and sympathetic nerve fibres. The impulses may be transmitted by:— (1) Nerves of special sense, e.g. (a) the sight of a catastrophe; {b) the hearing of serious news, or heartrending shrieks ; (c) the inhalation of irritating fumes into the nose. (2) Nerves of common sensation, e.g. trauma by injury, heat, cold, or chemicals to any part of the body, the parts more highly endowed with sensation more readily resulting in shock —extensive superficial burns and crushes of the fingers may be instanced; and (3) Sympathetic nerves plus nerves of ordinary sensation, e.g. injury to the thoracic or abdominal viscera. The condition of the central nervous system has also to be considered in regard to (1) Sensitiveness to impressions: emotional or nervous people, highly organised or highly civilised individuals being more susceptible than the phlegmatic or savage. It has been observed by physiologists that the more com- plex the nervous system of an animal, the greater the liability to and the intensity of shock. (2) Altered conductivity of the nerve fibres and resistance of the nerve cells to impressions from {a) their inherent vigour; {b) intense concentration of mind: a soldier in battle may be seriously injured and yet continue fighting; (c) abeyance of function from anaesthesia, general or local, or from the action of drugs (e.g. alcohol and opium). Symptoms.—In mild cases the patient feels momentarily faint, the skin turns a little pale, and almost as quickly again, as if by an effort of will or inhibition, recovers. If severe, he staggers towai'ds a seat or falls, the lips become livid or bloodless, the skin pale, and there may even be partial loss of consciousness. Respiration may be temporarily suspended, then reappear in shallow gasps, wanting the relief of sighs. The heart beats feebly and frequently, and the pulse of course likewise. Surface temperature is much reduced (although the rectal temperature may be only down a degree or two). A cold perspiration bespangles the brow, and the individual exists by reason of the automatic action of his two essential centres—the cardiac and respiratory—his irreducible minimum. The patient loses heat rapidly in ordinary surroundings, and the feeble circulation means feeble oxidation of the tissues and deficient interchange of oxygen and carbonic acid ; continued exposure, particularly if the trauma be severe or continuous, will rapidly bring about a fatal result. Should the traumat- ism be severe, as in the crushing of a limb, or an electric shock of high voltage, the cardiac and respiratory apparatus may be immediately arrested, and death be instantaneous. In severe burn cases there is probably added a toxic element derived from the destroyed skin and blood, and we often notice gasping respira- tions, an intensely livid colour of countenance, paralysis of the sphincters, and rapid heart failure. If loss of blood be large, then we have in addition singing noises in the head, increas- ing pallor, rapid failure of pulse, great restless- ness, and gasping respirations. Signs of Recovery.—Increase of surface warmth, return of colour to the lips and skin, improvement in the volume and steadiness of the pulse. Respiration becomes deeper and fuller, often accompanied by deep sighs. The temperature of the body rises, and occasionally goes above normal, the patient becomes more conscious of his surroundings and his pain, he often vomits, particularly if the stomach has been full at the time of injury, and one of the first requirements asked for is " a drink." Occasionally during apparent recovery, excite- ment and delirium supervene—the prostration with excitement of Travers; but careful investi- gation reveals either a previous history of alcoholism, some internal hsemorrhage, or septic complication. So-called traumatic delirium, except in the above conditions, is practically unknown. Deferred shock is a term that has been loosely applied. That some patients from force of will power, or extreme desire to reach some haven of safety, can command strength to get there before collapsing, is well known. Again, individuals deeply alcoholised are met with so insensible to afferent impulses that they stump into the casualty room on the broken end of a tibia, often rendering a simple Pott's