429 SUNSTROKE protected. A great variety of hats and helmets has been invented and used, but for lightness and efficiency the pith helmet or sola topi is probably the best. A white cotton cover is useful, a pugri with fall over the nape is often added, a ventilating chamber and aperture are advisable, and the rim should extend well over the forehead, temples, and nape of neck. A little cotton-wool or a large fresh leaf placed in the crown is recommended. In view of the possible operation of X-rays it has been proposed to insert a thin metallic lining in the helmet; but some experiments made by Major Dick, R.A.M.C., at Netley indicate that metallic foil, even when doubled or qiiadrupled, does not arrest these rays materially, the number of the helmet on the opposite side being sharply photo- graphed through it. The spine should be protected by a plate of sola or a piece of cotton quilting which can be sewn into the coat. Clothing should be light and loose. Cotton is probably the best material for outer garments, and white the best colour, but some prefer jute, or silk, or flannel. The underclothing shovild be woollen, or a mixture of silk and wool, thin and cellular. Clothes should be changed as often as they get soaked, and the skin rubbed dry. " Goggles " are useful to prevent glare and the possible entry of harm- ful rays through the eyes. Food should be light and non-stimulating, and alcohol taken very sparingly if at all. Thirst should be liber- ally satisfied with cooled or iced water, or aerated drinks; tea is safe and refreshing. Physical fatigue and mental worry should be eschewed, and all influences avoided which tend to depress the health or spirits. Sleep is of great import- ance, and all arrangements and expedients conducive to it should be adopted. Moderate exercise is beneficial, and should be taken in the early morning or late evening. Violent exercise is dangerous. Bathing is an invariable daily habit in the tropics. Cold or chilled water is generally used, but under some circumstances may be risky. A tepid bath after severe exertion is more safe and soothing. It is im- portant to guard against constipation of the bowels, and promote the free action of skin and kidneys. Late hours should be avoided, and work after dinner is apt to interfere with sleep. Any fever, malarious or other, should be promptly attended to and carefully watched. With good health and care, tropical heat, even of high degree, need not be feared, especially if dry. Treatment.—(1) Of Heat Shock.—Persons suffering from heat exhaustion or syncope should be promptly removed to the coolest, airiest, and best-shaded place available, and laid in the recumbent position with the head low; clothing should be loosened, neckties, collars, belts, etc., removed, and smart douching of head and chest resorted to. Should fainting continue, ammonia inhalations may be employed. a little brandy and water administered by mouth or rectum, or a hypodermic injection of ether given. Flicking with wet towels and the application of brandy or mustard to the prsecor- dium are sometimes necessary, and in obstinate cases artificial respiration may have to be used and continued until the breathing improves and consciousness returns. The pulse and tempera- ture should be carefully watched, and subsequent exposure and exertion should be absolutely avoided in these cases, even when rapid restora- tion takes place. In cases of sudden and suddenly fatal seizures caused by acute direct exposure, as in the 98th Regiment in China and the 35th Sikhs at Dargai, no time or oppor- tunity is given for treatment. If coagulation of cardiac myosin has occurred, treatment is obviously hopeless ; but as long as there is any indication of life no case of sunstroke should be despaired of or abandoned. (2) Of Heat Fever.—Reduction of tempera- ture is the cardinal indication of treatment in thermic fever. The precautions as regards shade, posture, and clothing above noted should be promptly adopted. The application of cold to the surface by means of douching, spraying, packing, baths, ice-bags, towels wrung out of iced water, etc., should be immediate, effective, and sustained. The thermometer should be freqviently used, and when a reduction of body temperature of 4° or 5° F. has taken place the cold treatment should be suspended or watched. If urgent cerebral symptoms are present, a turpentine enema is indicated. Unloading the bowels is advisable in all cases, and cold enemata assist in reducing temperature. In protracted cases rectal alimentation may have to be em- ployed. The use of antipyretics is not advis- able on account of their depressing effect. A moderate venesection may be tried in cases of dilated right heart and embarrassment due to distended venous trunks. Some physicians advise the administration of quinine as a routine practice. If there is any suspicion of malaria, quinine should be given in decided doses and repeatedly, preferably by subcutaneous or inter- muscular injection. Digitalis is recommended by Chandler, forty minims of the tincture hypo- dermically. Pilocaipin has been injected in order to induce sweating when the skin is dry. Cautious chloroform and ether inhalations are the best means of moderating convulsions and spasms. Morphia and atropin have been in- jected in small doses for the same purpose. Prolonged change to a cool climate is imperative in cases of severe sunstroke. The sequelae of sunstroke are best treated by rest, regimen, and climate. Counter-irritation, massage, and iodide of potassium are useful when symptoms indicate chronic meningitis. Super-.—In compound words super- means above, upon, or excessive (Lat. super, above);