261 SPASM have more chance of success in dissipating hysterical paralysis if the patient has had no previous experience of the battery, and if the treatment is applied fairly sharply, after he or she has been reassured as to the good effects the treatment will have. For this reason, in hospital I prefer to treat a case of hysterical paralysis in the electrical room, where the patient is confronted with strange surroundings and a large battery, than to take a smaller battery up to the ward, where the surroundings are more familiar and the atmosphere generally more sympathetic. In such cases it is the moral effect of the severe treatment in stimu- lating the sensorium which effects a cure, not the actual electricity. Organic spasm should be treated by massage and by sedatives, as bromide. Occasionally opium is of service, though care must be taken in its use. The constant current applied to the part is sometimes of great benefit, and should be given with the anode over the seat of spasm, and a large plate for kathode on the spine. This treatment, with the addition of small doses of opium, may sometimes considerably redvice the spasm in spasmodic torticollis. The rigidity of the arm and leg following hemiplegia is usu- ally considerably benefited by the sinusoidal current together with massage. This is very easily applied where the alternating current is used for electric lighting, by using a simple transformer or volt-regulator, and connecting it up to two electrodes placed in a foot-bath and arm-bath respectively, in which the patient places his paralysed foot and forearm for twenty minutes daily. Facial spasm following neuritis is most persistent, and is best treated by gentle massage. Electricity perhaps does more harm than good in these cases after spasm has become established. Habit spasm of the face or convulsive tic should be treated by the administration of arsenic and iron, with occa- sional sedatives administered beforehand if the patient has to expose himself to any excitement. In children habit spasm can often be cured by change of scene and general surroundings, and the promise of reward for each day passed without any spasms is likely to do good by its constant restraining effect on the cerebrum. Punishment is worse than useless. It should also be borne in mind that habit spasm in the young is occasionally the result of self-abuse, and requires appropriate treatment. Spasmus Nutans. See Head-Shak- ing ; Spasm {Nodding Spasm). Spastic.—-Relating to or produced by spasm; of the nature of spasm, e.g. spastic paraplegia. See Brain, Cysts of the {Poren- cephaly) ; Deformities {Arising from Infantile Hemiplegia and Spastic Paralysis); Paralysis {Spastic Paralysis, Varieties); Toxicology (Vege- table Foods, Spasmodic Ergotism). Spasticity. See Spasm {Physiology of Cramp). Spatula.—A flat blade of metal or wood used to depress the tongue in examinations of the pharynx, or (in Pharmacy) to mix ointments (Gr. a-irdOyj, a broad blade). Spaying'. — Removal of the ovaries; oophorectomy (Gr. o-Traoj, I draw out or pluck off). See Ovaries, Diseases of {Removal). Speaker's Cramp. See Neuroses, Occupation {Etiology). Specialism.—The devotion of a medical man to one special branch of medical or surgical practice, e.g. dermatology, ophthalmology, gyne- cology, or insanity; the branch so practised is termed his speciality, and he is termed a specialist (a skinj specialist, an eye specialist, etc.). Specific.—Anything which is distinctly defined or determined is called specific, e.g. specific immunity {see Immunity) or specific gravity {see Blood, Estimation of Specific Gravity); also, a medicine which has a definite and well-marked curative effect in a particular disease {e.g. quinine in malaria); also, in a restricted sense, syphilitic {see Syphilis). Spectacles. See Refraction. Spectra. See Spectroscope in Medicine. See also Blood {Spectroscopic Examination); Colour Vision ; HjEmaturia {Spectroscopic Ex- amination) ; H^matoporphyrinuria ; HiEMO- globinuria ; Pigments of the Body and Ex- creta. Spectroscope in Medicine. Preliminary Physical Considerations . 261 Description of Different Forms op Spectroscope ..... 262 Classification of Spectra . . . 263 Method op Using the Spectroscope in the Study of Absorption Spectra . 263 Description of the Absorption Spectra OF some Pigments of Medical Im- portance . . . . . .265 Influence of Various Conditions on the Character of the Absorption Spectra ...... 265 See also Blood {Spectroscopic Examination) ; Colour Vision {Spectra); H^ematuria; H^emato- porphyrinuria ; Hemoglobinuria ; Physiology, Blood {Spectritm Analysis) ; Pigments of the Body and Excreta. Preliminary Physical Considerations. — Viewed from the physical standpoint light con- sists of waves in a medium called the ether which fills space. In the waves of light the motion of the particles is transverse to the direction of propagation of the disturbance.