106 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE a hypodermic syringe readily reveals their nature. When situated at the lower end of the cord and of large size they resemble a vaginal hydrocele or an encysted hydrocele of the epi- didymis, but can be distinguished from these conditions by the testicle below being separable from the tumour. Treatment.—Tapping may be tried for their relief in the iirst instance, but should they refill, complete excision is a safe and radical pro- cedure. Enucleation more accurately describes the removal of these cysts than excision ; for if care be taken to cut quite down to the pi-oper sac of the hydrocele, which may be distinguished by its thinness over its containing fluid, and by the entire absence of blood-vessels from its walls, the unopened cyst may be shelled out of its bed without difficulty. Hydrocele "e7i bissac" is a term applied (1) to a vaginal hydrocele which is constricted transversely at some part, and has in conse- quence assumed the shape of an hour-glass ; the constriction depending on a localised structural resistance in the walls of the tunica preventing uniform distension of the sac, and (2) to the abdominal variety of infantile hydro- cele already described (p. 104). Encysted Hydrocele of the Testis and of the Epididy7nis.—The fluid is contained in a sac distinct from that of the tunica vaginalis; the conditions must be distinguished from hydro- celes of the cord and of the tunica vaginalis. It occurs in two varieties :— Encysted hydrocele of the epididymis. Encysted hydrocele of testis (proper). Encysted hydrocele of the epididymis is not uncommon in middle-aged and elderly men. Two forms have to be distinguished:—1. The commoner, consisting of large cysts containing spermatozoa, and originating within the epididy- mis. 2. The rarer, consisting of small subserous cysts outside the epididymis and not containing spermatozoa. The latter are small sessile or pedunculated cysts, rarely as large as a pea, contain a little serum only. They give rise to no symptoms, and call for no treatment. They are developed from the so-called hydatid of Morgagni, which is a remnant of the Mtillerian ducts. The larger variety of cysts is much more im- portant. They are usually found close to the upper part of the epididymis, and arise inside its parenchyma. They are often multiple, and may attain the size of an adult fist. They in- crease slowly in size, and are composed of deli- cate fibro-cellular tissue, lined by stratified, cubical, columnar, or ciliated epithelium. Their contents are limpid and colourless, or opalescent, of low specific gravity (1004), alkahne, contain only a trace of albumin, and are rich in salts, chiefly sodium chloride. They usually contain spermatozoa, which are sometimes quiescent and disintegrating, sometimes immature, but sometimes showing lively movements and well- developed structure. The origin of these cysts has been much discussed. They may begin in an efferent seminal tube, or as a simple serous cyst, into which a tube opens, or, what is more probable, from Kobelt's tubes. Sutton has re- marked, " It is a curious fact that these cysts arise in those structures which in the female give rise to parovarian cysts, and are therefore morphologically homologous with them." Symptoms of Encysted Hydrocele of the Epi- didymis.—These are little marked at first, the onset being very insidious, and the growth slow. While small these cysts feel something like and have been mistaken for an additional testicle. Their shape is often globular and somewhat bossy. When large or multiple the outline be- comes irregular or pyriform with the broad end upwards, but they seldom attain to the size of a vaginal hydrocele; they are fluctuant and transparent. The testis should always be made out, and will be found below and never behind the swelling. The tumour cannot be separated from the testis; all movements of one are fol- lowed by the other. Puncture with a fine trocar, and a chemical and microscopical examination of the fluid settles the question at once. Treatment.—These cysts may exist for many years without encumbrance, and no treatment may be indicated. Simple puncture and empty- ing will often suffice if anything has to be done ; but if more radical measures are called for, excision of the cysts should be preferred to the less certain and more troublesome method by injection of fluid irritants. " The cyst must be fully exposed through a free incision in the scrotum, and its capsule freed as far as possible by careful dissection, so as to enucleate it from its bed without opening it; if the sac is opened its walls must be stripped away from their connections, taking care not to damage the testis or the epididymis. All bleeding points in the scrotal tissues must be secured, the wound closed with deep sutures, and dry aseptic dressings applied; the whole being well sup- ported by a triangular bandage. Encysted Hydrocele of the Testis {proper).— This rare form of tumour is situated between the tunica albuginea and the inner layer of the tunica vaginalis, or in the substance of the tunica albuginea itself. The cysts are usually single, of small size, and situated nearly always on the anterior surface of the testis. It is probable that they originate in small hismorrhages which have become encapsulated. They may be recognised as very slowly forming small round tense swellings on the surface of an otherwise healthy testicle, and seldom call for treatment. Complications of Hydrocele.—A hydrocele may be complicated (1) by the coexistence of one or more hydroceles, or (2) by the presence of a hernia. (1) Multiple Hydroceles.—The combination