SYMPATHETIC OPHTHALMITIS 451 give rise to but slight injection, and little, if any, permanent defect of sight. Time of Incubation.—The length of time which elapses between the receipt of an injury and the onset of inflammation in the sym- pathising eye is usually from four to eight weeks. That is to say, it is most liable to occur during the time at which the inflamma- tion in the exciting eye is most acute. As the intensity of this subsides, so the risk of its transmission decreases. Though in the large majority of cases sym- pathetic ophthalmitis manifests itself at the time above mentioned, it may occur either sooner or later. It has been met with as early as two weeks after the receipt of injury. On the other hand, an interval of several years has elapsed—as many as twenty in some cases. When there has been a very long interval, careful inquiry will generally elicit a history of some fresh injuiy, or fresh attack of inflamma- tion or irritability in the exciting eye, shortly before the onset of the sympathetic disease. Natural History of Affection in the Sym- pathising Eye.—The onset of an attack of sym- pathetic ophthalmitis is sometimes, but by no means necessarily, preceded by symptoms of sympathetic irritation {see p. 452). Very often it begins without any premonitory warnings— mistiness of vision, floating opacities in front of the eye, or a slight amount of redness and pain being the symptoms which first attract the patient's attention. One of the earliest changes to be found in the eye is a number of fine dotted opacities on the lower part of the posterior surface of the cornea, which are usually arranged in a little triangular area, with its apex upwards. The dots at first are often very small, and only to be detected on magnification. They are generally of a greyish colour, but some of them may be pigmented; later they tend to increase in size so as to be easily discernible with the naked eye. The condition is commonly spoken of as " Keratitis Punctata," a name which unfortun- ately gives a wrong impression as to its mode of origin, for the dots are not the result of inflammation of the cornea, but are deposits on its posterior surface of inflammatory cells from the aqueous humour, thrown out by the ciliary body. In association with dots on the back of the cornea, opacities can generally be detected in the vitreous humour, also due to eff'usion from the inflamed ciliary body. At first they are often only of a fine, dvist-like character, producing an ill-defined haze, but may later be- come more pronounced. The amount of injec- tion of the ciliary blood-vessels is at first slight, but increases in intensity as the disease pro- gresses. In a case seen in an early stage there will be no difficulty in obtaining a full and regular dilatation of the pupil with atropine, and in mild cases of the disease which remain through- out of the serous type, it may be possible to keep the pupil so dilated through the whole course of the attack. When, however, as is very commonly the case, the disease assumes a plastic form, the pupil, in spite of the most energetic use of mydriatics, slowly contracts; adhesions of a firm and tenacious character form between the whole length of the posterior surface of the iris and the lens capsule, a membrane of organised inflammatory products at the same time de- veloping in the pupil. This tendency of the pupil to contract in spite of mydriatics, forms a very characteristic symptom of iritis of sym- pathetic origin. The iris becomes altered in colour. If blue, it assumes a dull greenish hue; if brown, a dull, dirty brown. Sometimes the blood-vessels of the iris may become so enlarged as to be visible to the naked eye. In the milder cases of sympathetic ophthal- mitis, from first to last the tension will remain normal. Increase of tension may occur in an early stage before the formation of any synechiee, due in part to the difl&culty which the aqueous, altered by the admixture with it of inflammatory products, has in escaping from the eye ; and in .part to the excess of fluid thrown into the eye by the inflamed ciliary body. More often, however, increase of tension is not met with until the later stages of the disease, when ad- hesions have formed between the iris and lens capsule, which obstruct the passage forwards of fluid from the vitreous into the anterior chamber. As a final stage of all, in some of the worst cases the secretion of intra-ocular fluid becomes arrested from destruction of the secreting area of the ciliary body ; the vitreous atrophies ; the retina is detached, and the globe becomes soft and shrunken—the condition which is spoken of as " phthisis bulbi" being established. The anterior chamber in the early stages of the affection, when it is of entirely a serous type, is usually deeper than normal. Later on, when extensive posterior synechise have formed, and there is obstruction to the passage of fluid forwards, it becomes shallowed and may be almost obliterated. Sometimes in late stages of the disease, from the organisation and con- traction of inflammatory products adherent to the posterior surface of the iris, the outer margin of that structure becomes drawn back towards the circumlental space, and a deepened condition of the anterior chamber at its peri- phery is produced. In sympathetic ophthalmitis, the structures at the anterior part of the eye, the iris and ciliary body, are more frequently and more ex- tensively involved than those at the posterior part, the choroid and retina. On account of