522 TEETH instruments, and the surfaces carefully polished, and this operation should only be carried out in healthy mouths and on teeth of good quality. Perhaps no operation on the body is so suc- cessful as that of tooth filling, restoring as it does the tooth to its original size and function. Various substances are in use for filling teeth— cements, oxyphosphate of zinc, guttapercha, amalgam, tin and gold foil, porcelain fillings. Before introducing any filling material the carious tissue must be removed and the cavity shaped to retain it, sharp excavators or burs are used, and all thin and overhanging enamel edges removed. Choquet has shown that caries can progress below a tight filling, and more especially would this be the case if any softened carious tissue is left. The oxyphosphate cements are useful, being somewhat non-condiicting, and adhere closely to the walls of the tooth cavity, but are more or less rapidly dissolved by the secretions of the mouth; they are very useful in lining sensitive cavities, inserting a metallic filling on the top. A recent introduction, oxy- phosphate of copper, which possesses antiseptic properties, promises to be useful, especially for temporary teeth. Guttapercha is a most useful filling in cases of hypersensitive teetli, and it is the only filling that is of any avail in some such cases; the variety that lasts best in the mouth is pink in colour, and is sold for making base plates; its non-conductivity is an important factor, and it seems to get harder in the mouth after insertion, and lasts remarkably well even on masticatory surfaces. Amalgams, which consist mainly of tin, silver, or gold in various propor- tions, are extensively used in filling teeth, but should only be used in posterior teeth owing to their tendency to discolour the teeth. Copper is sometimes added also, so as to get antiseptic eflPects. The amalgam reduced to filings is triturated in a mortar with mercury, and a stiff paste formed, which is piece by piece introduced into the dried and sterilised cavity till it is packed quite full, and it usually hardens in an hour or two. In deep cavities near the pulp it may be necessary to line with guttapercha or cement first, to prevent the conduction of changes of temperature through the metallic filling from irritating the pulp, as it has a ten- dency in some cases to do. A mixture of cement and amalgam filling is sometimes used for sensi- tive or fragile teeth. In filling teeth with whatever material it is essential that the saliva be excluded from the cavity, as it is laden with micro-organisms. A sheet of thin rubber is used largely for this purpose. A series of round holes suitable in size for the teetli it is desired to protect are punched in the material, and each one slipped over the tooth and forced close up to the neck of the tooth, tying it in place with a piece of waxed silk thread: this ab- solutely excludes moisture, and enables the operator to treat antiseptically or otherwise teeth requiring such treatment. Saliva ejectors, for the removal of the saliva, may be employed also, or rolls of cotton-wool, etc. Gold Filling.—This material is more usually employed than almost any other, the gold being introduced into the cavity, and welded by special instruments serrated at their points, pressure being applied by the hand, or by means of an automatic mallet or electric plugger. The gold is used in the form of cohesive or non- cohesive foil in the shape of ropes, pellets, cylinders, etc. Cohesive gold is obtained by heating to a dull red any form of pure gold, and a filling can be built up so as to replace the lost portion of a tooth. Cenerally two little pits are drilled at each angle on the base of the cavity, which are filled up with gold and bridged over, forming the foundation of the whole super- structure. The whole surface, on being finished and contoured, is smoothed and burnished with sand-paper discs, etc. Non-cohesive gold is used mainly in the form of cylinders which are packed and wedged against one of the walls of the cavity, filling up till quite full, and, to obtain a harder surface, it is usual to finish up with cohesive gold. The great objection to gold and amalgam fillings are their unsightly colour, and the irritation often produced on tlie sensitive dental pulps by their conductivity of thermal changes, frequently resulting in acute pulpitis and suppuration, has led within recent years to the extended use of porcelain fillings, either ground to fit the cavity or, what is better, fused in a platinum or gold matrix previously bur- nished and fitted to the tooth cavity. The great advantages of this material are apparent: (1) its non-conductivity ; (2) the ease with which the colour of the tooth can be matched; (3) the strength and resistance it possesses. The cavity must be quite open, no undercuts, all the edges smooth and sharply outlined. A piece of very thin platinum foil is laid over it, and pressed into the cavity by means of amadou, or pieces of chamois skin, and a ball- shaped burnisher, till it fits accurately. It is then carefully lifted out without disturbing it, placed in a mixture of plaster of Paris and fine asbestos. When this material is hard, the cavity in platinum is built up by degrees with a paste of the porcelain chosen, and each layer melted, as added, in Mitchell's electric or other furnace, two or three minutes for each layer being all that is necessary for low-fusing porce- lains, the higher fusing not having any great advantages over the low When the matrix is full up to the edges and glazed, the inlay can be separated from the platinum, roughened somewhat with a diamond or other disc, and inserted into the tooth with a thin creamy cement of the proper shade. A series of matching shades are given with the material, so there is no difiiculty about getting the right one. The author has frequently put porcelain/