210 SLEEP, NORMAL AND MORBID iew workers have devoted their attention to its study. Our knowledge of the conditions of sleep, both normal and morbid, and their re- lationship to different diseases, is still extremely meagre. Most writers have devoted their atten- tion to the interpretation of dreams and allied phenomena, and in the immense mass of litera- ture now available there appears to be a ten- dency to attach to these phenomena a pro- phetic and miraculous significance rather than a rational and physiological explanation. Normal Sleep.—Various alterations in the •organic functions occur during sleep. Respira- tion becomes slower, and the amount of inspired air diminished. In man, costal respiration pre- dominates. The elimination of carbonic acid is diminished and absorption of oxygen in- creased. All alcoholic drinks, tea, and the ethereal oils considerably diminish the elimina- tion of carbonic acid, and probably increase the absorption of oxygen (Vierordt). The ingestion of food has also some relation to the gaseous exchange in our bodies during sleep. Cardiac action is slower and less energetic, blood pressure falls, and the peripheral vessels dilate. The pulse may slacken or become acceler- ated. The temperature usually falls. Enlarge- ment of the limbs occurs, the increased volume being due to the venous engorgement arising in consequence of relaxation of the cutaneous vessels. The sweat glands of the skin act more freely during sleep, hence the greater liability to chills than when awake. The internal organs are usually somewhat antemic, and at night-time their functions are more or less enfeebled. The observations of Busch (Virchow's Archiv, 1858, Bd. xiv.) seem to ■demonstrate that in sleep during the day the bodily functions continue, and the stomach, etc., are active. At night-time, however, their activity is diminished. Hence it is that noc- turnal employments are antiphysiological, and the bodily economy and metabolism can only be adjusted with great difficulty. The kidneys usually remain active during sleep, or if they are less active it is due to greater activity of the skin. With sleeplessness the circulation becomes accelerated and the blood impoverished owing to the diminution of the number of red blood corpuscles. The nervous system undergoes certain modifications during sleep. The knee- jerks become less active or may disappear entirely during deep sleep ; but when there are intercurrent cerebral activities going on, as manifested in hypnagogic and dream states, they may become more active. Rosenbach {Zeitschrift f. klinische Med., 1881, Bd. Heft 2) observed the reflexes excited in children by tickling the palm of the hand, the sole of the foot, and occasionally other parts of the body; also the cremasteric abdominal and tendon re- flexes and the pupil reaction. At bedtime, and when sleepy, reflex excitability increases — a stage of restlessness comparable to the convul- sive stage of chloroform narcosis. During the first period of sleep, and while it is still light, there is weakening of reflexes and commencing contraction of pupil; in the second or deeper period, abdominal, cremasteric, and tendon re- flexes are abolished; in deepest sleep, tickling the sole of the foot, the nose, or ear still causes reflex movement (Marie de Manac^ine, Sleep: its Physiology, Pathology, etc., p. 25). It is generally supposed that the brain be- comes anaemic during sleep, and the interesting observations of Tarchanoff, Wedensky, Waller, Bowditch, Despine, Moreau, and others seem to demonstrate that during sleep, although the cortex cerebri ceases to react consciously to various stimuli, nevertheless the stimuli are transmitted as if the sensory nerves were in full activity. The numerous examples of appro- priate reactions to certain stimuli performed during sleep lead us to believe that the reflex arc is functionally active and awake and inde- pendent of consciousness. From the fact that stimulation of the optic, olfactory, auditory, gustatory, and cutaneous sensory nerves is attended by appropriate reactions, it is also assumed that the cerebral centres concerned with the reflex mechanism may also be awake during sleep. Possibly in dreams the activities existing in the centres may give rise to excita- tions or images which are consciously perceived. The Theories of Sleep.—It is impossible here to consider all the various theories as to the causation of sleep. It has been attributed to the action of this or that organ, such as the thyroid gland (Forneris), the arachnoid plexus (Osborne), the basal ganglia (Purkinje); to cerebral anfemia (vaso-motor theory); to ac- cumulation of lymph in the lymphatic spaces round the cerebral vessels ; to chemical changes in the brain-cells or neurons—such as an ex- haustion of their intramolecular oxygen, or an accumulation of the products of excessive meta- bolism in the form of leucomaines or poisonous alkaloids. The accumulation of these waste products of metabolism produces fatigue and sleep, and during sleep the process of oxidation aids the removal of the waste products. Too protracted mental strain or insomnia results in failure to completely remove or oxidise the toxic products, and instead of narcosis, excite- ment or even convulsions are apt to supervene. The Depth of Sleep.—Hughlings Jackson has likened dreaming to insanity. He suggests several degrees of the normal dissolution of sleep : (1) Sleepiness, (2) sleep with dreaming, (3) sleep with actions (somnambulism), and (4) deep so-called dreamless slumber. He thinks at least (2), (3), and (4) ought to be considered as different depths of dissolution of the highest cerebral centres, with, (2) and (3) and possibly in (4), lower ranges of evolution remaining in those centres.