SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL CHILDREN, MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF 59 See also Chest, Deformities of ; Children, Development op ; Children, Clinical Ex- amination OF ; Chorea {Etiology, Imitation at School); Colour Vision ; Deafmutism ; De- formities ; Diphtheria {Etiology, School Influ- ence) ; Disinfection {Quarantine) ; Epidemi- ology; Hearing; Heart, Congenital Malforma- tions ; Mental Deficiency ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of ; etc. 1. Introductory. — Medical inspection of school children is not a new proposal; it has been practised for many years in the great public schools of England, in a large number of private schools, in all the industrial and re- formatory schools, and in the Poor Law schools. In all these institutions, however, the intention of medical inspection has been to see that the health of the pupils is maintained. This in- volves treatment as well as inspection. Neither treatment nor inspection has hitherto had any special relation to the school child as such; the purpose of it has rather been to satisfy parents and public bodies that the children are medically protected. Recently, the movement for medical inspection of school children has taken a wider sweep. In Britain, the immediate cause of this greater movement was the South African War. For years it had been found that too large a proportion of recruits had to be rejected for ail- ments of many kinds ; the necessity for increased superintendence of physical growth became manifest, and the Royal Commission on Physical Training (Scotland) was appointed in 1903. The evidence laid before this Commission made it clear that many of the defects found at the recruiting stations had their origin in early life ; that physical training in schools could not be efficiently developed except under medical supervision; that, even for the purposes of general education, medical inspection of the school children was called for. The Commis- sion, having very few scientific facts to guide them, ordered an examination of twelve hundred representative Scottish school children. The facts emerging in this investigation, limited though it was, were more than sufficient to justify the Commission in recommending medi- cal inspection. The Commission's Report made a strong impression everywhere. In the follow- ing year, 1904, there was appointed an Inter- departmental Committee on Physical Deteriora- tion. This Committee followed the lead of the Scotch Commission, but widened the scope of the inquiry. In their report, they recom- mended medical inspection of school children as one among some fifty suggestions for the prevention of physical deterioration. Mean- while, facts were accumulated from Glasgow, Dundee, and some other centres. It is estimated that over ten thousand children from Scottish schools have been carefully examined. In many towns of England, Medical Officei's, under the powers of the Education Act of 1902, were appointed to examine the school children. A second Inter-departmental Committee pre- pared an elaborate report on the extent to which school authorities had exercised their powers under the Act. It was found that a large number of authorities had appointed Medical Officers of Health and other medical men to superintend the health of the schools, and, in certain cases, to make detailed examination of the children. In London, many years ago, while as yet education was under the direction of the London School Board, a Medical Officer of Schools had been appointed. When the Board was superseded by the London County Council, the Medical Officer (Education) was transferred, and remains as a leading officer of the County Council. He has a large staff of male and female medical assistants, some giving their whole time, others part of their time, to the work. There is also a staff of special nurses and visitors. In Bradford, for many years, medical inspection of schools had attained to a high level of elaboration. Both in Bradford and in London, Dr. James Kerr was a pioneer. His London reports are always rich in new materials for the study of School Hygiene. Further details of the position of medical inspection in England before 1907 may be obtained from the Report by the Inter-depart- mental Committee on Medical Inspection, etc. In 1907, the Education (Administrative Pro- visions) Act was passed. By section 13 of that Act the Local Educational Authorities received the following powers :—{a) " Power to provide (for children attending Public Ele- mentary Schools) vacation schools, vacation classes, play centres, etc. ; (6) the duty to pro- vide for the medical inspection of children im- mediately before, or at the time of, or as soon as possible after, their admission to a Public Elementary School, and on such other occasions as the Board of Education direct; and the power to make such arrangements as may be sanctioned by the Board of Education for attending to the health and physical condition of the children educated in Public Elementary Schools : pro- vided, that in any exercise of powers under this section, the Local Educational Authorities may encourage or assist the establishing or continu- ance of voluntary agencies, and associate with itself representatives of voluntary associations for the purpose." This section came into opera- tion on the 1st day of January 1908. Mean- while, the English Board of Education had already constituted a new Medical Department. Dr. George Newman was appointed Medical Officer to the Board, with a staff of assistants. On the 22nd of November 1907 the Board issued an elaborate " Memorandum on Medical Inspec- tion of Children in Public Elementary Schools, under section 13 of the Education Administra- tive Act of 1907 " (Circular 576). This memor-