SYMPATHETIC OPHTHALMITIS 453 tation of the ciliary nerves in an animal's eye fails, however, to produce anything more than vascular congestion in the fellow eye — never inflammation. The probable parasitic origin of sympathetic ophthalmitis was originally advanced by Leber. It has been suggested that micro-organisms may travel from one eye to the other, either along continuity of tissue in the lymphatics of the sheaths of the optic nerve and chiasma, or that they enter the general circulation, and the inflammation in the second eye is metastatic in character. In the latter case we should expect to meet with inflammatory changes in various situations, not only in the fellow eye, or else have to regard the uveal tract as possessing some peculiarity of structure, rendering it specially susceptible to attack. Inflammatory changes are not met with in other parts of the body in connection with sym- pathetic ophthalmitis, and we have no grounds for assuming any special susceptibility of the iiveal tissue. An attempt has recently been made to find this special susceptibility in the congestion caused by sympathetic irritation, but, as has been already pointed out, many cases of sympathetic inflammation begin without any signs of irritation. Micro-organisms are undoubtedly sometimes found in eyes which have excited sympathetic inflammation, but so far no one definite micro- organism has been universally found. In some exciting eyes which have been removed and carefully examined, no micro-organisms could be detected. The inflammation in exciting eyes differs in its spreading character from that set up by mere inorganic chemical irritants, as, for example, pieces of copper or iron, or by the infliction of wounds with aseptic instruments. So far, no micro-organisms have been dis- covered in the sympathising eye. Much experimental work has been done on animals to try and prove the parasitic origin of the disease. Injections of micro-organisms into one eye have been made with the idea of trying to induce sympathetic ophthalmitis in the other. Deutschmann has recorded some successful results which, if confirmed by others, would be of the greatest importance. Unfortunately, though a number of observers have repeated his experiments, none of them, like him, suc- ceeded in setting up inflammation in the fellow eye. The fact that a perforation of the tunics and the presence of a particular type of inflammation are essential in the exciting eye for starting the disease, also that a certain period of incubation is requisite before the appearance of inflamma- tion in the sympathiser, seem strongly to point to the implantation of some phlogenetic sub- stance in the one eye and its gradual transfer- ence to the other. Treatment.—The most certain prophylactic treatment for sympathetic ophthalmitis is the excision of eyes with perforating lesions likely to excite it, within ten days of the receipt of the injury. The decision as to which eyes with perforating lesions it is safe to retain, and which it is necessary to remove, is in many cases easily arrived at, in others it becomes a matter of the greatest difticulty. Those lesions which are most likely to give rise to sympathetic inflammation have already been referred to. The tendency of recent years has undoubtedly been to save many wounded eyes which would formerly have been condemned, and, coinci- dently with this more conservative practice, the number of cases of sympathetic inflamma- tion which have been met with have not \ increased but diminished. The decrease in the amount of sympathetic ophthalmitis, which during the last fifteen years ] at the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital has been very marked, may be due in part to the ; more extensive use of antiseptics, both at opera- ! tions and in cases with recent accidental wounds. It is probably also largely attributable to the greater care which is taken to avoid leaving any entanglements of the iris in operation wounds, and in clearing accidentally inflicted wounds as much as possible of any incarcerated portions of the uveal tract. The ultimate prospect of the retention of useful sight in the injured eye is a most im- portant matter to take into consideration in deciding for or against its removal. It may be worth while for a patient to run a certain amount of risk to retain an eye with useful sight, whereas it is unwise for him to run any risk of damage to the fellow eye by retaining a sightless organ. The amount of useful sight which will result depends largely on whether or not the lens has been implicated; this point, therefore, neces- sarily exercises considerable iufluence in decid- ing for or against excision. There is no risk of sympathetic ophthalmitis coming on during the first ten days after the receipt of injury, so that unless the eye has become hopelessly disorganised, it is generally well to free any portion of the uveal tract which may have become entangled in the wound, and wait a few days to see how much inflammatory reaction is likely to follow before recommending excision. It is next important to consider what measures, if any, less radical than excision may be adopted as a prophylactic against sympathetic disease. It was thought that if all the structures entering or emerging from the injured eyeball at its posterior part were divided, or partially removed, the transmission of any infective substance from it to the other eye would be prevented. Hence the operations of optico- ciliary neurotomy and optico-ciliaiy neurectomy were devised. But what appear to be undoubted