SEMIS 118 SeiTliS.—Half (Lat. semis, half); a term used in prescription - writing, when it is nsually contracted into ss. See Pbescbibing" (Oontractions). SeiTliSpina.liS.—The name of certain muscles which are attached partly to the verte- bral column, e.g. semispinalis colli, semispinalis dorsi. Semitendinosus.—A muscle of the back of the thigh. Se m i vale n t.—Of half the normal valency or combining capacity of an atom as compared with hydrogen. Semolina. See Diet {Vegetable Foods, Cereals); Invalid Feeding (Convalescence, Semo- lina Pudding). Semon's Symptom. — Impaired mobility of the vocal cords of the larynx in cancer of that organ. Sempstress' Cramp or Palsy.— An occupation - neurosis resembling writer's cramp. See Neuroses, Occupation. Senator's Phleg-mon. See Pharynx, Acute Pharyngitis (Symptoms). SeneciO.—Groundsel (Nat, Ord. Com- positcB). There are many species, of which some have been used as medicines; e.g. Senecio vulgaris (for scurvy), Senecio doronicum (in asthma), etc. Seneg'Se Radix.—Senega, the dried root of Polygala se7iega (a North American plant), con- tains a glucoside (senegin) and polygalic acid, and is used in medicine as a stimulating expec- torant. There are three official preparations: the Infusum Senegce (dose, | to 1 fl. oz.), Liquor Senegal Concentratus (dose, | to 1 fl. dr.), and Tinctura Senegce (dose, | to 1 fl. dr.). Ex- ternally, senega is a cutaneous irritant; in- ternally, it stimulates the alimentary, nasal, and pulmonary mucous membranes. Senile Insanity. Introductory 118 Normal Old Age 119 Pathogenesis . . . . . .119 Neuroses of Senility . . . .120 Dementia ...... 121 Psychoses of Senility . . . .122 Delirium of Collapse . . . .124 Diagnosis 124 Prognosis . . . . . .124 Treatment . . . .125 See also Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties); Dementia ; General Paralysis ; etc. Introductory.—The onset of old age is char- acterised by the setting in of processes of atrophy, affecting almost all the organs of the body. It is a phase of life as natural and physiological as is the growth of these organs during the period of evolution. The material used up in the body is no longer fully replaced by assimilation; denutrition advances more rapidly than nutrition, and atrophy results. Corresponding to the degree of atrophy there is weakening and loss of the functional activities. The grey hairs, the wrinkled skin, the toothless and sunken jaws, the tottering and feeble gait, the loss of memory, and the weakening of the mental vigour are all alike expressions of this process of regression and decay which leads painlessly and insensibly to the death of the individual. To quote Sir James Paget: " Life is so far from being ' the sum of the functions that resist death' that it is a constant part of the history of life that its exercise leads naturally to decay, and through decay to death." These involutionary processes do not commence at any fixed age, and do not affect the organs in any uniform course. In one individual the cardio- vascular system fails early, in another the nervous system or the mental faculties are first to give way. As regards the nervous system, most writers agree that involution should not begin before the sixtieth year. After that period of life the brain, which has remained practically uniform in weight from the thirtieth year, slowly decreases in volume. The convolutions, especi- ally in the frontal lobes, are generally atrophied, with a corresponding increase of cerebro-spinal fluid in the widened sulci. The pia mater is thickened and milky. Microscopically the brain shows many changes affecting not only the nerve elements but also the blood-vessels and support- ing structures. The nerve cells are shrunken; a yellow granular pigment forms in the cell and often replaces the greater portion of the protoplasm. The chromophile particles are diminished in number and their shape and arrangement are altered. The processes atrophy and the gemmulse disappear. These changes are very far from uniform even in the same brain area; some cells apparently escape them, while others may be represented merely by a small mass of pigment. The neuroglia is increased, especially in the outermost layer of the cortex, and there is as a rule subpial felting. The lai'ger blood-vessels are frequently the seat of atheroma; the smaller ones are always affected by a greater or less degree of hyaline- fibroid change. Even in the brains of the most healthy persons, and in those who have shown no mental symptoms, these groups of changes occur so constantly, and in so marked a degree, that the nature of the process underlying physiological senile involution is still a matter of debate. One set of authorities regards the changes in the nervous elements as the primary and all-