SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF 149 the arm to cross over the end of the clavicle, and adhere to the chest wall in front and to the scapula behind. The forearm is then supported in a large arm-sling (vol. i. p. 361), and the arm is bound to the side with a bandage. When the method fails, and there is much loss of function or great deformity, no hesitation should be felt in uniting the outer end of the clavicle to the acromion with a stout silver wire. Fractures Fracture of the scapula, humerus, and clav- icle occur in the immediate neighbourhood of the shoulder at all ages and in both sexes. Fractures of the Acromial End of the Clavicle.—^The outer end of the clavicle may be broken between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments or external to the trapezoid. Frac- ture between the ligaments is a rare accident, accompanied by pain and crepitus, but without any displacement of the two fragments. Frac- ture beyond the coraco-clavicular ligament is more common, and there is considerable dis- placement. The fragment attached to the scapula is drawn downwards and inwards by the weight of the shoulder, and action of the muscles attached to the shoulder until it may even unite at a right angle with the rest of the clavicle. Treatment.—A simple sling with a piece of lint soaked in some evaporating lotion should be sufficient when there is no displacement, but when the displacement is marked and is not remedied by the application of Sayre's method of strapping the arm (vol. iii. p. 351), the fragments should be wired together. Fractures of the Scapula.—The scapula in the neighbourhood of the shoulder may be broken at the neck or at the edge of the glenoid cavity; the acromion may be fractured or the coracoid process may be broken. Fractures of the neck and edge of the glenoid cavity have been usually associated with dislocation of the shoulder, for which they may be easily mistaken. Treatment.—There is but little to be done for these injuries except to reduce the disloca- tion under an anaesthetic, to keep the arm at rest, and to protect it from accidental injuries by the use of a shoulder cap, a small axillary pad often being serviceable in supporting the shoulder. A fractured acromion is recognised by the flattening of the shoulder, the depression of the arm, and the interruption in the bony ridge which it forms with the spine. It should be remembered, however, that some at least of the apparently ununited fractures of the acromion are in reality instances of epiphyses which have never been united to the bone. Fracture of the Coracoid Process.—The coracoid process is not often broken, but it may be fractured by direct violence, by dislocation of the head of the humerus upwards and forwards, by extreme flexion of the shoulder joint when the coracoid is brought into forcible contact with the under surface of the clavicle, by sudden muscular action, and even by falls upon the elbow. There may not be much displace- ment, or the broken fragments may be widely separated, being drawn downwards by the action of the muscles attached to it. Bony union takes place when the parts can be kept in apposition. Treatment. — The forearm should be fully flexed, the arm being brought forwards over the chest wall and secured in position by strapping, whilst a pad is placed over the acromial end of the clavicle. Fractures of the Humerus.—Fractures of the upper end of the humerus are more fre- quent and more important than those of the scapula. They may be divided broadly into the rare intracapsular fracture through the anatomical neck of the bone and the extra- capsular fracture through the surgical neck. The actual line of fracture, however, is usually so irregular that it is partly within and partly outside the attachment of the capsule. Either form of fracture may be impacted. Causes. — The cause of the fracture is generally a direct blow or fall upon the shouldei', though it is sometimes produced by indirect violence, as by a fall upon the elbow or hand. It is more common in middle-aged and old people than in children or young adults. Pathology.—The fracture is situated above the attachment of the large muscles into the shaft of the humerus, and the upper end of the lower fragment is therefore drawn upwards and inwards towards the coracoid process, whilst the head and neck of the bone is abducted and rotated outwards. Signs and Symptoms.—-The pain is often well localised owing to pressure upon the nerves, and there may be great and rapid swelling of the shoulder due to haemorrhage from laceration of the circumflex arteries. There is but little deformity in the immediate neighbourhood of the shoulder, for the head of the bone is in its place and bears the normal relation to the acromion, but it is difficult to feel the coracoid. The arm hangs nearly vertical, and when the elbow is brought to the side the hand on the injured side can be made to lie on the opposite shoulder, thus distinguishing the injury from a dislocation. There is a shortening of three- quarters to one inch in the measurement from the acromion to the external condyle on the injured side. Crepitus can be elicited by firmly grasping the head of the bone and rotating the elbow. The diagnosis from symptoms is very obscure in cases of impacted fracture, as, except for the shortening, the other signs are absent. The radiograph, however, is of use in these injuries.