STAMMERING 325 the tongue protruded, and when the spasm is relaxed the words pour out until there is no breath left. On renewing the breath the same thing may occur again. This is the explanation of that less common variety of stammering in which the patient sticks at initial vowels. It is interesting to note how well this condition has been described by Shakespeare. ^ Etiology.—The causation of stammering is somewhat obscure. It is said by many writers to be hereditary, and to occur especially in families with a neuropathic diathesis. Such an explanation, however, does not cover the whole field, because, as all speech is primarily due to imitation it is highly probable that cases of so-called heredity are really to be explained by imitation, and on the other hand many stam- merers are not only in the beginning strong and healthy in themselves, but come of a healthy stock. When the affection, however, has persisted for some time, the daily and hourly worry and annoyance which it causes tends to produce other nervous symptoms, which, of course, will be doubly marked if the patient be of a nervous diathesis. The writer knows of one family in which the eldest child contracted the habit from a stammering nurse, and the five younger members all became stam- merers. The youngest member, having had five bad examples, is much the worst. It is an interesting fact, also, that in two at least of the family the stammer disappears on removal from the family circle for a short period, and re- appears on rejoining it. The commonest cause, however, is undoubtedly imitation. In most cases the imitation is un- conscious, but in some it is done to tease and annoy a companion, and is persisted in until "the biter is bit." A sudden shock or fright has sometimes been the starting-point, or a severe and unmerited whipping at school. In some instances the affection has come on during convalescence from severe illness, such as typhoid fever or diph- theria. In the latter paralysis of the soft palate or diaphragm may have been a factor in the case. It has been stated that it does not occur in Jews owing to their being circumcised, but two of the author's cases have been Jewish boys, one of whom had an elder sister who also stammered. The occasional association of stam- mering with adenoid growths in the naso- pharynx has also been noted. Many other sources of peripheral irritation, such as intestinal worms, or the eruption of a ^ " I prithee, tell me who is it quickly, and speak apace. I would thou couldst stammer, that thou mightst pour this concealed man out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of a narrow-necked bottle, either too much at once, or none at all. I prithee, take the cork out of thy mouth that I may drink thy tidings."—As You Like It, Act III. Scene 2. permanent molar tooth, or a tight prepuce, may act as exciting causes. Prognosis.—On the whole this is favourable. Some cases get well without special treatment. A certain number are cured by so-called "stam- mer-doctors," but, on the other hand, a certain number get worse under their treatment, or in addition to the stammer may acquire other habits equally objectionable and annoying to the bystander, such as beating time with the foot or hand, or nodding of the head. Others may have been cured by properly qualified teachers who have studied the subject on scientific principles. But over and above all the cases of cure, there are some stammerers who have been taught what they ought to do, and who can do it, when reading or reciting aloud to themselves or speaking to their teacher, yet the moment they are called on to take their part in daily life and to mix with strangers the stammer reappears, after perhaps months of hard work, and their case becomes as distressing as ever. In such cases, otherwise intractable, it has come within the writer's experience that hypno- tism is sometimes of great benefit, and no case should be pronounced incurable until this has been tried. Treatment.—The first step in the treatment is to attend to the patient's general health, and to remove all sources of peripheral irritation which may have caused the patient to stammer, or tend to maintain the condition. The teeth should be attended to. The pharynx and naso- pharynx should be inspected for enlarged tonsils and adenoid growths, and if present they should be removed. All male patients should also be ex- amined in regard to the condition of the prepuce. Even in Jewish children this is necessary, as the operation of circumcision is not always efficiently performed by the Rabbi, and the writer has seen a case in which there was distinct improve- ment in the stammering after the operation had been repeated by a surgeon. Nervous and shy children should be removed from school, not only for their own sake, or because their life is often made miserable by the jeering of their companions, but also for the sake of the other children, who, by imitating them, may themselves become stammerers. The practice of putting sevei-al stammerers into a special class, so that their education may proceed pari passu with the treatment of their stammer, cannot be recommended. Several patients have been brought to the wi'iter who had been treated in this manner. Not only were the results unsatisfactory, bvit in some cases the affection had been aggravated. The parents of stammerers seldom realise the importance of early treatment. They may be divided into two classes—(1) Those who pay no heed to the misery and discomfort which may be caused in childhood, or to the disabilities to