SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 304 should appear. But, unfortunately, such an ideal result is not always possible. The amount of deformity varies from a slight projection of a spinous process to a prominence implicating the greater part of the dorsal and lumbar region. The amount of deformity depends upon the degree of destruction in the vertebral bodies. It also has a direct relation to the thoroughness of the treatment. By insisting upon early and sufficient recumbency with the spine in a fully extended position healing will often take place in a most satisfactory manner. The only difficulty is to maintain this corrected position by suitable supports, the usual errors being that the supports are neither firm enough nor carried sufficiently high. Rectification of the deformity, or forcible correction of the spine, has been revived by Chipault of Paris, and largely practised by Calot of Berck-sur-Mer. Chipault wired the spinous processes together, a method which was first described by Hadra. Contrary to antici- pation, forcible correction of the spine is not attended with so much risk as is supposed, and rectification has been successful in relieving patients of paraplegia. Accidents have been recorded, such as rupture of abscesses, rupture of the pleura, and the onset of acute tuber- culosis. In a paper which Messrs. Jones and Tubby read at the Clinical Society in 1901,^ of 99 cases which had been watched for over three years, the number of deaths was not greater than that ordinarily occurring in Pott's disease ; while the number of cases of paraplegia cured contrasted very favourably with the results obtained by laminectomy. Bradford and Lovett have collected together 610 cases recorded by twenty-nine operators. Twenty-one deaths were reported, but no case showed effectual effort at repair in the sense of bridging over the gap, one being examined two and a half years subsequently to correction. Thirty-one cases had paralysis previously, and 17 were relieved. The effect on the deformity was as follows:—Of 229 cases where this point is stated, complete correction was obtained in 119, incomplete in 94, and no gain occurred in 16. The result three months later was as follows:—In 66 cases there was no relapse in 17, some relapse in 44, and total relapse in 5. While the operation is an easy one, and often requiring very little force, and while the immediate results are so satisfactory, the greatest difficulty is experienced in maintaining the correction, and no one should undertake a case who is not prepared to see it at least once a month and watch it keenly for several years. In many cases no auESsthetic is required, and it is astonishing with what ease an apparently firm projection yields to manual pressure when the patient is fully extended. Goldthwait of Boston employs a special frame with a 1 See Clin, Soc, Trans. 1900. mechanical contrivance for gradually exerting pressure, and so reducing the deformity. An important point is that not too much should be attempted at one sitting, and it is better to do a little at a time, leaving intervals of at least a month between. A judicious selection of cases is a matter of the greatest importance, and the following should be excluded :—Those present- ing a very large degree of old-standing deformity where it is evident that ankylosis has taken place. Adults are not favourable subjects for the treatment, nor should it be attempted if abscess be present, on account of the danger of rupturing the abscess wall. If active tubercle exist elsewhere, operative treatment of this kind is precluded. Cervical and high dorsal cases do not give satisfactory results. On the other hand, favourable cases are those occurring in children and adolescents where the curvature is not of very great size and is recent; where no signs of tubercle are present elsewhere, the general health is fair, and the child can be adequately supervised for a long period after- wards. Other things being equal, compression- paraplegia not yielding to recumbency is a distinct indication. Other Affections of the Spine. Lordosis ..... . 304 Rickets ...... . 304 Kyphosis ..... . 305 Osteomalacia .... . 305 Osteitis Deformans . 305 Spondylitis Deformans . . 305 Spondylolisthesis .... . 305 Osteomyelitis .... . 306 Typhoid Spine .... . 306 Syphilis of the Spine . . 306 Malignant Disease of the Spine . . 306 Hysterical Spine .... . 306 Lordosis is an exaggeration of the normal lumbar curve. It is found normally in women of some races—and in almost all cases where the abdomen is distended by fat, ascitic fluid, tumours, or pregnancy. Lordosis of paralytic origin is associated with pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis, progressive muscular atrophy, and occasionally acute anterior poliomyelitis. A compensation lordosis is met with in congenital hip displacement, in acquired hip disease, and in coxa vara. It is also found in children the subjects of rickets, because the heavy, pendulous abdomen requires a certain counteracting force in the spine to maintain the upright position. Spondylolisthesis also produces a condition of lordosis. And there is a class of cases occurring in infants in which the head is retracted and the posterior cervical muscles are rigid. Such cases are often mistaken for meningitis, but they are reflex and due to injudicious feeding. The treatment of lordosis depends upon the cause.