242 SNAKE-BITES AND POISONOUS FISHES acquired. Some of these "snake men " are not only described in old records as being immune to the poison, but also as having a remarkable influence over the snakes themselves; it was popularly supposed that snake blood flowed in their veins. In present times it is well known that some men exhibiting snakes in India frequently rub in small quantities of the venom on the back of one hand with the other, a small part being probably absorbed. In South Africa the Hot- tentots are said to eat the heads of poison snakes when killed. Serpents were very genei'ally worshipped by ancient man ; their great beauty, grace of move- ment, and frightful power of causing rapid death by injecting venom, or by crushing, appealed strongly to the superstitions of the people, who either associated them with death or wisdom. This serpent worship was almost universal, and was nowhere more prevalent than in India, where even in the present day the cobra is held in very great veneration, and it is never willingly killed by the Hindoos. In pre-Bud- dhist times, that is, about 600 B.C., the gods were represented with a canopy of five or seven cobras over them (Naja figures), and in the old cave temples very beautiful relics still remain showing these. In Southern India a single cobra is frequently represented alone. It is also one of the symbols of Shiva now. In Egypt the old papyrus records show that snakes were divided into two classes: one, generally the cobra, being associated with divinity and symbolising wisdom ; the second representing the malign influences and death, depicted as the serpent " Apep," the emblem of darkness, and the enemy of " Ra," the sun. In China these beliefs take a more practical form, the concretions, etc., of snakes finding a prominent place as therapeutic remedies. Traditions of the same kind have been passed down from mediaeval days to witches, etc. (vide Macbeth). Many curious powers are attributed to snakes beyond the mesmeric influence they exert over their victims before springing upon them. Thus a "krait" or species of Bungarus found in Scinde is called by the natives there "pyan," or drinker. This snake is said to suck in a man's breath when he sleeps, the result being that he dies at sunrise, with a swollen face, but no mark of a bite on him. No one will sleep on the ground for fear of the " pyan " in this district. The natives, however, admit that it can bite, but rarely does. Venomous snakes are divided into two main classes—(1) Colubrine, (2) Viperine. The Colubrine again into (1) Elapidte, or land snakes. (2) Hydrophidse, or sea snakes. The Elapida; include— (1) Naja, or Corbas, found in India, China, iind N. Africa. (2) Ophiophagus, or Hamadryads, found in India and East Indies. (3) Bungarus, or " Krait," of India. (4) Hoplocephalus, or Tiger snakes, etc., found in Australia. (5) Pseudechis, or Black snake, found in Australia. (6) Acanthophis, or " Death Adder," found in South Africa and Australia. (7) Flaps, or "Coral snake," found in West Indies and Brazil. The Hydrophidse include—(1) Hydrophis, (2) Enhydrina, (3) Pelamis, (4) Plattirus, (5) Aipysu7-us. The poisonous Viperine snakes are divided into— (1) Viperidfe, or true vipers. (2) Crotalidse, or pit vipers. The most important of the former are— (1) Daboia, or " Tic-polonga," " Russell's viper," of India and Ceylon. (2) Echis, or " Fursa," of Northern India. (3) Cerastes, or "Horned viper," of Egypt. (4) Pelias, or "Common adder," of Europe. Of the latter are— (1) Crotalus, or "Rattlesnake," of America. (2) Bothrops, or " Fer de Lance," of West Indies. (3) Halys, of India. Geographical Distribution. — Poisonous snakes are found in all tropical areas, except certain oceanic islands, and in most temperate ones. New Zealand being a marked exception. Each region has, however, distinctive char- acters. In Asia and Africa the cobras, hamadryads, kraits, and true vipers are most abundant. In America the Crotalidse. In Australia the pit vipers are not at all re- presented. Krafft states that twenty-one in- nocuous and forty-two venomous snakes occur there, but of the latter only five are dangerous to man ; these include Hoplocephalus, Pseudechis, and Acanthophis. In South Africa, chiefly the Acanthophis, or Death adder. In the West Indies, Elaps and Bothrops. The Mortality from snake-bite in India is very high, being even now put down as about 20,000 annually, equal to about 1 to 10,000 of the population. In Australia the death-rate proportionately is considerably less—probably, as Martin states, due to the people having a much better know- ledge of what to do. The most deadly snakes in India, according to Fayrer, being in order of severity of action— (1) Cobra, (2) Kraits, (3) Daboia, (4) Echis. In Australia Hoplocephalus curtiis, H. super- bus, and Pseudechis are the worst. The sea snakes rarely attack man, though so common in Australia and waters of the Far East. Anatomical Characters.—The "true vipers"