SALIVARY GLANDS, DISORDERS OF 24 Saliva); Trades, Dangerous (Lead Poisoning, Symptomatology/, Sulphocyanides in Saliva). The disorders of the Parotid gland have already been considered (vol. vii. pp. 364-368). The other salivary glands are the submaxillary, the sublingual and certain additional glands, the chief of which are the glands of Nuhn or Blandin. Anatomy The Submaxillary glands are placed sym- metrically beneath the lower jaw, one filling the space on either side which is left between the two bellies of the digastric muscle. Each gland lies in a triangular space formed on two sides by the splitting of the superficial cervical fascia, whilst the base of the triangle is the periosteum covering the inner aspect of the lower jaw. The submaxillary gland is inter- mediate in size between the parotid and the sublingual, and usually weighs rather more than a quarter of an ounce. It is roughly almond- shaped, but there is a deeper portion which is prolonged forwards and inwards between the mylohyoid, the hyoglossus and the geniohyo- glossus muscles and below the lingual nerve. The superficial portion of the gland is covered by the skin, fascia and platysma : it rests upon the styloglossus, the hyoglossus and the mylo- hyoid muscles, and is grooved posteriorly and above by the facial artery. The duct of the submaxillary has long been called Wharton's duct, after its discoverer Thomas Wharton, the Yorkshireman (1610-1673). It runs iipwards and inwards with the deep portion of the gland, and opens on the top of a small papilla at the side of the frsenum of the tongue. The duct is about two inches in length and has a thinner wall than the duct of Stensen. The gland receives its blood supply from the facial and lingual branches of the external carotid artery, whilst the veins empty themselves into the anterior jugular and facial veins. The nerves are branches of the mixed lingual and chorda tympani nerves either directly or by branches from the submaxillary ganglion, as well as from sympathetic branches of the plexus surrounding the facial artery. They are interesting because the termination of nerves in gland cells was first demonstrated in the submaxillary by Pfliiger, and more recently by Paladino. The lymphatic glands of the submaxillary region are arranged in two groups, the more anterior lying on the mylohyoid muscle, the more pos- terior embedded in the submaxillary gland— one or more glands being found between the submaxillary gland and the hyoglossus muscle. These glands are of especial importance as they become enlarged in cancer of the tongue, and in performing any operation for epithelioma both aspects of the submaxillary gland must be carefully examined for enlarged lymphatic glands. The Suhlingtial gland lies on the floor of the mouth so close to the mucous membrane that its outline may be seen projecting as a crest running fore and aft on either side of the frsenum linguae. It weighs about two drachms, and is thus the smallest of the three chief salivary glands. The sublingual gland lies upon the mylohyoid muscle, and has behind it and upon the inner side the genio-hyoglossus, the gustatory nerve, Wharton's duct and the deep part of the submaxillary gland. The sub- lingual gland consists in reality of a number of individual glands crushed together into the semblance of a single gland. It has therefore many ducts; the main one, called the duct of Rivinus or Bartholin, runs close to Wharton's duct, and either opens into it or close to it on the floor of the mouth. The smaller ducts open by eight to twenty orifices on the floor of the mouth between the fraenum and the ranine vein. The arteries are derived from the sub- lingual and submental branches of the facial artery, the veins empty themselves into the ranine, whilst the nerves come from the united lingual and chorda tympani and from the sympathetic. The accessory glands are the glands of Weber situated at the back and side of the tongue just beneath the circumvallate papillae and the glands of Nuhn, situated beneath the mucous membrane and some fibres of the genio- hyoglossus muscle at the tip of the tongue, where they open by several ducts. Inflammations The salivary glands are liable to inflammation from various causes, the chief of which are injury and infection. Foremost amongst the mechanical causes are calculi. Salivary calculi are especially liable to be formed in the submaxillary gland and to be arrested in their passage along Wharton's duct, but they are also found in Stensen's duct of the parotid. Pathology.—Their mode of origin is uncertain. It used to be thought that they necessarily had a foreign body as a nucleus, or that they were formed by the precipitation of the salts contained in the saliva. Advancing pathology, on the analogy of concretions in the vermiform ap- pendix, teaches that although these causes may sometimes act, a slight but chronic microbic infection is the most potent factor. The calculi are usually single, but as many as ten have been found occasionally. The shape is moulded to their situation, usually elongated and rounded when they lie in the duct, they are often irregular in outline when they are removed from the gland. They vary greatly in colour, from white, through grey to red and black. Some- times they are brittle and are easily reduced to a powder by gently pressing between the fingers, at others they are stonily hard.