SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 293 conditions, but it must be remembered that lateral deviation is generally, but by no means always, an antecedent condition to scoliosis— that is, the rotation of the bodies of the vertebrae is superadded to the lateral flexion of the spine. With reference to the clinical aspects under which scoliosis is met with, a convenient classification is the following:—(1) Cases in which the curvature is mainly unilateral, or the C-shaped curve. The curve may be of small extent, or it may be so large as to involve the dorsal and lumbar regions of the spine. A large C-shaped curve is always of serious import Tig. 1.—A case in which the vertebral column was affected in two regions by Pott's disease. because of the number of vertebrae implicated, the general muscular weakness associated with it, and the harmful influence of the weight of the head and upper extremities tending to increase the curve. These cases run a more rapid and less favourable course than others to be described presently. (2) Cases in which two nearly equal curves are present. As a rule the curvature is to the right in the dorsal region and to the left in the lumbar region. It is essential to determine which is primary before suitable treatment can be initiated, and it may be safely said that the less mobile is the prim- ary and more important curve, and therefore demands particular attention. In some cases of these S-shaped curves the dorsal convexity is to the left and the lumbar convexity to the right. But, as just stated, the reverse condi- tion is more common. That it is so is largely dependent upon the excessive use of the right arm, especially in certain employments and occupations, these being such as to elevate the right shoulder and depress the left; and one great cause is undoubtedly faulty posture at schoel and improper school desks. (3) In some instances three or four distinct curves are seen, and are variously distributed in the spine. In that form of scoliosis in which there is one large curve present there are sometimes two Fig. 2.—Scoliosis of old standing, associated with adenoids. (Olive B , aged 9 years, seen at the Evelina Hospital for Sick Children.) smaller compensatory curves, but this condition is distinct from that now under consideration, in which the curves are often of equal length, and it is difficult to say which one is primary. In this form of scoliosis the accompanying distortion in the chest is less than in those cases where one large curve or two equal curves are present. (4) Scoliosis associated with posterior projection of some of the spinous processes. This condition is seen when the back presents two curves nearly equal, and the projection is always found at the spot where the two curves intersect. The chief interest of this class of case lies in the fact that they may be mistaken for a curvature from Pott's disease, but the mobility of the spine in scoliosis