447- SUPPURATION the case of a rib. If the abscess be small and superficial, and it is impossible to remove it in its entirety, remove as much of the abscess wall as possible, and drain the remainder. If the abscess be large, as in the case of a psoas abscess, it is safer to open it, wash it out with an aseptic solution, and sew up the incision. Re-collection will very likely occur; directly it is ascertained with certainty the same procedure must be repeated before the pus has time to ac- cumulate to the same extent as at the preceding operation, but at each successive operation the sac will be found smaller than before. The alternative treatment is to incise the abscess and drain it. The advantage of the former over the latter method is that extra infection is guarded against, whereas the presence of a drainage tube provides a pathway for fresh infection. Angina Ludovici The term Angina Lvdovici is loosely applied to varieties of diffuse infective inflammation of the median and lateral aspects of the neck. When bacteriologically examined it has generally been found to contain streptococcus pyogenes, or one of the varieties of staphylococcus, or a mixture of these, or pneumococcus ; other bacteria have also been discovered resembling bacillus diphtherife and actinomycotic organisms. The source of infection may be the mouth, nose, pharynx, scalp, tonsil, or ear. The disease apparently exists in the loose connective tissue, not in the lymphatic glands. It generally begins about the chin or angle of the jaw (in the region of the submaxillary gland), and spreads downwards with a very diffuse margin. The neck becomes red or dusky, sometimes almost blue in colour, tender, swollen, and hard. In slight cases there is only a feeling of dis- comfort about the neck ; in severe cases there is much pain, dysphagia, and dyspnoea. The dis- ease is subacute rather than acute, the fever being usually slight, but increasing with the intensity of the lesion. The case may not suppurate, the condition lasting for weeks, with slow resolution ; in severe cases death may occur early without suppuration. If suppura- tion take place it may be at only one small spot within the brawny mass, or the whole lesion may be involved in a large, diffuse abscess. Treatment calls for no special remark; vmless suppuration occur, incisions do not seem to shorten the course of the disease, though they may assist in preventing its spread. This type of diffuse inflammation is not limited to the neck, but wherever it occurs care should be taken to exclude as the causal agent the bacillus oedematus maligni, a micro-organism which in- duces non-suppurative inflammation of a viru- lent and rapidly fatal type. Supra.-.—In compound words the prefix swpra- (Lat. supra, above) means above or upon ; e.g. supra-acromial (above the acromion), supra- axillary (above the axilla), sup7U-auricular (above the external ear or auricle), supra-clavi- cular (above the clavicle), supra-condylar (above a condyle), supra-glenoid (above the glenoid cavity), etc. Su pra - anomal ies. — Anomalies (structural or functional) by excess, as con- trasted with infra-anomalies (malformations and maldevelopments by defect). Supraliminal Consciousness. —The ordinary consciousness of self ; literally, the consciousness lying above the threshold ; "the empiric self of common experience" as opposed to the subliminal consciousness which occasionally breaks through the same. Supraorbital.—Above the orbit, e.g. the supraorbital nerve. See Nerves, Neuralgia {Triijeminal). Suprapubic. — Above the pubes, e.g. suprapubic lithotomy. See Bladder, Injuries AND Diseases of [Calculus Vesicce, Lithotomy). Suprarenal Extract. See Adrenal Glands (Adrenalin). Suprarenal Glands. See Adrenal Glands {Physiology); Adrenal Glands (Adren- alin) ; Adrenal Glands (Addisoyi's Disease); Adrenal Glands (Other Morbid Conditions); Hay Fever (Treatment, Suprarenal Extract); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (General Pathology, Etiology, Chemical Causes); Hemi- siNE; Nose, Local Anesthetics (Extract of Suprarenal Gland); Physiology, Internal Secretions (Ho^-mones); Pigments of the Body AND Excreta (Hcemoglobin and its Derivatives, H(xmochromogen); Post-mortem Methods (Ex- amination of the Body Cavities, Ahdomeii); Rickets (Treatment, Suprarenal Extract) ; Teeth {Tooth Extraction, Haemorrhage). Suprascapular Nerve. See Nerves, Peripheral (Injuries of Special Spinal Nerves). Supravag^inal.—Above the vagina, e.g. supravaginal hysterectomy (removal of the uterus by abdominal incision, the cervix being- left). Sural.—Pertaining to the calf of the leg (Lat. sura, the calf), e.g. the sural nerve, arteries, and vein. Sural indentation. — Forced feeding, e.g. in neurasthenia. Surcingle.—The tail of the corpus stria- tum of the brain (Lat. super, above, cingulum, a girdle). SurdomutitaS.—Deafmutism (q.v.).