72 SCLERODEEMIA atrophy proceeding further may even result in necrosis of the extremities. In the same way the face, instead of the immobile mask- like appearance which it first possesses, under- goes great disfigurement on account of the con- traction of the skin and the atrophy of the under- lying parts. The skin is stretched over the bones, the eyelids are everted, the gums shrink from the teeth, which may fall out, the lips become puckered and shortened. Fortunately these changes aff"ect a considerably smaller area than the early stage of oedema or infiltration. The fixation and movement of the joints, the interference with respiratory movements, diffi- culties in deglutition, as well as the depressing influence of the disorder, interfere most seriously with the health of the patient. The atrophic areas of skin in the later stages can usually be readily distinguished from the healthy skin on account of the alteration in its texture and pigmentation, in many cases they resemble the appearance of old ivory. The skin shrinking down on the underlying structures allows the outline of bones and tendons in the limbs to be distinctly observed. In a considerable proportion of cases the prospect of at least partial recovery is good. The duration of the disease varies very greatly. In those instances where the onset is subacute the prospect seems to be better than in those which commence insidiously, and in which atrophy of the skin is an early sign. Even when induration has occurred, and the parts have remained quite immobile for months, or it may be years, softening of the hardened skin may occur. So long as oedema or simple induration remains there is still prospect of improvement, but the longer the induration persists there is less likelihood of complete recovery, as the fixation of the parts produces atrophy of the muscles, partial or complete ankylosis of joints, and other destructive changes which produce permanent crippling. In those cases in which atrophy of the skin occurs early or becomes general, symptoms of marasmus, and diminution of vitality owing to impaired nutrition, become pronounced, and the patient readily succumbs to slight intercurrent maladies of the lungs, kidneys, etc. The very striking features of this disease render it easily distinguishable from one or two affections which simulate it. In sclerema or oedema of the new-born the age of the patient is sufficient in most cases to determine the diagnosis. Sclerodermia may commence in infancy, but more commonly in early youth. It is worthy of notice that occasionally the rare form of cancer "en cuirasse," in which the nodules of gi-owth and infiltrating margin of the disease are sometimes difficult to dis- tinguish, has been confused with sclerodermia. Treatment.—No specific lines of treatment have had any effect in determining its course or curing the disease. All efforts should be concentrated on protecting the patient against adverse hygienic influences, especially that of cold; the subjects of sclerodermia are especi- ally susceptible to the depressing influences of a low temperature. The food should be arranged so as to allow of nutrition being kept up to the highest standard, and the organs of digestion should be aided in every way. Local treatment by means of gentle friction and massage, with the application of oily substances or simple ointments, is frequently of much advantage. Circumscribed Sclerodermia This form of disease is frequently known as morphoea, and in the older terminology as the keloid of Addison. The lesions make their appearance usually without symptoms, though occasionally sensa- tions of tingling in the areas about to be affected may precede or accompany the indura- tion of the skin. The patient's attention is attracted by these symptoms or by the stiffness of the patch of skin, by the loss of hair, if the scalp is affected, or by simply observing the alteration in the colour and texture of the skin, if the disease attacks a prominent position. The altered skin assumes a stiff, parchment-like texture, and is pinched up between the fingers with difficulty, the affected area is altered in texture, the natural furrows and wrinklings dis- appear, and it usually assumes a smooth, polished surface. Frequently the pigmentation is also altered, and the affected area may have a light sepia tint, resembling old ivory. In other cases the area of the lesion is whiter than the surrounding skin, and has a glistening appear- ance. It is not unusual to observe that increase of pigmentation is noticeable in the apparently normal skin surrounding the lesions. The margins are sharply defined, and in different cases the affected areas may be slightly raised above or depressed below the healthy skin, so that an edge or furrow marks its border; in the later stages of the disease more or less depression of the affected area is the rule. In the early stages the borders of the lesion show a peculiar erythema, giving a pink or lilac tint which fades away into the sur- rounding normal structures. The shape of the lesions vary very much; they may occur as patches of a rounded or oval shape, which are sometimes quite small and numerous, so as to deserve the name of " guttate sclerodermia." In other cases tlie patches, an inch or two in diameter, are scattered on various parts of the trunk or the extremities. Not unfrequently the lesions have a linear distribution, perhaps more commonly on the extremities, and ulti- mately give rise to " strife atropliicfe." But one of the most characteristic of all the methods of distribution is the appearance of