SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF 147 Fractures of the neck of the scapula, of the acromion, and of the neck of the humerus may be mistaken for a dislocation of the shoulder. The occurrence of crepitus, and the recurrence of the deformity should the surgeon have en- deavoured to replace such an injury by manipu- lation, will be sufficient to point out the true nature of the case. Prognosis.—In the simpler cases the prog- nosis is good, as the patient generally recovers the full use of his arm, but even here it is well to test the action of the deltoid and the cutane- ous sensibility over the shoulder on the day after reduction, for the circumflex nerve is often bruised and may be paralysed. From these simple cases a dislocation passes through every grade of severity. It may be complicated by pressure on the axillary vessels and nerves leading to serious after-effects. There may be a coincident fracture of the neck of the bone, or the dislocation may be associated with a lacerated wound rendering it compound. In one or two instances I have seen serious haemor- rhage, due to laceration of the axillary vein and of the posterior circumflex artery. Treatment.—Reduction is the only proper treatment for a dislocated shoulder, and this should be performed immediately. If it can be done at once, whilst the muscles are still relaxed from the effects of the shock, the head of the bone can usually be replaced without trouble. But they soon become fixed by tonic contrac- tion, and more skill is then needed. The surgeon takes a great responsibility upon him- self who waits even one night before he reduces a subcoracoid or subglenoid dislocation of the shoulder, for the head of the bone is pressing upon the axillary vessels and nerves, often with disastrous results. As a general rule it is hardly safe to attempt to reduce by manipulation a shoulder which has been dislocated for more than six weeks, and the older the patient the less is the surgeon inclined to meddle with such a case. Very serious accidents have occurred during attempts at reduction, and it is wiser, therefore, in long-standing dislocations to cut down upon the head of the bone, and then to replace or excise it. Reduction.—The obstacles to reduction are the untorn capsule at the upper and outer part of the joint, and the tonic contraction of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles. But the scapula moves so freely upon the thorax that dislocation of the shoulder is not subject to the same rigid rules of reduction as is the case in the hip (vol. iv. p. 224). Two methods of reduction are in common use, viz. Kocher's method by manipulation, and Sir Astley Cooper's plan of extension. Both methods have their advocates, and I have obtained equally good results from both. Kocher's method is perhaps rather better fitted for old and delicate people; Astley Cooper's for young and muscular adults. Kocher's Method.—The patient is seated, and the surgeon stands facing him and upon his injured side. He bends the elbow, and grasps it in one hand whilst he seizes the wrist with the other. He then bends the elbow, and adducts the arm imtil the elbow touches the trunk. The arm is immediately rotated out- wards as far as it will go, and being thus adducted and rotated outwards the elbow is carried well forwards and upwards. The whole arm is then rotated inwards, so that the hand sweeps over the chest whilst the elbow is brought back to its original level. The bone slips into place with a hardly perceptible click in a successful case, and the shape and move- ment of the joint are at once restored. No violence should be used, and the manipulation must be done in an orderly fashion. It is not usually necessary to administer an anaesthetic. Dr. Helferich explains the effects of the movements in the following words : " During the adduction of the arm the upper part of the capsule is stretched, and the head is pressed against the edge of the glenoid cavity, so that the later rotation turns it on this part of the scapula and not round its own axis. When the arm is elevated the coraco-humeral ligament is relaxed, and the head begins to pass through the rent in the capsule. The inward rotation completely replaces the head of the bone within the capsule. Sir Astley Cooper's Method.—^The patient lies upon a firm bed or couch, stripped to the waist. The surgeon removes his boot from the right foot for the right shoulder, and from the left foot for the left shoulder. He then sits facing the patient, and on a level with his knees, places his unbooted heel in the axilla of the inj ured side, grasps the wrist or humerus, and pulls steadily upon the arm, at the same time carrying the limb towards the middle line of the body, and pushing the upper end of the humerus into place with his heel. A roller towel attached to the patient's arm with a clove hitch, applied just above the condyles of the humerus, is sometimes a great help in muscular patients, or in those with fat and heavy arms. After Treatment.—It is sufficient to keep the arm at rest by fixing the hand to the opposite shoulder with a bandage, whilst a cooling lotion is applied to the injured part. Passive move- ments should be commenced at the end of a week, and in simple cases the arm should be set free within a fortnight. But no dislocation should be allowed to go unreduced, and the surgeon is bound to effect reduction even by operative measures, when manipulations have failed, for unreduced dislocations of the shoulder result in very painful and useless joints. Irreducible Dislocations.—A certain number