411 STRABISMUS have a central scotoma and are incapable of vision with direct fixation under any circum- stances. Others have obvious disease of the media or fundus. All of these conditions lessen the retinal perception and facilitate the mental suppression of the diplopia, which might other- wise be expected to annoy the squinter. The question has often been discussed as to how far the defective vision is the cause or the consequence of squinting. The answer seems to be that in a majority of cases it precedes the squint and is an important factor in its production by interfering with the fusion faculty. But considering the great improve- ment of vision which can be sometimes secured by solitary systematic exercise of a squinting eye, there can be little doubt that the defect may be increased and the squint aggravated by disuse of an eye (amblyopia exanopsia). The Treatment op Strabismus.—The ulti- mate object is the development or encourage- ment of the fusion faculty; and the earlier it can be applied the better the prospect of cure. Optical Treatment.—The first need for eyes capable of fixation is the correction of any re- fractive error, in order to secure defined retinal images, and in hypermetropia to relax accom- modative strain. In convergent strabismus the accommodation should be paralysed with homatropin or atropin to estimate the total hypermetropic or astigmatic error, if any, and should be kept paralysed for some time (three or four weeks at least) to break the habit of persistent accommodation and to let the wearer depend on the glasses. The effect of this treatment is most marked in accommodative strabismus, the squint often disappearing as soon as the glasses are put on, but reappearing when they are removed if fixa- tion is attempted. Their constant use, how- ever, often breaks the squinting habit, and these cases generally gain greatly in testhetic appearance, and a few actually acquire binocular vision. Cases of imequal myopia and of anisometropia associated with a tendency to divergent stra- bismus (if capable of maintaining convergence by voluntary efforts) often derive great benefit also from the regular use of correcting glasses. In a large proportion of cases the defective vision of a squinting eye prevents it from utilising fully the optical benefit conferred by the spectacle lens, and the next stage of the treatment consists in the systematic, preferential, or solitary use of the feebler eye. Treatment by Solitary Exercise.—In con- vergent strabismus this may be secured to a certain extent by continuing the application of atropin to the good eye but not to the weaker one. The latter then retains the advantage of accommodation, and may now become the fixing eye by preference. To ensure this with more certainty, it is better to cover up the good eye with a shade so accurately adjusted to the con- tour of the skin around the orbit that this eye cannot be used at all. The refractive correc- tion must at the same time be continued to the uncovered eye. The immediate effect of this is merely to transfer the squint to the excluded eye without actually lessening its amount, and if that were all, the method would be valueless, but the real object of the treatment as now applied is to stimulate the use of the bad eye and induce in it a desire to play its part subse- quently in vision with both eyes open. To be most effective the shade should be worn con- stantly. Javal of Paris has devoted many years of assiduous labour to studying the results of the above method, and to him also is due the credit of introducing the orthoptic treat- ment by stereoscopic exercises to a recognised place in ophthalmology. Orthojytic Treatment.—The first essential for its successful employment is a consciousness of diplopia, and if this is not already present, it must be created if possible. It may be elicited in some cases by placing a prism base downwards before the deviating eye and using a candle-flame in a darkened room as a test object. A red glass before one eye heightens the contrast between the images. Javal recommends that a large sheet of card- board should be held vertically between the two eyes, one edge resting against the nose and brow, and that the flame be held at about two metres distance. If double vision is not at once appreciated, alternate exposure of the eyes should be employed to rouse it. The experiment must be repeated frequently and daily until diplopia is established without any artificial assistance. The next stage requires the use of a stereoscope, with -\- 6d sph. lenses in place of the usual prisms. The patient must also wear his proper correcting spectacles. To a normal pair of eyes a pair of stereoscopic pictures seen through the lenses at their focal distances will appear single, and this without any accommodative or convergent effort. To a squinter they will appear double (if conscious of his diplopia). By gradually diminishing the distance between the pictures the patient should at length be able to fuse them into a coincident impression. The distance must now be daily increased and the exercise continued until fusion is secured in thfe normal position. Only simple geometrical figures or elementary pictures in which each unit of the pair is the comple- ment of the other unit should be employed. Worth has introduced an ingenious stereo- scope (" Amblyoscope ") consisting of two tubes (each containing a lens and mirror), so shaped and hinged as to enable them to be adapted to the angular deviation of the eyes, and each carrying a transparent test object at the focal plane of the lens, both lens and test object complying with the conditions mentioned above.