128 SALPINGO- SslI P i n g'O-.—In compound words salpingo- (Gr. o-aATTty^, a tube) means relating to the Fal- lopian tube, less often to the Eustachian tube, e.g. salpingocyesis (tubal pregnancy), salpingo- pharyngeal (belonging to the Eustachian tube and pharynx), and salpingotomy (excision of or incision into the Fallopian tube). Salpingo-oophorectomy.—Ex- cision of the Fallopian tubes and ovaries; Lawson Tait's operation. Sa,l pi ng'OStOmy. — The operation of restoring the potency of the Fallopian tube in hydrosalpinx. See Fallopian Tubes {Treatment, Operative., of Salpingitis). Salsomagrsriore. See Balneology {Italy, Muriated Waters). Salt. See Sodium. See also Saline ; Epsom Salts ; Rochelle Salt ; etc. Salt Cake.—Sulphate of soda as it is made in alkali works. Salt Lake City. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {American). Saltatory Spasm. See Hysteria (Chorea Saltatoria). Salzbrunn. A^ee Balneology ((JermaTiy, Alkaline Waters). Sam bud FloreS.—Elder flowers are used in medicine chiefly as a flavouring agent; they are obtained from the Samhucus nigra, and contain a resin, valerianic acid, and a vola- tile oil (containing a terpene, CjgHjg); there is an official preparation, the Aqiia Sambuci (dose, 1 to 2 fl. oz.). See Elder Flowers. San Bernardino. See Balneology {Sivitzerland, Grisons). San Dieg'O. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (Ainerican). San Re mo. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Riviera). Sanarelli's Bacillus.—The bacillus icteroides, once believed to be the specific organism of yellow fever. See Yellow Fever (Virus). SanatOg'en. — A dietetic preparation containing much casein (90 per cent) and some phosphoglyceride of sodium (5 per cent); it has been recommended as a stimulant and tonic in anaemia and in the neuroses; and it is given in doses of two teaspoonfuls (for adults) twice or thrice daily, mixed with soup or milk or porridge, etc. Sanatorium.—A private hospital; also with the meaning of sanitarium. See Lung, Tuberculosis of {Treatment, Sanatoria). Sand Flea. — The chigoe or chigger {Pulex penetrans). See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Animal Parasites, Chigger). Sand, Intestinal. See Stools, In- testinal Sand ; FiECES {Foreign Bodies). Sanders-Wood. See Pterocarpi Lignum. Sand fjord. See Balneology {Norway). Sandg'ate. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). Sand rock. See Balneology {Great Britain, Chalybeate). Sang^er'S Method. See Labour, Op- erations {Ccesarean Section, Operative Methods, Closing the Uterine Incision). Sanies. — Sero-purulent discharge, as exudes sometimes from a fistula or ulcer. Sanitarium. — A health resort, per- haps in special connection with the treatment of tuberculosis. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts. Sanitary Science. — Public health or hygiene. See Epidemiology ; Heterology ; Sewage and Drainage ; Vital Statistics ; etc. Sanitas.—An aqueous solution of turpen- tine which has oxidised in the air ; it acts as an antiseptic by reason of the peroxide of hydrogen which it contains. See Disinfection {Chemical Substances); Hydrogen Peroxide. SanmettO.—A proprietary preparation, said to consist of sandal-wood and saw-palmetto; it has been recommended (in teaspoonful doses) in genito-urinary complaints. Sanoform.—The methyl ether of di- iodosalicylic acid, recommended as a surgical dressing (powder or ointment). Sanson's imag'es. See Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism (Vision, Accommo- dation). Santa Barbara. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {American). Santa Margfherita. See Therapeu- tics, Health Resorts {Riviera). Santal Oil.—Oleum Santali or oil of sandal - wood (to be distinguished from red sandal or sanders wood) is the volatile oil obtained from Santalum album; it contains an alcohol (CjjHogO), and it has been used, on account of its stimulating and disinfecting in- fluence on the genito-urinary mucous membranes.