STELLATE PELVIS 334 Stellate Pelvis.—The compressed pelvis due to osteomalacia or to late rickets (pseudo-osteomalacic), so called on account of the stellate (star-like) shape of the brim. Stel I wage's Sign. —A physical sign found in some cases of exophthalmic goitre, and consisting in diminution in the frequency of the winking movements of the iipper eyelids with an unusually wide palpebral aperture. See Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre). StenO-.—In compound words steno- (Gr. oreVos, narrow) means narrow or contracted. Stenocardia. — Angina pectoris or breast-pang. See Angina. Stenocephaly. — Narrowness of the head in one or other diameter or in several. Stenon'S Duct. See Stbnsbn's Duct. stenosis.—A narrowing or constriction of any part, especially of such parts as the aortic orifice, the pylorus, or the cervix uteri. See Gastro-Intbstinal Disorders op Infancy {Dis- eases of the Stomach, Congenital Hypertrophy of the Pylorus) ; Heart, Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Pulmonary and Tricuspid Stenosis); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Physi- cal Signs, Aortic and Mitral Stenosis); Larynx, Affections op the Cartilages {Stenosis); Men- struation AND its Disorders {Rete^ition of the Menses, Causes). Stensen's Duct.—The duct of the parotid gland, named after Nicolaus Stenon or Niels Stensen, a Danish anatomist of the seventeenth century (1636-1686). See Parotid Gland, Disorders of {Anatomy). Stephanion. — A craniometric point situated where the temporal crest, after passing over the frontal bone, crosses the coronal suture and passes on to the parietal. Steppage Gait.—A peculiar mode of walking (high-stepping) seen in locomotor ataxia, in alcoholic multiple neuritis, etc. Steppe Disease..—Rinderpest. Stercobilin.. — A pigment (hydrobili- rubin) found sometimes in faeces. See F^CES (Chemical Examination), St e rcoraceo u s.—Fa;cal or resembling faeces (Lat. stercus, dung or ordure); e.g. sterco- raceous vomiting, as in intestinal obstruction. See Intestines, Surgical Affections of (Ob- struction, Diagnosis). Stercoremia.—A depraved state of the blood due to the retention of faeces in the bowel. Stereo-. — In compound words stereo- (Gr. a-Tepeos, solid) means solid or relating to solids (tridimensional forms); e.g. stereogastrula (a solid gastrula), and stereotypy (" morbid persistence of a volitional impulse when once started " (Gould)). StereOgnostiC Sense, ^ee Syringo- myelia (Symptoms). Stereoscope.—An instrument by means of which two similar (but not identical) pictures of the same object are so presented to the eye as to give the appearance of solidity and relief ; it is used in the treatment of squinting (see Strabismus, Orthoptic Treatment) and as a means of teaching anatomy, etc. Sterigmas. See Micro - Organisms (Hyphomycetes). Sterilisation and Sterilisers. See Aseptic Treatment of Wounds (Disinfection of Instruments, etc.); Infant Feeding (Arti- ficial, Sterilisation); Milk (Dietetic, Sterilised); New-born Infant (Feeding, Artificial). Sterility. Etiology 334 Diagnosis ...... 338 Treatment ...... 338 See also Climate, Acclimatisation (Prevention of Sudden Acclimatisation by Sterility); Curet- tage, Uterine (Therapeutic Uses); Gonorrhoeal Infection (Sterility); Morphinomania (Effects); Ovaries, Diseases of (Removal of Ovaries); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of (Sterility); Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours of (Fibroids, Symptoms). Sterility is the incapacity on the part of a man to beget a child, or on the part of a woman to conceive. The word is sometimes more vaguely employed; thus a woman who has borne no children after several years of married life is said to be sterile. She, however, may be potentially fertile, her husband being respon- sible for her not conceiving, either because he is sterile, or because he is impotent. For the definition of tliese conditions, and for the con- sideration of the general subject of sterility in the male, the reader is referred to the article on "The Testicle." Etiology.—It will be conductive to clearness if we remember that conception depends upon four factors. On the part of the female :— A. The production of healthy ova. B. The possession of a healthy patent channel of communication between the vulva and the ovary. On the part of the male :— C. The production of healthy spermatozoa. D. The effectual deposition of spermatozoa in the female genital passages. We are not here concerned with the last two