SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 86 excretory duct of the testis—the vas deferens— with its vessels and nerves, and by the coverings of these structures brought down from the several layers of the abdominal wall by the descent of the testis, with their vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. The vas deferens lies at the posterior aspect of the cord, and is to be easily recognised by its whipcord-like density when rolled between the thumb and finger. A con- siderable amount of connective tissue surrounds the vas and the blood-vessels of the cord. Three arteries occupy the cord : the spermatic, from the aorta, lies in front of the vas; the deferential, from the superior or inferior vesical, lies by the side of the vas; the cremasteric artery, from the deep epigastric, lies among the superficial layers of the cord and in its outer segment. The veins of the cord are divided roughly into two sets. The anterior and by far the larger set runs with the spermatic artery, is bound together by a good deal of connective tissue, and forms the pampiniform plexus. The posterior set is small and sur- rounds the vas deferens, running with the deferential artery. A few isolated veins, inde- pendent of these sets, are found among the tissues of the cord. The veins of the left side are larger than those of the right. The cover- ings of the cord are continuous above with the layers of the abdominal parietes and below with those of the scrotum. They are arranged from without inwards in the following order—inter- columnar fascia derived from the external oblique muscle, cremasteric fascia from the internal oblique, and infundibuliform fascia from the fascia transvei'salis. Development of the Testicle and its Ducts.—It is almost superfluous to state that the testes of man are not developed in the scrotum, but in the posterior wall of the abdominal cavity. They lie at first behind the peritoneum, close to the kidneys, and may have a mesentery developed, known as the mesorchium. To vmderstand aright the vestigial structures associated with the development of the testicle, it must be borne in mind, in accordance with the law, that in development we have repeated the steps of evolution. The appearance of the kidney of human anatomy—the metanephros— is preceded by that of two other excretory organs—the pronephros and mesonephros—now only functional in fishes and amphibians. The pronephros, the most primitive of the three, is situated in the cervical region of the embryo. It consists of transvei-sely running tubules opening at one end into the coelom, and at the other into a longitudinal duct closed anteriorly, but which opens into the cloaca posteriorly, and is known as the Wolffian duct. The pronephros is believed entirely to disappear, the adjacent part of the Wolffian duct being accountable for the "stalked hydatid." The mesonephros, which appears as the pronephros passes away, is situated in the dorsal and lumbar regions, and consists of transversely running tubules opening at one end into the Wolffian duct, and having glomeruli developed at the other. The tubules may be conveniently divided into superior, middle, and inferior sets. The superior tubules—as the coelomic epithel- ium covering the inner side of the mesonephros becomes thickened and developed into the geni- tal gland—acquire an attachment to the latter, and, losing their erstwhile urinary function, form the vasa efferentia and coni vasculosi of human anatomy. The middle tubules, retaining their connection with the Wolffian duct, which has now become the canal of the epididymis and the vas deferens, form the vasa aberrentia. The inferior tubules, losing their connection with the Wolffian duct, form the paradidymis or organ of Giraldes. The other structures requiring mention are the Miillerian ducts, which are longitudinal ducts developed later than the Wolffian ducts, and ventral to them in position. Anteriorly these ducts open separately in the coelom; posteriorly they unite and open into the cloaca; from their anterior extremities we have formed the "sessile hydatid," from the posterior the sinus pocularis ; the intermediate portion dis- appears. Descent of the Testis.—The passage of the testis from the abdominal cavity to the scrotum takes place at about the end of the eighth month of intra-uterine life. The gubernaculum testis is the active agent in bringing about the descent of the testis. This is a band of in- voluntary muscle fibres which traverses the inguinal canal, and establishes important con- nections both within and without the abdominal cavity. Below these main attachments of the gubernaculum may be recognised, viz.: («) to the abdominal wall; (b) to the pubes ; (c) to the bottom of the scrotum. Above the gubernac- ular fibres are chiefly connected with the testis; but many of them are also attached to the peri- toneum in the posterior wall of the abdomen. By the traction which the gubernaculum exerts on the testicle the descent of that organ is brought about. By the portion attached to the abdominal wall the testicle is pulled down to the internal abdominal ring, the pubic portion drags it through the inguinal canal, whilst the central part finally leads it into the scrotum. The formation of the processus vaginalis is accounted for in the same way. Some of these gubernacular fibres which are inserted into the peritoneum drag down the peritoneal diver- ticulum which lines the inguinal canal and scrotum, and prepares the way for the testicle. The processus vaginalis normally closes first at its upper end, then at its lower, and finally in the intervening portion. Abnormalities of the Testicles.—Either