SKIN—BACTERIOLOGY 172 (Unna), S. cutis communis (Sabouraud), and S. epidermidis albus (Welch), and under different circumstances by " Demme (1886), Claessen (1893), Bulloch (1895), Whipham (1886), Ber- holm (1900), and Whitfield (1900)." On ordin- ary gelose it may " assume all tints, from a milk-white to a golden yellow, and on gelatine the culture presents a canary yellow colour." It prefers slightly acid or neutral media. As a rule it neither liquefies gelatine nor coagulates milk; it varies considerably in size and form, and mayassume a flask-shape ("flask-shaped bacilli"); it frequently occurs as diplococci. Staphylococcus Jlavescens : obtained by Dam- man from the skin of the toes and genito-crural folds. Staphylococci: form yellowish colonies; begin to liquefy gelatine in three to six days. Bacteria identified with various Diseases OF the Skin.—Acne Vulgaris.—The formation of the acne pustule is always preceded by the plugging of the pilo-sebaceous follicle by a comedo. 1. Bacteria found in the comedo. (a) Microbacilli of Sahouraiod and Unna and Bacillus acnes of Gilchrist. Believed by these observers to be the specific cause of the comedo, and by Unna to have pyogenic properties in addition. Microbacilli: 1-25 to 1-5 fi in length, and 0"3 iL to 0'5 yu, in breadth. Assumes two forms: (1) young bacilli, resembling cocci, ovoid or barrel-shaped, with a capsule, and (2) old bacilli, longer, sigmoid, united in chains or arranged in bundles; stain with Gram's method. On Sabouraud's special medium colonies develop on the fourth day, and twenty hours after take the form of brick-red cones; frequently grow in association with S. cutis communis, but in twenty-eight days the porcelain-like culture of the staphylococcus dies, and that of the micro- bacillus remains pure ; inoculations on the skin from cultures gave negative results. {b) Flask-shaped bacilli: B. asciformis. Balloon bacillus (Hodara) ; B. bouteille (Sabouraud); situated about the head and mantle of the comedo; they invariably grow in association with the S. cutis communis, and it has been suggested that they are degenerate involuted forms of that micro-organism. Bacilli: generally gourd- or flask-shaped, with a large spherical portion surmounted by a small rounded process, but they may be oval, round, barrel-shaped, or thread-like; b ^ in length or longer ; arranged usually in groups, stained by Gram's method ; in fluid media they form a de- posit like sand, and on solid media they grow as whitish radiate colonies. (c) Diplococci, small cocci which do not liquefy gelatine, large cocci which liquefy it, and S. epidermidis albus have also been described in comedones. 2. Bacteria found in the acne pustule : Staphylococcus pyogenes albus, aureus, and various torulce. Acne necrotica seu varioliformis : {a) Micro- bacilli {Sabouraud); {b) S. pyogenes aureus.— The microbacilli, according to Sabouraud, are only present in the initial stage of acne necro- tica, and the peculiar necrotic pustule is be- lieved by him to be due to the symbiosis of both these micro-organisnis. Alopecia Areata.—The parasitic organ of at least one type of alopecia areata has recently been strongly advocated, namely, the type in which the early lesions appear as small pinkish inflammatory patches, dotted over with sebor- rhceic plugs, and frequently associated with pityriasis of the scalp. Sabouraud has isolated fifteen species of micro-organisms from such a case, one of which, the inicrobacillus {vide supra), he considers to be specific. Though several experiments have been recorded where bald patches are said to have appeared after the subcutaneous inocula- tion of microbacilli, the evidence is not yet sufficient to be convincing. Norman Walker planted stumps from anumber of cases of alopecia areata on Sabouraud's medium, but with one exception, in which he obtained a brick-red culture of microbacilli, all the hairs grew porcelain-like cultures of S. epidermidis albus. Carbuncle, due to the ordinary pyogenic cocci: Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus; Staphy- lococcus pyogenes albus; Staphylococcus pyogenes citreus ; Streptococcus pyogenes. Chancroid, or ulcus molle : said by Ducrey to be due to a streptobacillus. (1) Streptobacillus of Ducrey: 1'4 /x long by 0"5 jx broad; round-ended; generally arranged in chains, decolorised by Gram's method; grows on a mixture of human blood serum and agar (Petersen), and on blood-gelose in the form of shining whitish colonies; experimental inocula- tion of four cases by Besan9on gave positive results. Unna has described a streptobacillus as specific which is similar to that of Ducrey; other observers deny that the streptococcus has specific characters. (2) Ordinary pyogenic cocci. Cheiro - pompholyx, or Dysidrosis : now generally believed to be due to a parasite; Unna has described a peculiar bacillus which he claims to be specific. Bacilli: 2'5 /X, to 3-5 /X in length, and 0'5 jx in breadth; arranged singly in groups of four to six, or on short threads; flourishes in sweat. Ecthyma : due to the inoculation of pyogenic cocci in badly nourished and weakly resistant individuals. In one case of ecthyma tt^rebrant, B. pyocyaneus was identified (Ehler's). Eczema.—There are at present two oppos- ing views regarding the origin of true papulo-