384 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF not, of course, claimed that such a treatment will cure the dilatation consequent on a per- manent pyloric stricture, but it goes far to do so when the underlying cause is atony and a chronic catarrh. Carbolic acid or creasote in one or two minim doses, hyposulphite of soda, or sulphocarbolate of soda, grs. 5 to 10, made up with carminatives, are the most effective antifermentatives. Much benefit in restoring the tone of the stomach may be derived from supplementing the lavage by abdominal massage with or with- out applications of faradic electricity, for five to fifteen minutes, of sufficient strength of current to cause distinct contractions of the abdominal muscles, one pole being placed on the stomach, and the other round towards the back. The diet and feeding of such cases is of great importance. Sugar and starch foods, as being liable to ferment in the stomach, should be reduced to a minimum. Minced freshly cooked meat, peptonised milk, Benger's food, and plas- mon are the most suitable, and should be given in small quantities at intervals of four hours, preceded with an occasional dose of dilute hydrochloric acid. AH liquids should be given sparingly. Eectal feeding may be necessary at first to give the stomach as complete a rest as possible, the lavage meanwhile being continued, and this mode of nourishment is the only one feasible in the cases of acute dilatation. When the condition is only moderate in degree a diet restricted to lean meat and hot water may be most beneficial. When the primary cause is atony of the stomach, strychnine, arsenic, and iron, with general tonic treatment and good hygienic surroundings, are indicated. The surgical treatment of the condition may consist of excision of the pylorus, and union of the duodenum to stomach (pylorectomy), which is resorted to in favourable cases of pyloric new growth ; or in non-malignant stenosis the orifice may be forcibly stretched. The dilated organ has been frequently reduced in size by making folds on the anterior surface, from the lesion to the greater curvature (gastroplication). The operation has been most successful in its results when combined with pyloroplasty. (See p. 394.) Stomach, Surg-ical Affections of. Introductory ..... 384 Exploratory Incision .... 334 Subcutaneous Injuries .... 384 Penetrating Wounds . . . . 385 Effects of Corrosive Poisons . . 385 Foreign Bodies ..... 385 Pyloric Obstruction of Infants . . 386 Gastric Ulcer— Operative Treatment of Uncomplicated Ulcer 386 C omplica tions— HcBmorrhage .... 386 Perforation . . . .387 Perigastric Abscess . . 388 Gastric Fistula.... 389 Cicatricial Stenosis of the Pylorus 389 Perigastric Adhesions . . 389 Hour-glass Stomach . . . 390 Gastroptosis 390 Cancer of Stomach .... 391 Tumours of Stomach other than Cancer 393 Dilatation of Stomach—Gastrectasis . 393 Operations on the Stomach . . . 393 Diseases of the Stomach from the Surgical Aspect It is assumed that the reader is familiar with the clinical methods of examination, both of the stomach and of the gastric contents, whether vomited or siphoned off through the stomach tube. It must be borne in mind that the infracostal portion of the stomach varies widely in different individuals, both as regards its extent and position ; the greater curvature, for example, not infrequently extends to the level of or even below the umbilicus without any gastric symptoms, so that too much stress must not be laid on such variations in estimating the necessity or indications for surgical interference. With regard to diagnosis, an exploratory in- cision may be required to confirm the diagnosis, to determine the question of operation, and to decide as to its nature. The occasional per- formance of an unnecessary exploration, while a matter for regret, is nothing in comparison with the loss of the opportune time for interference when it is omitted (Mayo Robson). The mortality from exploratory operations should not exceed 5 per cent. They are most dangerous in the presence of advanced malignant disease. Unless, therefore, the patient is strong enough to undergo the major interference for which the exploratory operation is a preliminary, there is no object in its performance. Reference may be made to the occasional experience that the exploration of an inoperable and apparently malignant tumour is followed by its disappearance, and the complete recovery of the patient. Such tumours are of inflam- matory origin, and probably consist of peri- gastric adhesions and of induration around a chronic ulcer. For mere exploration a small incision— sufficient to admit two fingers—is made in the middle line above the umbilicus. Injuries and Diseases of the Stomach Subcuta7ieous injuries usually result from blunt violence applied to the abdominal wall. Actual rupture of the organ is extremely rare, and is usually associated with rupture of the liver or spleen, so that the patient may succumb to shock and internal haemorrhage before the