SYPHILIS 467 which are exuberant, may require the applica- tion of a Pacquelin's cautery or of cauterisation with nitrate of silver. The Eye.—Iritis.—Inflammation of the iris is one of the chief manifestations of secondary syphilis in the eye, as it has been estimated that nearly 60 per cent of all cases of iritis are due to this cause. It may occur within six weeks or two months of the primary lesion, and is often accompanied by cyclitis. It is usually acute, one eye being first affected, though the other eye soon becomes inflamed. Symptoms.—There is some congestion of the conjunctiva and circumcorneal zone, with photo- phobia and lacrymation. The pain, however, may not be a very marked feature, though the patient may complain of some neuralgia over the forehead and down the side of the nose. In a typical case one or more beads of lymph can easily be seen to be situated upon the iris, and the pupil is small and irregular in shape. More often, however, no such beads of lymph are present, and the whole iris appears thick and dull. The inflammation runs its course in about a month or six weeks, and is singularly amenable to treatment by mercury. Relapses are not very common in cases which have been cured by treatment, but if they are left to undergo resolution it is not unusual for ad- hesions to be formed between the margin of the iris and the front surface of the lens. These synechise may be the cause of fresh irritation, which results in renewed attacks of iritis, or, if complete, they may cause a chronic inflamma- tion ending in glaucoma. Treatment.—The after-effects of a neglected syphilitic iritis are so disastrous that every effort must be made to cure it absolutely. The patient should be kept in a darkened and well- ventilated room so long as he complains of photophobia, and he should be forbidden ab- solutely to use his eyes. Repeated instillations of sulphate of atropine, 2 grains to the ounce, with fomentations of belladonna, are impera- tively called for until the pupil is widely dilated and the inflammation has subsided. These instillations may be supplemented with fomen- tations of belladonna, as by these means the tendency to the formation of synechise is re- duced to a minimum. If atropine increase the tendency to conjunctivitis, it must be replaced by duboisin or hyoscyamin. Three leeches or a small blister applied to the temple, where the hair has been shaved away over a small area to hide the subsequent scars, will often relieve the pain. The patient must be put upon full doses of mercury (p. 468), which should be increased rapidly until there are symptoms of slight sali- vation, when the amount must be cautiously reduced. Much care must be exercised when recovery has taken place, especially if synechise are present, and the patient should report him- self to his ophthalmic surgeon from time to time, to enable an ophthalmoscopic examination to be made. Ear.—As the external ear is only a part of the skin, it is occasionally affected with an erythema, which may involve the mastoid region, the auricle, or even the membrana tympani. A condyloma is sometimes formed within the external auditory meatus, where it may give rise to much discomfort and consider- able discharge. The treatment is identical with that recommended for secondary syphilitic affections elsewhere, viz. a course of mercury internally, cleanliness, and drying of the local manifestation. Treatment of Secondary Syphilis The methodical treatment of syphilis begins as soon as the disease can be diagnosed with certainty, and in the majority of cases this is not until the appearance of the secondary symptoms, good prognosis may be given in young patients who are otherwise healthy, for they may be told that if they will submit them- selves to a thorough course of treatment the secondary symptoms can be kept well under control, and it is improbable that they will suffer from any tertiary signs imless perchance they are subject later in life to some unusually debilitating influences. On the other hand, the intemperate, the tuberculous, the rheumatic, the gouty, the malarious, and those who are suffering from any wasting or debilitating disease do not bear syphilis well, and it is advisable to warn such patients at the outset that their cure will be harder and will take a proportionately longer time. The broad facts to be remembered in con- nection with syphilis are as follows, so far as they can be based upon our present knowledge of the pathology of the disease. Syphilis leads to a chronic inflammation of the connective tissues, as is shown by a multiplication of small round cells. In the early stages these small round cells have a tendency to degenerate in various ways, this tendency being controlled by the administration of mercury. In the later stages the tendency to degenerate is associated with certain conservative changes, for there is a production of imperfect fibrous tissue. This formation of fibroid tissue is controlled by the use of iodides. The stress of the disease in syphilis usually falls upon one system, e.g. the bones, the skin, the nervous system, the visceral organs, and in some cases a definite cause may be discovered to account for the predilection. But any independent condition or disease which unfavourably modifies the connective tissues of an organ, or even of the whole body, will un- favourably influence the course of syphilis. It does not matter materially by what means mercury obtains access to the tissues, so long as it is presented to them in a form which they can assimilate. It may pass by absorption