376 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF Heematemesis also occurs much less often, and only when a very considerable htemorrhage takes place. Melsena, on the contrary, is more frequent, and takes the place, as it were, of hsematemesis, which it often precedes over some period. The general malnutrition which such a dis- turbance of the digestive process engenders is shown by the wasting and muscular weakness, as also by the state of the blood, which in this as in gastric ulcer comes to resemble that characteristic of pernicious antemia, and is still more marked in cancer of the stomach, a circumstance which lends support to the view that the essential cause of this great blood disease is some autogenetic toxin developed in the gastro-intestinal tract. The bowels are apt to be confined, or this state may alternate with diarrhoea. An associated catarrh of the duo- denum may determine a moderate jaundice. Prognosis.—Deaths may be due to htemor- rhage, but oftener to perforation, and occasionally from progressive malnutrition. A fair number of cases, in whom there is reason to suspect the existence of this malady, may go on for some years, with exacerbations at intervals, which may be of long duration, and it is not unusual to meet with patients who give an account of what strongly suggests duodenal ulcer many years previously, during which there has been almost complete relief with subsequent recur- rence. Cicatrisation of the ulcer may lead to stenosis of the bowel, with all the troubles de- pendent thereon ; or the orifices of the bile and pancreatic ducts may be involved in the scar, with the production of persistent and severe jaundice, and great emaciation, with fatty stools, etc.; or perforation instead of being immedi- ately fatal, as it most usually is, may give rise to a subphrenic abscess or establish a fistulous communication with the colon or gall-bladder. As in the stomach, the scar has been known to be the seat of subsequent cancer. Diagnosis.—The data for distinguishing be- tween a gastric and a duodenal ulcer have been sufficiently set forth in the account of the symptoms which the latter exhibits, bearing in mind the age and sex differences of their occur- rence in age, as well as the greater frequency of a pre-existing chlorosis in the stomach lesion, and of an extensive skin burn in the duodenal. But the diagnosis is not so easy as might appear from a description that aims at giving a gener- ally complete account of these diseases rather than contrasting individual cases, and when the duodenal ulcer is close to the pylorus distinction may be impossible. An absence of symptoms of gastric dyspepsia is said to be noteworthy in duodenal ulceration, but this is not to be distin- guished with anything like certainty, since the bowel lesion does in varying degree interfere with the stomach functions. With somewhat more reason than gastric ulcer the symptoms of the duodenal lesion might be mistaken for gall-stone colic. The pain is felt much in the same situation, and may be referred to the right shoulder, though in the latter affection it is more paroxysmal, and there is more likelihood of vomiting, and jaundice is only occasional. A rise of temperature and perhaps a rigor and sweating are in favour of gall-stones. Acute pancreatitis is a rare condition, which may resemble duodenal ulcer in some of its symptoms, and lead colic may be mistaken for it. Treatment.—This should aim at healing the ulcer, and at the same time relieving the symp- toms to which it gives rise or that are connected with such conditions as may be present, viz. chronic catarrh of the stomach, hyperchlorhydria, and chlorosis. To a great extent these several indications are met by similar lines of procedure. When once the lesion has been diagnosed, whether subsequent to a haematemesis or not, and even when only reasonable probability exists for its occurrence, complete rest in bed should be insisted on, and should be maintained until well after all symptoms have ceased. By this means the risks attendant upon the malady are diminished, and the chances of complete healing and avoidance of a chronic intractable ulcer being established are increased. Opinions differ as to the value of remedies that may be supposed to promote the healing by their direct effect upon the wound, such as nitrate of silver or subcarbonate of bismuth. By some, one or other of these substances is given regularly over some weeks, whilst others discard them as useless for the purpose assigned. The writer thinks benefit in this direction does follow a pill consisting of argenti nitratis gr. \ to \, sodii carbonatis exsic. gr. iij., kaolin q.s., given two or three times daily. The principle of rest should be still further applied by complete abstinence from food of all kinds, and feeding by nutritive enemata or suppositories. This is strictly to be followed if hsemorrhage has occurred. Thirst should be relieved by a teaspoonful of tepid water now and then and warm water enemata. It is very doubtful whether sucking lumps of ice, so often recommended, does not really favour the bleed- ing ; and the stomach is apt to be burdened by a larger quantity of fluid in this way than is generally supposed. For how long rectal feed- ing should be continued depends on the ability of the patient to retain the injections and on the general condition, and also on the view of the case taken by the physician. Regularly washing out the rectum previous to the nutritive enema, and the addition thereto of a small quantity of opium, will allay the irritability of the bowel and permit a longer continuance of the treatment, which may in favourable cases be pursued for several weeks, though the patient