TENDON-JERKS 548 phenomena, or tendon reflexes, as they are sometimes called, first attracted attention through the writings of Erb and Westphal. There has been much discussion regarding their nature. Some writers have held that they are true reflexes, while others have opposed this view, believing that they are due to direct stimulation of the muscles by vibrations trans- mitted from the tendons. In considering this question it is convenient to take the knee-jerk as a type. The observation that the time reaction of the knee-jerk is very much shorter than that of a true reflex has been repeatedly confirmed. Further, it has been shown that if the nerves connected with the patella tendon are divided the knee-jerk is not abolished. For these reasons it is difficult to believe that the knee-jerk is a true reflex. If, however, the posterior roots in the lumbar region of the spinal cord are divided in an animal, or diseased in man, as is often the case, for instance, in tabes dorsalis, the knee-jerk is found to be absent. Similarly, it is lost if the lumbar segments of the spinal cord, or the anterior roots which pass from them, or the peripheral nerves connected with the quadriceps muscle, are destroyed. These facts show that the knee-jerk is dependent upon the integrity of a reflex arc, although, as we have seen, it is not a true reflex. It is essential for the occurrence of a tendon- jerk that the muscle shall be in a state of slight tension which it is possible to increase by mechanical means. Thus in order to obtain the knee-jerk it is necessary to flex the knee; by this means the quadriceps is put slightly on the stretch. Further, Sir William Gowers has pointed out that although a tap on the lateral aspect of the Achillis tendon produces an Achillis-jerk, if the tendon is supported on the other side so that it cannot yield, a tap which previously caused a contraction will not now do so. This is the reason why a tendon-jerk can only be elicited in the case of certain tendons, viz. those which on account of their anatomical relations are capable of being suddenly put upon the stretch. The tendon is only of im- portance in so far as it allows of the tension of the muscle being suddenly increased. The proof of this is that in the case of some jerks, for example, the jaw-jerk, a tap on the bone to which the muscle is attached is equally eff'ective. The jaw-jerk must be clearly dis- tinguished from the so-called periosteal reflexes. The latter are true reflexes ; unlike the tendon- jerks, their occurrence is not dependent on the sudden stretching of the muscle. Finally, the most satisfactory explanation of the nature of the tendon-jerks assumes that the degree of tension in the muscle which is necessary before a tendon-jerk can be obtained induces reflexly in the muscle "a state of irritability to local mechanical stimulation" (Gowers), which manifests itself in a contraction when the muscle is suddenly put upon the stretch. The activity of a tendon-jerk varies with, and serves as an indicator of, the state of the muscular tone (spinal tonus) in the muscle with which it is connected. Where there is a breach in the continuity of the spinal reflex arc the muscular tonus is diminished (hypotonia), as are the tendon-jerks. On the other hand, lesions of the cerebro-spinal motor tract are commonly associated with an increase in the muscular tone (hypertonia) and an exaggeration of the tendon-jerks. The exaggeration of the tendon-jerks in the case of lesions affecting the pyramidal tracts points to a restraining influence normally ex- erted upon them through these fibres. Possibly the exaggeration may depend, as Hughlings Jackson has suggested, upon an unopposed cerebellar influx. In cases of total transverse lesions of the spinal cord in man, as Bastian was the first to point out, the tendon-jerks below the level of the lesion are abolished. Their absence cannot be attributed to shock, for, unlike the temporary loss which occurs on the paralysed side after a sudden hemiplegia, they remain absent for many weeks or months. The lower limbs are hypotonic in these cases. "Clonus" is a phenomenon which is often met with in pathological conditions in associa- tion with exaggeration of the tendon-jerks. Thus in certain cases where the foot is suddenly dorsiflexed and the pressure maintained, a series of contractions occur in the calf-muscle; this we term ankle clonus. The explanation of its occurrence is precisely similar to that of a simple jerk, the persistence of the stimulus inducing another contraction after each relaxation of the muscle. It is important to distinguish the excitability of a muscle to mechanical stimulation applied directly to the muscle itself from that induced through its tendon.^ "A muscle moves when struck because of its innate capacity to twitch when irritated, but it does not move when excited by a blow on its tendon imless it has, besides its own excitability, a constant influx of tone waves from spinal centres " (Weir Mitchell). Pathological States of the Tendon-jerks.—The tendon-jerks are diminished or abolished in the following conditions :■—■ (1) Lesions of the spinal reflex arc. (a) Lesions of the peripheral nerves, e.g. peripheral neuritis, or injury to the nerves which pass to and from the muscle. ' In cases of tabes, for instance, where the knee-jerk is absent and the quadriceps muscle hypotonic, the visible contraction of the quadriceps in response to direct percussion is often markedly increased, a point to which attention was drawn by T. Buzzard many years ago.