156 SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF to the axilla are of the least service in arresting hsemorrhage from the axillary artery. Axillary Aneurysm.—An axillary aneurysm is nearly always the result of an injury to the artery, either in the form of an incomplete wound involving the outer and a portion of the middle coats, a small puncture, or more often a bruise or strain from the front of the shoulder. The loose cellular tissue in which the artery lies allows the aneurysm to attain a considerable size before it is discovered. The whole length of the artery may be involved, but in the cases which have come under my observation the aneurysm has been chiefly in the first and second parts of its course. Treatment.—The treatment is most unsatis- factory. Ligature of the third part of the subclavian may be carried out when the aneurysm is seen early, but after it has attained a large size the shoulder is pressed upwards so much as to make this operation one of extreme difficulty. There is a great tendency too for the aneurysm to become diffuse. In such cases the condensed tissue covering the aneurysm may be exposed, and fine iron wire may be introduced through a cannula into the cavity of the tumour, the small aperture being after- wards closed by a suture of fine silk. In other cases it might be advisable to inject some sterilised gelatine into the cavity of the aneurysm. When the aneurysm leaks or shows other indications of rupture, amputation must be performed to save the life of the patient. Operations Abscesses.—The line of safety in opening an axillary abscess has already been pointed out (p. 144). It lies from the centre of the axilla, but not too near the apex, along the inner and thoracic wall of the space. Axillai-y abscesses are best opened by " Hilton's method." The skin is shaved, washed, and rendered as aseptic as possible. It is then incised until the axillary fascia is reached. This fascia is picked up with a pair of dissecting forceps, and is carefully divided until a pair of dressing forceps can be introduced through it. The forceps are passed into the axilla closed, and they are pushed on luitil pus escapes. The blades are then separated to enlarge the opening in the axillary fascia. When the abscess has been chronic, the surgeon introduces his finger and gently breaks down any loculi to make the cavity as simple as possible. A counter-opening is made at the most dependent part, and effective drainage is provided. Amputations.—The shoulder may be ampu- tated by two methods. It may be either disarticu- lated at the joint or the whole extremity may be removed, including the scapula and a portion of the clavicle. Disarticulation at the shoulder joint is performed for severe injuries, for gang- rene of the arm, for disorganisation of the joint from disease, for some axillary aneurysms, and for malignant disease springing from the lower part of the shaft of the humerus. There are many different ways of amputating at the shoulder, but Spence's method is undoubtedly the best if it can be done. The arm to be removed is held away from the side, and is rotated outwards. The surgeon begins his incision half an inch external to the coracoid process, and carries it straight downwards and to the bone until he reaches the lower border of the insertion of the pectoralis major. He then carries his knife circularly round the arm, cutting only skin deep on the inner side where the great vessels and nerves are lying, but going down to the bone at all other parts. The outer flap, chiefly consisting of the deltoid muscle, is easily raised from the bone, the joint is opened, and the sui-geon seizes the head and upper end of the humerus in his left hand, whilst, with the knife in his right, he frees the bone along the inner side until he reaches the level of the circular incision. He then tells the assistant to grasp the vessels in the flap above the point of division, and the disarticula- tion is completed by cutting through the biceps, coraco-brachialis, and other tissues from without inwards, i.e. towards the axilla. The interscapulo-thoracic operation, or re- moval of the entire upper extremity, is commonly known as Berger's operation. It gives excellent results, and does not appear to be so serious as might be imagined a priori. It is of especial service in cases of sarcoma involving the scapula or upper end of the humerus, but it has also been employed in cases of extensive osteitis. The operation consists of three dis- tinct parts : first, excision of the middle third of the clavicle ; secondly, the application of a double ligature to the subclavian artery and vein, each vessel being afterwards divided; thirdly, removal of the arm and scapula by an antero-posterior flap. The patient is placed on his back with the arm drawn a little way from the side. The surgeon stands on the outer side of the limb, and makes his first incision along the outer two-thirds of the clavicle. This part of the bone is rapidly cleared of its soft parts, and the middle third is excised sub- periosteally. The subclavian artery and vein are exposed, and two ligatures are passed round each, the ligatures on each vessel being at least half an inch apart; for there is a tendency for the distal ligature to come off when the vessel is divided, unless ample margin is left for the retraction of the artery. The vessels are divided, and the ligatures are cut short. The patient is now turned on his sound side, while the limb to be amputated is drawn away from the thorax, and the surgeon enters his knife at the middle of the clavicular incision, and carries it out- wards and downwards in the interspace between the pectoral and deltoid muscles as far as the