SPINA BIFIDA 269 to prevent an incautious operator involving him- self in unpleasant or serious consequences. Complications of Spina Bifida.—Arrest of development in one part of the body is often associated with arrest of development in some other part; so the infant with spina bifida is apt to be miserably small at birth, with, perhaps, an imperforate anus, or extroverted bladder, or a cleft palate, and then, or at a later date, he may be the subject of a hydrocephalus. The serious implication of the nerve-elements may determine paraplegia and various deformities of the legs and feet. In some cases the integument over the menin- geal sac is normal in appearance, but in others it is represented entirely, or in patches, by a thin, translucent epiblastic film, which looks as if it were ready to give way at any mo- ment. And often it does so rupture, with, usually, a fatal result. When the sac of a meningocele or of a myelo-meningocele contains a good deal of fluid, gentle compression of the tumour causes the fontanelles to bulge. And when the intracranial tension is increased by the infant crying, some of the cerebro-spinal fluid is thereby displaced from the cranium and forced into the menin- gocele, which thus becomes more full and tight. And in some cases the surgeon can cause a fluctuation by gently compressing the tumour with one hand, whilst the other is over the anterior fontanelle. Varieties of Spina Bifida 1. Myelocele.—The spinal cord is developed from the cells of the me- dullary groove of the epiblast by the medullary ridges curling back- wards to meet in the middle line. Thus the earliest spinal cord is a cellular tube blended with the epi- blast, but in due course mesoblastic plates growing inwards separate it from the overlying skin. In these plates the laminae of the vertebrae are subsequently developed (Figs. 3 and 4). If the medullary ridges duly blend together, in the cervical and dorsal regions, for instance, but fail to meet in the lumbar region, the medullary groove of the embryo cord is left fully exposed. It is covered with indefinite epiblastic cells, and is seen to be narrowing upwards into a funnel-like communication with the central medullary canal (Fig. 1). "When fresh this area is of a bright red colour and resembles a nsevus." The red surface is soft and vascular; it is also raw-looking and moist, the epiblastic cells of the open medullary groove having become detached from its surface. This species is termed a myelocele; it " is fairly common, but it is veiy rare in museums, because it does not produce a tumour in the loin, and is then regarded as atypical, and is cast away." I agree with Mr. Bland-Sutton in re- garding this as a common variety of spina bifida. Many of the subjects of it are born dead, or perish very soon after birth. 2. Syringo-myelocele is that rare variety of spina bifida in which the medullary ridges have duly joined, but the original medullary tube (the rudimentary spinal cord) has become distended with fluid, and thus bulges backwards through the neural arch, where it is found Fig. 1.—Myelocele. Posterior view of the lower part of the trunk of a fcetus at term affected with spina bifida. A, Foramen leading from the outer surface of the protrusion to the central canal of the cord. B, Central or chief part of the protrusion. (Shattock.) adherent to the skin. If large, the tumour would be so translucent as to appear to contain no nerve-tissue—to be a simple meningocele. As a matter of fact, however, the substance of the cord actually forms the lining of the sac, the spinal nerves finding their exit by passing rovmd the convexity of the cyst—obviously, they cannot run across the cyst in their coui'se to the intervertebral notches. Syringo-myelocele is very likely to be associated with paralytic and other defects of the lower exti-emities and of the pelvic part of the trunk (Fig. 4). 3. Meningo-myelocele comes next to the myelocele in order of frequency of occurrence, and it is certainly the commonest variety of spina bifida in those children who survive their birth. In this variety the tumour is formed