SQUILL 322 present scillipicrin and scillin. Dose—1-2 gr. Preparations—1. Tinctura Scilla3. Dose—5- 15 m. 2. Syrupus Scillae. Dose—i-1 3 3. Oxymel Scillfe. Dose—^-1 3. 4. Acetura Scillae. Dose—10-30 m. 5. Piliila Scillse Composita. Dose—4-8 gr. 6. Pilula Ipecacuanhaj c. Scilla. Dose—4-8 gr. The action of squill resembles closely that of digitalis, but it is a much more powerfully irritant drug. It may set up severe gastro- intestinal disturbance ; and while being excreted it exerts an expectorant and a diuretic action. It is largely employed as a diuretic in dropsy, especially when of cardiac origin, and should be combined with digitalis in such cases. A favourite pill contains squill, digitalis, and blue pill, one grain of each. As an expectorant also it is invariably administered in combination with other drugs. It is especially helpful as an ingredient of cough mixtures for chronic bron- chitis when the expectoration is scanty and tenacious, or when a very copious secretion is incompletely expectorated. It should not be given in acute bronchitis on account of the increased congestion of the mucous membrane produced. It should be discontinued if it sets up dyspeptic trouble. Squill, India.!!. — Urginea or Indian Squill is obtained from the younger bulbs of Urginea indica and of Scilla indica; it acts in the same way as ordinary squill, and it is in- cluded in the Addendum to the B.P. of 1898 (published in 1900). There are six official pre- parations : (1) the Acetum Urginece (dose, 10- 30 m.); (2) Oxymel Urginem (dose, |-1 fl. dr.); (3) Pilula Ipecacuanha; cum Urginea (dose, 4^-8 gr.); (4) Pilula Urgineae. Composita (dose, 4-8 gr.); (5) Syrupus Urginece. (dose, i-1 fl. dr.); and Tinctura Urginece (dose, 5-15 m.). Squinting'. See Strabismus and Cross References. See also Brain, Cerebellum, Affec- tions OF (TumotLr, Symptoms, Ocular Nerves); Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Ophthalmia Neona- torum, Sequela;); Ocular Muscles, Affections of (Paralysis); Tetany (Motor Symptoms). SS.—Abbreviation of semis, one-half. See Prescribing (Abbreviations). Stabs. See Medicine, Forensic (Various Kinds of Wounds). Stacke's Operation. See Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration (Treatment). Stadium.—A stage, e.g. the stadium de- crementi in a fever (stage of defervescence). Staffordshire Knot A method of ligaturing the pedicle of a tumour, etc., intro- duced by Lawson Tait in ovariotomy : a double ligature is carried through the pedicle, the loop is then brought over the tumour and one of the ends brought out above it, the ends are then drawn tight and a reefing knot tied on them. Staggers. See Hydatid Disease. Stahl'S Ear.—A congenital deformity of the outer ear consisting in a flattening and folding over of the helix, so that the fossa ovalis and the scaphoid fossa are not visible. Stains and Staining. See Post- mortem Methods (Staining of Sections). Stalk.—A pedicle or lengthened support of an organ or part (normal or morbid); e.g. the allantoic stalk, optic stalk, etc. St. Amand. See Balneology (France). Stammering. Analysis of Ordinary Speech . . 322 Etiology of Stammering . . . 325 Prognosis ...... 325 Treatment ...... 325 See also Hypnotism (Therapeutic Uses, Stam- mering) ; Hysteria (Disorders of Respiration). Stammering (or stuttering) is a functional affec- tion of speech, and in order to understand its causation and treatment it will be necessary, in the first place, to give a brief analysis of the processes concerned in the production of ordin- ary speech, and, secondly, to note what altera- tion in the processes causes this affection. Speech consists of words. Words are com- binations of vowels and consonants. In the formation of these vowels and con- sonants the concerted action of three separate mechanisms is necessary :— I. The respiratory mechanism to supply the breath which puts the vocal cords into vibration. II. The laryngeal mechanism. This consists of two parts : (a) the true vocal cords, which, by their vibration, give rise to the voice or sound of speech ; and (b) the false vocal cords, which control the exit of the breath. III. The oral, or rather the oro-nasal mechan- ism, which, by means of the lips, teeth, tongue, and soft palate, moulds the voice into the different vowels and consonants. A vowel has been defined by Ellis as "a modification (due to resonance in the cavities above the larynx) of an original quality of tone, produced by the vibrations of the vocal cords in the larynx." Every vowel is a continuous voice sound, and calls the above three mechanisms into play. Consonants may be divided into two main groups: (1) Breath or voiceless consonants, in which there is no voice sound ; and (2) Voiced consonants, which have the same oral position as the first group, but have in addition a con- comitant voice sound. The following table re- presents the physiological alphabet constructed