I TEETH 525 has something to do with the ulceration on the exposed surface of pulp. Treatment.—The pulp should be destroyed and roots iiUed, vising antiseptic precautions. (4) Abscess of the pulp (Fig. 8) has already been mentioned as a sequence of acute or chronic pulpitis. Its occurrence is coincident with exposure of the pulp to the fluids of the mouth, which, it must be remembered, always contain pyogenic organisms. Professor Arkovy has pointed out the presence in all diseased pulps of an organism, the Bacillus gangrense pulpse, which produces gangrene of this organ, and it also has a softening effect on the dentine. It may commence, as in chronic pulpitis, in a pus-secreting inflam- mation gradually invading the deep tissues of the pulp, having a tendency to penetrate in the dii-ection of the main blood-vessels. In the neighbourhood of the focus of sup- puration the blood-vessels will be found dilated into ampullse, the odontoblast cells are gradually undermined and destroyed, while the nerve bundles become indistinct and speedily disappear. This destructive process may go on till the whole of the pulp is destroyed, or suppuration may stop short and fatty degeneration ensue. An- other rare form of abscess of the pulp is described first by Dr. A. Hugenschmidt, of Paris, who called it partial suppurating pulpitis. It frequently occurs in a seemingly sound tooth. Such pulps, according to Dr. H., have on their coronal, or root surfaces, small ulcers which secrete pus, and which travel along the external surface of the pulp, and reach the apical foramen, forming a persistent abscess over apex of root. The author has met with one such case in practice. The peculiarity of this abscess is its association with a living pulp. The amount of pain present with abscess of pulp is proportionate to the amount of ex- posure of that organ. If there is little or no exposure the pain produced is very severe, as it cannot expand nor shed its purulent Exposed , , and secret- SecretlOn. j^'JgpSurface Treatment. — Destroy pulp, cleanse canals thoroughly with antiseptics, and fill root canals, inserting a filling in cavity. (5) Hypertrophy, Atrophy, and De- generation of Pulp. — Hypertrophy of the pulp, as a result of chronic pulpitis, is of common occurrence (Fig. 10). It consists of an insensitive hypertrophic growth of the pulp, which bulges through the opening into the pulp chamber, proliferating, and filling up the carious cavity with a red fleshy mass. It is supposed to be caused by the irritation of the saliva, or from micro - organisms or their products. There is an entire absence of nerves which are atrophied, the blood-vessels being enormously dilated. Such growths are composed principally of multi-nucle- ated cells, analogous to granulation cells, with a greater or less amount of inter- stitial fibrous tissue. Such pulps never I give rise to alveolar abscess nor cause odont- algia. Treatment.—Application of nitric acid every two or three days, and the removal of pulp, roots filled, etc. Degeneration of the pulp as a sequence of Fig. 10.—Degenerative condition of pulp. HypL-rtruphy. chronic inflammation and as a result of senes- cence is not uncommon, and might be divided into fatty degeneration, areolation, fibroid, and calcareous degeneration (Figs. 11, 12, 13). Fatty degeneration and other changes in the pulp generally take place as the result of sub- acute or chronic pulpitis, and are always an indication of diminished vital activity in the