SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 295 phagus in a pronounced case no longer follows its natural direction, but makes a right line for itself. In well-marked cases, and where the concavity is to the left in the dorsal region, the heart's apex is generally above its normal posi- tion and displaced outwards. The writer has seen the apex in an extreme case of scoliosis beating in the third intercostal space. The liver, from its large size, is compressed and dis- placed downwards. The spleen, too, is pushed downwards, while the stomach and intestines are projected forwards to compensate for the lowered position of the diaphragm. Such is the picture presented by cases in which the dis- tortion has developed rapidly and is becoming extreme. But it should not be inferred that all cases present so much functional and structural disturbance as has been described. Many of them are fairly robust and healthy, and suffer in only a slight degree from general ill-health. Others, however, have their lives rendered miserable by impaired circulation, feeble digestion, and limited powers of re- spiration. With regard to the muscles of the spine, in an early stage those on the convex side are somewhat prominent, mainly because of their position on the convexity of the curve and the tension of their fibres resulting from a persist- ent effort to maintain the body equilibrium. After a time the muscles on the concavity be- come rigid and prominent on account of the shortening they undergo, but as a rule the muscles on the convex side are the weaker ones. Varieties and Causes of Scoliosis.—The causes of scoliosis may be grouped as follows :—The predisposing and the approximating. The predisposing causes are those which are constitutional, such as debility, rickets, or a condition of lack of resistance in certain of the vertebrse. The approximate causes, which are really local, are those which disturb the equilibrium. They are vicious positions in standing or sitting, faulty attitudes, empyema, inequality in the length of the limbs, unequal use of one arm, torticollis, and astigmatism. But this classifica- tion does not quite cover all the ground, and the one which is suggested is as follows :— 1. Primary.—(a) Congenital scoliosis. {h) Scoliosis of adolescence, including occupation scoliosis, (c) Rachitic scoliosis, {d) Scoliosis of nerve origin, e.g. scoliosis ischiatica, and that form of scoliosis which is met with in locomotor ataxia, Friedreich's disease, and syringomyelia, and more often in infantile paralysis. In in- fantile paralysis the convexity of the curve is always toward the side of the paralysed muscles, and this form of nerve disorder is productive of a most intractable variety of scoliosis. 2. Secondary.—{a) Static scoliosis, that is, distortion due to faulty positions in standing or sitting, and inequality in the length of the limbs, torticollis, and astigmatism, (i) Scoliosis due to cicatricial contraction of the chest, such as empyema, (c) Scoliosis in connection with nasal and post-nasal obstruction, and such as is seen in well-pronounced asthmatics. To enlarge upon these headings : and com- mencing with the scoliosis of adolescence, in- cluding occupation scoliosis. It is convenient to group under this heading that large number of cases which, commencing in childhood and youth, and being associated often with muscular debility, are induced or aggravated by unsuit- able occupations, such as dressmaking, nursing, carrying weights on one arm, needlework, and book-folding. One of the most fruitful causes is long school hours, and faulty attitudes in sitting and writing, and there is no doubt that teaching children to write the Italian hand is responsible for many a curvature. Sometimes the right hand and forearm are on the table guiding the pen, while the fingers of the left hand merely touch the table, and the shoulder is depressed, with the result that a rotatory curve to the right is produced. At other times it is the left hand and forearm which are placed on the table, and the right arm is unsupported and the right shoulder is depressed, and then there is rotation to the left. Very often the fault too is in the pattern of the desk, and to this point further allusion will be made. Of congenital scoliosis I have seen three examples. It is probably due either to intra-uterine rickets, or to malposition in utero. Rickety scoliosis comes on very often between the first and second years. The dorsal curve is generally to the right, and the prognosis is not at all good. The lateral curvature which arises from sciatica is distinctly rare. Sometimes the convexity of the lumbar curve is directed to the affected side and sometimes away from it. Static scoliosis, or scoliosis arising from asymmetry of the two halves of the body, is undoubtedly the most frequent form of all, and no opinion should be given upon a case of lateral curvature until careful measurements of both upper and lower extremities have been taken. The habitual position of the head should be observed, and it is often advisable to have the child's eyes examined for astigmatism. Empyema is un- doubtedly a cause of very intractable lateral curvature, and the worst forms are seen after Estlander's operation. There can be no doubt that adenoids and nasal obstruction are factors in the production of lateral curvature, and the sequence of events is as follows:—A contracted chest, and then antero-posterior curvature of the spine, with undue flexion. With this is associated feeble miiscular development on account of the insuffi- cient aeration of the blood, and then the spine is just in that condition that a slight determining cause will make it sag to one side or the other.