TEETH 526 organ. A pulp thus affected is reduced in volume, is somewhat opaque, and of a yellowish red or grey colour, and feels unctuous to the touch. As the process progresses the whole of Fibvoiis tissue. Fig. 11.—Fatly and fibroid pulp. the tissues of the pulp become implicated. Scattered through the whole of the organ are numerous fat globules which obscure its ulti- mate structure. Such pulps do not give rise to abscess, or cause any trouble, unless exposed to the fluids of the mouth for some time. Areola- tion of the pulp is somewhat rare, and is a sequence of chronic pulpitis. The pulp is much reduced in size and resembles a thin membrane, is smooth in appearance, and red or brown in colour. Examined microscopically, it is found to consist of a reticulum of fine fibrous tissue, having scattered through the mesh-work of fibres numerous oval cavities. Part or whole of the pulp may be so affected. Wedl mentions another pathological condition seemingly some- what analogous, namely sclerosis. Fibroid de- generation of the pulp, found chiefly in the worn-down teeth of elderly people, is a sequence of defective nutrition of the pulp (Fig. 12). There is an abnormal production of fibrous tissue, coarse or fine, occurring either in bundles •or as a network, while the pulp cells, nerves, and blood-vessels atrophy, and if the process is unhindered the pulp shrivels up, becomes dead, or suppuration may attack and destroy it. Calcareous degeneration is very frequently as- sociated with fibroid or fatty degenerative con- ditions of the pulp, and must not be confounded with calcified nodules, etc., in the pulp (Fig. 13). It consists of deposits of calcareous salts in the connective and other tissues of the pulp. The concretion is a product of inflammatory changes in the pulp, and is found in the shape of irregular, semi-transparent, oval, round, or cylindrical masses, very often adhering to the nerve-trunks or surrounding the blood-vessels, forming cylinders round them (Fig. 13). They present a rugose appearance, and are dissolved in dilute acid with the evolution of CO, gas; their chemical composition is supposed to be phosphate and carbonate of lime. As a rule this form of calcareous concretion is found more frequently in the radical por- tion of the pulp than in the bulbous part. This pathological degenerative condition of the pulp is of interest, since it fre- quently gives rise to very severe neuralgic pain, and that often in a tooth other- wise in very good condition. Its diag- nosis is difficult, and if suspected the pulp should be destroyed, roots cleared out and filled, etc. (6) Secondary Hard Formations in Fidp Cavity.—Secondary hard formations might be divided into (i.) dentine of repair (ad- ventitious dentine of Hopewell Smith), a new and somewhat regular growth of dentine adherent to the pulp chamber, and deposited opposite some lesion of the tooth, such as caries, abrasion, erosion; (ii.) dentinal tumour or odontome, an irregular oval, round, or stalactitic growth of dentine growing from the pulp chamber, the tubules of primary dentine being continuous AU the normal tissues of pulp have disappeared. Fat cells. FlQ. 12.—Degenerative condition of pulp. Fibrosis. with those of the secondary growth ; (iii.) osteo- dentine. Included in this group are those irregular nodules of calcified tissue, with very small and erratic tubules, found scattered through the