265 SPECTROSCOPE IN MEDICINE to find out where the ordinate from the corre- sponding point in the diagram cuts the inter- polation curve. The figure on the vertical margin at that horizontal level gives the cor- responding wave length. For more complete details reference must be made to works on spectroscopy or on physical optics. Spectroscopes are also made with a scale on which the wave lengths of absorption bands may be read directly. To set the scale of such instruments the D line is made to coincide with A. 589-3 of the scale. Cells or troughs, with parallel glass or quartz sides 1 cm. apart, are used for containing the solution of pigments to be examined. For ex- amining the light passing through different fixed ■depths of layer, a vessel may be employed in which the distance between the parallel glass walls may be varied. Hermann's htematoscope may be mentioned as a type of this form of cell. The same end may be attained by the use of wedge-shaped glass vessels. Description of the Absorption Spectra of SOME Pigments of Importance in Medicine.— Absorption spectra may be divided into three classes. The first type is that in which there is general absorption without distinct absorp- tion bands. This absorption may be unilateral, involving either the red or the violet end of the spectrum, or it may be bilateral, involv- ing both ends of the spectrum while the in- termediate rays are transmitted. Urochrome and bilirubin may be given as examples of this class. The second type of absorption spectra is that showing more or less definite absorption bands within the visible spectrum. The spectra of pigments belonging to this group may also show more or less general unilateral or bilateral absorption. The type of spectrum showing general absorption is in some cases a banded spectrum in which one margin of the band is situated in the ultra-violet region. For a com- plete account of the absorption spectra of the pigments in the animal body reference must be made to text-books of physiology. A brief ■description of the spectra in the chart which Dr. Garrod has given in connection with his article on animal pigments (vol. viii. p. 98) must here suffice. Spectrum 2 shows the absorption bands of ■oxyhsemoglobin. The spectrum of carbon oxide hgemoglobin closely resembles it. On careful -examination both bands of carbonic oxide haemo- globin are found to be shifted a little nearer the violet end of the spectrum. Spectrum 3 is that of reduced haemoglobin obtained by the action of weak reducing agents, e.g. ammonium sulphide on solutions of oxyhaemoglobin. The spectrum of carbonic oxide haemoglobin is left unchanged by the action of ammonium sulphide. These facts are important for the detection of •carbonic oxide poisoning. Figure 6 shows the spectrum of acid hsematin; while Figure 7 shows that of heematin in alka- line solution. Spectrum 5 is that of heemo- chromogen, which may be obtained by the reduction of alkaline hsematin with ammonium sulphide. Very dilute solutions of this pigment show a well-marked spectrum. It is conse- quently of much importance for the detection of blood stains. Figure 8 is the spectrum of hsematoporphyrin in a solution containing free mineral acid; while Figure 9 shows the absorp- tion bands of the same pigment in alkaline solution. Figure 1 shows the spectrum of lutein in ethereal solution. Figure 10 shows the spectrum of urobilin in acid solution. Figure 11 shows the spectrum of \iroerythrin. Figure 4 gives the spectrum of metheemo- globin. In conclusion, the influence exerted by the thickness of layer examined, the concentration of the solution, and the nature of the solvent upon the spectroscopic characters of the pig- ments may be briefly discussed. The thicker the absorbing layer examined, or the greater the concentration of the solution, the darker and broader do the absorption bands appear. In still thicker layers several absorption bands may become fused into one, and in very thick layers the whole of the spectrum may be absorbed with the exception of light in some particular region. The spectrum of oxyhsemo- globin may be taken as an example. When light transmitted through a thick layer of a solution of oxyhsemoglobin is examined spectro- scopically, part of the red end of the spectrum will be seen. On examining a somewhat thinner layer a narrow band of green light appears. Between the red and green regions a single broad absorption band is present. On examin- ing the light which has passed through a still thinner layer, this absorption band is found to have become resolved into the two bands shown in Figure 2. A full consideration of the laws of the quantitative absorption of light would involve a discussion of the principles of colorimetry and spectrophotometry. The influence exerted by the solvent on the character of the absorption bands may be physical or chemical. As a general rule, the greater the dispersive power of the solvent the nearer are the bands shifted towards the red end of the spectrum. In the description of the absorption spectra shown in the chart on page 264, several examples illustrating the in- fluence of the chemical reaction of the solu- tions on the spectroscopic character of the pigments have already been given. The consideration of the third type of spectrum, namely, that showing shai-ply defined absorption lines, may be omitted, as none of the known pigments of the animal organism belong to this class.