99 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE some hard, some soft—the sci'otum becomes adherent, gradually discolours, and the mass from within fungates through. Cachexia is not a marked or early symptom. It is, indeed, usually absent until long after the time when any attempt at curative treatment might have been made. Scirrhus of the Testicle. — This form of carcinoma is extremely rare in the testicle, and its existence has even been denied altogether by many pathologists. Cases have, however, been described, and the following are among its best-marked features:—It appears later in life than encephaloid carcinoma. Its course is slow, extending to six or more years. The size is not great, but the hardness is extreme. Microscopically it consists of very thick con- nective tissue trabecules in which the alveoli contain polymorphic epithelial cells. Treatment of Carcinoma Testis.—Carcinoma- tous tumours of the testis can be treated, of course, only by castration, and in any case of doubtful diagnosis it is better to explore a scrotal swelling and find a mistake in diagnosis has been made than to postpone interference until a positive opinion of the nature of a tumour can be formed, only to find that the time has gone by when successful operation might have been undertaken. The principles of operation are those described when treating of sarcoma. Fungus or Hernia Testis.—This term is applied to a protrusion from within of testicular tissue through the tunica albuginea and the skin of the scrotum. It occurs in connection with inflammatory or with malignant disease, and is seen therefore in two forms—benign hernia testis and malignant hernia testis. In the malignant form the protruding mass (fungus haematodes) consists of new growth, and contains no testicular tissue. In the benignant form the pi'otrusion consists of much granula- tion tissue and little testicle substance, and is usually a product of syphilitic disease, although it may sometimes occur from tuberculosis. Fungus due to tubercle generally springs from the epididymis, whilst that of syphilis springs from within the substance of the testicle. The recognition of these conditions is simple enough, and the diagnosis between benignancy and malignancy must be made by a general survey of the history and surrounding circum- stances of the case. Treatment.—Malignant hernia testis can be treated only by castration. The benignant form, if small and tuberculous, may sometimes be cured by dusting powdered iodoform over the fungus, and attending at the same time to the constitutional condition ; the syphilitic form should be dusted with calomel or peroxide of mercury; and iodides, mercury, and tonics administered internally. In this latter form strapping may sometimes with advantage be applied ; and this failing, Syme's operation may be performed. To secure success by this operation it is necessary, in the first instance, to bring the surface of the fungus into a healthy granulating condition by one of the treatments just mentioned. The parts are then made as aseptic as possible, as in any operative procedure ; the edges of the circular opening in their whole thickness of the scrotum are freely excised, and are then deeply undercut all round, and to an extent sufficient to allow quite easily of their being brought together over the fungus, where they are secured by closely applied interrupted sutures of wire or tishgut. It is sometimes necessary to shave part of the fungus away before suturing. In obstinate cases of benignant hernia castration is the only remedy, and should be the usual treatment in the tubercular form. Leprosy of the Testis.—The testicle is a locality of early and constant implication. The gland is often affected when apparently normal, and its function may be compromised or entirely destroyed during the first or second year of the disease. In a typical case the changes are chiefly interstitial—proliferation of the inter- canalicular septa and membrana propria, with resulting compression of the canaliculi. Necrotic foci may appear in the infiltration. The cord remains intact for a long time. Neuralgia of the Testis — Testalgia. — Neuralgia of the testis is characterised by sudden, severe, and paroxysmal pain; it may be due to causes situated in the testicle itself, or in some distant part. The causes situated in the testicle are contractions of inflammatory deposits, minute abscesses, fibrous bodies in the tunica vaginalis, small encysted hydroceles, progressive atrophy, small new growths, e.g. fibro-myoma, or injury to the vas deferens. Causes situated at a distance from the testicle are irritation in the prostatic urethra, stone in the bladder or kidney, chronic inflammation of the seminal vesicles, oxaluria, lithiasis, gout, rheumatism, and extreme nervous depression associated with phosphaturia and constipation ; fissure or ulcer of the anus or rectum are also occasional causal conditions. Treatment.—Where possible the cause should be ascertained and removed; where this is not possible the testis should be suspended, bowels daily evacuated, diet regulated, horizontal rest enjoined, and ice or hot fomentations, or an anodyne liniment—such as opium or belladonna ■—applied locally. Morphia may have to be injected occasionally. Division of the nerves of the spermatic cord and castration have been practised, but are not to be recommended, except in the rare cases of neuralgia from a new growth, or from the contraction of some old inflammatory thickening in the epididymis or testis, which no other methods have succeeded in improving.