400 STOMATITIS very rarely occurs in infancy, but is seen occasionally in adults. Defective hygiene and ill-heath are important predisposing causes : many of the children who sulfer from ulcerative stomatitis live in miserable surroundings, poorly fed and badly housed. The condition of the teeth also is an important factor : not only carious and jagged, but also dirty teeth are powerful exciting causes of ulcerative stomatitis. The stomatitis which is due to mercury may be of catarrhal or of ulcerative variety, and may conveniently be mentioned here : it is seen occasionally in those who are employed in trades which necessitate the frequent handling of mercury, and sometimes as a result of administration of mercurial medicines: in its mildest form, with slight swelling and redness of the gums and some salivation, it sometimes follows the taking of only a few doses of mercury in those who possess some special idiosyncrasy to that drug; in this way the writer has known it to occur in infancy after only a few small doses of grey powder, although, as a rule, infants tolerate mercury well; in its more severe form, with ulceration of the gums, loosening of the teeth, or even necrosis of the jaw, and much foetor, it is generally due to prolonged absorption of mercury, whatever may be the source; and it is important to remember that the individual doses given in such cases may be quite small, so that the cause is apt to be overlooked, and the administration of mercury continued under the impression that the quantity given is too small to account for the oral condition. The affections of the mouth which occur in syphilis hardly call for mention here, for a diffuse stomatitis of syphilitic origin would seem to be very rare, although mucous patches, or ulcers, particularly on the tongue, are by no means uncommon, whether in congenital or in acquired syphilis. Symptoms. — Ulcerative stomatitis usually shows itself first at the free edge of the gums about the teeth ; the mucous membrane here becomes reddened and swollen, projecting slightly away from the teeth, and bleeding easily if touched. As the disease progresses there is actual loss of surface, the mucosa being ulcerated first around the teeth, and then in irregular and gradually extending patches. The ulcers usually have a dirty yellowish base, sometimes of a thick wash-leather appearance. From the gums the ulceration often extends to the inside of the lips and cheeks, which may be considerably swollen, but lack the brawny in- duration which is characteristic of cancrum oris. The writer's experience agrees with that of Henoch, that in many cases the ulceration spreads by contact; an ulcerated surface on the gum corresponds with a contiguous patch on the tongue or on the cheek. With this ulceration there is almost always more or less foetor of the breath, and this feature is so constant that the disease has been called " foetid stomatitis." In a severe case the ulceration may extend deeply, pus is seen welling up between the swollen mucosa and the teeth, and these latter may become loosened and drop out, or there may be some superficial necrosis of the alveolar margin of the jaw. Constitutional disturbance is usually marked in this disease: the child looks pale and ill, the temperature is raised to 101° or 102° F., and there is sometimes vomit- ing and headache. Some drivelling of saliva is usually present; the saliva both in this variety and in the aphthous form of stomatitis is alkaline, sometimes indeed strongly alkaline, contrasting herein with the constant acidity of the saliva in parasitic stomatitis or thrush. The course of ulcerative stomatitis is almost always favourable, but in rare cases it proves fatal either by exhaustion increased by the difficulty in taking food, or, as it would seem, by some toxsemic condition. The relation of stomatitis to pernicious anaemia is uncertain, but of recent years it has been suggested that an ulcerated and septic condition of the mouth may, by a process of auto-intoxication, give rise to pernicious aneemia; and there can be little doubt that some of the constitutional symptoms which are associated with a severe and foul stomatitis are due partly at least to auto-intoxication. Pathology.—In ulcerative stomatitis the early stages are probably identical with those occur- ring in catarrhal stomatitis, but the inflammatory process goes further: a disintegration of the mucous membrane and sometimes of the deeper parts occurs, and these are thrown off, leaving an ulcer, the base of which consists partly of disintegrating tissues, partly of fibrin. The process is due almost certainly to the action of micro-organisms, but beyond the common pyo- genic micro-organisms, particularly the staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus and albus, no specific micro-organism has been found. Treatment.—The internal administration of potassium chlorate is especially effective in ulcerative stomatitis, producing marked im- provement generally in two or three days. For an adult a dose of ten grains may be given every four hours; for a child of four years a dose of four grains every four hours will be sufficient. This drug may usefully be combined with nux vomica and cinchona, thus: pot. chlor. gr. X., tinct. nucis vomicae mvijss., tinct. cinchon. CO. rrixx., acid nitrohydrochlor. dil. m.v., glycerin rrixxx., aq. ad gj. Potassium chlorate may be given in the form of tabloids, and a combination with cocaine may prevent the painful smarting which sometimes results from the chlorate alone. As a mouth-wash the mixture of sanitas and potassium chlorate mentioned above is suitable.