SUNSTROKE 426 excessive heat. The incidence resembles, as regards communities, the effects of extreme cold, the conditions and causation being strictly analogous. When numbers are attacked in either case the resemblance to an epidemic is superficial and unreal. Symptoms.— (1) Uf Heat Shod-. — Cases of simple heat exhaustion present great lassitude, accompanied by muscular pains, vertigo, nausea with pallor and weak pulse, and perhaps clammy sweating. Soldiers so affected have to "fall out" on the march, and to be left behind or carried. Heat syncope exhibits the usual symp- toms of fainting. There is sudden unconscious- ness, which may be moi-e or less pi'ofound, the face is pale, skin cold and clammy, pupils dilated, breathing shallow and quick, pulse weak and rapid, temperature normal or subnormal. In severer cases respiration and circulation are more seriously affected and may stop suddenly. In other cases, when restorative treatment fails to bring the patient back to consciousness, signs of febrile reaction appear, flushing of a cyanotic character may succeed pallor, and a rapid rise of temperature with symptoms of heat fever supervene. Illness in these cases is often grave and protracted, and a fatal issue not uncommon. In simple cases of exhaustion or fainting, recovery is generally early and com- plete. Headache, giddiness, and lassitude may succeed the attack and persist for a time. Persons in bad health, or suffering from organic disease, are moi-e prone to seizure, and the exciting cause may be either exposure to the direct rays of a hot sun or to superheated air. Cases of rapidly fatal shock usually arise from the action of radiant solar heat, and convulsive phenomena are sometimes observed. When thermic fever succeeds heat shock, symptoms of meningitis sometimes appear, and nervous sequelse of a serious character, which will be subsequently described, often result. In all cases of sunstroke frequent thermometric ob- servations should be taken. (2) Of Heat Fever.—Ardent fever is a vague term which has been applied to any pyrexia presenting very active phenomena, such as pungent surface, high temperature, flushed face, noisy delirium, and bounding pulse. There is a hot-weather febricula in India which manifests symptoms of this kind ; but how far heat enters into its causation it is difficult to judge. True thermic fever, or thermic hyperpyrexia as de- fined and described by Dr. H. C. Wood, is a disease of greater gravity, and characterised by very definite and uniform features. The onset of this fever is commonly sudden, and may occur during day or night, under exposure or in shelter—while marcliing or working, or resting or sleeping. Attacks in the army often occur in tents, barracks, or hospitals, and the first intimation of illness may be the stertor of coma rousing comrades from their sleep. Pro- dromata are present in a certain proportion of cases. They betoken nervous depression and disorder, and consist of giddiness, headache, lassitude, low spirits, sleeplessness, irritability of temper, anxiety, aural and visual illusions, muscular and arthritic pains, with, in some instances, anorexia and vomiting, hot skin, and quick pulse. Increased frequency of micturition has been described by Bai'clay and Longmore as a significant harbinger. Persons suftering from symptoms of this sort ought to be kept under careful watch. In many cases there is an initial stage of excitement. The temperature rises rapidly to 106°-109° F.; the face is flushed; conjunctivte congested ; there is great restless- ness, often violent delirium; severe cephalagia, and the pulse is hard and bounding. The fully developed attack, and it may set in without preliminary warning, may be de- scribed as a mixture of coma and asphyxia. Unconsciousness is profound; patient cannot be roused. The face is flushed, frequently livid, and the conjunctivae suffused. The conjunctival reflex is lost, and other reflexes are dulled or absent. The pupils are dilated, normal, or con- tracted, and usually equal. In bad cases they fail to act to light, and contracted pupils often dilate towards the end. The skin is usually hot and dry, but may be bathed with profuse sweat. The breathing is rapid, often stertorous, with mucous rales, becoming irregular or inter- mittent (Cheyne-Stokes). The pulse is feeble and rapid, rarely slow, sometimes irregular or intermittent. The temperature is high, the thermometer marking 108° to 110° F. The bowels ai-e usually constipated, but in some cases there is watery diarrhoea. Urine is scanty or suppressed, and may contain albumin, blood corpuscles, and casts. Subsultus occurs in many cases, and local spasms or general convulsions in some. Towards the close the sphincters may relax, the breathing becomes gasping and spas- modic, and finally ceases, and stoppage of the heart takes place soon after. The disease may run a fatal course in a few hours, and is seldom prolonged beyond a few days. Sometimes after partial recovery a relapse occurs which is gener- ally fatal. In cases which recover the symptoms are of a less severe type, the temperature falls, reflexes if lost return, consciousness is gradually restored, and the patient's condition slowly improves. Convalescence may be very tedious, and nervous sequelae of a severe and disabling kind may persist for long or for life. Sequel/E.—All forms of sunstroke impair the power of resisting heat, and are also apt to weaken the tolerance of alcoholic stimulants. The after-effects of heat shock are generally slight and transient, but thermic fever fre- quently causes great and often permanent im- pairment of the nervous functions. Headache, giddiness, insomnia, loss of memory, diminished power of attention and concentration, and easily