434 SUPPURATION For inoculation to induce suppuration these regulating factors must be so adjusted that only that particular lesion can result: any alteration of adjustment, such as increased viru- lence of the micro-organism or increased suscep- tibility of the host, may produce a fundament- ally different result, possibly a rapidly fatal result. The immediate effects of an infection depend wholly on the adjustment of the factors at the time of inoculation ; the remote effects are profoundly influenced by that adjustment. The micro-organisms in the host may increase or diminish in number or virulence, and the susceptibility of the host may increase or dim- inish, but the starting-point of the increase or diminution is the state of the factors at the instant of inoculation. A subacute or chronic suppuration cannot follow an infection in such a dose that death ensues in a few hours. This necessary adjustment of the factors granted, the varying degree in which they are adjusted will influence the intensity of suppuration. If an instrument has infected a wound, and all the regulating factors of infection are so balanced that an acute suppuration will develop, then suppuration is induced by the micro- organisms being deposited at the site of their future activity in one or several of the following methods:— 1. The micro-organisms may remain at the seat of inoculation, or 2. They may be carried from the seat of inoculation to any of the efferent lymphatic vessels; they may reach the lymphatic glands in which these particular vessels terminate, and thence may reach the general circulation. 3. The blood-stream may be the carrier of infection, and localisation may occur anywhere —in liver, spleen, bone-marrow, etc.—or at a part which has received more or less recent injury. 4. A duct or tube may be the path by which the micro-organisms gain entrance to those glands and viscera in which the suppuration subsequently takes place. The Pathological Anatomy, Symptoms, and Treatment of acute suppuration will be discussed under the heading of acute circumscribed abscess. Acute Circumscribed Abscess An Aciite Circumscribed Abscess is the result of an inoculation in a living tissue which pro- vokes a rapid accumulation of pus within a cavity formed by the process, the excitant of which is localised. Pathological Anatomy.—An acute circum- scribed abscess consists of the following com- ponent elements:— I. The micro-organism and its products. II. The fluid contents or pus. III. The tissues undergoing proliferation around the pus. It is necessary to describe these elements separately. I. The micro-organisms are the most im- portant constituents of an abscess, and if their presence is not always demonstrable in the pus, they can genei'ally be found in the abscess wall. The relations between the micro-organism, the pus, and the abscess wall necessarily depend upon the age of the abscess. One hour after an inoculation of staphylococcus pyogenes aureus (this is the micro-organism whose action will be dealt with throughout the description of acute circumscribed abscess) the cocci are seen chiefly in the parts immediately killed by the inoculation. They are almost limited to the dead and coagulated tissues and fluid (represented now by fibrin). This limitation is so marked that the coagulated dead tissues may be incidentally doing good by temporarily fixing the micro-organisms until their pepton- ising products liquefy these tissues: a stab culture of staphylococci in gelatin, a medium which holds them in sitti imtil it is liquefied, is a somewhat analogous process. To proceed, a few cocci have escaped into the apparently normal neighbouring tissues, and already some of the cocci which have reached surrounding structures have been incorporated by the leucocytes that have just reached the edge of the healthy tissue, and are there collecting in small numbers around the necrotic area. At the end of twenty-four hours the micro- organisms and leucocytes have increased in number. The micro-organisms are seen isolated and collected in masses among the dead tissues, and in and among leucocytes. The cell in- corporation of cocci has increased with the increased number of micro - organisms and leucocytes. All parts are involved now, with- out regular arrangement, melted and mixed by the liquefaction that has taken place, the only stable parts being the more resisting fibrous tissue. Outside the liquefied area there can be seen free and cell-incorporated cocci, but in fewer numbers. Here and there the process is abruptly stopped by the fibrous tissue supporting the blood-vessels of the parts otherwise not yet involved. In the adipose and loose tissues the micro-organisms meet with less resisting soil, and there the process rapidly spreads. After the lapse of forty-eight hours from inoculation a definite arrangement of the staphylococci begins, and masses are seen collected in the form of a fairly well-marked tortuous ring within the outer circle of cells in the cavity of the abscess : these cells are chiefly leucocytes. The ring of cocci can be seen as a violet cloud under the half-inch objective when the section has been stained by Gram's method. As yet there is no definite connective tissue wall. A great proportion of the cocci apart from this well-marked ring are indiscriminately scattered in and among the cells suspended in