TENDON-JERKS 549 (6) Lesions of the posterior roots, e.g. tabes dorsalis, Friedreich's ataxy, etc. (c) Lesions involving the anterior horns of the spinal cord, e.g. myelitis, poliomyelitis anterior acuta, progressive muscular atrophy, etc. (c?) Primary lesions of the muscle, e.g. the muscular dystrophies. (2) Total transverse lesions of the spinal cord above the level of the reflex arc, e.g. fracture dislocations of the spine, pressure paraplegia produced by caries or tumour (the late stages), very occasionally as a result of acute myelitis. (3) As a temporary condition the result of shock, e.g. in cases of hemiplegia of sudden onset, and in paraplegias due to a spinal hfemor- rhage or an acute myelitis. (4) During sleep, in chloroform narcosis, severe asphyxia, and coma. (5) Occasionally in lesions of the cerebrum and cerebellum, especially tumours (probably in some cases this is accounted for by a degen- eration of the spinal posterior roots). The tendon-jerks are increased as a conse- quence of— (1) Irritation of the spinal reflex arc pro- duced by strychnine and absinthe, tetanus, the early stages of peripheral neuritis (?). (2) Lesions of the cerebro-spinal motor tracts. {a) Primary degeneration of the pyramidal tracts, e.g. general paralysis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. (6) Degeneration of the pyramidal tracts secondary to a transverse lesion of the spinal cord, e.g. myelitis, disseminated sclerosis, spinal tumours, pressure paraplegias, etc. Ddjerine has pointed out that the tendon-jerks are increased above as well as below the level of the lesion, in some cases of local disease of the spinal cord. (c) Cerebral lesions, e.g. hemiplegia produced by haemorrhage, embolism, thrombosis, tumours, etc. The tendon-jerks are increased on the opposite side of the body, also to a less extent on the same side, as Brissaud was the first to point out. (3) As a temporary state after an epileptic convulsion. (4) Hysteria, neurasthenia, and asthenic states following upon long - continued fevers, etc. (5) During light sleep and in the early stages of asphyxia. The examination of the tendon-jerks often affords most valuable information as to exact localisation in diseases of the spinal cord. The Examination of the Tendon-jerks.—Before describing the methods best adapted for the examination of the individual jerks, it will be convenient, in order to avoid repetition, to emphasise certain precautions which demand attention in the case of all. Firstly, Thoroughly relax the limb. Secondly, Look for the contraction in the muscle, for the movement of the limb affords only a rough indication. Thirdly, In comparing the jerks of opposite sides always make the examination with exactly similar precautions. Fourthly, Never conclude that a jerk is absent before " reinforcement " has been tried. The following are the means of reinforcement —the importance of which was first indicated by Jendrassik—which are most convenient for clinical purposes :—• Ask the patient to clasp his hands and pull strongly, keeping his eyes at the same time fixed upon the ceiling. If in this way the limb is not perfectly relaxed, ask him to count aloud up to a hundred, or engage him in conversation in order to withdraw his attention from the operation. A sudden pull on the hands is some- times found to be of value as an aid in eliciting the jerk, the tendon being struck a second or two later. The following are the tendon-jerks which are of chief clinical importance. {a) Jaw-jerk, (6) biceps-jerk, (c) triceps-jerk, {d) wrist-jerk, (e) knee-jerk and knee clonus, (/) adductor-jerk, {g) Achillis-jerk, {h) ankle clonus. We shall now consider them individually, the method of examination to be used in the case of each, and the constancy of each jerk in health. Javyjerlc.—Ask the patient to partially open his mouth as if about to yawn. The physician places the index-finger of his left hand across the chin and taps it with a percussion hammer or with the finger of his right hand. If the jerk is well marked there is a sudden upward movement of the jaw. Another good method is to rest a tongue- depressor on the teeth of the lower jaw and percuss upon it. Tlie jaw-jerk, although, etymologically speak- ing, not a tendon-jerk, is of a precisely similar nature, the tension of the muscle being in- creased by a tap upon the bone to which it is attached. This jerk is not constantly present in health, and its absence is not therefore of significance, unless in association with other symptoms which would lead one to expect an exaggeration. The jaw-jerk may be increased in the con- ditions already referred to (p. 549). A clonus is sometimes obtained in cases of pseudo-bulbar paralysis, etc. Biceps-jerk (C. 5-6).—Flex the patient's arm slightly, grasp it above the elbow, placing the thumb of the left hand on the biceps tendon just above the joint. Allow the patient's hand to rest against your chest, his elbow being flexed to rather more than a right angle. With the percussion hammer, which it is necessary to use for this jerk, strike the thumb which is