68 SCHWENINGER CURE Schwening^er Cure.—A method of treating obesity resembling Oertel's; it is dietetic (no water being drunk at meals), and is associated with systematic exercise and massage. Scia,CCa.. See Balneology {Italy, Sicily, Sulphur Waters). Scia,pOClya—Congenital enlargement of a foot; macrosomia of one extremity, or macropodia. Sci£ltiC.—Relating to the ischium, e.g. the sciatic artery, foramen, nerve, notch, plexus, etc. SCia,tica.. See also Abdominal Aneurysm {Differential Diagnosis); Cautery {Uses); Elec- tricity {Uses); Hip-Joint, Diseases op {Diag- nosis); Hydropathy (ZZses); Hysteria {Sensory Disorders); Tabes Dorsalis {Diagnosis); Sur- gical Affections {Injuries of Sacral Plexus).— An indefinite term applied to conditions asso- ciated with pain in the region of the sciatic nerve. This important nerve trunk is the continuation downwards of the main part of the sacral plexus {see Spinal Cord). It arises in the pelvis, and enters the buttock through the great sacro-sciatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle, and extends down to about the middle of the thigh, where it ter- minates by dividing into the external and internal popliteal nerves. In position the main trunk of the sciatic nerve lies rather internal to the mid-point between the ischial tuberosity and the great trochanter of the femur. It supplies muscular branches to the ham-string muscles on the back of the thigh and the main part of the adductor magnus. A knowledge of the course and distribution of its main branches is essential for understanding the diseases of the nerve trunk. The external popliteal nerve passes down into the popliteal space, which it leaves, ultimately dividing into anterior tibial and musculo- cutaneous nerves. The branches of the external popliteal nerve are cutaneous for the outer side of the leg, and also articular. The anterior tibial nerve takes origin opposite the neck of the fibula, and passes down the leg, coming in contact with the anterior tibial vessels in the upper third of the leg, and terminating in front of the ankle-joint by dividing into internal and external branches. This nerve supplies muscular branches to the extensor muscles (tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius, peroneus tertius), and an articular filament to the ankle-joint; the terminal branches are concerned in the supply of the tarsal articula- tion (external branch) and adjacent sides of first and second toes (internal branch). The musculo-cutaneus, the other terminal branch of the external popliteal nerve, becomes cutaneous by piercing the deep fascia in the lower third of the leg, and almost immediately divides into two branches, internal and external. The internal supplies the skin over the inner side of the great toe and the adjacent sides of the second and third toes, also the skin on the internal malleolus and inner side of the foot; the external branch supplies the skin over the adjacent sides of the second and third, and third and fourth toes, also the skin over external malleolus and outer side of the foot. The internal popliteal nerve passes down through the popliteal space to terminate opposite the lower border of the popliteus muscle, by becoming directly continuous with the posterior tibial nerve. The branches of the internal popliteal nerve are—a cutaneous branch (ramus communicans tibialis), articular branches to the knee-joint, and muscular branches to the gastrocnemius, plantaris, sole us, and popliteus muscles. The posterior tibial nerve is the direct continuation of the external popliteal nerve, and supplies cutaneous branches, articular filaments to the ankle-joint, muscular branches to tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, and soleus muscles, and finally terminates as the internal and external plantar nerve. Sciatica is characterised by pain in the back of the thigh in the region of the sciatic nerve, the pain in some cases involving the whole area of distribution of the nerve. The pain is aggravated by certain positions or after exertion, and has its sites of maximum intensity in the middle of the thigh or at the sciatic notch. In chronic cases there may be some muscular atrophy and cramp of the muscles, with localised fibrillary contractions in the muscle fibres. Etiology and Pathology.—Examination of portions of the sciatic nerve in cases where stretching or excision of pieces of the nerve has been resorted to, has revealed an inflammation of the nerve trunk. The causes of this inflam- mation are obscure. The poisons of rheumatism and gout are probably the most important factors, and when these are present slight exposure to cold and damp or severe muscular exertion may induce an attack. The diagnosis is as a rule easy; it is made by (1) digital examination over the nerve, and (2) putting the nerve on the stretch, which movement causes pain. If the following points are kept in mind little or no difficulty will be encountered : — 1. Pain in the region of the sciatic nerve may be induced by pressure on the nerve within the pelvis, e.g. distended rectum, uterine tumour, or pelvic inflammation. 2. A similar pain may be induced by a joint lesion, e.g. disease of the hip-joint, or sacro-iliac articulation. 3. A lesion of the cauda equina, or nerve roots, or even a lesion of the cord higher up, may produce symptoms of sciatica. A careful investigation of the sensibility and of the areas of distribution of the lesion will eliminate this. 4. The presence of foci of inflammation of