146 SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF fossa, and immediately below the coracoid process. An examination of the shoulder by the surgeon some time after the accident shows the bone lying in this position, and the sub- coracoid is therefore considered to be the commonest form of dislocation of the shoulder. In some cases the inward movement may have been greater than usual, and the head of the bone passes along the inner side of the coracoid process until it comes to rest beneath the clavicle forming the rare subclavicular disloca- tion, when the axillary vessels and nerves are in danger of compression. In all these disloca- tions the capsule is torn at its inner and lower part, with corresponding injury to the circum- flex nerve, the posterior circumflex artery, and the subscapularis muscle. The outer and upper portions of the capsule may remain uninjured, but the supraspinatus, the infraspinatus, and the teres minor may be torn from their attach- ments to the great tuberosity, or the great tuberosity itself may be torn off' the humerus. The long head of the biceps may be displaced from its groove, but it is not usually torn through, or otherwise injured, and the head of the humerus is often deeply grooved at its posterior part by the sharp edge of the glenoid cavity. Sometimes the head of the humerus passes still more inwards until it lies beneath the clavicle forming the subclavicular variety, and still more rarely when the coracoid process is broken off at the time of the accident, the head of the humerus may lie upon the scapular fragment to form the supracoracoid dislocation. The head of the bone sometimes passes back- wards instead of forwards, either by a secondary movement, or as a primary dislocation when the capsule is torn on the outer side of the joint. It then lies upon the outer edge of the glenoid fossa, or beneath the spine of the scapula to form the rare subspinous dislocation. Still more rare are the upward dislocations, when the head of the humerus is forced up between the coracoid and the acromion until it lies above the clavicle—i/ie supraclavicular form— and the downward displacement produced by forcible elevation of the arm above the head, until the head of the humerus is displaced so far downwards that the arm maintains its up- right position, forming the luxatio erecta. Signs and >S'ympto»is.—Although dislocations of the shoulder are so common, it is perhaps more often overlooked than any other injury except a broken collar bone in children. This is due partly to the fact that the patient does not apply for advice until some time after the nijury, which he considers to be a bad sprain or bruise, and partly because the signs are some- what more apparent at a distance and as a whole, than when the shoulder is examined closely but with some carelessness of detail. It IS important, therefore, that a patient should be stripped to the waist when he comes complain- ing of a painful and fixed shoulder after an injury. He should sit in a good light at some little distance from the surgeon, with his arms in a similar position on the two sides. The siirgeon should then compare the outline of the shoulders from the back, from the front, and from the sides, before he touches his patient. He can hardly fail to notice that the head of the bone is absent from the normal position, and is lying at some other point. In the ordin- ary subcoracoid dislocation the shoulder is de- pressed on the affected side, and the acromion projects more markedly than on the sound side. The arm is held away from the side, so that its long axis is directed towards the coracoid rather than towards the acromion. This altera- tion in the axis of the arm stretches some of the fibres of the deltoid, which are thus brought into undue prominence, causing the shaft of the humerus to appear as if it were bent inwards just below the insertion of the deltoid. The arm, too, looks longer on the affected side, be- cause the head of the bone lies below its normal position when it occupies the glenoid cavity. The anterior fold of the axilla looks fuller than that on the opposite side, for the pectoral muscle is raised by a rounded swelling which partly effaces the subclavicular fossa. The head of the bone can always be felt in its new position, and both active and passive move- ments of the shoulder are much hampered at the shoulder, for the patient is unable to place his hand on the top of his head, or to put the injured arm behind his back. Duga^s test is founded on this limitation of movement. It con- sists in placing the hand of the dislocated side on the opposite shoulder. If the shoulder be really dislocated the elbow will be elevated, and will stand out prominently in front of the chest, and no force applied in moderation will bring it flat against the sternum. Another test consists in applying a flat ruler to the outer border of the humerus from the external condyle to the acromion. If the head of the bone lies in the glenoid cavity the ruler will stand out three- quarters of an inch, or more, from the tip of the shoulder; but if the head of the humeriis is displaced inwards either by dislocation of the head or fracture of the neck, the ruler will rest against the acromion. Both these tests, though, they are widely used, are open to fallacy—in the one case, from fear rendering the muscles round the shoulder rigid; in the other, from an undue amount of swelling. I prefer, therefore, to trust to the general characters given above, assisted by the use of the X-rays when there is any unusual difficulty or doubt. Differential Diagnosis.—Severe contusions of the shoulder and paralysis of the deltoid may be mistaken for a dislocation, though the converse mistake is the more common. In these cases the surgeon should assure himself that the head of the bone is really in its natural position.