248 POISONOUS FISHES SNAKE-BITES AND a dark room, as is necessary with all other anti- toxic serums. The serum is useless for therapeutic purposes unless it is able to prevent death in a rabbit when given intravenously in a dose of 1 "5 c.c. It was found that the antivenine, like the toxin of the venom, is mainly carried by the leucocytes and not by the serum; for if the efiusion from the peritoneal cavity of a vaccinated rabbit in which peritonitis has been excited be centrifugalised, the leucocytes which are de- posited are found to possess a high antitoxic power, while the plasma has but little. If the antitoxic serum be heated above 68° C. it becomes coagulated and is useless. The practical results of the late investigations may be thus briefly stated :— (1) That the injection of a sufficient dose of antivenomous serum (10 to 20 c.c.) prevents the toxic action of a lethal dose of venom given later, as would occur frequently when a ligature was applied above the bitten part at once, the venom having been kept out of the general circulation until after the patient had been injected with the serum. (2) That the injection of a sufficient dose of the serum prevents intoxication by a lethal dose of venom given subcutaneously before, provided too long an interval has not occurred, which would include those cases where a ligature was not employed, or had been imperfectly applied, so that the poison had gained access to the general circulation. (3) That as the resistance of man to the toxic action of the venom is greater as compared with the smaller animals, a much smaller dose pro- portionally of the serum is necessary to counter- act the toxin. (4) That if the venom has been injected directly into a vein, the result is always fatal unless the serum be injected intravenously before or at the same time. (5) That the serum should be at hand in all districts where snake bites are common, and that the inhabitants should be instructed in the advantage derived from its use ; particularly as the amount of venom usually injected by the snake is little above the minimum lethal dose, an interval of one to three hours being in most cases allowable between the time of the bite and the injection of the serum. (6) That when toxic symptoms are already present the serum should be at once injected intravenously. (7) That none of the ordinary precautions should be omitted even when the serum is available. The following two cases show the efficiency of the serum treatment:— One reported by Keatinge and Ruffler was that of a girl in Egypt bitten in the forearm by a snake believed to be a cobra ; she became unconscious almost at once, and when seen was cold and collapsed with imperceptible pulse. 20 c.c. of antivenine were injected under the skin of the abdomen, and three hours after 10 c.c. more; from that time she gradually recovered. The second case is recorded by Rennie. A boy aged eleven in India was bitten on the right foot by a krait. In three minutes 8 c.c. of serum was injected into the subcu- taneous tissue of the abdomen, hypodermic injections of pot. permang. being used locally. The boy made a good recovery. Poisonous Fish, Diseases and Injuries Attributable to them The subject of poisoning by fish is one on which there is very little recent information of any reliable character. Many ill effects in different parts are frequently put down to the ingestion or even handling of them. It may be stated, however, with certainty that these are more common in tropical than in temperate regions, no doubt due to the much more rapid decomposition of the fish in the presence of heat and moisture, and perhaps to the fact that as all animal life is more abundant in warm climates, so the increased competition in the struggle for existence has caused many fish to have developed peculiar organs having protective and poisonous qualities. The noxious characters, as far as man is concerned, may be divided into— (1) Toxic effects produced by the poison con- tained in the fish itself when fresh. (2) Toxic effects produced by the ingestion of fish undergoing putrefaction, either before being swallowed, or under certain conditions after it has been a longer or shorter period in the intestinal canal. (3) The introduction into the body of specific pathogenic micro-organisms through the agency of the fish. (4) Cutaneous wounds produced by the special armament of certain fish. (5) Diseases or growths produced by para- sites of which the fish is the definite or tem- porary host. In the constant investigation of fish markets for zoological purposes, particularly in the Indo-tropical and Chinese regions, I have been much impressed by the large number of apparently dangerous - looking fish that are habitually sold, and the advanced stages of decomposition which some of them frequently present, yet they seem to be used for food by the poorer classes habitually. There used to be an old rule in the Navy that scaled fish were wholesome, and that fish without scales were not. This, however, is certainly not altogether correct, as many with large scales, as Sphyroena, Pagellus, etc., are at times markedly poisonous; others without scales, as the fresh-water Siluroids, are esteemed as excellent food. As a matter of fact, poisoning directly due