69 SCIATICA muscle tissue may induce a clinical picture of sciatica. This is a point of considerable import- ance, and is apt to be overlooked. Further de- tails on this condition will be found in the article on "Chronic Rheumatism," vol. viii. The prognosis is always guarded as to rate of recovery. The disease is usually a protracted one and not very amenable to treatment. In treatment we should be guided by the fact that the disease is usually the local manifestation of a general toxtemia. Hence general treatment is all-important, more especially that devoted to promoting the activity of the organs con- cerned in elimination—bowels, skin, and kidneys (see " Balneology," vol. i.). The diet should be studied along the lines indicated for rheu- matism. The internal administration of seda- tives of any kind should be withheld as long as possible, and should opiates be necessary these should only be administered by the physician. In a few cases complete rest in bed with im- mobilisation in a long splint is the best means of promoting recovery. After the acute stage has passed off massage in various forms is the most valuable line of treatment. Counter- irritation by dry cupping, iodine, acupuncture, or other means is sometimes of benefit, and when the case is very intractable a good result may follow nerve-stretching or excision of a part of the nerve trunk. General tonic treatment is useful, and more especially the internal admin- istration of cod-liver oil and arsenic. Scilla.. A^ee Squill. Scillism.—The poisonous effects due to the use of preparations of squill containing the bitter principle or glucoside, scillitoxine (which resembles digitalis in its action). ScillOCepha,ly.—The deformity of the head in which it has a small, peaked shape, like the bulb of squill (Lat. scilla, squill). Scinde Boil.—Aleppo boil. See Furun- CULUS Orientalis. Scintillcl'tion.—A symptom charactei'- ised by the appearance of sparks in the field of vision (Lat. sci7itillare, to sparkle), as in attacks of hemicrania. See Migraine. Scirrhous and Scirrhoid.—Hard in consistence, and resembling a scirrhus (Gr. (TKippo?, gypsum). ScirrilUS.—A hard form of carcinoma. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of (Carcinomata). Scissor-Leg^ Deformity.—The de- formity, known also as " crossed-leg," in bilateral hip-joint disease, when the lower limbs are ad- ducted and cross each other. See Hip-.Joint, Diseases of (Bilateral Hip Disease); Deform- ities (Coxa Vara). Scissors. — In surgery and obstetrics various scissor-like instruments are used; e.g. Allingham's scissors (for fistula in ano), Naegele's or Smellie's scissors (for craniotomy), and Skene's Hawkbill scissors (for trachelorrhaphy). Sc.L.A.—The contracted form of scapula- Iseva-anterior, the left scapulo-anterior position in transverse presentations in midwifery. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Transverse Lies). Sclera..—-The sclerotic coat or white of the eye (Gr. arKXr]p6<;, hard), scleral meaning relating to this coat. See Glaucoma {Treatment, Scleral Puncture). Sclerectomy.— Excision of a portion of the sclerotic or of sclerosed bone. Sclerema Neonatorum. See also New-born Infant {Sclerema).—A study of the literature of the strange infantile malady known as Sclerema Neonatorum tends rather to per- plexity than to a clear conception of a definite morbid entity. It is difficult to be sure how far the various authors are describing one and the same disease, and whether cases alike in their nature are not sometimes classed under different headings. In this country we are not favourably placed for forming a judgment upon these questions, seeing that with us the disease is so rare that there are few opportunities of bringing the different views which are put forward to the test of practical experience. In some lands, as in Italy and France, on the other hand, sclerema seems to be far less uncommon. We are constantly warned against confusing sclerema with symptomatic a3den;ia, of the ordinary kind and with the ordinary distribution, occurring in new-born infants; but on the other hand an oedematous variety of sclerema is described, and the more recent writers, adopting a classification long ago suggested by Brissard, divide the cases of true sclerema into two classes, to which the names of fat sclerema and scleroedema are respectively applied. Fat sclerema is a symptomatic condition met with in young infants who have been subjected to a drainage of liquid in the course of severe attacks of diarrhcea or vomiting, and the induration of the subcutaneous tissues in such cases is attributed to solidification of the panniculus adiposus. As Langer pointed out— and his observations have been confirmed by Knopfelmacher—the fat of young infants is richer in stearin and palmatin and poorer in olein than that of adults, and therefore solidifies at a higher temperature. In scleroedema, on the other hand, the indura- tion is ascribed to a peculiar form of firm oedema, due, at least in part, to serous infiltration of the subcutaneous tissues and of the connective tissue between the muscles.