TEETH 534 shades of black and brown are the usual colours produced; and he separated by cultivation twelve organisms which developed lactic acid in the mouth, and states that a great many of the oral microbes are capable of generating acid from cane or grape sugar, and that it is probable that all of them, under favourable circumstances, are capable of so doing. Accord- ing to Arkovy, one of the organisms most frequently found in dental caries and in the pulp is bacillus gangrense pulpte. Its relative frequency compared with other organisms is 95'3 per cent; the next most frequent, staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus, 23"2 per cent; strepto- coccus citreus, 4'6 per cent; bacillus pyocyaneus, 9'3 per cent; and some nine other organisms, mostly harmless. Bacillus gangrense pulpse is a pleomorphous organism, forming bacilli when 4> Fig. 15.—Two epithelial scales from mouth covered with micro-organisms. grown on nutrient jelly, and cocci when grown on agar agar. Pure cultures of this microbe have the specific effect of producing gangrene of the dental pulp. This microbe also has the power of softening dentine, and forms a brown pigment in the hot incubator. The presence in the mouth of such large numbers of micro- organisms, many of them pathogenic, suggests the possibility of infection, and that this fre- quently occurs in the septic mouth full of diseased and abscessed teeth no one can doubt (Fig. 15). Infection may be induced— 1. As a result of abrasions, wounds, ulcera- tions, etc., of the mucous membrane of the oral cavity. 2. Through exposure, ulceration, or suppura- tion of the dental pulp, leading to apical abscess, and eventually to fatal septic poisoning. 3. From absorption of bacterial products, ptomaines, etc.—local. 4. From swallowing bacteria or their poison ous products, inducing gastric, intestinal, o other disorders. 5. From debilitated and diseased conditions of mucous membranes, making them more susceptible to infection. Professor Miller, and more recently Dr Hunter, have shown that locally such diseased conditions as necrosis, cellulitis, meningitis ostitis, periostitis, and pericarditis may have their origin as a result of organismal oral infection, while the stomach and intestinal tract, owing to the numerous microbes and their products swallowed, are liable to be affected by gastric or intestinal disorders. No doubt large numbers of the microbes swallowed are destroyed by the free HCl, but if this state of infection continue for any length of time, the resistance is lessened, or absolutely lost, and conditions of disease are induced. Professor Miller demonstrated that mice and other animals inoculated with saliva (mixed infection) invari- ably died in from twelve to thirty-six hours. He also tried experiments of pure cultures of four organisms obtained from diseased mouths— 1. Micrococcus gingivce pyogenes.—Injection under the skin of mice produced abscess, necrosis of skin, and generally death. Ab- dominal injections caused death in from twelve to twenty-four hours. 2. Bacterium gingivae pyogenes.— Abdominal injections. Death in from ten to twenty-four hours. Subcutaneous injections resulted in the formation of extensive abscesses. 3. Bacillus dentalis viridans.—Abdominal in- jections. Death in from twenty-two hours to six days from peritonitis. 4. Bacillus pulpce pyogenes injected into ab- domen proved fatal in from eighteen to thirty- six hours. Tuberculous suppuration in the lymphatic glands of the neck frequently originates as a consequence of the presence in the mandible of diseased and abscessed teeth. Odenthal examined 987 children, and found carious teeth in 429, in 558 no caries. Of the 558 without caries, glandular swellings were found in 524, or 99 per cent. Hugo Stack (1896) examined 113 children with glandular swellings of neck. In 41 per cent he found carious teeth, and in all of them the situation of the glands corresponded to the affected teeth. In three children with tubercular glands in the neck he also found carious teeth, but could not detect tubercle bacilli in these. In a girl of fourteen years of age, otherwise healthy, he detected a mandibular molar containing tuber- culous granulation tissue, and on the side tuber- culous glands, while there were none on the other. In a paper read before the Odonto- Chirurgical Society in 1889, the author made the suggestion that tuberculous infection of the lymphatic glands in the neck might originate