559 TERATOLOGY sternum, absence of the pectoral muscles, and the congenital malformations of the heart and vessels, attention must be drawn to the I'are cases of ectopia cordis and to absence of the clavicles. When there is exomphalos it is not uncommon to find that the defect in the anterior abdominal wall affects also the thorax, and that the heart is extra-thoracic; but it is much rarer to find an open state of the anterior thoracic wall alone with protrusion of the heart. It is apparently a commoner malformation among birds than in the human subject. The parietal layer of the pericardium may be absent. In- fants born with this malformation usually survive only a few hours. Absence of the clavicle may be unilateral or bilateral, and it may be complete or partial; this also is a very rare deformity, but unlike ectopia cordis it is quite compatible with post-natal existence. Malformations of the Abdomen and Contents. —Most of the malformations of the abdomen have been described imder other headings. They include the various types of exomphalos, of ectopia vesicae, of horseshoe kidney, and of intestinal anomalies. It may be noted that while defects in the anterior abdominal wall with protrusion of the viscera are commonly mesial in position, they may occasionally be lateral, and are then sometimes accompanied by absence of the lower limb of the same side. Many cases of exomphalos are complicated by the presence of amniotic adhesions, and by retroflexion of the spinal column. Malforma- tions of the liver, gall-bladder, spleen, pancreas, etc., occiu", but have not been very fully studied. Anomalies of the generative organs have been described elsewhere. Malformations of the Limbs.—Synipodia is a malformation of the lower limbs which calls for a few lines of description. It consists in a rotation of the lower limbs of such a kind that the knees look backward and the popliteal spaces forwards, combined with a varying degree of fusion of the contiguous parts. The resulting monstrosity has been called sireniform or mermaid-like. There is usually absence of the generative organs and a curious fusion and rotation of the bones of the pelvis ; the bladder and kidneys are also commonly wanting. There is generally only one artery in the umbilical cord, and it has been supposed that in these cases the allantoidal vessels as well as the allantoic derivatives are absent, and that the vessels in the cord represent the omphalo- mesenteric or vitelline vessels; if this be so it would appear that the placenta must be vascularised by the vitelline and not by the allantoidal vessels. More or less complete suppression of one or more of the upper and lower limbs may be met with, and constitute amely, hemimely, and ectromely; along with these may be placed the so-called spontaneous amputations of limbs, parts of limbs, and of digits. Other malformations of the extremities consist in absence of one or other of the two bones of the forearm and leg, anomalies which are usually associated with suppression of the corresponding digits. A few cases of double hand have been reported, in which the radius was absent and two ulnse found in its place. Heterotaxy or Transposition of the Viscera.— Under the name of transposition or inversion of the viscera is described an interesting anomaly, in which the organs of the right side of the body are found occupying the left side, and vice versa. When the abdomen and thorax are opened it is as if the observer were surveying the parts as reflected in a mirror. The heart is on the right side, the liver on the left, etc. Even in the matter of small peculiarities, as seen in the level of organs and the direction of vessels, the transposition is accurate and complete. Rarely the thoracic organs alone are transposed. The anomaly in no way inter- feres with life, and is usually discovered accidentally when the individual is being examined for some abdominal or chest com- plaint, or for life assurance, or the army. The cause of heterotaxy has been supposed to be the position which the embryo occupies on the blastodermic vesicle; it usually lies on its left side, and has the cardiac curvature normally directed, but if it be rotated so as to lie on the right side thei-e is inversion of the heart. Some have believed that an individual with inversion of the viscera is the right-side survivor of uni- ovular twins, but if so the other twin would appear to have been completely absorbed. The puzzling cases of hemi-hypertrophy and hemi- atrophy may be associated in their origin with the causes that produce heterotaxy. The functions of the body are sometimes curiously affected in transposition ; thus a case has been reported of labour in a woman with this anomaly, in which the foetal head occupied the right in- stead of the left occipito-anterior position. Treatment.—There are three lines along which the treatment of monstrosities may pro- ceed : an attempt may be made to prevent their occurrence; it will be necessary to en- deavour to coimteract any injurious effect they may have upon the progress and safety of the confinement which they render complicated ; and means ought sometimes to be taken to repair the malformations and fit the subjects of them for a useful and happy life. The second line of treatment, which may be termed the obstet- rical, need not be referred to here, for it has already been considered under another heading ("Labour, Faults in the Passenger"). With regard to the preventive treatment, it cannot be claimed that much of practical importance has been yet accomplished; but if it be correct to suppose that the causes of mon- strosities are no other than the causes of disease, then it follows that if the action of these upon