SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF 152 of abduction. In the rare cases when the pain is severe the actual cautery or the application of a succession of small blisters is often useful. The joint should be kept at rest for a period of from three to six months. The free movement of the scapula upon the trunk makes it almost useless to attempt passive movements between the scapula and humerus; for if the shoulder is going to anchylose it will do so in spite of all the surgeon's efforts, whilst he cannot take any credit for a movable joint. An abscess should be opened as soon as it is noticed, and an atypical excision is sometimes required when persistent sinuses make it probable that there is carious or necrosing bone. Formal excisions of the head of the bone are becoming less and less frequent. Syphilis.—Surgeons are so accustomed to treat cases of tuberculous inflammation in joints that they are apt to overlook the various arth- ritic manifestations of syphilis. Several forms of syphilitic inflammation occur in the shoulder. Acute Arthritis.—Symptoms.—The earliest syphilitic manifestation occurs in connection with the epiphyseal line, leading in some cases to early synostosis, and thus to the stunting of the bone, which is sometimes extraordinarily shortened. More usually, however, the joint becomes inflamed. Within a few months of birth the child is noticed to move one arm less than the other, and to cry when its shoulder is touched. The skin is normal at first, but it soon becomes congested and bluish in colour, the outline of the joint alters, and in a few days a globular swelling beneath the deltoid shows that an abscess has been formed. This condition may be mistaken for a malignant growth of the head of the humerus, but there is often other evidence of syphilis, whilst the rapidity with which a fluctuating swelling is formed, and the presence in it of pus, should be sufficient to prevent the surgeon from looking upon it as a sarcoma. Treatment.—The abscess should be opened and drained as quickly as possible, and the inflammation soon subsides under the influence of grey powder, in doses of one-third to one grain three times a day. Gummatous synovitis may occur in the shoulder, but it is less frequent in this joint than in the knee and ankle. It is liable to be mistaken for tuberculous synovitis, but it is less painful, and is rapidly cured when mercury is given. Chondro - ARTHRITIS is the worst, as it is fortunately the rarest, syphilitic lesion in the shoulder. The head and shaft of the humerus are extensively affected by a rarefying osteitis, which is associated with a deposit of caseating material in the cancellous tissue. A similar process takes places in the articular cartilages, and leads to the formation of irregular grooves and pits in the head of the bone. Symptoms.—-The condition occurs about pub- erty, in consequence of inherited syphilis, and it may be preceded by transient attacks of synovitis, with evidence of chronic inflammation of the long bones. Many joints are simultane- ously affected, and there is other evidence of syphilis, often with marked intraocular lesions. Diagnosis.—The case is likely to be mistaken at first for tubercle, but it runs a slower course, and there is less tendency to suppuration. Treatment is not of much avail. The internal administration of mercury and iodide of potas- sium seems to be useless, but some benefit may be derived perhaps from mercurial vapour baths and the inunction of a 10 per cent solution of oleate of mercury. Arthritis Deformans, Osteo-Arthritis, or Rheumatoid Arthritis. — This chronic and troublesome affection attacks the shoulders in about a quarter of the total number of persons affected. The disease occurs in several different forms. In one variety the joint is uniformly enlarged, partly as a result of the thickening of the capsule, and partly in consequence of synovial effusion. Muscular atrophy is a pro- nounced feature, and there may be considerable muscular contracture. The amount of pain bears no relation to the severity of the articular lesion. It is sometimes hardly felt, whilst in other patients it is most distressing. In another variety, the stress of the disease falls upon the ends of the bones rather than upon the soft tissues of the joint. The joint is greatly de- formed. It crackles and creaks on movement, and the motion may be hampered by the forma- tion of osteophytes in the surrounding connective tissue. A third variety is limited to children, often in those who are found to have pericarditis. In these cases the lesion is chiefly synovial, and there appears to be no tendency to the forma- tion of osteophytes. Yet it leads to anchylosis by the formation of bridges of bone after destruction of the articular cartilage. Symptoms.—In a typical case the shoulder becomes troublesome about the age of 45 or 50. Pain is felt in and near the joint, and there is a persistent dull aching referred to the in- sertion of the deltoid. The symptoms slowly increase, and are soon accompanied by muscular wasting, and by a creaking or crackling sensa- tion when the joint is moved. Changes take place both in the head of the humerus and in the glenoid cavity, until the appearances pre- sented are those of an old subcoracoid dislocation. The long tendon of the biceps is occasionally destroyed, or it may be merely displaced from its groove. Suppuration occurs in a few instances. The pathology of the condition is as yet unknown, but a body of evidence is slowly accumulating to show that some forms are perhaps very chronic infective inflammations, occurring in persons who are reduced by