SKIN—ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY 16-5 tissue cells. Their nuclei do not stain well, frequently present no nucleoli, and are generally more or less obscured by the granules. The latter vary in shape, some being round, others angular; as to size, they may be described as "coarse granules." These cells occur chiefly in the neighbour- hood of the blood-vessels, hair-follicles, and sebaceous glands, and are found in greatest number in the skin of pigmented regions, such as the scrotum and areolte of the nipples. The nature and origin of the mast-cell granules are still undecided. A possible explanation is, that they are a separation or degeneration product of the protoplasm of the cells, somewhat allied to mucin. 2. Fibrous Elements of the Corium.—(1) The ivhite fibrous bundles are composed of numerous fibres about the breadth of a red blood corpuscle, united by a semi-fluid material. These fibres are made up of fine fibrils of a substance known as collagen. The fibres readily split into the component fibrils; the latter are incapable of branching. The bundles are flexible and slightly extensible, and, seen longitudinally, they present a wavy appear- ance which disappears when the skin is stretched. Collagen is an albuminoid substance, and is probably the anhydride of gelatine. There are two opposing views regarding the origin of the white fibrous bundles: one, that they are the result of a direct transformation of the protoplasm of the connective tissue cells, and the other, that they are formed by the deposition of fibres in an intercellular substance secreted by the cells. (2) The elastic fibres of the corium are arranged parallel or obliquely to the collagenous bundles, and are most numerous in the reticular layer. They envelop the coil and ducts of the sweat- glands, and are present around the hair-follicles, sebaceous glands, and arrectores pilorum. The distribution of their fibres is so universal that they form a skeleton supporting the various elements of the corium. The elasticity of these fibres is not nearly so great as was at one time supposed, and it is considerably less than that possessed by the collagenous fibres. Unlike the former, the elastic fibres are capable of branching and of uniting with neighbouring fibres to form a meshwork. In section they are angular in outline, and they tend to curl up on being broken across. They are composed of an albuminoid substance called elastin, which is more resistant to the action of weak acids and alkalies than collagen. The origin of the elastic fibres is undecided, and they have not been definitely proved to be capable of regeneration. The Subcutaneous Tissue.—This structure may be regarded as the deepest layer of the corium, the cells of which have become in- filtrated with fat. This layer serves three important purposes :— (1) It forms a pad which protects the delicate underlying structures from being harmed by injuries to the skin. (2) Being a bad conductor of heat, it prevents too great a loss of heat by radiation and evaporation. (3) It forms a supporting framework for various delicate structures, such as the Pacinian bodies, nerve-trunks, coil-glands and blood- vessels. - It is especially thick on the palms and soles, and thin on the face. In structure it consists of a coarse fibrous meshwork enclosing large groups of fat-cells; these are known as fat-lobes. The fibrous walls separating the lobes are named trabecules." The lobes are broken up by fibrous septa into lobules. The lobes, lobules, and individual fat-cells are richly supplied with blood-vessels and lympathics, which are dis- tributed in the trabeculse and septa, and form a capillary meshwork between the cells. Fat- columns (columncE adiposm) have also been described, which pass vertically along the larger vessels from the fat-lobules to the coil- glands in the corium. The individual fat-cells are large, oval, round, or polygonal bodies, consisting of a globule of fat encapsuled in a homogeneous mantle. The latter is the remains of the protoplasm of the cells, and at one side of it a flattened nucleus may generally be detected. These cells are the result of a fatty infiltration of connective tissue cells. Other Situations in the Skin where Fat is found. —Small fat granules or globules occur in the epithelial cells of the sweat-apparatus, and in the lumen of the sweat-coil and duct. They are present also in the lymphatic spaces of the corium, in the walls of the vessels, and in the meduUte of nerves. In the epithelium, fat occurs in the nuclear spaces of the prickle-cells, in the interepithelial lymphatics, and in the cells of the stratum corneum. It is also present in the epidermal cells of the hair-follicles. The origin of the skin-fat has been a fruitful source of controversy. The leading theories on the subject are :— 1. That the skin-fat is a product of degenera- tion of the cell-protoplasm. 2. That it is a product of secretion of the cell-protoplasm. 3. That the subcutaneous fat, and that which occurs in the lymphatics of the skin, is derived from the coil-glands. 4. That the epithelial fat comes from the sebaceous glands. It is generally conceded that the fat of the sebaceous glands and that which occurs in the stratum corneum is a separation or degeneration product of the protoplasm of the cell; but this