SYPHILIS 477 The condition has to be distinguished from tuberculous and cancerous ulceration. In syph- ilis the ulceration develops more rapidly than in tubercle or cancer. The ulcer is often single at fii"st, and unilateral, deep, and irregu- larly oval in shape. In phthsis the progress of the ulcer is slow, and the mucous membrane is pale. The under surface of the epiglottis is most often affected, and the ulcers are numerous, bilateral, small, and round. In cancer the ulcer is preceded by the formation of a new growth, and there are nearly always nodular excrescences upon or around the solitary ulcer. The prognosis is satisfactory as regards life, except in the cases where there is much peri- chondritis of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, when death may ensue from acute oedema or from extensive suppuration. The treatment consists locally in touching the ulcerated surfaces with a solution of sulphate of copper (15 grains to the ounce), or by the in- halation of an atomised solution of perchloride of mercmy (1 :1000) : iodoform too is some- times serviceable. A spray of carbolic acid (1 :40) or of thymol may be used if the breath is foul-smelling. The oedema of the glottis must be treated upon the ordinary lines by scari- fication. Visceral Syphilis Trachea axd Luxgs.—The trachea is usually involved in syphilis by direct extension of the laryngeal inflammation, and may be followed by a very great narrowing of the lumen either along the whole tube or in its lower third. The question of limg syphilis in adults has been the subject of much controversy. Gum- mata and an increased amount of connective tissue are unquestionably found in the lungs of patients who have died with other signs of syphilis. The sclerosis is found at the lower and middle lobes rather than in the apices, aud it is said that the suspicion of syphilis should always attach to lesions beginning in the lower parts of the lungs and slowly progressing with- out the production of fever. The Alimextary Tract.—With the exception of the mouth and rectum, the alimentary tract is but rarely afl'ected by syphilis iu its acquired form. The rectum is liable to gummatous ulceration or to a definite fibrous infiltration beginning iu the submucous tissue, and leading secondarily to ulceration of the mucous membrane, and finally to stricture. Gummata formed in the rectum give rise to no particular symptoms until ulceration has occurred, when the patient notices that he has pain, increased after defecation, with spasm, a sero-purulent or mucous discharge, and attacks of constipation alternating with diarrhoea. Cica- trisation may take place, or an abscess may foi-m, which ends in a fistula. I A rectal examination shows that the ulcer is generally situated within two inches of the anus, and may involve the entire circumference of the bowel. The prognosis of gummatous ulceration is that it will heal under a course of iodides, but that some amount of stricture is almost sure to follow if the ulceration has been exten- sive and deep. Fibrous infiltration, or ano-rectal syphiloma, is much more unsatisfactory. It occurs in women more often than in men, and syphilis, I think, is only one factor in its production. At first there are no symptoms to call attention to its existence, though a digital examination, made perhaps for some other purpose, will reveal a thickened, leathery, inelastic condition of the rectal wall extending from three to five inches from the anus. A superfcial ulceration of the mucous membrane occui-s after a time, aud ex- tends for some distance above the indurated wall of the rectum. It is very painful, bleeds easily, secretes pus, and causes diarrhoea. Treatment.—The gummatous ulceration is more or less amenable to the ordinaiy couree of iodides, coupled with a thorough scraping of the ulcerated wall in advanced cases. The in- durated condition appeai-s to be hopeless when it has once obtained a firm hold of the patient. Neither mercury nor iodides are of the least service, and in the last two or three cases which have been under my care, the patient has been glad to submit to an inguinal colotomy, which has relieved her of pain and of the distress- ing diarrhoea, whilst it has lessened the amotmt of the discharge from the bowel. Stricture of the rectum may be dilated by the use of a rectal bougie, or it may be divided ' in situ and afterwards dilated. A modification of Kraske's method is serviceable in some cases; it consists in first performing an inguinal colo- tomy, and then removing the strictirred bowel after excising the coccyx. The colotomy wound can afterwards be closed. I The Liver axd Spleex. — The liver and spleen are more rarely affected in acquired than . in hereditary syphilis, but inasmuch as both 1 organs contain a large amount of connective tissue, they are subject to the inflammatory processes characteristic of late syphilis. I The liver may be generally inflamed so that i it is affected with a chronic interstitial hepatitis, or it may be the seat of gummata. In the chronic interstitial hepatitis, which leads to cir- rhosis, the capsule of Glisson becomes thickened I and adherent to the surrovmding structures, j The new connective tissue is less evenly dis- I tributed than in alcoholic cirrhosis, and the I liver is consequently lobulated in an irregular manner : the lobes being separated bv deep depressions due to the contraction of the scar tissue. The process is usually very chronic, but j the pain is sometimes severe. It may be associ- I ated with amyloid disease or with albuminuria.