RICKETS 3 to indigestion, while fresh air and sunlight are powerful factors in promoting digestion and tissue-building. There can be little doubt that bad feeding and chronic dyspepsia are the most efficient predisposing causes of rickets. Vigorous infants nursed at the breasts of healthy mothers rarely suffer from rickets while being suckled, even though exposed to the life conditions incident to a crowded court. It is the artificially fed infant that suffers, whether fed on condensed milk, starchy foods, or fresh milk. We find for the most part that children who have well- marked rickety deformities have suffered much from indigestion, have been difficult to feed, though many changes of food have been tried, while in some there is a history of long-continued bronchial catarrh. On the other hand, it must be admitted that in some mild cases there has been no obvious indigestion, the surroundings have been all that could be desired, and the feeding carried out with care. It must also be said that bad feeding and continuous indigestion do not always produce rickets; there may be ill-health and wasting in an infant without any of the characteristic signs of rickets. This is also true of experiments on animals,—bad feed- ing and insanitary conditions will produce ill- health in puppies and other young animals, but very rarely rickets (Spillman). If, as stated, it is extremely probable that chronic indigestion plays an important part in predisposing to rickets, yet we are in much ignorance concerning the immediate or exciting cause. Some writers (Heitzman, Monti) have laid great stress on the lactic acid fermentation which takes place in chronic dyspepsia; they aver that in consequence of a deficiency of HCl in the gastric juice there is an imperfect solution of lime salts and also an excessive formation of lactic acid, large quantities are absorbed into the blood, and this lactic acid poisoning is the efiicient and immediate cause of rickets. It has also been suggested that rickets is due to an imperfect oxidation of the blood in the lungs, in consequence of the bronchial catarrh so often present, and collapse of lungs in connection with the misshapen chest. It is quite safe, however, to say that neither of these hypotheses go very far in explaining the causation of rickets. The trend of modern opinion is rather in the direction of seeing in rickets the results of the absorption of toxines from the alimentary canal, which are formed during a period of chronic in- digestion. The sweating, the muscular paresis, the laryngismus and convulsions, suggest the presence of toxines in the blood, which have been formed in the alimentary canal from the maldigestion of the proteids, fats, or starches in the food. It is very possible that several allied toxines may be formed which give rise to special symptoms. Thus in some cases the bone changes are most in evidence, in others the muscular system chiefly suffers. In other cases convulsions, tetany, and laryngismus are present, while in others they are absent from first to last. Thus it would seem likely that rickets is the result of a peculiar form of chronic dyspepsia, in which certain toxines are formed from bacterial action, and it is the passage of these toxines into the blood from the alimentary canal that gives rise to the pathological changes which take place in this disease. Clinical Feat0res and Course.—The early symptoms of rickets do not always include well- marked deformities or any evidence of softening of the bones. Before these changes occur there is a period during which the symptoms are rather those of subacute or chronic indigestion, with great irritability and night sweats. These early dyspeptic symptoms include flatulence, constipation, foul-smelling stools, restlessness and wakefulness at night, sweating followed by plentiful crops of miliaria, very possibly there may be convulsions. Such symptoms may be noted as early as the fourth or fifth month, but oftener, perhaps, not till a few months later. The infant is usually a notoriously bad sleeper, it keeps its mother or nurse awake for hours together because it cannot rest, and when it does doze its sleep is broken, and beads of per- spiration appear on its forehead and scalp, while its skin and night-clothes become damp and clammy. The miliaria with which the body becomes covered is probably attributed by its nurse to " teething." It is very apt to continu- ally rub the back of its head against the pillow, with the result that the hair is worn off at this spot. The marked restlessness which is often such a marked feature in early rickets is no doubt due to the flatulence and distension so often present, but very probably also the bones may ache or be more or less tender. When the bones are acutely tender an associated scurvy is almost certainly present. If these symptoms persist for many weeks or months some evidence of rickety changes in the bones and muscular paresis are sure to be present. Perhaps the occipital and parietal bones will be abnormally thin, and readily yield to the pres- sure of the finger (cranio-tabes), and the former may become more or less flattened from pres- sure of the head on the pillow when lying on the back. Or the eminences of the frontal and parietal bones begin to appear unduly promi- nent, giving the infant's head a heavy, square look. An examination of the chest may show that the chest wall is being sucked in on each side of the sternum during inspiration in con- sequence of a want of rigidity of the ribs and their cartilages : the swellings at the junction of the ribs and cartilages may be exaggerated. All these signs may be noted before six months of age, but they are, perhaps, more usually noted somewhat later.