STAMMERING 328 depressed, either from over-work or a severe illness. But the relapse is never so severe as the original affection, and is generally easily treated. The duration of such lessons should at first be only half an hour. Two lessons of half an hour at dififerent times in the day yield much better results than one lesson in one hour. Where possible, the lessons should be taken continuously for two or three weeks, and not spread over an interval of several weeks. St3.ncl£ircla—Something, e.g. a solution containing a fixed quantity of a reagent, used for making comparisons. Standardising^.—The making of phar- maceutical preparations in such a way that a given quantity contains a certain fixed propor- tion of the active principle of the drug; the result is a standardised preparation. There are several such preparations in the B.P., including the Tinctura Opii, Tinctura Nucis Vomicce, Extractum Belladonnoe Liquidum, Tinctura CinchoncB^ Aqua La\irocerasi, etc. Stannius' Experiment.—An ex- periment (application of a ligature between the sinus and the auricles of the frog's heart) to prove that, while any part of the heart has the power of originating rhythmical contractions, it is the sinus which usually does so. See Physi- ology, Circulation {Cardiac Contraction, Start- ing Mechanism). Stapedectomy.—Excision of the tym- panic ossicle, known as the stapes. Stapedius.—The name given to the muscle inserted into the neck of the stapes; it is supplied by the facial nerve. See Facial Spasm {Symptoms, Spasm of the Stapedius). Stapes. See Ear, Examination of {Ana- tomy of Tympanic Cavity) ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Recessus Epitympanicus, Excision of the Ossicula Auditus); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-suppurative Disease {Atrophic Catarrh, Fixation of Stapes); Physiology, N euro-Muscular Mechanism {Hearinq, Middle Ear). ^ Stapliisagrriae Semina.—The dried ripe seeds of Delphinittm staphisagria {stavesacre seeds), containing the alkaloid del- phine (having an action like that of aconite) and a fixed oil, and used externally as a para- siticide in cases of pediculosis; there is one ofi&cinal preparation, the Unguentum Staphis- agricB. See Dermatitis Traumatica et Vene- nata {Causal Agents, Vegetable). Staphyie.—The uvula (Gr. o-Ta^^XiJ, a bunch of grapes). In compound words staphylo- means relating to the uvula ; e.g. staphyloplasty (closure of a cleft palate), staphylorrhaphy (suture of a cleft palate), etc. StaphylitiS. — Inflammation of the uvula. Staphylococcus. aS'^s Bone, Diseases of {Pyogenic Diseases, Staphylococcus Aureus); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Bacteri- ology) ; Immunity {Staphylococcal Infections); In- testines, Diseases of {Bacteria of the Intestinal Tract); Joints, Diseases of {Bacterial Diseases); Lardaceous Degeneration {Pathology) ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {Constitutional Symptoms, Py- rexia, Causes); Lungs, Gangrene of {Etiology); Meninges of the Cerebrum {Purulent Menin- gitis, Etiology); Nose, Examination of {General Examination, Bacteriological); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation of {Bacteriology); Para- sites {Echinococcus Disease); Pemphigus {Pem- phigus Acutus Neonatorum); Pharynx, Acute Pharyngitis {AcuteSeptic, Hospital Sore Throat); Pleura, Diseases of {Bacteriology of Pleural Effusions); Pneumonia, Bacteriological Sec- tion ; Prostate Gland {Hypertrophy, Septic Infection) ; Sclerema Neonatorum {Micro- organisms) ; Septicemia ; Skin, Bacteriology OF ; Suppuration ; Teeth (Oral Sepsis); Ton- sils, Diseases of {General Considerations, Bac- teria in Tonsillar Crypts); Tuberculosis {Mixed Infection). Staphyloma. See Sclerotic, Diseases OF THE {Staphyloma). Staphylomycosis.—An infective process due to staphylococci. See Suppuration ( Nomenclature). Staphyloptosis. — Abnormal elonga- tion of the uvula. StaphylopyOSiS. — Suppuration due to staphylococci. See Suppuration {Nomen- clature). Starch.—Amylum or starch is obtained from the grains of wheat, of maize, or of rice ; it is used in making dusting powders and insuiJlations, and as a basis for ointments and enemata; there is one official preparation, Glycerinum Amyli. See Bandages {Fixed); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Carbohydrates, Starches and Glycogen); etc. Starvation. See Medicine, Forensic {Death from Starvation). See also Atrophy, Infantile {Medico-Legal); Lungs, Gangrene OF {Etiology, Predisposing Causes); Tempera- ture {Alterations, Depression). Stasis.—Arrest of the circulation of the blood or of other fluids in the body, e.g. venous stasis (stasis due to venous congestion). State Medicine.— Medical Juris- prudence and Hygiene. See Medicine, For- ensic {Definition). Statistics. See Vital Statistics.