272 SPINA BIFIDA ment were the simple meningoceles, together with, perhaps, the least seriovis varieties of meningo-myeloceles, and they were to be in the persons of healthy children who were not pos- sessed of any associated complications. These, however, are just the cases which best lend themselves to the more radical and precise method of treatment by excision. Treatment by excision has now almost entirely superseded that by injection. The method is less blindly speculative; the surgeon sees exactly what he is doing in the course of his operation. The cases for radical treatment have to be carefully selected :—The child must be well developed and in good general health, and there should be no hydrocephalus, paraplegia, talipes, or any other complication of the spina bifida. And as the operator insists upon these conditions, the myeloceles, syringo-myeloceles, and a large proportion of the meningo-myeloceles are necessarily cast aside as unsuitable for his purpose. The judical operation consists in making a longitudinal incision into each side of the sac (after the manner described by Mr. Mayo Rob- son). Then, if the sac contain no nerve-tissue, that is, if it be a simple meningocele, the super- fluous, median part is cut away and the lateral edges are united by fine sutures. If the cord or any of the spinal nerves be found in the sac, they are to be replaced in the spinal canal, after having been freed, as far as possible, from the wall of the sac. Subsequent to the closure of the sac by sutures the deficiency in the neural arches is to be supplemented by drawing muscular or connective tissue, periosteum, or even flaps from the stunted laminse, into the middle line, before adjusting the edges of the skin wound over them. This radical method of procedure has not as yet a high-class record. Indeed, considering the very serious imperfec- tion for which it is adopted, this could scarcely be expected. But it is certainly a justifiable operation in suitable cases, and it is based upon a scientific and solid foundation. Under the influence of asepticity it has become a well- recognised surgical procedure, and it has very properly superseded the old-fashioned, specu- lative treatment by injection. But supposing that a case comes under observation in which, for one reason or another, no active interference is advisable, the surgeon must do his best to protect the tumour from accidental injury by covering it with soft pads and protecting it by a hollow shield. No treatment with collodion, or any other local application, is desirable. Spina.Ch. See Invalid Feeding {Vege- tables). Spinal Accessory Nerve. See aha Brain, Physiology of {Spinal Accessory Nerve); Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symp- toms, Cranial Nerves) ; Wry-Neck {Spasmodic, Treatment, Resection of Spinal Accessory).— The spinal accessory or eleventh cranial nerve is often described as consisting of two parts— an upper, internal, medullary, or vago-acces- sory portion, and a lower, external, or spinal portion. The latter alone forms the eleventh nerve proper, or nerve of Willis. The upper division is in reality part of the vagus, and will be considered with that nerve. Anatomy.—The eleventh nerve arises from a nucleus which is situated in the cervical region of the spinal coi-d, and extends from the medulla as far down as the fifth or sixth cervical segment. The nucleus lies at the base of the anterior horn and towards its outer aspect, forming in its upper part a projection of the grey matter which is known as the lateral horn. The fibres which arise from the nucleus pass outwards through the lateral columns, and appear on the surface of the spinal cord as a series of bundles, the uppermost of which emerge close to the posterior roots, while the lower make their appearance about the middle of the lateral column. The nerve which is formed by the union of these bundles passes upwards through the foramen magnum into the cranial cavity. Its intra-cranial course is, however, short, for it leaves the skull almost immediately by the jugular foramen in com- pany with the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus. Passing backwards it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle, to which it gives off branches, and then turns downwards to end under cover of the trapezius muscle, to which its terminal branches are distributed. Branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves anastomose with the spinal accessory in this situation, foi'ming the subtrapezial plexus. Function.—The nerve has a purely motor function ; it supplies the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. Both these muscles have an additional supply, the former from the second, the latter from the third and fourth cervical nerves. Lesions of.—The eleventh nerve may be in- volved in lesions {a) within the vertebral canal, {b) within the cranium, or (c) in the neck. The symptoms produced by a lesion of the spinal accessory nerve are purely motor, viz. paralysis of the sterno-niastoid and trapezius muscles. Paralysis of one sterno-mastoid is said to be unaccompanied by deformity unless a secondary contraction of the opposite muscle occurs. When both sterno-mastoids are paralysed there is difficulty in maintaining the head erect, it tends to fall backwards, and in deep inspiration the muscles do not stand out as they do in health. If one muscle only is paralysed the head cannot be so forcibly depi-essed towards the shoulder of that side, and the movement of