199 SKIN—PAEASITES behind. For other features, vide supra, Tinea circinata: Differential diagnosis. As to seborrhoea paptdosa, a little attention will readily distinguish it {vide Tinea circinata, loc. cit. supra). Tinea versicolor must also be differentiated from tinea erythrasma [vide infra). Prognosis and Treatment.—The disease can be got rid of with attention and perseverance. I have found the method recommended by Radcliffe Crocker answer every purpose. The patches are first thoroughly washed with hot soap-and-water, and the epidermis well brushed with an old nail-brush (used for this purpose only, of course, and disinfected), and the follow- ing lotion well soaked and rubbed in twice a day : Sodse hyposulphitis aq. ad §viij. It is important to go on with the treatment for some time after the apparent cure, to get rid of the fungus completely. Failure to do this invites recurrences. The under-flannels, pyja- mas, night-shirts, etc., should be well boiled, or, if old and valueless, burnt. Tinea Erythrasma (Erythrasma).—This dis- ease, which is due to a fungus, microsporon minutissimum, is an uncommon condition in my experience, and is more frequently met with in men than in women, but as it is an insignificant affection and gives no trouble, cases no doubt escape observation. It occurs about the folds and clefts of the body, such as the armpits, groins, genitalia, and buttocks. It occurs in slightly scaly and reddened well- defined patches of irregular outline and of limited extent, but sometimes by spreading unchecked it may involve a large area. There may be slight itching. Diagnosis.—A patch with the above features having lasted for years should suggest ery- thrasma. Scrapings should be examined for the fungus, microsporon minutissimum, which con- sists of very slender mycelial filaments, more nearly approaching bacterial elements in width. The mycelium is segmented, the segments varying in length. In looking for this minute fungus a oil-immersion lens should be used. Differential Diagnosis. — Tinea erythrasma must be distinguished from T. versicolor and T. cruris, but attention to the characteristics of these two conditions and their respective fungi would suffice to exclude them. Treatment.—It is the same as for tinea versi- color, care being taken to avoid recrudescence by continuing the treatment for some time after apparent cure. Tinea Nodosa.—This is a disease of the hairs of the beard and moustache. It was named by Cheadle and Malcolm Morris, who demonstrated the fungus. Clinically, the hairs are ensheathed with a sticky brown concretion, making them adhere to one another. Microscopical and Cultural Appearances.—I have examined some moustache hairs kindly handed to me by Dr. Radcliffe Crocker. I found, when first examined by reflected artificial light, and after soaking in liq. potassse B.P., that the sticky substance was made up of masses of fungus; but what was particularly striking was the arrangement of the "spores" in rows, more or less at right angles to the shaft of the hair, looking like closely aggregated segmented mycelia, bound together by a cement substance secreted by the fungus. The rows of mycelia were distally {i.e. at free ends) bounded by a thin dark line with an outer narrow pale zone, evidently made up of the same sticky substance, while at their proximal ends {i.e. attached to shaft) they became de- tached more or less en masse when the cover- slip was pressed down firmly. The fungus did not apparently invade the hair. On French proof agar (maltose agar), a cultivation was obtained which consisted of two portions, central and peripheral. The former was more or less oval, slightly raised and convex, yellowish white, glistening, and apparently made up of fungus and a viscous substance. The peripheral part was made up of a delicate white radiating growth. Diagnosis.—Attention to the above details would distinguish it. It is not common. Treatment.—The affected regions should be shaved, and kept so for some time. Where this is not possible the affected hairs should be clipped, and the parts sponged or brushed over with the following lotion : Resorcini 3ss, acidi acetici 3"vj., sp. vini rect. (vel aq. coloniensis) aq. (vel aq. ros.) ad §iv. PiEDRA.—Spanish for stone {trichomycose nodu- laire {see p. 191) of Juhel-Renoy). Carats is a disease of equinoctial South America, and includes a number of ringworms, varying in colour from race to race. This may be violet, blue, red, and so forth. Some are special to whites, others to the natives, others again to half-castes. They occur in patches, especially on the uncovered parts of the body. The patches are scaly, with irregular but well-defined margin. In time they become achromic and cicatricial. They are very chronic and rebellious to treat- ment. Montoya y Florez has investigated the fungi in Sabouraud's laboratory. In the scales asper- gillus-like fructification has been found, with a retiform arrangement of the mycelia. An inter- esting fact is, that in some of the scrapings an acarus rather larger than our acarus scabiei was discovered. Sabouraud suggests the possibility of the spores of the fungus being conveyed by the animal parasite, as the latter is very common, especially in old men of the lower classes in Colombia. Treatment.—It would be the same as for tinea imbricata. BuLPiss has been described by Lerch as