589 THERAPEUTICS: SERUM THERAPY India, and the Echis carinata. Although these poisons have different physiological actions, the same antidote is used for all. The dose of serum required to protect a man against a lethal dose of the most deadly venom is from 10 to 20 CO., but additional security would be afforded by injecting 30 or 40 c.c. No ill effects attend the injection of the serum, which acts most surely and quickly when injected intravenously. The more speedily the injection is made the greater the patient's chance of recovery. There should be no relaxation in the mode of treat- ment ordinarily adopted, and ligatures and local treatment should be employed. Antivenene is now distributed largely in India, and specimens returned after a year showed no falling off in activity. The charge made by the .Tenner In- stitute for 10 c.c. tubes is 50s. a dozen. Coley^s Fluid.—This fluid is named after Dr. William B. Coley of New York. It is a mixture of the streptococcus of erysipelas with bacillus prodigiosus, a non-pathogenic organism which is supposed to possess the property of intensify- ing the action of certain pathogenic germs. The two organisms are grown together in the same broth, the erysipelas streptococcus being first grown alone for ten days, when the other germ is added and the cultivation continued for another ten days. The cultures are heated to a temperature sufficient to render them sterile, and the fluid is then used without filtration. This preparation is much stronger in its action on malignant tumours than the filtered solution. The best plan is to begin with a small injection, ^ to 1 minim, and to gradually increase it daily until the reaction temperature reaches 103° or 104° F. The temperature is the best guide in estimating the dose, and very little benefit accrues in cases in which no reaction occurs. The frequency of the injections will depend on the general condition of the patient, and on the rapidity of recovery from the depression of the preceding dose. Usually the injections are administered daily, an endeavour being made to get two or three good reactions a week. The most virulent cultures give the best results. The treatment should be continued for three weeks, and if at the end of that time there is no improvement it should be abandoned. In some cases, however, it has been continued for three months, with from time to time an interval of a few days. The serum may be injected either subcutaneously, or into the substance of the tumour, but the former method is preferable. The usual precautions are taken in administer- ing the injection : the skin is rendered aseptic, and the needle is sterilised by being passed through a spirit flame. The chief dangers are from collapse from too large a dose of the toxins being injected into a vascular growth, and from pysemia, due to insufficient precautions as re- gards asepsis, especially in cases where there is a granulating or sloughing surface. With the observance of strict aseptic precautions, how- ever, the risk is small. The mixed toxins may be used in any form of malignant tumour which is clearly inoperable. It may also be employed after primary operation to prevent I'ecurrence. The beneficial effect is slight in most cases of carcinoma, including epi- thelioma, and it is most marked in sarcoma, but varies with different types; the spindle-celled form being the most favourable for treatment. Most of these statements are given on the authority of Coley's papers, and many of them require confirmation. Prof. Robert B. Wild of Manchester treated eight cases of inoperable cancer by this method. The patients were kept under observation until death, and in six of them the diagnosis was confirmed by avitopsy. Dr. Wild thinks that in cases of inoperable carcinoma and epithelioma there is no evidence of permanent benefit, but that in the absence of other means of effectual treatment a trial of the serum is justified in cases of inoperable sar- coma, especially the more rapidly growing forms. Coley's fluid is supplied by the .Tenner In- stitute in tubes of 2 c.c. at 5s., and by Parke, Davis and Co. in oimce vials at 12s. Alallein.—Glanders, farcy, or mallein is a disease due to the presence of the bacillus mallei, a short, non-mobile bacillus, not unlike that of tubercle, but exhibiting different stain- ing reactions. The toxins which are produced in cultures of this bacillus have been separated, and in concentration as a glycerine extract are known as mallein. It is used diagnostically in horses supposed to be suffering from glanders, to detect the presence of the disease. When in- jected in a dose of 1 c.c. into a glandered horse, the temperature rises from 2° to 4°, whilst in a horse free from glanders no reaction is obtained even after a dose of 6 c.c. It is also emploj'ed for conferring immunity on horses, and for curing them of the developed disease. Mallein is of little use in the acute farcy of man, which is an almost uniformly fatal disease, but in chronic cases it is useful. The continued in- jection of Trg- to c.c. at intervals of two days is usually followed by improvement. Mallein can hardly be regarded as a commercial article, but it is supplied by Parke, Davies and Co. at 2s. 6d. the c.c, the dose required for diagnostic purposes in horses. Tubercrdin.—Whether in an article on serum therapeutics this substance should be included is open to question. Koch's original tuberculin is now very rarely used therapeutically. For diagnostic purposes both in man and in cattle it answers admirably. A patient may be suffei'- ing from tuberculous peritonitis, and yet the symptoms and physical signs may be so obscure as to leave the diagnosis in doubt. A bottle of the original tuberculin is procured, and 1 c.c. is diluted with 9 c.c. of 0"5 per cent phenol to make a 10 per cent solution; of this 1 c.c.