444 SUPPURATION it is only as a preventive, and not as a curative agent. Dr. William Bulloch and the writer of this article have attempted to produce a serum that would protect against staphylococcus. A mare was inoculated with virulent staphylococci, and her blood was subsequently tested at different periods, but with no positive results, for it failed to cure or to protect. Judging from the meagre accounts published by other observers (Viquerat and others), a serum similarly prepared has, in their hands, given positive and promising results. In all the pathological processes that end in recovery there tnust be a physiological aspect, and this is especially so with regard to infectious diseases, to which class of affections abscess certainly belongs. It has been pointed out that when an abscess has burst or has been opened in circumstances in which fresh infection has not occurred, it will, as a rule, heal without further discharge of pus. It is at present im- possible to explain satisfactorily the reasons for this fact. Further, it is impossible to say why suppuration ceases. As will be seen, it is more easy to state what are not causes of recovery. Now the effects of the evacuation of the pus are: (1) the relief of tension, (2) a diminution in the number of micro-organisms, and (3) the removal of their and other toxic products. It has already been pointed out in this article that after the pus leaves an abscess there still remains a great collection of micro-organisms. The mere liberation of pus, then, cannot account for the cure of the disease. There are micro- organisms left behind sufficient to promote numberless acute abscesses. The remaining micro-organisms are seen in greatest numbers in the abscess wall, but can be demonstrated also in fewer numbers in the surrounding tissues and in the serous discharge. It may be sug- gested that the biological conditions of the remaining micro-organisms are adversely in- fluenced by the contact of antiseptics, but in discussing the best treatment for acute abscess it was pointed out that antiseptics could not reach the micro-organisms. It is well known that some micro-organisms in passing through a series of hosts gain in virulence, while others lose virulence in the course of the same process. The writer has found that staphylococci invariably lose virul- ence during passage through animals. Can it be that an abscess gets well because the micro- organisms of suppuration lose virulence'? In attempting to answer this question, it must be remembered that in the sei'ous discharge from healing staphylococcic abscesses in man, not only were the micrococci present, but the writer found them to be very virulent and capable of killing animals if inoculated in the usual doses. The same virulence continued if the abscesses were prevented from healing by the insertion of drainage tubes. In human beings it is im- possible to estimate the virulence of the initial dose, and without this standard it is impossible to say definitely whether it has gained or lost in degree. In the necessarily few days during which the writer has been able to observe it in healing abscesses, the virulence has always been fairly maintained. Another fact of im- portance is that experimentally many micro- organisms that cause acute suppuration can be shown to increase in virulence during their passages through animals. The virulence of streptococci is rapidly and greatly increased. Further, the writer has been able to observe the virulence of the bacillus mallei in a case of glanders for a period of nineteen months. In the tissue removed at the last operation (after which the patient left the hospital quite cured), the bacillus mallei was as virulent as when first tested on the man's admission. Pus, granula- tions, and fluid cultures gave the same result, viz., retention of virulence ; so progressive loss of virulence of the micro-organism cannot have been the reason of recovery. The retention of virulence is also possible in the case of an abscess that forms after typhoid fever and due to bacillus typhi. A case has recently been vuider the observation of Dr. William Bulloch, in which the patient has a sinus that has been discharging for nine months. The sinus contains an extremely virulent bacillus typhi, yet in spite of this fact the patient is apparently in good health. It seems, then, that the micro-organisms may, under certain conditions, retain their virulence, but lose their power of acting poisonously upon the affected person. It must, therefore, be supposed that the tissues have lost their property of being acted upon, and that they have generated certain antagonistic properties by which the invading micro-organisms are rendered com- paratively inert. There are some reasons that make many surgeons and bacteriologists attach much im- portance to the protecting influence of the abscess wall. They look upon it as a barrier between healthy tissues on the one side and the disease on the other. The idea receives some support from the fact that a great collection of micro-organisms is abruptly demarcated by the abscess wall. In a fully developed abscess the wall is certainly at any rate a mechanical barrier. But an abscess in its early stages is without a wall: while the micro-organism is infiltrating and killing tissues an abscess wall cannot form if these circumstances continue. It can only form when the micro-organism has lost some, at any rate, of its destructive power. If this is so, it must be assumed that the wall only forms round an irritant as it would round a foreign body, and that for special protecting work it can have no more specific value than any other tissue of the host.