SCAELET FEVER 50 Characteristics between Rubella, the " Fourth Disease," and Scarlet Fever—continued. Rubella (Rose-Rash). 9. Desquamation.—There may, perhaps, be a little branny des- quamation, but frequently none occurs, and certainly the pin-hole description is not found. The "Fourth Disease." 10. The Kidneys.—They are rarely affected, and then only with a trace of albumin. 11. The Eyes.—The conjunctivae are pink-red and suffused. 12. Its season is spring and summer. 13 The incuhatimi period is usually 18 days, but with a range of from 9 to 21 days. 14. The Course of Illness.—The symptoms, however severe, dis- appear in a few days, leaving com- paratively little feeling of illness ; where the eruption is slight there may be no illness whatever. 15. The Period of Infection.—I do not know any illness which is more infectious in its earlier stage, even before any symptoms are manifest. It hence results that schools suffer to so great an extent from the disease when once it has found entrance. The infec- tion is diminished at a later stage. 16. Protection.—The attack affords no protection against measles, the "Fourth disease," or scarlet fever. 9. Desquamation. — The desqua- mation may be slight, or as com- plete as possible, even extending to a general peeling of the hands and feet. But the desquamation bears no relation to the intensity of the eruption, for it often happens that a very full eruption may be followed by little or no desquamation, and that which does occur disappears in a week or two. On the other hand, a full eruption may be attended by a general peeling as free as in the worst cases of scarlet fever, but mostly in small scales rather than in flakes or sheets. A slight rash is usually accompanied by little or no desquamation. But I have never seen a case of scarlet fever with a full eruption where the desquamation did not occur eventually in sheets, the process lasting many weeks. If a series of cases be observed, these abnormalities will be very apparent. 10. The Kidneys.—These are rarely affected. Where they are involved the condition is probably that only of the albuminuria of adolescents. 11. The Eyes.—The conjunctivae are pink and suffused. 12. Its season is spring and summer. 13. The incubation period has a probable range of from 9 to 21 days. 14. The Course of Illness.—The symptoms, however severe, disappear in a few days, leaving comparatively little feeling of illness. 15. The Period of Infection.—In- fection is not very probable in the earliest stages. At a later period, even while desquamation is taking place, the possibility of infection only continues for 2 or 3 weeks, provided the usual precautions have been carefully adopted. 16. Protection. —The attack affords no protection against scarlet fever or rose-rash. Scarlet Fever. 9. Desquamation. — The desqua- mation always bears a ratio to the extent of the eruption. A copious eruption signifies a free desquama- tion, while a scanty eruption is followed by a sparse peeling, which, however, does not cease for many weeks. It commences invariably by a peeling of the tongue on the fourth day, which extends to the lips and is followed by peeling of the face and behind the ears; one of the easiest places in which to detect the des- quamation early is tlie ear. The desquamation occurs in pieces or shreds rather than scales, and is very profuse about the hands and feet, lasting,' for many weeks. At the commencement of the peeling circles of desquamation are formed around the raised papilhe, though I have once seen this condition in the '' Fourth disease " where the peeling was excessive 10. The Kidneys.—Albuminuria is very frequent. The liability to acute nephritis is very decided unless the treatment be appropriate. 11. The Eyes.—'SormsX. 12. Its season is autumn and winter. 13. The incubation period is usually from 2 to 3 days, but with a range from a few hours to 7 days ; it very rarely extends over the fifth day. 14. The Course of Illness.—The illness gradually subsides in from 4 to 7 days. Desquamation com- mences as eruption fades, and con- tinues for 6 or 8 weeks or more, and lasts longest on the hands and feet. 15. The Period of Infection.— This disease is the least infectious of any illness during its early stage. It therefore allows time for quaran- tine and isolation, and thus can be controlled, so that an epidemic may be prevented more readily than in any other infectious illness. After the first 48 hours the infection is very powerful, but I am not pre- pared to pronounce upon its dura- tion. Until this can be ascertained the only safe rule is the assumption that it may last as long as desquama- tion itself, although I am quite clear that this is inaccurate. 16. Protection.—An attack affords no protection against the "Fourth disease " or rose-rash.