STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 350 from emotional or reflex causes may be re- ferred to. Race, occupation, season, and climate exert such influence as they do in the causation of structural disease or functional disturbance of the stomach and duodenum, less by any direct eff"ect, than indirectly by aff'ecting the general health, the character of the food, and other such circumstances. Among the immediate or exciting causes of diseases of the stomach and duodenum, by far the most important arc errors connected with the ingesta, and of these especially the food. Now the food may be regarded as acting as a determinant of gastric disease in two ways, separately or combined: either by its direct action on the mucous membrane in virtue of its physical, thermal, chemical, or toxic characters; or when, from its quality or quantity, or from imperfections in the digestive capacity (secretory or motor or both) on the part of the individual, the food is improperly digested, and thereby becomes an irritant to the mucosa, setting up a varying degree of catarrh. Within the former category may be enumerated a diet containing an undue proportion of mechanically irritating particles such as seeds, fibres, etc.; food that is too hot or too cold, or that is too acid, as vinegar, pickles, or with an excess of pungent condiments as pepper; the habitual taking of a large quantity of salt has been known to be provocative of gastric disturbance, whilst a salt- free dietary is also harmful. Or the food may be actually poisonous from changes that have taken place in it, producing ptomaines and toxic albumoses. The mal-digestion of food and con- sequent gastric affection may be due primarily to the food itself, or to some digestive imper- fection originating apart from the stomach itself, such as a nervous disturbance of its secretory or motor functions. A bulk of food beyond that which the organ can satisfactorily deal with, masses of food inadequately masti- cated or divided, portions of meat or other nitrogenous substances enveloped in a coating of greasy sauce, an undue amount of sugar, fats, or alcohol, leading to lactic, butyric, and other fermentative changes which give rise to irritating substances, will all tend so to aff"ect the lining membrane of the stomach as to establish a gastritis, temporary though it be, and are much aided by any circumstances which delay the passage onwards of the stomach con- tents. Obviously, general states of ill-health, such as anaemia, chronic renal disease, nervous exhaustion, mental, emotional, and bodily fatigue, will, by interfering with the proper secretion and motility of the stomach, bring about indigestion, and thus favour the develop- ment of a gastric catarrh if not of other morbid states. Too much fluid at or directly after meals may interfere with digestion by its diluent eff"ect on the gastric juice. Too little fluid may be also detrimental. The taking of food, how- ever good in itself, at too frequent intervals, interfering with the digestion and removal of what is in the stomach, is another cause of dyspepsia, although habit in this as in other cases often diminishes its ill effects. Most varied are the toxic substances that may gain entrance with the food, although they are in no sense a part of it, but merely accidental accompaniments. Among the most important are micro-organisms, many harmless, some patho- genetic. The antiseptic power of the hydro- chloric acid of the gastric juice renders by far the larger proportion of them inert; but in the absence of this agent from the stomach, whether from a deficient secretion or in the intervals when the stomach is empty, such organisms find an opportunity for their development and the production of their injurious eff'ects. In this way persistent suppurative conditions in the mouth and pharynx, carious teeth, and the food and other accumulations which collect under ill-fitting dental plates, etc., may, by the constantly swallowed pyogenic microbes, become a serious and often unsuspected cause of gastric disturbance, by the setting up of a septic catarrh. Another group of toxic substances are the metallic poisons with which the food may be contaminated, such as lead, arsenic, and copper. The cumulative effect of minute quantities of such substances constantly taken leads sooner or later to gastric or gastro-intestinal inflamma- tion. Alcohol, especially apart from food and in the form of spirits, is a potent factor in dis- eases of the stomach, both acute and chronic, and appears responsible for favouring the incidence of some morbid states by the effect that it has in impairing the digestion as well as by its destructive action on the walls of the viscus. The injurious results of wounds, blows, or severe compression, of articles swallowed, such as pins, bones, etc., or of corrosive fluids, are as obvious as they are seldom met with, the last named alone having any special bearing on the production of stomach disease. An occasional cause of gastric derangement is a general adhesion of the organ, as the result of previous peritonitis, to neighbouring parts. The peristaltic movements may thus be con- siderably interfered with, and a very painful dyspepsia ensue, leading in turn to a chronic affection of the mucous membrane. Similar effects follow displacements of the organ, and especially abnormal distension of it. These conditions may all be supposed to act chiefly by delaying the adequate removal into the intestine of the stomach contents, and thus favouring fermentations and formation of irri- tant substances, the continued effect of which is the establishment of a gastritis. The gastric secretion, and particularly when