503 TABES DORSALIS painless and unattended by fever. They are sometimes, however, painful. The joints most affected are the knees, hips, ankles, and shoulders, but almost any joint, even the vertebral, may be the seat of the disease. The fluid poured out into the joints which causes the swelling is serous, and very rarely undergoes suppuration, and may be so abiindant as to rupture the capsular ligament, and escape into the tissues around. The articular surfaces become eroded, and even the heads of the bones may be absorbed, producing deformities and shortening. Associated with the process of atrophy there may be development of osteo- phytes, and it may be difficult sometimes to distinguish the disease from rheumatoid arth- FlG. 6.—Tabo-arthropathies. ritis, with which it is closely allied. This joint is often called " the Charcot-joint" because of the masterly description he gave of this tabic affection. Although spontaneous fracture occurs so readily, callus is thrown out often in abundance, uniting the ends. Sometimes tabo-arthropathy may be the sole prominent feature of the disease. I have one patient who has been so affected twenty-two years, and it is my experience that it is frequently accompanied with gastric crises, and is more common in women than in men. Perforating Ulcer of the Foot.—This is a fairly common affection, and usually starts in a corn on the sole of the foot which undergoes suppuration, forming a hole as if a nail had been driven in. The ulcer is painless, but will not heal, and from it is discharged a thin, foul- smelling, purulent fluid. At the bottom of the hole there is often carious bone, and sometimes the ulcer perforates through the foot. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—From the multiple character of the symptoms of this disease, it is obvious that multiple lesions of the nervous system may occur; and although the posterior columns of the spinal cord and the posterior roots are invariably affected to some extent in all cases, yet the morbid changes may Fig. 7.—Perforating ulcer of foot. by no means be limited to these structures. The peripheral nerves, both motor and sensory, may present degenerative changes ; any of the cranial nerves may be affected, especially the optic, by a degenerative atrophy, and, in a certain number of cases, the cerebral cortex. The disease is therefore a polymorphic morbid process affecting almost any part of the nervous system, although certain structures are affected earlier and more often than others. It is therefore manifest that to speak of the disease as sclerosis of the posterior columns or leuco- myelitis posterior is incorrect. The Naked-eye Characters of the Morbid Process.—On opening the spinal canal in a case of advanced tabes the most obvious change observable is the flattening of the posterior surface, and the thinning of the posterior roots, especially those forming the cauda equina. These roots, which are normally much larger than the anterior roots, are now smaller, being sometimes reduced to one-third of the natural size, and presenting a grey instead of a white appearance, contrasting therefore both in colour and size with the healthy anterior roots. Ex- periments have shown that the intra-meduUary projections of posterior roots form the great bulk of the fibres of the posterior columns, and this accounts for the flattening of the posterior surface of the cord ; for the projections of these posterior roots in the spinal cord have atrophied like the roots. Very frequently the membranes are thickened over the posterior surface of the cord, where the atrophy has taken place, but by no means invariably, nor to an equal degree. This is important to bear in mind, because it has been considered by some authorities that