268 SPHYGMO- Sphygrno-. — in compound words sphygmo' (Gr, o-^uy/^o'?, the pulse, and a-<f)v^o), I throb) means relating to the piilse, e.g. sphyg- riiology (the science of the pulse); sphygmoscope (an instrument for showing the movements of the pulse), and sphyginotechny (the art of diag- nosis and prognosis by the pulse). Sphygmograph. —An instrument for recording graphically the pulse wave; the tracing obtained by this means is termed a sphygmogram. See Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Physical Signs of Heart Disease, Pulse and Pulse-tracings); Pulse [Interpreta- tion of the Sphygmogram); Physiology, Cir- culation (Arterial Pulse). Sphygmometer or Sphygmo- Itia.nOine'tGI'.—An instrument for measur- ing the tension of the pulse. See Pulse {Measurement of Arterial Pressure in Man) ; Physiology, Circulation {Pressure in the Arteries). Sphyrectomy.—Excision of the malleus of the middle ear ((4r. crcjivpa, a hammer). Sphyroena.. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Fish, Sphyroena or Barra- cudas). Sphyrotomy.—Removal of part of the malleus, with or without a part of the mem- brana tympani. Spica Bandage. See Bandages {Spica Bandages). Spiders. See Myiasis (Spiders); Sting- ing Insects. Spiegel berg's Sign.—A peculiar sen- sation experienced by the finger when it is passed over cancer of the cervix ("as if passed over wet rubber "). Spigelian Lobe.—A small lobe of the liver, named after Adrian van der Spiegel (1578-1625). SpiluS. A mole or nsevus (Gr. o-ttiAos, a stain). Spina Bifida. Causation . . . . . .268 Complications ..... 269 Varieties ...... 269 Results ....... 270 Prognosis . . . . . .271 Treatment . . . . . .272 See also Aspirator (Uses of); Capillaries, Diseases of {Congenital Aiigioma, Diagnosis); Deformities (Congenital Club Foot, Com- plications) ; Hydrocephalus (Complications) ; Labour, Faults in the Passenger (Spina Bifida); Meningitis, Tuberculous and Pos- terior Basic (Pontes of Infection); Paralysis (Irfantile Spastic Paraplegia of Spinal Origin). Spina bifida is a congenital defect in the de- velopment of the spinal canal, and inasmuch as it may exist without any associated tumour, the term ought actually be kept distinct from meningocele. The defect in the spine, however, is so generally coupled with a hernial protrusion of the dura mater and arachnoid, and of the cerebro-spinal fluid, and, perhaps, of the cord itself, that the term spina bifida has come to suggest the existence of the more serious defect. Spina bifida, then, almost implies the existence of a meningeal tumour. A vertebra is developed from three centres of ossification, two for the laminte and one for the body; these centres appear at the end of the second month of fojtal life. Extending back- wards and inwards, the lateral bony plates eventually fuse together in the root of the spinous process. But the laminae may just fail to meet, in which case there results a narrow fissure in the situation of the spinous processes; this constitutes a simple and unimportant variety of spina bifida. But if the growth of the laminae be arrested about half-way, a wide gap results —as happens normally at the lower end of the sacral region. In another class of cases the laminte incline outwards, instead of backwards and inwards, leaving the cavity for the spinal cord merely an open furrow. When the deficiency in the neural arches is considerable, the spinal membranes, with more or less of their contents, usually protrude and form a soft tumour in the middle line of the back, the tumour being comprehensively termed a "spinal meningocele." Caxisation.—As to what may be the exact cause of the arrest of development it is impos- sible to say. It is quite likely that in some instances it is an increase in the amount of cerebro-spinal fluid within the spinal canal, for the condition is often associated with hydro- cephalus. But this would not suffice to explain every variety of the defect—that in which the spinal cord itself remains open and imperfect. Spina bifida and meningocele are simply the result of an arrest of development, just as are hypospadias and syndactylism (vol. ii. p. 283), for the occurrence of which no satisfactory ex- planation has hitherto been advanced. The commonest situation of spina bifida is in the lumbo-sacral part of the spine, in which region, it may be remarked, the laminte are latest in joining. The defect may exist, how- ever, over any part of the canal, from the sacrum to the occiput, several or many of the vertebrae being implicated. The tumour is necessarily situated in the exact median line, and when it is flat and inconspicuous a recollec- tion of this fact is very useful, and may serve