AND PHYSIOLOGY 164 SKIN—ANATOMY globules are also present in the cells. Like keratohyalin, the origin of eleidin is undecided, but it seems possible that it is a degenerative product of the former substance. (e) Stratum Corneum.—The stratun corneum is the most superficial layer of skin, and is the layer which we see and touch. It is thickest on the soles and palms, and thinnest on the face. It is composed of horn-cells, which are most perfect next to the stratum lucidum, while towards the surface they become more and more flattened and dried till they form the squames. A perfect horn-cell is polygonal in shape, is facetted from pressure, and presents a space in the centre of the cell from which the nucleus has disappeared. Eleidin can no longer be detected in it, but in place of it there is a fatty or waxy substance. The periphery of the cell has become hardened, and the prickles have persisted as dried up, hard spicules of a highly resistant substance known as keratin. The latter is indigestible in pepsin-hydrochloric acid, and can withstand 50 per cent solutions of mineral acids for a prolonged period. The most probable explanation of the formation of keratin is that it is the result of the harden- ing of the protoplasmic fibrils, and possibly of the outer portion of the spongioplasm, by an inherent power of their own, and that it is not a degenerative product resulting from the breaking down of the nuclei, nor a further stage of keratohyalin or eleidin, the latter sub- stances being merely regarded as accessory to the process of cornification. The presence of fat within the cells of this layer gives it the character of a waterproof coating, and the persistence of the protoplasmic fibres in the form of hard keratin spicules weld- ing the cells together, readily explains the pro- tective power which the stratum corneum is capable of exhibiting against the entrance of micro-organisms and their toxins, and its great ability to resist mechanical injiiries. CoRiUM.—The corium is the dense fibrous layer of the skin, which gives to the latter its strength and elasticity. It supports and pro- tects the hair-follicles, glands, nerves, and blood- vessels. Structurally it is lauilt up chiefly of white fibrous tissue and a variable amount of yellow elastic tissue, and it presents certain well- recognised cellular elements. It is customary to divide the corium into a superficial and a deep layer, known respectively as the papillary and reticular layers. In the former the white fibrous bundles are thin, loosely packed together, and tend to have a vertical direction, while in the latter they are coarse and form a dense complicated network, the meshes of which tend to be arranged horizontally. The papillcB are conical projections of the corium into the overlying epidermis, in which are found the terminal capillary loops and cer- tain nerve-endings; according as they support the former or the latter they are known as vascular or nerve papillae. They are situated on ridges of varying height, arranged more or less parallel to each other. They may be single or more rarely compound, are longest on the flexor aspects of the finger-tips and toes, and are specially numerous about the areolae of the nipples. Minute Structure of the Corium.—1. Cellular Elements.—The cellular elements in the healthy corium consist oi fixed cells and migratory cells. The latter are the different forms of leucocytes, and are specially noticeable near the blood- vessels, lymphatics, and in the papillary layer. The fixed cells of the corium constitute the more important group. They are not all absolutely fixed to fibrous structures, as some of them are unattached and may be carried about in the lymph stream, but their movement is purely passive. There are three distinct types of fixed cells in the corium, namely— (1) Ordinary connective tissue cells, which, as a rule, are spindle-shaped, but may be pol- ygonal. They have usually long processes, tapering to fine threads, which in young con- nective tissue frequently unite with those of neighbouring cells to form a meshwork. The nuclei of the cells vary according to the shape of the cells, some being oval, others round, and a few may be polygonal. These nuclei are peculiar in having a coarse intranuclear net- work with unusually open meshes, producing a "vesicular" appearance. Frequently only the nuclei of the cells can be detected, and even with the most careful staining no protoplasm can be recognised around them. As a rule the cells or nuclei are found flattened between the fibrous bundles of the corium, and at times their processes may surround bundles and line the lymphatic spaces between them like an endothelium. (2) Vacuolated Cells.—These differ from the ordinary type of connective tissue cell in having no processes, and in that their protoplasm appears to be vacuolated, since the meshes of their spongioplasm are unusually large and rounded. Schsefer maintains that their cells possess distinct cavities containing a fluid like lymph. The nuclei of the cells are "vesicular" in character, and mytotic figures may occasion- ally be detected within them. It is just possible that these cells are the mother-cells of the corium, whose function is exclusively that of reproduction, and that they bear the same relation to the corium that the cells of the basal layer do to the epidermis. (3) Mast-Cells.—This type of cell is dis- tinguished by the presence in its protoplasm of numerous coarse granules which have a marked affinity for alkaline dyes. In shape and size they are as various as the ordinary connective