124 SENILE INSANITY them. There is eroticism, sexual excess, or sexual perversion. Indecent assaults may be made or indecent exposure of the person may occur from this cause. Where the dementia is marked, the latter may also be due to mere inability to appreciate the incongruous- ness of their surroundings. It may be accepted that the better the mental condition of the patient, there is the greater likelihood of a repetition of similar acts, and less chance of their recurrence if the person is enfeebled, so that dementia is not altogether an unmixed evil in these cases. Delirium of Collapse in Senile Cases.—In senility the delirium of collapse shows several special features, which are of importance from the fact that on their early recognition depends very frequently the issue of the case. They may be gi'ouped into three classes. (a) Following Traumatism or Su7-gical Shock. —The traumatism may vary greatly in severity. The delirium has been noticed after the passing of a catheter or after eye operations, but usually the shock is more marked, as after fractures, especially of the neck of femur. The patient looks comparatively well for three or four days, and then hallucinations of sight and hearing set in, often accompanied by some irregu- larity of the heart's action. There are delu- sions of suspicion, motor restlessness, babbling, incoherent talk, especially at nights, and involun- tary groanings and cries. The condition may pass off in a few days, or it may lead to the setting in of dementia or permanent paranoia. Many old people who die as the result of an injury have this delirium, and the cerebral ex- citement undoubtedly hastens the fatal issue. {h) Following Acute Illness.—In this group the most common forerunner is an acute illness, such as pneumonia or influenza, but it may also occur in the exacerbations of chronic Bright's disease or failing heart compensation. The mental symptoms supervene a few days to a few weeks after the exciting illness. There may be merely sleeplessness, exhaustion, and restlessness, accompanied by suspicion and hallucinations, or the delirium may pass into an acute mania or agitated melancholia with great excitement. The prognosis is always grave in the acute cases, and the result depends largely on the power of reaction of the heart to stimulants. If the heart's action improves, the outlook as regards life is favourable, but permanent enfeeblement very often follows. (c) Acute Toxic Cases.—This group is the most important. The onset is sudden, the course is sharp and acute, and its termination is generally fatal. The patients have frequently been in failing health for some time, but with- out any definite symptoms. They become suddenly sleepless, excited, and agitated; food is absolutely refused. They have very acute hallucinations. There is a continual incoherent chattering, which rapidly becomes unintel- ligible. There is marked confusion, and they are completely oblivious to their surroundings. All motor acts are very inco-ordinate, and the limbs are often in continuous movement—picking at the bedclothes, clutching at objects in front of them, aimless tossings. They gradually pass into coma. The physical signs are usually a subnormal temperature. The pulse is very rapid, weak, and may be almost imperceptible at the wrist. The heart-sounds are feeble and reduplicated. There may be suppression of urine. The tongue is very furred and foul, and the teeth coated with sordes. The whole alimentary tract seems to be paresed. The abdomen is retracted, but the colon may cause bulging in the flanks from distension. There is incontinence of urine and fseces from paralysis of the sphincters. Death usually occurs within a fortnight of the onset of the illness. These cases are so acute that they are frequently at once sent to an asylum, where their early death is frequently a source of misgiving and regret to their relatives. They are, in many cases, examples of an "ante- mortem" delirium. Diagnosis. — The diagnosis of the more common conditions is, as a rule, not difficult. A thorough examination of all the organs of the body should be made, and as complete a history, both recent and remote, as possible should be obtained. All the muscles of the body should be tested, and especially those supplied by the cranial nerves, for paralysis or other signs of focal lesions. If such be present, or if disease of the vascular system can be diagnosed, the mental condition is prone to be a progressive one. This is also the case where alcohol and syphilis have been the exciting agents. In examining the mental state, not only the abnormal features should be noted, but also the degree of mentalisation that still remains normal. From this, more than from the aberration, the diagnosis between a simple psychosis and one with dementia is to be made. The history of illness or accident, with the course of the mental symptoms, is generally sufficient in the first two groups of cases of the delirium of collapse. In the toxic cases, the absence of any definite disease, the sudden onset, and the great prostration, along with the paresis of the intestinal tract, are the chief diagnostic points. Prognosis.—Dementia, when it has once become established, is iri-ecoverable, and its course is a gradual downward one, terminating in death in from one to four years. The fatal issue is usually the i-esult of some intercurrent affection, such as pneumonia or influenza, or exhaustion from diarrhoea, but a certain pro- portion of cases die from marasmus from gradual trophic failure due to degeneration in vital brain centres. In the psychoses the illness