211 SLEEP, NORMAL AND MORBID In the first stage of sleep it may be assumed that the physical basis of consciousness is affected, i.e. the highest level of evolution is for the time being quiescent. The actual cerebral locality or localities affected are not yet de- termined. The most we can assume is that the most highly evolved substratum of conscious- ness of the left hemisphere probably inhibits the right, and when the inhibition of the left is withdrawn the right is more free to act automatically. Just as with the problems of so-called " double consciousness," until we have a more rational conception of what constitutes the actual physi- cal basis of consciousness we cannot ehicidate the true nature of sleep. The amoeboid theory enunciated more par- ticularly by Ruckhardt, and elaborated by Lepine, Golgi, Ramon y Cajal, Duval, and confirmed by Lugaro, transfers the activities in the physical basis of consciousness to the neuroglia. It is supposed that the pseudopods of the neuroglia are possessed of the properties of extending and contracting. When extension or relaxation occurs the pseudopods intervene between the cells and their protoplasmic processes and the nerve-branches, so that the passage of nerve- currents is either entirely stopped or consider- ably impeded ; the amoeboid movements of the neuroglia thus acting as the isolators of the nervous currents. The neuron theory that every nerve-cell with all its parts is anatomi- cally distinct from every other nerve-cell is borne out by the observed facts as to the trophic individuality of each nerve-cell, and it is probably true that each cell lives and dies a unit. The question as to whether the neurons are generically and structurally discrete, or whether the distributing processes of one neuron form true anastomoses with the collecting pro- cesses of other neurons, is too extensive to be discussed here. There is much to be said in favour of both sides of the question. The hypo- thesis that the ramifications (or pseudopods) of the cells do elongate and retract under vary- ing influences, thereby favouring or breaking the contiguity of neighbouring neurons, and so rendering it possible or impossible for currents to pass, if true, would serve to simplify the explanation of consciousness and allied states. I have elsewhere ("Double Consciousness," vide British Medical Journal, 23rd September 1899) stated that I regard the highest evolved centres as being a huge congeries of units or groups of units functionally continuous—under certain conditions of contiguity—with the peri- phery and with each other. These units may be compared to lamps which give light when their respective electric phenomena are in opera- tion. Provided that the switches and trans- mitting agents, both peripheral and central, are functionally operative, they light up in turn in response to the stimulus, be it peripheral or central. The study of seriality of thought would appear to require some physical basis on this plan, and each element of conception would require some physical counterpart correlative to the light (derived from the analogy of the lamp). Carrying the hypothesis further, just as the switches, couplings, or currents may under one series of conditions become function- ally inert at one time, leading to inability to produce light in one or several sets of lamps, so under another series of conditions may the same switches, couplings, or currents again become functionally active and determine the existence of light. The physical elements correlative to the series of central lights constitute conception and seriality of thought, and the inertness of any of the physical correlatives of this seriality would result in a loss of some of the elements which go to make up consciousness and con- sciousness of self. In sleep the physical basis of communication between full consciousness and the outside world in some way is disrupted or rendered functionally discontinuous. There may, never- theless, be some consciousness derived from activities occurring within the organic sub- stratum of consciousness, and there may also be perfect or even accentviated conduction of sensory stimuli from the periphery of the sensorium to be followed by elaborate and appropriate reactions as seen in automatic and somnambulistic states. Psychologically speak- ing, it is the diminished conscious recognition of the relationship of sensory stimuli to self and of self to the environment that characterises the first stage of sleep. In the second stage the conscious perception of stimuli dei-ived from without (exoneurally), or from within (esoneurally), is further dimin- ished, and there is almost complete failure to recognise the relationship of self to the true in environment. The cerebral areas representing the various sensory and motor activities may remain active without bringing into complete activity the physical basis concerned with the factors involved in determining consciousness of environment. This second stage has been termed the hypnagogic stage, or the stage of dreaming and allied states. The various hallucinations, night - terrors, somnambulistic and abnormal emotional states, signify that activities are going on in what remains intact of the highest centres. In the Jacksonian view, the positive mental states (as evidenced in these activities) imply the co- existence of negative mental states (as evidenced in non-recognition of the relationship of self to the true environment). Owing to the fact that various nervous tracts do remain open, as it were, for the transmission of stimuli, it has been found possible to measure the depths of sleep. The method of investiga-