130 SEPTICEMIA with other symptoms, e.g. anaemia, jaundice, sweet-smelling breath, sleeplessness, delirium, and other symptoms arising from the severity of the general septic infection. Pathology. — The pathological appearances are similar in the two conditions, but in pytemia a special characteristic is the presence of second- ary foci of suppuration or septic infarctions in different organs and tissues. The kidneys, lungs, and brain are the most frequent sites of these septic infarctions, as these organs have end-arteries ; while the liver, lungs, and kidneys are the most frequent sites of secondary ab- scesses. Marked cloudy swelling of the liver, kidneys, and heart muscle is present both in septicaemia and pyaemia; the various serous membranes, the pleura, peritoneum, or joints may be in a state of acute inflammation; the blood itself is usually fluid and markedly dark in colour. There are also changes in the bone marrow, but the exact nature of these changes has not been so fully determined in the human subject as in lower animals. These changes are doubtless of the first importance. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of septicaemia is usually easy, but it is more difficult to de- termine the exact source of infection in every case. We must realise that the source of infec- tion may be any one of the free surfaces of the body, and each must in turn be the subject of investigation. In women special attention should be paid to the utero-vaginal mucous membrane, and we must remember that a very small breach of surface may suffice to allow of septic intoxication. Further, a hint of the possible source of infection may be obtained from a careful inquiry into the clinical history, which may reveal the fact that the patient had suffered from a trifling leucorrhoea, indigestion, or haemorrhoids for some time previously. The differential diagnosis has to be made from (1) various acute infective fevers, especi- ally typhoid. The all-important test here is the Widal reaction. (2) Tubermlosis may simulate septicaemia, but a careful examination of the chest, and of the temperature chart and the clinical history, will usually suffice to clear up this point. Great assistance may be obtained from a histo- logical examination of the blood. In tuber- culosis leucopoenia is present, whereas in septi- caemia leucocytosis is the rule. (See article "Lbucocytosis," vol. V.) In every doubtful case of this kind no investigation is complete without a careful examination of the blood, which must include its examination by means of stained films. (3) The blood investigation will be the means of making in addition a differential diagnosis from malaria, whose symptoms may present many features in common with septicaemia. (4) Acute rheumatism and acute and subacute rheumatoid arthritis may in certain cases simulate a general septicaemia. The differential diagnosis is here not very important, as some distin- guished authorities hold that acute rheumat- ism is merely an attenuated pyaemia due to the action of streptococcus pyogenes. (5) Septic or ulcerative endocarditis is to be regarded as a form of pyaemia, with the most prominent site of incidence—the involvement of heart muscle. (6) There are certain rarer affections, such as actinomycosis, abscess of the liver, and the like, which occasionally may present difficulties in the way of diagnosis. Treatment.—The first essential is the surgical cleansing of any known primary focus. If the sepsis is ascertained to be due to the streptococcus the antistreptococcic serum may be employed, as cases have been recorded where benefit followed its use. In cases of mixed infection this serum has been found of little or no value. The medical treatment of the symptoms must be carried out on general medical principles. The strength of the patient must be main- tained by suitable diet, i.e. one with ample albumin and carbohydrate supplied in an easily digestible form. Stimulants may require to be given freely. The temperature must be con- trolled by antipyretics, preferably by large doses of quinine, and salicylate of soda in com- bination with phenacetin. Hydrotherapeutic measures are also of the greatest service. Mere sponging of the limbs with tepid water and ammonia or vinegar are useful in reducing the febrile state and conducing to the patient's general comfort. Convalescence is usually pro- tracted, and it may be many months before the patient is finally restored to good health. A degree of anaemia may persist for a long time subsequently unless the case be suitably treated with blood tonics in the earliest stages of convalescence. SepticaemiC Plague. See Plague (Types). SeptiCO-i — In compound words septico- (Gr. (T-qirw, I make rotten) means belonging to putridity or to septic infection; e.g. septicogenic (producing putrefaction), septicophlebitis (phle- bitis due to sepsis), and septicopyoemia (septi- caemia with pyaemia). See Puerperium, Path- ology (Puerperal Infection). Septipa,ra,.—A woman who is passing through her seventh confinement, or who has been pregnant seven times. Septuin.—A partition; e.g. the septum auricularum of the heart, the septum lucidum of the brain, the septum nasi, the recto-vaginal septum, etc. See Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs (Laceration of the Vagina); Nose, Diseases op Nasal Orifices and Septum (Affections of the Nasal Septum).