SHOULDEE, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF U5 lead lotion may be applied, or the skin over the enlarged bursa may be painted with liniment of iodine. It is not unusual for the acutely inflamed bursse of worn-out Londoners to suppurate, and the abscess must then be opened freely, and afterwards treated in the usual manner. I open tuberculous bursse at once, evacuate their contents, and take every precaution to obtain union by first intention ; for if failure occurs the joint is very likely to become involved, and a serious arthritis is set up. The prognosis is not very good in tuberculous bursse. The inflam- mation often heralds an arthritis, but the bursse sometimes become affected after the joint is involved. Congenital Defects.—Three kinds of con- genital defect in the shoulder have come under my notice from time to time. Persistent Suprascapula. — The scapula is occasionally fixed immovably to the vertebral column, by a bridge of bone which passes from the posterior border of the shoulder blade to the lower cervical vertebrte. The condition is usually associated with lateral curvature of the spine, and with a considerable elevation of the shoulder on the affected side. The bridge of bone appears to be an abnormal development of the suprascapular epiphysis, which usually exists as a narrow ridge of bone along the posterior border of the scapula. It represents, therefore, the suprascapula, and is an instance of a reversion in the human shoulder girdle to a type which is only found in the lower verte- brates. Satisfactory results have followed its removal. Obstetric Infantile Paralysis, or Erb's Paral- ysis, sometimes occurs in children born after a hard or protracted labour, even when forceps have not been used. Soon after birth the arm is found to be unduly sensitive and partly paralysed, for it is held in a position of slight abduction and full pronation. Little by little some use is gained in the arm, but the growth of the limb is retarded, some of the muscles, and especially the deltoid, waste, and the shoulder looks as if it had been dislocated back- wards. Complete recovery is uncommon. The condition is due to stretching or injury of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves before they take part in the brachial plexus, so that the deltoid, the biceps, and the supinators of the forearm are most affected. Treatment.—The arm should be kept at rest so long as it is swollen and painful. Massage and passive movements, especially in the direc- tion of supination, should then be carried out, and the child should be put through a course of electrical treatment. Stunted Humerus.—The epiphyseal line at the upper end of the humerus undergoes a remarkable change both in sporadic cretinism and in achondroplasia. In sporadic cretinism the proliferation of cartilage ceases early, and VOL. IX an ingrowth of fibrous tissue separates the epiphysis from the diaphysis. In achondro- plasia {see vol. i. p. 39) a similar series of changes take place in the bones, but much earlier in foetal life than those which occur from sporadic cretinism. The humerus is very short, and is often curiously thickened in both conditions, which are distinguished the one from the other by absence of mental defects, and atrophied thyroid in those affected with achon- droplasia. Contusions. — The exposed position of the shoulder renders it particularly liable to injury from blows and falls. Severe contusions often present symptoms which are out of all propor- tion to the signs, for the joint remains painful and motionless for many days, although it can readily be moved passively In some cases the deltoid is temporarily paralysed, and there is so marked a flattening beneath the acromion that the joint appears at first sight to be dis- located. I prefer to treat these cases by massage and gentle passive movement, as soon as the first symptoms of acute inflammation have subsided, rather than by the older method of a shoulder cap and rest. Dislocations.—Dislocations of the humerus are amongst the commonest accidents a surgeon is called upon to treat: dislocation of the outer end of the clavicle is one of the rarest. Dislo- cations of the humerus are either traumatic, paralytic, or congenital Traumatic dislocations are very rare in children and in young adults up to the age of 20. They increase in frequency from 20 to 60, and afterwards become less common as age advances. Causes.—Comparatively slight accidents are suflScient to produce a dislocation of the humerus. A blow on the upper end and outer surface of the humerus, a slip with the arm abducted, a fall upon the elbow or hand when the arm is thrown behind the body are all well recognised causes. But even such trivial accidents as an awkward movement or a sudden muscular contraction may produce a dislocation of the arm, especially in those who have already suffered such an injury on a previous occasion. Pathology.—Although the anatomical arrange- ment of the shoulder joint does not allow of so rigid a classification of dislocations as in the case of the hip (vol. iv. p. 224), the position of the head of the humerus usually occupies certain definite positions when it has been dis- placed from the scapula. The head of the humerus generally leaves the capsule at its lower part, so that it lies below the glenoid cavity and upon the front of the scapula to form a subglenoid dislocation. By the action of the muscles attached to the upper end of the humerus, or by subsequent movements of the arm, the articular surface of the humerus passes forwards and a little upwards, until it lies upon the neck of the scapula in front of the glenoid 10