RICKETS 10 natiform skull and beaded ribs. There is no history of rash or of syphilis. The spleen is enlarged. Are the natiform skull and enlarged spleen due to syphilis or rickets 1 Prognosis.—Rickets per se is never fatal, but the presence of severe rickets immensely adds to the danger of an attack of bronchitis or broncho-pneumonia. Both measles and whoop- ing-cough are very fatal in rickety children under two years of age. The loss of rigidity in the chest walls and the consequent sucking in of the ribs during inspiration prevents the clearing of the bronchi by coughing, and tends to passive congestion of the lungs. Sudden death may at any moment occur in a child with severe rickets and laryngismus; the writer has made several post-mortem examinations on children with marked rickets, who died suddenly from asphyxia, the result apparently of spasm of the glottis, who had never been heard to "crow" or known to have suffered from attacks of respiratory spasm. Apart from complications rickets tends to get well. The bones harden, and in cases of slight deformity tend to regain their normal shape. The more marked deformities may be lifelong. Treatment.—If, as alleged, unhealthy life conditions, improper food, and chronic dyspepsia play an important part in the causation of rickets, it is evident that the general principles of treatment must be to place the infant or child under the most favourable hygienic con- ditions, and to supply it with a "living" food which it can digest and assimilate. To remove the infant from city to country or seaside, where it will have an abundance of fresh air and sunlight, will be a wise procedure if circumstances permit; in any case arrange- ments must be made to give the infant as much fresh air as possible, though on account of the tendency so many rickety infants have to bronchial catarrh the daily outing is a time of some anxiety. No rickety infant, though suffering from bronchitis, will flourish or improve if confined to a close and ill-ventilated room, where a steam kettle is sending forth volumes of steam and saturating the atmosphere with moisture. If the infant is confined to the house, wherever it is possible two rooms should be reserved for it, the unused room being flushed with fresh air while the other is being occupied. Whenever the weather permits the child should spend the greater part of the day in the open air. Care should be taken with its clothing: Shetland wool vests, abdominal belts with drawers of the same material, form light and warm articles of clothing. The most important matter in connection with the treatment of rickets is the question of food. It is useless to prescribe a theoretically correct food if the child cannot digest it; it is no use ordering large quantities of fresh milk if the infant is passing white, curdy, stinking stools; it is probably already taking more than it can digest, and to add more means an addition to an already overburdened digestive apparatus, and a still greater amount of proteid-toxine poisoning. If the infant is seen in the early stages for the first time, the first step will be to secure an effective evacuation of the decompos- ing contents of the bowel, and to supply a food that the child can digest. Thus an infant of eight or nine months of age is sweating and restless, there is chronic dyspepsia, the ribs are beaded, the stools white and dry. It is certain that in such a case the gastric, intestinal, and biliary secretions are weak, milk curd is badly digested, and the whole digestive apparatus is overtaxed. While fresh milk in any quantity is not well borne, yet thick foods, starchy foods, condensed milk, dried milk foods, pancreatised food, are out of court, or at any rate should not be used except as temporary resorts. If pancreatised food is used at all it should not be given at every meal, and the digesting process should not be carried too far. It is well to begin with a thin food to test the infant's powers of digestion, such for instance as whey {see vol. i. p. 326), given in quantities of say 30 oz. with ^ oz. of sugar of milk in the twenty- four hours. If the stools appear more healthy, the amount and strength of the food may be increased by the addition of milk or cream; 5 to 10 oz. milk may be added to the 30 oz. of whey after the latter has been scalded. An ounce of milk-sugar may be added. Instead of the milk a weak cream (made by standing a quart of milk in a glass jar for five or six hours and taking the upper 10 oz.) may be used, but the stools must be carefully watched while the food is being made stronger, and any sign of indigestion is a signal to reduce the strength. Weekly weighings are advisable, remembering, howevei-, rickety children may put on fat with- out being any better as far as their rickets is concerned. It often happens that these infants cannot digest any quantity of milk, and as soon as the latter is pushed they fall back into their old dyspeptic state. In such cases raw beef juice or plasmon or somatose may be added to the whey instead of milk. In some cases, at least, small quantities of oatmeal or finely ground whole meal flour may be given with the food. The constipation is often very troublesome, yet it is important to secure a daily evacuation; for this purpose a few grains of carbonate of magnesia may be added to each bottle of food, or syrup cascara aromat. may be given in 5 to 15 drop doses three times a day, and continued for weeks together if necessary. Given in small and repeated doses, and perseveringly used, this drug is usually very efficacious in sluggish conditions of the large bowels. Orange juice should be given daily, especially if the pro- portion of milk taken is comparatively small.