292 SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF the anterior crural nerve is paralysed there follow loss of movement and wasting of the quadriceps extensor with inability to extend the knee, and there is loss of the knee reflex. The power of flexion of the hip is weakened owing to paralysis of the sartorius, pectineus, and iliacus. Sensation is lost over the cutaneous areas supplied by the middle and internal cutaneous and by the long saphenous nerves. In paralysis of the obturator nerve there will be loss of action on the part of the adductor muscles and wasting, so that the patient cannot put the affected limb across the opposite knee, nor is he able to ride, and there will be anaes- thesia of the inner surface of the thigh. The SACRAL PLEXUS is formed by one-half of the fourth lumbar nerve and the fifth lumbar and the upper four sacral nerves. It may be con- tused or torn in fractures of the pelvis and compressed by growths from the lumbar and sacral vertebr£e, and by intrapelvic growths and inflammatory exudations. It may also be in- jured during parturition, whether forceps are employed or not, and neuritis of it or its branches may arise from gout, diabetes, or alcoholism. Paralysis of the Sciatic Nerve.—This may be injured in dislocations of the hip, fractures of the femur, by bullet and knife wounds. The symptoms vary according to the situation of the nerve lesion. If it be high up there are paralysis and atrophy of the biceps, semimem- branosus and semitendinosus, and paralysis of the external and internal popliteal nerves which supply the muscles, and loss of much of the sensation below the knee. The external pop- liteal nerve is more frequently paralysed than the internal popliteal owing to its anatomical course and to its being more exposed. Paralysis of the Gluteal Nerve.—This is due to much the same conditions which give rise to paralysis of the sacral plexus, and the symptoms consist of paralysis and atrophy of the gluteal muscles, together with the pyriformis and tensor vaginse femoris. The patient loses the power of forcible extension at the hip joint when it has been previously flexed, also of abduction and circumduction of the hip, and owing to paralysis of the tensor vaginse femoris the foot is turned outwards when the leg is swung for- wards in walking. Paralysis of the external popliteal nerve gives rise to a loss of power in dorsi-flexion of the foot, eversion of the ankle, and extension of the toes. Talipes equinus may follow, and owing to contraction of the un- opposed interossei there will be flexion at the metatarso-phalangeal joints. Anaesthesia, vaso- motor and trophic changes, are also noted. Paralysis of the internal popliteal nerve causes loss of power of standing on the toes and of inversion of the ankle, so that talipes calcaneo- valgus may result, and the toes become hyper- extended at the metatarso-phalangeal articula- tions, and flexed at the interphalangeal joints. Similarly, as in the case of the external popliteal nerve, antesthesia, vaso-motor and trophic changes ensue. Lateral Curvature or Scoliosis Definition ..... . 292 Etiology ...... . 292 Clinical Aspects .... . 292 General Appearances . 294 Varieties ..... . 295 Symptoms and Course . 296 Pathogenesis and Morbid Anatomy . . 296 Prognosis ..... . 296 Prevention and Treatment . 297 Definition.—Lateral curvature or scoliosis is a rotation of the vertebrae round the vertical axis, frequently, but not necessarily, combined with lateral deviation or bending of the spine to either side. Etiology.—Its incidence is particularly great in large towns, and amongst the out-patients at a hospital for deformities it is seen in one in about seven to ten other cases. It is more prevalent in girls than in boys according to KoUiker, in a proportion of five to one. Lateral curvature is mainly a disease of adolescence, and there is no doubt that some cases are distinctly hereditary. One case which came under the writer's notice was a boy aged six with a long C-curve to the left over the whole dorsal region. Clinical Aspects.—There are two conditions which are generally included, and wrongly so, in the term lateral curvature. The first is lateral deviation of the spine, in which there is no rotation; and the second is scoliosis, or lateral deviation with rotation. Pure lateral deviation is due to the insufficient support by the muscles of the segmented spine, which gives way, and insensibly a deviation to one side or the other occurs. It is often mai'ked, too, in those people with one leg shorter than the other, but the following distinctions between lateral deviation and scoliosis should be re- membered. On flexing the spine in lateral deviation the deviation disappears, but in scoliosis the distortion becomes more apparent. When the patient assumes the horizontal position lateral deviation disappears, but in scoliosis the deformity partially remains. On voluntary muscular effort the spine can be straightened temporarily in deviation, but not so in scoliosis; and on suspension lateral deviation disappears, while in scoliosis the deformity is removed in initial cases only. Finally, in lateral deviation the raised shoulder and the depression just above the crest of the ilium are on the side opposite to that on which the spine deviates, but in scoliosis they are generally on the same side. Such, then, are the main points of distinction between the two