TEETH 538 times daily, using an enema syringe. In chronic cases curetting the cavity is useful, or painting the membrane with equal parts of tincture of iodine and carbolic acid. If these measures fail to arrest the suppuration the antrum should be packed with aristol gauze till suppuration ceases. To exclude food, etc., from the antrum, a plate should be adapted to the mouth, carrying a tube or plug fitting the opening. In cases of antral empyema, where the teeth are all sound, an opening may be made into the antrum through the canine fossa, though the drainage from this part of the antrum is not nearly so good. Some authorities recommend opening through the nose (Max, Hall, etc.). Tooth Extraction. Hemorrhage In extracting teeth with forceps the rules to remember are to press the instrument forcibly upwards or downwards, as the case may be, keeping up this pressure during the whole time the lateral movements are being made, while Fig. 16.—Method of holding hawksbill forceps for extracting a molar tooth. one or two fingers should be placed between the handles of forceps to regulate the pressure applied to the tooth (Fig. 16). In the maxilla the only teeth that can be rotated in extracting are the canines and central incisors; all the other teeth, both in the maxilla and mandible, except inferior canine, are best removed by an inward and outward, more especially outward, movement, the external alveolar process being thinnest and yielding more readily. Hawksbill root forceps are usually employed for the ex- traction of all mandibular teeth up to the second premolar, while hawksbill molar forceps are employed for the posterior teeth (Fig. 16). In using the hawksbill molar forceps for, say, the extraction of the first molar, the tooth should be grasped, and the index and other fingers of left hand should rest on the teeth and inner surface of alveolar ridge, and the thumb should be used to forcibly press down tiie beaks of instrument. Root forceps are usually employed for the extraction of the maxillary teeth up to the second premolar; the usual beaked forceps are used for the molars (Figs. 17, 18, 19). For the extraction of roots where forceps are of no avail, the elevator, straight and curved, is very useful. The straight elevator is invaluable in the removal of mal-placed wisdom or other teeth in the mandible, and is used thus : it is gradu- ally, and with a somewhat rotatory movement, Fig. 18. Fig. 17. Fig. 19. forced well down between the tooth and its socket, then leverage is applied, which gradually forces the tooth out of its socket (Fig. 20). Alveolar Haemorrhage. — Haemorrhage after tooth extraction is sometimes troublesome, especially in patients of a hsemorrhagic diathesis, in which class of cases it is advisable, as a preventive, to prepare the patient, prior to the removal of a tooth, by administering twice daily one 4-gr. acetate of lead pill for a week previous to the oper- ation, or doses of tannic acid ; and to make sure, the sockets of tooth, after extraction, should be separately packed with fig. 20. narrow strips of lint saturated with Richardson's styptic colloid, a preparation which almost invariably checks haemorrhage. Adrenalin chloride is also very valuable to allay haemorrhage. Haemorrhage, as to cause, may be either trau- matic or vicarious of some other blood-flow. In very obstinate cases, after plugging the sockets, a piece of cork may be fitted between the two teeth on either side and the jaws bandaged, so Strais-'ht elevator.