SPASM 258 The spasm of late rigidity is a tonic contraction affecting the flexors of the arm and hand mostly, and the extensors of the leg. This tonic muscu- lar contracture eventually leads to actual con- tracture or muscular shortening. This is easily to be distinguished from the lead pipe contraction of hysterical spasm, in which the spasm of the flexors of the Angers is just as marked when the wrist is flexed as when extended, while in hemi- plegic late rigidity flexion of the wrist abolishes the rigidity of the fingers. When hemiplegia has been acquired early in life, the spasm of the hand is not infrequently associated with slow, irregular movements, known as mobile spasm, and the severer forms as athetosis. Most usually it aff"ects the hand, sometimes the whole arm, and sometimes the foot. The movements are occasionally very severe, and are intensified by voluntary movement. The lesion, most com- monly due to softening from vascular occlusion, may be cortical or capsular, or even basal. The most severe case I have met with was in a woman of 35, who had a severe fall at the age of three years, the movements being first noticed three or four years later. There was considerable right hemiplegia of arm and leg, with paralysis of the left third nerve, the lesion being appar- ently situated in the crus. In her case the movements ceased entirely during sleep, though it is said that they may continue in slight degree. Lesions of the nuclei in the pons, medulla, and cord may also give rise to both irritative and paralytic spasm, though less commonly than supranuclear lesions. In three cases I have seen trismus from spasm of the masseters and temporals so marked in cases of infiltrating gliomata of the pons and medulla, that the mouth could not be opened with any reasonable force, the spasm being no doubt due to irritation of the motor nuclei of the fifth nerve. Facial spasm is sometimes probably due to irritation of the nucleus, and spasmodic torticollis is no doubt sometimes due to over- action of basal nuclei. Laryngeal crises in tabes must also be due to explosive discharges in the vago-accessory nucleus, causing the adductor spasm. Irritation of the motor nerves also may cause spasm. For example, tonic and clonic facial spasm may be caused by pressure of a cere- bellar tumour on the nerve ; in the condition known as ophthalmoplegic migraine, in which there are attacks of severe headache associated with recurrent paralysis of the third nerve on one side, after the paralysis of the levator palpebrae has become persistent between the attacks, yet during the attacks there may be clonic convulsion of the levator palpebrte, causing the eyelid to flash up and down. This phenomenon is no doubt due to irritation of tlic third nerve, as in reported cases there has been found to be pressure on the third nerve from exostoses or thickening of the membranes at the base. Instances of spasm from irritation of motor nerves are by no means common, though it is a frequent result of irritation of sensory nerves. Tonic spasm, and frequently clonic contractions also, is an invai'iable sequel of facial paralysis of moderate severity, causing the palpebral aperture to appear smaller on the paralysed side, and the naso-labial fold deeper. This first begins to appear after three months from the onset of the paralysis, and increases gradually during several months. In severe cases of facial paralysis in which the recovery of voluntary power has been only slight, the additional contracture produced by this means is of great cosmetic value in restoring the apparent symmetry of the face, and may be unhesitatingly allowed for in the prognosis, if the nerve lesion is not a complete one, care being taken to remember that in the severest cases, in which the paralysis is absolute and remains so, there is no resultant contracture either. According to Gowers, this late spasm is the result of changes set up in the nucleus secondary to the nerve lesion, whereby there is tonic overaction, the breaking down of normal lines of resistance between the different parts of the nucleus permitting the too easy spread of discharges of nerve energy, whereby there is overaction of all the muscles on the paralysed side seen in slight movements. These changes are easily discernible in the facial muscles, but it is much more difficult, if not impossible, to make out this change in the limb muscles. Contracture of the antagonists of the paralysed muscles in neuritis, poliomyelitis, and in all cases in which the attachments of a muscle are brought permanently nearer together, should not be considered as cases of spasm, inasmuch as the shortening is due to physiological changes in the shape of the muscle brought about by the permanent approximations of its attach- ments. 2. Instances of spasm due to the effect of toxins acting directly upon muscles have been given in ergot, veratrine, and digitalis. The poisonous element in ergot causing muscular contraction appears to be the sphacelinic acid and cornutine, which act on involuntary muscle, especially the muscular coats of the arteries, the uterus, and intestines. Veratrine and digitalis both act also directly upon the muscular substance of the heart, the period of contraction being very markedly lengthened by green hellebore. In chronic ergot poisoning muscular contractions and convulsions result from the action of the poison upon the spinal cord. Spasm of the legs with paralysis, or spastic paraplegia, also occurs in two other forms of grain poisoning — pellagra, produced by musty maize, and lathyrism, which is the result of disease affecting the chick pea, or Lathi/rus sativus. Tetanus, tetany, and strychnine con- vulsions are instances of spasm produced through