54 SCARLET FEVER to enter the sick-room. Isolation should con- tinue until desquamation ceases on the body and limbs, that is, for a period of six to eight weeks. In cases of peeling from the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet, which so frequently endures for three or four months, complete isolation is not necessary. 3. The primary requirement in the treatment is an abundant supply of fresh air, without draught. The room should contain 2000 cubic feet of air space, and if other cases are treated in the same room, a floor area of 12 by 12 feet, or 144 square feet. In cold weather an open fire should be maintained, with hot-water pipes where necessary, sufficient to raise the tempera- ture not higher than 60° Fahr. The windows should, if possible, be open night and day, varying according to the wind and weather, but without placing the patient in a draught. Where this avoidance of draught is impractic- able, a window in an adjoining room or on an adjacent staircase may be available, and should never be closed day or night, as well as the door of the bedroom. The old method of hot rooms and close atmospheres has, I trust, been finally banished in the treatment of zymotic diseases. 4. Bed and Bedding.—A three-foot-wide bed- stead with a wire mattress is the most con- venient for nursing, on which should be placed a horse-hair mattress. Blankets, sufficient only for protection from cold, are preferable to eider- down quilts, which are too impervious. A thin flannel night-shirt, the length of the body, should be worn throughout the illness. 5. All unnecessary furniture and hangings should be removed from the room, together with the contents of wardrobes. 6. The daylight should be ample, so long as no glare falls upon the patient's eyes. 7. Artificial light should be reduced to a minimum, and extinguished not later than 6 P.M. in the case of children, and 8 p.m. in that of adults. There is no more reprehensible practice, in my judgment, in the treatment of acute disease, than that of permitting the patient only to settle down for the night at 10 or 11 o'clock, since the evening and the early morning are the periods during which the patient chiefly rests. 8. The excreta should be attended to in bed throughout the entire illness, however favour- able be its type. 9. No patient, however mild the illness, should be permitted to get up for any purpose until twenty-one days have elapsed. This course, in my experience, prevents complications more completely than any other plan in treat- ment] and where it is not enforced frequent returns to bed must be made in view of com- plications arising. 10. Some authorities advise, with the careful avoidance of a chill, that the surface of the body should be xvashed with soap and water every morning, with tepid sponging every night. 11. Others recommend a daily hath as soon as the fever ceases and the strength permits. 12. Many postpone these courses of ablutions, except for purposes of cleanliness, until the close of the third week, in the belief that their tendency is to increase the frequency of affections of the kidneys; and in substitution resort to oiling the body daily with carbolic oil. I con- cur with the advocates of this last course, which I highly recommend. But who dare assert in the treatment of scarlet fever ^'post hoc ergo propter hoc " 1 The oiling of the skin maintains its softness and suppleness through- out the illness. It moreover entangles the shed epidermis in the night-shirt and sheets, and prevents the particles being blown about the room as dust. Baths are reserved for the stage where the invalid is sufficiently recovered to leave the bed—the twenty-second day—and should be then given every night until desqua- mation has ceased. 13. Certain cases, however, occur of severe cerebral symptoms, active delirium, intense headache, and hyperpyrexia, where cold sponging or the wet pack is of vital value. It reduces fever, diminishes the frequency of the pulse, abates the cerebral symptoms, and induces sleep. 14. As much cold tvater to drink as the patient desires should invariably be allowed. It quenches thirst more rapidly and completely than any other drink. If water be not relished, lemon juice, in soda water with a little sugar, forms a refreshing draught. Where food is taken sparingly it may be advisable, however, to withhold these drinks, and substitute milk, or milk and soda water. 15. The patient may get up on the twenty- second day for a couple of hours ; on the twenty- third day this course may be permitted twice, with a rest of two hours' duration between in the horizontal position. The length of time out of bed may be gradually extended for four days, when the patient may be allowed to go into another room for two days; and then, in suitable weather, and properly clad in flannel, out of doors. (ii.) Dietetic.—The diet must necessarily be adapted in every case to the constitution of the individual, the age, the nature of the attack, its duration, and its complications. And the maxim must be observed, that it is the patient who has contracted the fever who requires the treatment, and not the fever which has seized the patient. The days when bleeding was freely resorted to in fevers, and especially in scarlet fever, when the strongest antiphlogistics were administered, when practical starvation was enforced, followed, at a later period, by satura- tion of the patient with alcohol as a matter of routine, are memories only of the past. All