408 STRABISMUS 2. Strabismus Divergens (" Exophoria "). — The visual axes turn outwards and cross behind the eyes. 3. Strabismus Ascendens or Sursumvergens. —The visual axis of one eye trending to a higher level than the other; or 4. Strabismiis Descendens or Deorsumvergens. —Where the visual axis of one eye trends towards a lower level than the other. These last two deviations are included in the term " hyperphoria," and all four are comprised in " heterophoria." Clinically we recognise squints as—(a) Latent (either superable or too small to be noted by inspection), or (6) manifest (insuperable); (c) alternating, or (d) monolateral, including stra- bismus fixus ; (e) constant, or (/) periodic (inter- mittent, accommodative, or variable). (See "Etiology of Squint," p. 409.) Strabometry. — Various means have been devised for measuring the degree of squint present. In the linear method, the well-directed eye is covered. The patient is asked to direct the squinting eye to a distant object. A suitably prepared millimetre scale is held close against the lower lid margin, so that the zero of the scale coincides with the vertical meridian of the cornea. The better eye is now uncovered; if, as usual, it assumes fixation of the distant object, the weaker eye turns in or out to resume its convergent or divergent misdirection. The number of millimetres of departure of the vertical meridian of the cornea to the one or other side of the mesial zero can now be read off on the millimetre scale and recorded. This method is of some value as a preliminary to the operative treatment of strabismus by advance- ment of a rectus muscle. But since in con- comitant strabismus the visual lines cross at a definite angle, the size of this angle is the measure of the squint. The angular method may be objective or sub- jective. Practically all the objective methods are based upon the relative position on the two eyes of the corneal image of a bright object. If both eyes be simultaneously directed towards a candle-flame, a small erect image of the flame will be reflected practically from the centre of each cornea. If the eyes be now slowly averted from the fixed flame, the images will appear to an observer to travel towards the corneal edge just in proportion to the extent of rotation of the eyes, until the reflections come no longer from the cornea but the conjunctiva and sclerotic of each eye. A similar observation may be made, and with greater exactitude, with an ophthalmoscopic mirror. If the patient be directed to fix his attention on the central aperture of the mirror, the visual line of the observed eye coincides with the visual line of the observer's eye, and the point of the cornea which is intersected by the visual line of the fixing eye is thus most accurately determined. The observation may be made with daylight, the patient having his back to a bright window, or with artificial light in the usual ophthalmo- scopic manner. If the corneal images occupy symmetrical positions, no squint is present. But if one corneal image is central and the other appears displaced inwards or outwards, upwards or downwards, squint is revealed. For very exact observations it must be remembered that the centre of the cornea does not often coincide precisely with the visual line, nor with the centre of the pupil. But for making a rough estimate of the deviation Hirschberg showed that, given fairly well-centred pupils of medium size (3-5 mm.), if the corneal image on the deviating eye appears to stand at the edge of the pupil, there is from 15° to 20° of squint, and that this estimate may be increased to 45° if the image rests on the corneal border. Priestley Smith measures strabismus by means of a double tape and an ophthalmoscope. The one tape, a metre in length, is held by the patient against his temple, and extending to the handle of the observer's ophthalmoscope preserves that distance between them. A second tape, graduated and numbered, extends from the ophthalmoscope to the surgeon's disen- gaged hand, and passing between his fingers is weighted to keep it taut. The observer, throwing the light first on the fixing eye, notes its approximately central corneal reflection, and then turning the mirror towards the squinting eye, notes the eccentric corneal image. The patient is now requested to follow the line of the tape from the mirror towards the surgeon's free hand, which is gradually withdrawn in such a direction as may be required until the corneal reflex appears to the observer to occupy a normal position on the squinting eye. The rotation of the eyes thus measured by the tape represents the angular deviation of the squint- ing eye. Another application of the same principle is found in the Maddox Tangent Strabismometer for one-metre distance, which can be affixed to the wall of any room. It consists of a long board graduated in tangents of degrees on either side of the central zero. A small candle is fixed just in front of this midpoint on the scale, and a string one metre in length depend- ing from the same point aff'ords a ready measure of the patient's distance from the scale. " Plac- ing the patient facing the candle at the metre distance, the surgeon introduces his own head between the two, but a little lower down, about a foot away from the patient, and so that the root of his own nose is vertically under the rays of light which proceed to the patient's eyes. At once the tell-tale corneal reflections reveal which eye is the squinting one." The amount of squint is then measured by making