THERAPEUTICS : HEALTH RESORTS 577 whethei- the presence of renal disease makes warmth absohitely indispensable. It is assumed that the patient is in a fit condition to travel, though, as we have already said, it is far from being the case with all patients sent abroad. We then have to consider what range of places is open for choice, and to select that one which seems best suited to his physical and mental condition, and to his purse. The latter is an important point, as it is better for many if not most to live in comfort in a place which may not be the absolute best, rather than have bad rooms and bad food in some spot which might perhaps suit them rather better from a climatic point of view. Finally, we shall do well to impress on patients that they should study the peculiarities of the climates to which they are going, and on their first advent seek the advice of some com- petent physician practising in the place. Reasons for sending Patients Abroad When we come to consider the reason for which patients are sent abroad, and the diseases which are the cause of their seeking advice, we find, as a matter of fact, that an overwhelming proportion of those who are definitely ill go on account of some tuberculous trouble. This is, of course, exclusive of the very large class who go for hydropathic treatment, whether external or internal, with whom we have nothing to do. Of those who go abroad during the winter, a large majority will be found to have had some signs of pulmonary or other tuberculous disease, probably far more than appears at first sight, the original cause being lost sight of in a good many instances or cloaked under some such term as bronchitis. Besides these, there are, of course, a great many cases of genuine bronchitis or emphysema, sufferers from which find themselves much freer from their trouble in a milder and drier winter climate. Further, there are a certain number of patients with chronic renal disease, diabetes, or cardiac trouble, to whom warmth is of the greatest importance, and who prolong their lives materially by avoiding the cold of an English winter. There is also a large class of sufferers from rheumatism in its various forms, who find relief, if not cure, in more southerly latitudes, and are at all events able to be out and about a good deal more than they would be at home. Lastly, there are the aged, the worn-out and over-worked, the weaklings, the people with poor physique, feeble circulation, and defective development generally, the hypochondriacs and neurasthenics, who, if they do not expect com- plete recovery, prefer to minimise the evil of existence by basking, so far as they can, in warmth and sunshine. If we turn now to the climates which are regarded as useful for these various ailments, VOL. IX we notice first that, as has already been said, almost every kind of climate has been recom- mended for tuberculosis, from that of the high mountains to Madeira, but the high, dry, cold climates, such as the Engadine, Colorado, or South Africa, are pre-eminently suited for pul- monary phthisis, though unsuitable in many other morbid conditions. On the other hand, the warm climates, whilst they may be beneficial to phthisis according to their bracing qualities and the degree of humidity, are also valuable in numerous other cases. Such climates are those of Egypt and the African desert, the moderate elevation (2000-3000 feet) of the Australian plateau, parts of New Zealand, and in a less degree the Riviera. If analysed on a meteorological basis they are very different, and very different in their effects, but they con- stitute a large intermediate class of climate with very diverse applications, including the treat- ment of tuberculous conditions. There remains a class of warm, moist climates, such as Madeira, the West Indies, and other tropical or semi- tropical places, which are definitely unsuited for most cases of phthisis or tubercular disease, and are chiefly valuable for the aged, the feeble, and people with irritable mucous membranes, who are not susceptible to the depressing in- fluences of moist, relaxing air. Thus classified in relation to tuberculosis, which is after all the main test, we have three varieties of climate, viz. that of high altitudes, suited to the consumptive ; a very large inter- mediate class, with variable characteristics, but bracing, moderately warm, and at least fairly dry; and the third class, which is for the most part unsuited to phthisical patients, though beneficial in other pulmonary conditions. It is to the large intermediate class that sufferers from the other ailments, which climate benefits, for the most part resort. English Health Resorts Taking the marine resorts first, we may begin with the south coast. We may begin at the east, and if we except Dover, which is not much frequented by invalids, we come first to Folkestone, one of the most popular places on the coast, with a distinctly bracing climate on the high ground and a rather milder one in the lower parts of the town. Near by are Sandgate and Hythe, which are quieter and less bracing. Hastings and St. Leonards have a compara- tively mild climate, and are mostly frequented in winter, but are not so well suited for the really delicate as the south-western resorts and the Isle of Wight, and, like all the resorts of this section of the coast from Folkestone to Worthing, are cold in the spring months. Bexhill, farther west, is a growing place, with a very bracing climate. Eastbourne is chiefly a summer and autumn 37