173 SKIN—BACTERIOLOGY vesicular eczema, which may be termed the amicrobic and the microbic theories. Accord- ing to the former view the vesicles of eczema are at first sterile, and only become invaded secondarily by pyogenic organisms, though it is generally admitted that the latter play an im- portant part in the complete evolution of the lesions; and according to the second theory, eczema is a local parasitic disease due to the action of one or several micro - organisms. Moberg and Unna have isolated twenty-three different varieties of cocci from the skin in a series of cases of eczema including eczema seborrhoicum, of which twelve were harmless and eleven pathogenic: two of these were capable of producing eczema by inoculation on the human skin. Flask-shaped bacilli are fre- quently present. Other observers consider eczema to be simply due to staphylococci (Bockhart, Bender, Gerlach). Staphylococci producing white cultures have been isolated by Galloway and Eyre from four cases of acute papulo-vesicular eczema. Eczema Seborrhoicum or Seborrhceic Der- matitis—Numerous micro-organisms have been identified with this condition, the most constant being the ^S*. epidermidis albus and the fiask- shaped bacilli. Unna described a peculiar coccus which from its grouping he named the " morococcus." This organism is now gener- ally admitted to be identical with the S. epi- dermidis albus. Owing partly to its confused terminology, this subject is at present in a too chaotic condition to demand more than a passing reference. Erythema nodosum : Demme's bacilli and various cocci have been detected in the blood. Bacilli of Demme : 2-2 jx to 2'5 fx in length, and 0-5 /x to 0-7 /a in breadth; rounded ends; stained by Gram's method ; inoculated on the skin or injected into the blood of guinea-pigs, it produced an eruption resembling E. nodosum, which was followed by gangrene. Framb(ESia, see Yaws. FuRUNCULOSis: due to the organisms of sup- puration. Gangrene : several micro - organisms have been identified in the various forms of gan- grene. Veillon and Halle isolated a bacillus from the pus of an unopened abscess in a case of disseminated gangrene in a child. Bacilli: about the size of the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus of diphtheria; straight or slightly curved ; often arranged in pairs like a V; grow on agar in the form of greyish white colonies which emit a sour smell; identical with the B. ramosus of Veillon and Zuber. A somewhat similar bacillus was detected by Matzenauer in hospital gangrene. Other micro-organisms occur, namely streptococci, staphylococci, and B. pyocyaneus. Impetigo.—{a) Simple impetigo is due to the inoculation of virulent pyogenic micro-organisms on any abraded or weakly resistant portion of the skin. {b) Impetigo of Bockhart is a follicular disease due to the inoculation of the hair-follicles with staphylococci. (c) Impetigo contagiosa is believed to be due to streptococci, and the presence of staphylococci in the lesions is regarded as a secondary con- tamination (Sabouraud, Gilchrist, Balzer, etc.). Leprosy : most probably due to the B. leprae of Hansen. Bacilli: 5 /x to 6 /a in length, and 1 /x in breadth; closely resemble tubercle bacilli, but are less curved and more pointed; stain like tubercle bacilli; they have not been successfully cultivated outside the body, and inoculation experiments, except in a few doubtful instances, have given negative results ; occur in the granu- lomata of leprosy, in old lesions of anaesthetic leprosy, and in nearly all the tissues of the body except the muscles, joints, and spinal cord. Mycosis fungoides : numerous cocci and bacilli have been identified in the breaking down lesions, but these have probably no causal relation to the disease. M'Vail, Murray, and Atkinson have isolated a peculiar small bacillus in their case. Bacilli: 1 /X to 2'5 /x in length, and 0'75 /x in breadth ; single or in pairs ; sluggishly motile; stained by Gram's method; aerobic, with diffi- culty anaerobic ; grow in agar in the form of creamy white colonies, from the margin of which short, fine, hair-like rays penetrate into the medium; liquefy gelatine; subcutaneous in- jection in rabbits causes death in twelve to sixteen days, bacilli being found in the enlarged lymphatics. Pemphigus.—Acute pemphigus : Pernet and Bulloch have isolated diplococci from the bullae. Diplococci: about one-half longer than a gonococcus; grow on blood serum with charac- teristic colonies; pathogenic to rabbits. Dahn- hardt has identified a similar diplococcus in chronic pemphigus. In pemphigus neonatorum the ordinary pyo- genic cocci are present in large numbers. Purpura : numerous micro - organisms have been described in the dilated vessels in P. hsemorrhagica, for example streptococci, pneumo- cocci, and B. coli communis. In a fatal case Klob described a short oval bacillus {Bacterium hoemorrhagicum). Bacilli: 0-8 ^u. to 0'5 /x in length, and 0-4 /x to 0"8 /X in breadth; arranged in pairs; not motile; grow slowly on gelatine without lique- fying it, forming whitish colonies; produced purpuric lesions when inoculated on mice, guinea-pigs, and dogs. Pyodermia : due to the pyogenic cocci; S. pyogenes aureus, albus, citreus, cereus albus, and cereus Jlavus; streptococcus pyogenes ; and occa- sionally B. pyocyaneus and B. coli communis.