OF THE TROPICS 185 SKIN DISEASES Europeans the occurrence of boils and prickly heat is aided by their habits as regards diet and alcohol. The flies, mosquitoes, or other insects so numerous in the tropics also play an active part in the causation of skin disease, either by depositing larvae (mycosis), by merely acting as passive carriers of infection, as in yaws possibly, by actually introducing germs or parasites in their bites, or, indirectly, by carrying infection into drinking-water. (4) Racial Proclivities.—The negro, either from greater skin pigmentation and production of oily secretion, or more probably from differ- ences in clothing, is far less liable to prickly heat than either white or brown races, but on the other hand he is, in addition to an unex- plained tendency to keloid, infinitely more likely to be attacked by germ or parasitic diseases. The explanation of the European's comparative immunity to these probably lies in the protective influence of clothing and foot covering, his greater attention to small abrasions, and avoidance of dirty houses and clothes, and of diseased persons. (5) Lastly, there are certain unknown endemic conditions which determine the occurrence of verruga and oriental sore. General Care of the Skin.—The diet should be adapted to the climate. Less albumen and fatty matter being necessary, fruit and vege- tables should be largely substituted, and liquids, especially alcohol or hot drinks, restricted as far as possible, and the water-supply supervised. Woollen or cellular clothing is best in humid atmospheres, and like that of the native should be loose fitting, light in colour and texture, and free from tight bands, thus permitting proper air circulation. Frequent changes of clean underclothing, and especially the use of short drawers washed by some trustworthy person, help to prevent Dhobie Itch. It is also necessary to protect the lower extremities from contact with mud and water. Frequent bathing should be indulged in, but soap little used. Mosquito and insect bites should be avoided as far as possible by means of nets, but even slight abrasions must be carefully attended to. For opposing skin surfaces, dusting powders of starch and zinc oxide are useful, and general in- unction of lanoline or other preparation is a useful preventative of Prickly Heat where there is a tendency to this complaint. I. Caused by Climatic Conditions (a) Prickly Heat.—Synonyms : Lichen Tro- picus, Miliaria Papulosa.—Nearly all Europeans in hot, damp climates suff'er from this affection. The eruption usually develops suddenly, closely following or coincident with a profuse perspira- tion, and consists of numerous hyperaemic- looking, pointed papules intermingled with a few minute, shining vesicles containing clear fluid. Once developed, anything which excites perspiration, and especially hot tea or exercise, will at once increase the characteristic prickling, tingling, and burning sensations, while the irritability of the skin is accentuated by scratch- ing and by the friction of soaked clothing. Almost the entire cutaneous surface, except the palms and soles, may be involved, but the site of election is where the clothing is in con- tact with the body, around the waist, or on the back, trunk, or extensor surface of the forearms. With varying severity the eruption may persist for almost any time, but speedy improvement usually follows falling temperature or lessened humidity. Though not in itself dangerous, the resulting irritation and insomnia may compli- cate disease or in delicate persons even in itself prove injurious, while organisms introduced by scratching or wet clothing are a fertile source of subsequent Furunculosis. Pathology. — Pollitzer found cyst-like spaces in rete mucosum which he regarded as dilated sweat ducts produced by the occlusion of their orifices by the swelling of the horny layer from soaking in perspiration. Pollitzer found no evidence of inflammation or of alteration of the coil glands; but Torok, as the result of his in- vestigations, regards the vesicles as inflammatory in origin. From the occurrence of the eruption only where there are sebaceous glands, Pearse, on the other hand, inclines to regard it as an acute seborrhoea, the result of irritating secre- tion and over-production by these glands. It seems, however, more reasonable to suppose that the washing away of sebum by the copious watery secretion prevents it from efficiently per- forming its function of oiling the skin, and therefore allows the swelling of the horny layer. The thickness of the latter, and the natural absence of sebaceous secretion in palms and soles, explains their immunity from eruption. Although irritation possibly plays a part in pro- duction, the other view is borne out by the special prevalence of Prickly Heat in humid climates and during the rainy season, where evaporation is hindered, and by its preference for parts in contact with clothing, where sweat collects. It occurs, too, on the backs of pros- trate invalids in the tropics, and the writer has frequently seen recurrences in old tropical resi- dents during an English summer, confined to the region beneath the abdominal belt. Simi- larly, Europeans are the chief sufferers, while negroes are almost immune, partly perhaps from their naturally oily skin, but largely from the paucity and looseness of their clothing and from their habit of anointing themselves with oil. Treatment.—Perspiration should be reduced by the utmost possible avoidance of exertion and of liquids, and by occasional saline purga- tives. The clothing, light both in colour and texture, should consist of woollen, cellular, or