192 SKIN—PARASITES in the way of treatment, yet it has stimulated thought and breathed life into a subject which had fallen into the rut of the common- place. However interesting an historical survey of ringworm from the etiological point of view might be, the matter cannot be dealt with in this place. Leslie Roberts's opinion that the ringworm fungi exert a keratolytic action on the hairs is probably correct. The disintegration which occurs in the nails when they are attacked is in favour of it, as are also the observations of Professor Marshall Ward on a horn-destroying fungus, Oni/gena equina. As to the saprophytic existence of the ring- worm fungi, it is perfectly reasonable to suppose that such is likely, and that the parasitic development is accidental as Sabouraud and Bodin have suggested; but the idea cannot be considered as having been originated by them, as it has occurred to other observers independ- ently. What is known of actinomycosis also points in the same direction. The poly- morphism of fungi and their extraordinary susceptibility to their nutrient environment are known. Some authors (Sabouraud, Bodin, and others) have split up the various fungi parasitic on man into a great number of kinds. For all practical purposes it is not necessary to follow in their footsteps, but as far as ringworm of the scalp, body, beard, and nails, as commonly met with in Britain, is concerned, the following only need be considered: Microsporon Audouini (or so-called small-spored fungus). Trichophyton megalosporon endothrix and Trichophyton mega- losporon ectothrix (both commonly referred to as the large-spored fungi). In addition to these, other fungi must also be alluded to, such as : Microsporon furf^or (Tinea versicolor), Microsporon minutissimum (Tinea erythrasma), exotic or so-called tropical fungi (unclassified) (of Dhobie itch — Tinea imbricata — Carate), the fungus of Tinea nodosa.^ To avoid needless repetitions, the methods of examination will be briefly stated, but the microscopical appearances of the various fungi, together with the cultural aspects of some of them, will be referred to under the respective diseases. Method op Examination.—Hairs.—It is of primary importance to examine those hairs which are affected. This can only be carried out by searching for them carefully with a lens. It is no use pulling out hairs indiscriminately. The diseased hairs are bent, broken, twisted, sometimes displaying a powdery sheath (as in Microsporon Audouini, or they may appear as dots or as very short stumps, which sometimes require digging out with the epilating forceps 1 The fungus of Tinea favosa lias been dealt with under " Favus," vol. iii. (as in some large-spored cases). Special care in selecting suitable hairs is also needed in ringworm of the beard, and in the latter condition it may be necessary to examine several stumps. When there are crusts, good stumps for examination will be sometimes found adhering to their under surface on removal. Scales.—As to ringworm of the body, the margins of the rings should be gently scraped with a scalpel, but it is necessary to go deeper than the merely superficial layer. Lanugo hairs are in this way frequently removed with the scales, and they may sometimes display the fungus. Nails.—The suspected nail should be scraped with the sharp edge of a slide, going pi-etty deeply. In all cases when ointments have been used, after preliminary treatment (on the slide) with a little ether to get rid of fat, stumps and scales should be examined in a drop or two of liq. potassae, B.P. (about 6 per cent), but in the case of nail-scrapings a 40 per cent solu- tion should be employed. The latter strength is used in all cases by some observers, and the slide gently heated over a flame (Sabouraud). This method certainly clears up the preparation more rapidly. Gentle pressure on the cover- slip and running in a little more liq. potassae under it will also be found useful. More than one examination should be made if the discovery of fungus is not immediately successful. Droplets of fat should not be mis- taken for "spores." In some cases (nails, beard), the preparations should be again ex- amined after soaking for some hours, when the fungus will, if present, come well into view. Method of Staining.—For all practical pur- poses the examination in liq. potassse is quite sufficient, and is really the best way of studying the parasites. But if permanent preparations are desired it is necessary to stain. There are many methods, but the following, for which I am indebted to Dr. Brongei'sma of Amsterdam, I have found answer well. Staining ringworm hairs requires some practice. Hairs.—1. Place selected stumps on a clean slide, and get rid of fat with ether. 2. Dry with blotting-paper and add a little gentian-violet-aniline solution (prepared by shaking equal parts of aniline oil and water, and filtering aniline water, to which a little saturated alcoholic solution of gentian-violet is added. Mix.); 5 minutes. 3. Carefully dry with blotting-paper. 4. Add potassium iodide—iodine solution (as used in Gram's method—or make it by dis- solving a crystal or two of iodide of potassium and of iodine in a little water): 1 to 5 minutes. 5. Dry with blotting-paper and add a drop