SYRINGOMYELIA 495 have been obtained by this procedure. In a case under the care of Sir William Gowers I have seen Sir Victor Horsley open the spinal canal and drain the cavity. The result as regards improvement was not, however, en- couraging. Schlesinger is opposed to spinal puncture on the ground that such a procedure may lead to spinal hjemorrhage. Syringomyelocele.—A rare variety of spina bifida in which the central canal of the spinal cord is distended with fluid, and bulges outward through a defect in the spinal canal. See Spina Bifida (Varieties). SyringOtomy.—The operation of curing a fistula {e.g. Si fistula in ano) by cutting it. Syrupi.—Fluid preparations of drugs in which sugar forms a constant constituent, all of which are given in doses of 1 dr. and upward ; e.g. the syrupus aurantii, syrwpus ferri phos- phatis, syrupus ferri phosphatis cum quinina et strychnina, etc.; syrupus is a solution of 5 parts of saccharum purificatum in 2^ of water, and syrtipus glucosi contains syrup, 2 oz., and liquid glucose, 1 oz. Sysoma or Syssomus.—A terato- logical type of double monster in which the twins are united by the bodies (Gr. o-w, together, and (Tu)fia, a body). SySSel. See Balneology {Iceland). System.—A combination of things (parts, structures, facts, etc.) arranged in an orderly and determinate fashion; e.g. a system of in- struction, a system of parts {e.g. the nervous system), or a system of treatment {e.g. the Lfng system), etc. Systematic instruction {i.e. teach- ing by lectures, the subjects being dealt with in an orderly and predetermined way, usually according to schedule) is contrasted with clinical instruction in Medicine. Systemic.—Belonging to the whole organism, or, more rarely, to any special set of organs {e.g. those of circulation). Systole.—The stage of contraction of the heart or of any other hollow viscus with muscular walls. See Physiology, Circulation, j {Cardiac Cycle). Ta,baci Folia.. — Tobacco leaves are obtained from Nicotianxi tabacum, and contain the alkaloid nicotine (CioHj^Ng), nicotianin, i salts, etc.; there seems to be no doubt that nicotine is the active and injurious agent in tobacco. Tobacco has ceased to be used in therapeutics, and the tabaci folia are no longer official. Smoking may lead to amblyopia and colour-blindness, to angina pectoris, loss of appetite, and irregular action of the heart {tabacosis). See Toxicology {Alkaloids and Vegetable Poisons, Tobacco). See also Amblyopia {Toxic, Tobacco); Angina Pectoris {Etiology, Poisons, Tobacco); Appetite {Loss) ; Colour Vision {Acquired Colour Blindness); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Etiology, Exciting Causes, Chemical); Retina and Optic Nerve {Central Retinal Affection from Toxic Influence, Tobacco). TabanUS. See Farasites {jilastigophora, Tabanus Tropic^is as a Cause of Surra). Tabellae.—Tablets or troches or lozenges of chocolate; e.g. tabellce cum mentha (pepper- mint lozenges), tabellae cum santonina, etc.; the only official tabella now is the tabella trinitrini. See Nitrites {Nitroglycerin). Tabes.—Literally tabes means a wasting away, consumption, or a wasting disease ; but the term has now come to be applied specially to two diseases, locomotor ataxy {tabes dorsalis) and tubercular disease of the mesenteric glands {tabes mesenterica). Formerly tabes atrcyphica was a synonym of phthisis, tabes coxaria was hip - joint disease with suppuration, tabes diuretica was diabetes mellitus, and tabes pectorea was rickets. Tabes Dorsalis. Definition ..... . 495 Historical Introduction . 495 Etiology ..... . 496 Symptomatology .... . 497 Morbid Anatomy and Pathology . . 503 Diagnosis ..... . 505 Prognosis and Course . . 506 Treatment ..... . 507 See also Diabetes Mellitus {Nervous System); General Paralysis {Diagnosis); Herpes {Herpes Zoster, Symptomatic of Tabes Dorsalis); Larynx, Neuroses op {Abductor or Posticus Paralysis, Bilateral); Nails, Affections of THE {Diseases of the Nervous System) ; Purpura {Symptomatic, Nervous); X-Rays {i7i Diseases of the Spinal Cord). Syn.—Locomotor Ataxy; Fr. L'Ataxic loconiotrice. Definition.—A progressive degeneration of the nervous system, affecting especially the sensory structures, and characterised by atrophy of the posterior columns of the spinal cord. Historical Introduction.—Our knowledge of tabes is the product of the last fifty years ; before that period, except for a few isolated observations by W. Horn (1827) and von Steinthal (1844), these cases were all classed as paraplegia. In 1851 Romberg described the leading symptoms of the disease—optic atrophy, small fixed pupils, lancinating pains, girdle sensation, stamping gait and swaying of the