TEETH 514 on. Of extinct birds there are several which had true teeth, as we learn from Professor Marsh. The Ichthyornis was described by him in 1872. Both jaws were furnished with com- pressed pointed teeth covered with enamel; there were forty-four in the mandible, and an equal number in the maxilla, and these teeth were fixed in distinct sockets. Another gigantic bird with teeth was the He&2^eroriiis regalis; its teeth were planted in a groove extending the whole length of the mandible, and had sharp- pointed crowns covered with enamel, and sup- ported on strong fangs. Mammalia. — In nearly all the mammalia there are present definite sets of teeth, of constant number, form, and position. Some, however, only develop one set of teeth, and are called Monophyodont—the armadillo and sloth being examples. The larger proportion of mam- mals have a primary and secondary series of teeth ; no animal, so far as is known, having more than two sets of teeth. Animals which have two sets of teeth are termed Diphyodont. The simplest form of mammalian tooth is found in the dolphin, with its numerous single-rooted, conical-pointed, homodont teeth, there being no successional teeth ; it is also monophyodont. In the majority of mammalia the teeth present certain definite shapes which are characteristic of all of them. Thus, in the premaxilla there are present four single-rooted, cutting teeth incisors, then come the prominent canines, pre- molars, and molars, the latter of which subserve the purpose of grinding down food ; dentitions like that of man are termed Heterodont. The typical mammalian dentition may be put thus : —I I C i Prm A M § = 44. A peculiarity of some mammalian teeth is that of persistent growth. This is exhibited in the teeth of Rodentia—beaver, rat; also in the molars of the sloth, tusks of Babirussa, and elephant. Such teeth, though worn down at the point, continue to grow from the pulp at their base, and thus make up for loss. When from any cause the normal wear of the tooth is prevented, they sometimes grow so long as to prevent the use of the jaws, and death from starvation ensues. Mammals may be roughly divided into classes thus: (1) Carnivora, (2) Proboscidea, (3) Ungu- lata, (4) Rodentia, (5) Edentata, (6) Marsupi- alia, (7) Insectivora, (8) Chiroptera, (9) Quad- rum ana. Land Carnivora.—Dental formula, I § C y Prm f M 1 = 30. This type of dentition is well shown in the Felidre, which have short powerful jaws, with strong muscular attach- ments ; the incisors are small, so as not to inter- fere with the use of the sharp-pointed, promi- nent, trenchant blades of canines, which are used for seizing and killing their prey. The molar teeth have irregular ridges, and articulate with each other like scissor blades; they are used by the animal for removing the remainder of the soft tissues from the bones of their victims, and likewise for crushing the smaller bones. The other members of this family— dogs, cats, hyfenas, racoons, and bears—all possess modifications of the same dentition adapted to suit their varied requirements and purposes. Marine Carnivora.—The teeth of this group of animals are well exemplified in the dolphins and seals, with their long, narrow mouth, wide gape, and numerous subequal, conical, sharp- pointed teeth, well adapted for seizing and re- taining their slippery prey. The dolphin has some 200 teeth in its jaws, which interdigitate with each other. The walrus, Trichechus Rosemarus (dental formula, I ^ C y P f), has a very peculiar den- tition, in the form of two enormous upper canines, which incline downwards beyond the lower lip. They are teeth of persistent growth, and are composed principally of dentine, with a thin coating of cementum. The walrus uses these great tusks in tearing from the rocks the shell-fish and seaweed upon which it feeds, and its tusks are also used to assist it in progression over the ice and rocks ; the male is said to use them as sexual weapons. The sperm whale has a good armament in the mandible, of conical enamel-tipped teeth, some 40 to 60 in number, and only a few stunted teeth in the maxilla. The so called toothless, or whalebone whale, in the foetal condition, has present in both jaws a series of calcified teeth, which, however, are destroyed by absorption prior to birth. In the adult condition the baleen plates, which hang down from the palate, represent the teeth, each baleen plate being developed from a vascular papilla. In the narwal {Monodon monoceros) only two canine teeth are found in the maxilla. In the female, although these teeth grow some 8 inche in length, they never erupt. In the male one tooth (rarely two) continues to grow from it" persistent pulp till it attains the length of some 10 to 12 feet; this tooth is always the lef canine, is quite straight, and is marked by spira grooves, winding from left to right. The func tions of this curious tooth are supposed to be for spearing fish upon which it preys; it is sai also to be used for making air-holes in the ic during winter. Proboscidea. — There are only two livin representatives, the Indian and African ele phants. Indian elephants have two tusks, incisors, i the maxilla, composed principally of dentine, the ivory of commerce. They are less in size in the female than in the male; they have molars f, which are very large, and are com posed of irregular parallel plates of enamel and dentine, fused together with cementum from before backwards; the enamel plates numbe