417 SUBDURAL SPACE the dura mater, between it and the arachnoid. See Meninges of the Cerebrum {Anatomy and Physiology). S U bfe br i I e. — Somewhat or slightly febrile. See Temperature (Fever). Su bg'IOSSitiS.—Inflammation of the tissues in the floor of the mouth, under the tongue. See Tongue {Inflammatory Affections). Subg'lottic. See Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations {Chronic Subglottic Laryngitis); Larynx, Malignant Diseases of {Symptoms). Subinvolution.—Imperfect return of an organ to its normal size after hypertrophy and distension, due to various causes, but especially to chronic inflammation and conges- tion ; the term is most often used in connection with the uterus after labour or abortion. See Menstruation and its Disorders {Menor- rhagia) ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Differential); Uterus, Inflammations of {Subinvolution). Subjective. — Belonging to the indi- vidual {e.g. a patient), especially symptoms as opposed to signs of disease. Sublimate, Corrosive. See Mer- cury {Hydrargyri Perchloridum). Sublimation. — The conversion of a volatile solid substance into vapour, and its condensation. Subling^ual.—Beneath the tongue; e.g. the sublingual salivary glands, sublingual cysts, sublingual artery, etc. See Salivary Glands, Disorders of {Anatomy); Tongue {Cysts). Subluxation. — Incomplete or partial dislocation. See Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Chronic Arthritis of Temporo-Max- illary Joint). Submammary.—Beneath the breast or mamma; e.g. a submammary abscess, a sub- mammary injection, etc. See Mammary Gland. Submarginal.—Situated near the margin or periphery. Submaxillary.—Situated beneath the lower jaw or inferior maxilla; e.g. the submax- illary salivary gland, submaxillary artery and vein, submaxillary ganglion, etc. See Salivary Glands, Disorders of {Anatomy). Subminimal.—Less than minimal, e.g. a subminimal stimulus (one not sufficient to cause an obvious effect). Submucous. — Situated beneath the mucous membrane of an organ; e.g. a submucous fibroid of the uterus, the submucous coat or layer {submucosa), submucous cystitis (inflamma- VOL. IX tion of the vesical submucosa}, submucous opera- tions on the nasal septum, etc. See Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours of {Fibroids). Subnasal.—in a special sense this term means at the base of the nasal spine; more generally it signifies below the nose. Suboccipito - Breg^matic. — Be- longing to the lower part of the occiput and to the bregma (anterior fontanelle), e.g. the sub- occipito-bregmatic diameter of the foetal head (S.O.B.). See Labour, Physiology of {Pass- e7iger, Diameters of Head). Subpericranial.—Beneath the peri- cranium, e.g. a subpericranial hsemorrhage. Subperitoneal.— Beneath the peri- toneum covering an organ, e.g. a subperitoneal fibroid of the uterus. See Uterus, Non-malig- nant Tumours of {Fibroids). Subphrenic.—Beneath the diaphragm; e.g. a subphrenic abscess, subphrenic hydatids, etc. See Hydatid Disease {Diagnosis); Liver {Tropical Abscess, Diagnosis); Pancreas, Dis- eases OF {Pancreatitis, Diagnosis) ; Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis, General {Subphrenic Ab- scess) ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Ulcer of Stomach, Perforation and Results). Subpubic.—Situated below the symphy- sis pubis; e.g. the subpubic arch, subpubic liga- ment, subpubic hernia, etc. Subscapular. — Beneath, or rather ventral to, the scapula, e.g. the subscapular artery, nerve, and region. Subseptate. — Divided partially into cavities; e.g., a subseptate uterus is one divided into two cavities by an incomplete septum. Subserous. — Subperitoneal or sub- pleural, or, generally, beneath a serous mem- brane ; also, somewhat serous or watery. Subsoil.—The stratum of earth immedi- ately below the surface layer; water in this part is termed "subsoil or ground water," and is bounded above by a permeable and below by an impermeable layer. See Diphtheria {Eti- ology, Level of Ground Water). Subspinous.—Beneath the spine, e.g. of the scapula, of a vertebra, etc. See Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of {Dislocations, Sub- spinous). Substance or Substantia. See Physiology, Tissues {Cartilage, Bone, etc.). Substitution.—The replacement of one thing by another; in Chemistry, the replace- ment of " one or more elements or radicles in a compound by others"; in Prescribing, the 27