SCROFULO- 80 cuLOSis OF (^Scrofuloderma); Cornea {Phlyc- tenular Ulcer, Scrof ulous Ophthalmia); Nails, Affections of {Scrofuloderma). Scrota,!.—Belonging to the scrotum {q-v.). Scrotum and Testicle, Dis- eases of the.. Diseases of the Scrotum Anatomy ...... 80 Contusions and Wounds ... 80 Abnormalities ..... 80 CEdema 80 Erysipelas ...... 80 Gangrene ...... 81 Emphysema . . . . . .81 Prurigo ...... 81 Eczema, etc. . . . . . .81 Fistula ...... 81 Calculi ... ... 82 Tumours ...... 82 Elephantiasis ..... 83 Lymph Scrotum ..... 84 See also Eczema {Distribution, Scrotum); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Symp- tomatology, Dropsy, Scrotum); Hernia {In- guinal Diagnosis); Penis, Surgical Affections of ; Teratology ; Venereal Diseases ; etc. Anatomy of the Scrotum.—The scrotum forms the purse-like investment for the testes and part of the spermatic cords. It is marked into two lateral halves by a median ridge — the raphe—and each half consists of the following layers: skin, superficial fascia, dartos tissue, intercolumnar fascia, cremaster muscle and fascia, infundibuliform fascia, and outer layer of the tunica vaginalis. The skin of the scrotum is thin, pigmented, and contains peculiar sebaceous follicles. The dartos tissue is subcutaneous, and is continuous with the superficial fascia of the groin, perineum, and inner side of the thighs. It is free from fat, very vascular, and owes its contractility to the presence of much unstriped muscular tissue. It forms two distinct sacs for the corresponding testis, united together along the middle line to form the median partition—the septum scroti. The arteries of the scrotum are derived from the two external pudic arteries and the super- ficial perineal branches of the internal pudic. The veins accompany the arteries. The lymphatics pass into the ingviinal lymph glands, and the following nerves are to be found: ilio- inguinal, ilio-hypogastric, superficial perineal, inferior pudendal, and the genital branch of the genito-crural. Contusions of the Scrotum.—Owing to the looseness of the scrotal cellular tissue, subcu- taneous hsemorrhages resulting from contusions are often followed by the escape of a large quantity of blood beneath the skin and dartos. In this way large hsematomas may be formed, and may easily be mistaken for vaginal hsema- tocele. Such blood collections are best left alone, unless they inflame and suppurate, when they must be opened and drained in the ordinary way. Wounds of the Scrotum may open the tunica vaginalis and expose or injure the testicle. They must be made scrupulously clean, and the tunica vaginalis closed by sutures and tem- porarily drained if necessary. Abnormalities. — Cleft Scrotum. — The scro- tum is sometimes congenitally cleft, so that the testes lie in a separate bag on either side. This condition results from a failure of union between the two sides of the external genital folds from which the scrotal tissues are developed. It is usually associated with other deficiencies in the genitalia, such as hypospadias, and is mistaken at times for a form of hermaphroditism. CEdema op the Scrotum.—The loose tissue of the scrotum renders it liable to oedema. Often met with in newborn and young children, re- sulting in them from some slight irritation of the skin, and usually subsiding under careful attention to keep the part dry and powdered. In weakly children it may pass into a spreading erysipelatous condition, which is occasionally fatal. In after life it is easily induced by in- flammation and suppuration of adjacent parts, especially abscesses connected with the urethra ; sometimes it is the early attendant on general dropsy, resulting from diseases of internal organs—heart, kidneys, liver, etc. It is usually dependent on some cause—generally local— and subsides when that cause is removed. Great relief may be afforded, and sloughing prevented by puncturing the parts at various points. These punctures allow the serum to drain away, and are much safer than incisions. Inflammation.—Erysipelas.—Its loose struc- ture and pendulous position renders the scro- tum an easy prey to inflammation, erysipelatous or other, which is apt to be excited by slight causes, such as small wounds or abrasions, neighbouring abscesses, ulcers, and eruptions or fistulse. In other cases there is no apparent cause for the attack. In whatever way origin- ating, the affection is a dangerous one, occurring as it often does in patients in poor health, intemperate, ill-fed, or the subjects of visceral disease ; it is very prone to run on into diffuse suppuration, with sloughing of the skin and subcutaneous tissue. Another very important point in reference to these cases of erysipelatous inflammation of the scrotum is that they are liable to be mistaken at first sight for extrava- sations of urine, but that the inflammation depends on some defect of general health or local cause is shown by the facts that the patients have, previously to the attack, experi- enced no difficulty in micturition, and that a large bougie can be easily passed into the bladder. When suppuration takes place it is