SPLEEN, SURGERY OF 310 dilated pupils, faintness, coldness of the skin, and rapid failure of the pulse. In very ex- ceptional instances, when a very large quantity of blood escapes into the belly, it may give rise to a shifting dulness on percussion. The amount of blood which is lost varies in different cases. Should the tear in the spleen involve the artery or the vein, rapidly fatal hfemorrhage will be the consequence, but wound of the spleen in any part causes free bleeding. Un- doubted cases have been recorded in which patients have recovered from rupture of the spleen. Thus in one case in which a man had his spleen ruptured, and recovered ; three weeks later he was murdered, and at the autopsy the recent cicatrix was clearly seen in his spleen. The treatment of rupture of the spleen, in order to be successful, should be prompt. In cases where the lesion is so grave as to demand quick intervention, there is generally such damage to the organ that the only way to effectively and expeditiously arrest the bleeding is to ligature the gastro-splenic omentum with the splenic vessels and remove the spleen. Under such conditions it is, as a rule, a simple proceeding. Wandering (Movable) Spleen.—-It is diffi- cult to conceive that a viscus like the spleen suspended by peritoneum to the under surface of the diaphragm, connected to the stomach by means of the gastro-splenic omentum, and by its blood-vessels brought into such intimate bondage with the pancreas, could so elongate its attachments as to reach the uterus and the floor of the pelvis. In well-marked examples a movable spleen is capable of such free excursions that it may be brought in contact with every part of the abdomen and pelvis. No adequate cause for such abnormal mobility of the spleen has been suggested ; it is, however, a significant fact that the majority of cases occur in women, and especially those who have been pregnant. Undue mobility of the spleen leads to its engorgement, and as the structure of the organ is favourable for the retention of a large amount of blood, it is obvious that it would be more liable to over-distension when pendulous at the end of a long stalk formed by the elongated splenic vessels and the gastro-splenic omentum. This engorgement becomes intensified when the pendulous spleen spins on its axis and twists its pedicle ; in this condition the spleen looks so replete with blood as if ready to burst. When a wandering spleen undergoes axial rotation, it gives rise to much the same symptoms as an acute strangulated hernia or an ovarian cyst with a twisted pedicle. When the rotation is so acute as to completely arrest the circulation in the spleen and persists, it will lead to per- manent occlusion of the splenic artery and vein, and atrophy of the spleen. A wandering spleen often produces incon- venient effects on adjacent viscera. In the case of the pancreas, it sometimes happens that this gland remains undisturbed even when the spleen falls into the pelvis ; in other instances the pancreas becomes elongated and has been stretched to a length of 25 cm., forming part of a twisted pedicle making three turns around the splenic artery. Occasionally the tail of the pancreas will be dragged down to the brim of the pelvis by a mobile spleen. A wandering spleen will so pull upon the stomach as to kink the duodenum and lead to dilatation of the stomach with its usual consequences, fermenta- tion of the food and vomiting; the tension may even cause obstruction to the common bile-duct and produce jaundice. It can easily be imagined that the long cord- like pedicle of a pendulous spleen would be very liable to interfere with the intestines, and cases have been observed in which movable spleens have been found adherent to small intestine, colon, and the vermiform appendix. Adhesions of this character not only set up intestinal obstruction, but they lead to damage of the bowel, which allows of the escape of the contents and micro-organisms, and thus initiate septic peritonitis. Mention has already been made of the great tendency of a wandering spleen to drop into the pelvis, and its weight not only causes retro- flexion of the litems but has been known to produce prolapse of this organ (Kouwer). Wandering spleens not only cause grave in- convenience, but they seriously jeopardise life. The actual dangers are : rupture of the stomach or duodenum, intestinal obstruction, abscess of the spleen, rupture of the spleen. A movable and enlarged spleen has been mistaken for a variety of conditions, such as uterine fibroids, ovarian cysts, renal tumours, and movable kidneys. In several cases coeli- otomy has been performed for the purpose of removing a uterine or ovarian tumour, and a displaced spleen found instead. Varneck re- cords a case in which he removed a tumour adherent to the walls of the pelvis; he regarded it as a fibroid. When the tumour was examined in the laboratory it was proved to be a spleen! The chief signs on which a diagnosis may be based are the characteristic spleen-like shape of the swelling, the presence of notches on one of its borders, the peculiar way in which it seems to float on the intestines, its convex surface, and the facility with which it can be guided under the left costal arch. The most effective treatment of a wandering spleen is removal. The risks, immediate and remote, are very slight. An alternative method (splenopexy) of stitching the spleen to the side has been suggested and even practised. So far the results of splenectomy are more satisfactory, and the convalescence is much more speedy. Splenomegaly.—It has already been men- tioned that enlargements of the spleen are re-