576 THERAPEUTICS: HEALTH RESORTS question quite apart from that of altitude), forest, river, lakes, etc. (6) Geological conditions of soil. From these conditions result the various factors of climate, temperature, rainfall, winds, cloud, atmosphere, sunshine, humidity, electrical phenomena, the observation of which is the function of meteorology. But if we ask our- selves whether, in the present state of our knowledge, given all the data, we can predict the climate of a locality, and further, what its effect is on human beings, our answer must be a very guarded one. There are subtle differences in the climate of places, often of places in close proximity to one another, which depend on factors of which we know nothing, yet the effects may be very obvious, not only on human beings but on plants and animals. The conditions are so complicated that it is impossible to disentangle the various influences at work, and we are really dependent in the last resort on empirical evidence. This being so, we may ask how far we can lay down any rules for the effects of climate on disease. Here again we cannot return a very definite answer; there are only a few facts which are well assured, and the rational basis of which is not far to seek. It is quite certain that high inland resorts, where the oxygen is deficient, the skin dry, evaporation rapid and perspiration suppressed, are bad for sufferers from renal disease; they are bad also for many cases of cardiac valvular disease, though by no means all. Further, it is obvious that chronic bronchitis and persons with a sensitive mucous membrane will do best in a warm equable climate, with little wind, and a moderate amount of moisture. When we get beyond a few elementary generalisations of this kind we are completely at a loss, so far as scientific reasoning goes. It might be supposed that the drier the climate the better it would be suited for rheumatism in its various forms, but this is by no means the case : in many cases the symptoms are distinctly worse, probably owing to the rapidity of evap- oration from heated surfaces in high dry climates. Again, who is prepared to say what is the ideal climate for phthisis, when so much depends on the character or stage of the disease, and so much on the idiosyncrasies of the individual. It matters not what health resort you visit, whether by the sea or in the mountains, you will find a large number of phthisical patients who attribute their recovery to the place, and are confident that they would not have got the same benefit elsewhere. This goes a long way to prove what is now strenuously contended for, that any healthy locality where there is abundance of fresh air is suitable for the treatment of phthisis, whether it be high or low ; but the writer has a strong opinion that to obtain the best results each individual must find the climate that suits him best. The vast majority of people feel better in one climate than another, and know very well where they are at their best. There is an "optimum" climate for the individual, just as there is an "optimum" temperature for different bacilli, and provided that that climate is not definitely contraindicated by the physical condition, each individual will do best in the climate he likes best. The present writer cannot agree with those who hold that difference of climate makes no difference, e.g. in the rate of healing of tubercular lesions, other conditions being equal; but this is a point which it is almost impossible either to prove or disprove. The upshot of this is that that medical man will act wisely and probably do the best for his patient, who within certain wide limits consults the patient's own likes and dislikes, and does not on a priori grounds commit him to Colorado or Madeira. In some cases, of course, it is impossible to be too emphatic as to the inadvisability of certain climates, but much a priori reasoning on the subject is falsified by experience. It might be supposed, for example, that altitude and diminished pressure would be bad for aneurisms, but this is absolutely not the case, unless there be valvular disease or extensive aortic degenera- tion associated with it. There is a climate which has many of the advantages of the high altitudes, viz. the bracing effects and purity of air and dryness, without the disadvantages of diminished pres- sure and cold : that is the climate of the desert, best obtained in Egypt or inland Algeria. We shall return to this later in dealing with separate health resorts. This part of the subject will best be closed by a word of warning as to journeys which are not infrequently fatal to invalids before they have arrived at their destination. Personal experience has convinced the writer that many invalids, and especially those who have not the means to travel in luxury, would have a far better chance of recovery if they remained at home, with home interests and home comforts. This applies particularly to those whose bodies are very dependent on their mental conditions, and who stand a good chance of finding them- selves stranded in a strange country with no friends and no occupation, and with nothing to dwell on but their own physical condition. This point is often unconsidered when the question arises of sending people abroad, yet it is one of the greatest importance, especially in the case of phthisical patients, many of whom belong to that type of mankind in whom the mental factor is very predominant. In the choice of a health resort for an individual case we have, therefore, first to consider whether the bodily condition is such as imperatively to demand a certain climate or debar others, e.g.