235 SMALLPOX calling at the house; these are the circumstances which sufficiently explain why in the one case the disease takes hold upon a town, and why in another case the outbreak is soon suppressed. The most careful, patient, and tactful in- quiries are necessary in tracing the connections between cases of smallpox, and it is only by these inquiries that fresh cases can be discovered in the early stage, and that missing links in the chain of evidence connecting cases together can clothing require to be destroyed, a liberal com- pensation should be paid under the terms of the Public Health Act. The rooms should be stripped of wall-paper, which is removed and burnt. Special inspectors, experienced in the work, should visit the houses to ascertain precise pai'ticulars as to the vac- cination of the inmates, visitors, and neighbours, and also endeavour to find out all the persons who have been in contact with the patient. HOUR TO 5 104 103 10£ lor 10O &9 98 I nr IT nr 3' ) 11 3 7 II 3 7 11 :? 7 II 3 7 II 3 7 II 3 11 3 7 II 5 7 II 7 II 3 7 II 3!7 II 3 7 II 3 7 II A \ 1 ■V --f- \ -f - T- -\- \ — - \ 4- \ I t \ k / s / \ Case IX. be found. It is desirable that legislation should impose a penalty upon responsible persons who wilfully withhold information, or knowingly give false information in answer to inquiries made by the medical officer of health. It is a good routine practice, that whenever a case of smallpox is notified under the terms of the Notification Act, or discovered by members of the staff, the patient should be at once removed to hospital, the house disinfected throughout, the bedding and clothing removed to the disinfecting station. If the bedding and Notice should be sent to the vaccination officer that the case has occurred, and full particulars of all contacts also sent to him. If any persons living in other towns have visited the patient, information must be at once sent to the medical officer of the district, and notice sent to the school attended by the children (if any), pre- cluding their further attendance. Absentees from school or business, class-mates, or work- mates of the patient must be sought, and when necessary notice sent to the employers. A special effort must be made to induce other