555 TERATOLOGY extroversio vesicae by the over-distension of the urinary bladder; and intestinal malformations by foetal peritonitis. It cannot be said that this manner of looking upon teratological produc- tions is in keeping with the most recent view of embryology and ontogenesis; for it is well known that the time when monstrosities are produced antedates that when diseases arise; and, therefore, it can hardly be maintained that the foetal diseases are the causes of the em- bryonic malformations. At the same time it cannot be doubted that diseases coming on in foetal life may have their manifestations altered by pre-existing malformations, and that, con- versely, pre-existing malformations may be modified by later-developed maladies. To this extent there is evidence in support of the patho- logical theory of teratogenesis. The third of the modern theories of terato- genesis may be termed the embryological, for it finds in an interference with the normal pro- cesses of embryogenesis the true explanation of teratological developments. Its distinguishing feature is the assertion that monstrosities are due, not to special causes, but to the causes of disease acting upon the embryonic organism. It is not that foetal diseases give rise to mon- strosities ; it is that the causes of foetal as well as adult diseases give rise, when acting upou the embryo, to embryonic malformations, and the embryonic malformations are the monstrosities. The proof of this conclusion lies mainly in the experimental work of Dareste and Fere, who have shown that by altering the incubation conditions it is possible artificially to produce deformed chicks. Fere, further, has demon- strated that by injecting toxic substances, germs, and toxines into the albumen of the hen's egg in the early stages of development, it is possible to cause maldevelopments and non-develop- ments ; that is to say, by bringing the ordinary causes of adult disease to bear upon the em- bryonic organism, monstrosities and not diseases result. The same thing has been shown with regard to many of the invertebrates, but the experiments upon the chick are naturally of more value in enabling us to draw conclusions regarding the human embryo. At the same time it is necessary to remember that it is not safe to expect that the details in the production of mammalian malformations will be the same as those which come into play in the origin of avian monstrosities: avian and mammalian em- bryology differ, and it is reasonable to expect that avian and mammalian teratogenesis will also differ, not perhaps in general principles, but certainly in details. It is particularly in- teresting to note that experiment has shown that just as the alcohols and aldehydes differ in their toxic powers, so also they vary in their teratogenic potency; further, the more toxic the alcohol is, the more capable it appears to be of producing monstrosities in the chick. This theory of teratogenesis receives a certain measure of support from the clinical histories of the parents of monstrous infants, for it is not uncommon to find that the mother (or the father) has been a sufferer from tubercle, sypliilis, alcoholism, an eruptive fever, or lead-poisoning during or before the pregnancy : the conclusion is that the poison or toxine has interfered with the normal processes of development. The manner in which the toxine, germ, or poison acts upon the embryo has not yet been fully ascertained; but some conclusions seem fairly to be warranted. It would seem, for instance, that the morbid cause very often acts by arresting normal embryogenesis. When the arrest is complete, the result is a non- development ; when it is partial, one organ or part of the body alone shows delay, the rest of the organism goes on developing around it, and the result is a monster. In this way most of the monstrosities by defect are probably pro- duced. With regard to the double monsters (united twins) and monstrosities by excess, it would seem that the morbid agency comes into play at an earlier than the embryonic period : it is a fairly probable hypothesis that it alters the chemistry of the ovum, or its immediate environment, and thus permits the passage of two spermatozoa through the vitelline mem- brane. Polyspermy thus produced would then be the cause of the development of two em- bryonic areas, and according as these lay separate or in contact, and were complete or incomplete, there would result normal twins or double monsters, or monsters by excess (accessory limbs, parasitic foetuses, etc.). An- other teratogenetic method would seem to he that by inclusion {'■^ enclavement"), by which it is meant that a whole foetus (more or less de- fective) is included within its twin brother or sister, or that in the case of a single foetus a part of its ectoderm becomes displaced inwards, and lies and undergoes some further develop- ment among the ectodermal and mesodermal tissues. Now and again, also, it would seem as if embryological phases which are normal in the development of certain animals, but which do not, as a rule, show themselves in human organo- genesis, appear in the latter, and so lead to atavic manifestations. Of course, it must be borne in mind that there is much obscurity in all these matters, and that many of the state- ments which are to be found in works on teratology are really hypothetical. It is safe to conclude that malformations and monstrosities, as a rule, represent faults in nutrition induced by one or other of the recog- nised causes of disease. Nutrition in the em- bryonic period of life results, of course, in development rather than in growth, and con- sequently defective nutrition will then interfere with development and produce maldevelopment. There will be an arrest of the formative pro-