SENSATION 127 have also the quite definite, although negative, characteristic, of vague localisation—however clearly felt, they cannot be precisely treated. (3) Epicritic sensibility—tactile sense in its restricted meaning, i.e. the power of appreciating gentle touches, of localising stimuli, of dis- criminating adjacent compass points, and of distinguishing between minor variations in warmth and coolness between 20° and 50° C. These three sets of impulses travel by different paths. The impulses concerned in deep sensibility are conveyed in the muscular nerves : when all the cutaneous nerves of a region are divided, the pressure of blunt objects can be recognised, but not distinguished from the prick of a sharp point; forcible pressure causes a sensation of bruising, and the position of the limb can be appreciated. Pi'otopathic sensibility is conveyed in many or all of the afferent nerves, both somatic and visceral; the viscera are probably endowed with the form of sensibility which forms a part of the great reflex system of the body. All the protopathic fibres from any area converge to the corresponding posterior root, which is therefore a unit of protopathic supply. Epicritic sensibility, the most highly developed form, is restricted to the skin, and endows it with a special tactile sense. All the epicritic fibres of any area converge to the corresponding branch of a peripheral cutaneous nerve, which is therefore the unit of epicritic supply. The relations of these forms of sensibility is best shown by considering the phenomena which follow division of a peripheral nerve. There is a large area of diminished sensibility, and within the confines of this a smaller region in which sensibility is completely absent. The partial anaesthesia is due to the abolition of epicritic, and the retention of protopathic sensibility; the complete anaesthesia is due to the abolition of both. The area of abolished epicritic sensibility has a well-defined margin, and coincides with the distribution of the cutaneous nerve injured ; there is no overlap of fibres from adjoining nerves, hence the phrase —a peripheral nerve is the unit of epicritic supply. The zone of protopathic anaesthesia has an ill-defined outline, and does not corre- spond with the anatomical distribution of any nerve; the difference in the distribution of the two forms of loss of sensibility from the same lesion shows that there is much overlapping of neighbouring protopathic fibres. If, however, a nerve root, instead of a peripheral trunk, is divided, the areas of epicritic and protopathic anaesthesia coincide with one another, and with the distribution of the root in question, which is therefore the unit of protopathic supply. Over the area of partial anaesthesia (which, as stated, has lost its epicritic, but retained its proto- pathic sensibility) we find {a) negatively that (1) light touches are not felt, (2) adjacent points are not discriminated, (3) temperatures between 20° and 50° C. are not distinguished as cool or warm ; {b) positively we find (1) that a prick causes pain, but indefinitely localised, widely diffused, and of a peculiar burning tingling character, (2) all temperatures below 20° and above 50° C. are described simply as cold or hot. Over the area of complete anaesthesia neither thermal, painful, nor tactile impulses are felt; deep sensility, however, remains. After suture of a divided peripheral nerve the protopathic fibres are the first to regain conductivity, i.e. the analgesic area disappears. The epicritic fibres are very much longer—months, or even years— in recovering their function. The hyperalgesia which so often succeeds nerve injuries follows the course of the protopathic fibres; on account of the overlap it greatly exceeds the area of epicritic loss. Nutritional changes run parallel in extent and duration to the abolition of epicritic sensibility. Sensory Spinal Mechanism.—In the cord the above threefold grouping of sensory impulses ceases to exist; the groups are dissociated, and the impulses redistributed. We have no longer to do with deep, protopathic, and epicritic sensibility, but with a group of sensations of pain, a group of sensations of temperature, a group of sensations of touch, and a group of sensations of passive position and movement and discrimination of adjacent points. Sensations of pain, heat, and cold pass up the side of the cord opposite to their point of entry ; they are closely, but not inextricably associated. Touch and pressure sensations, and the power of naming spots touched (" spot naming "), are also crossed. The sensations of passive position and move- ment and discrimination of adjacent points pass, uncrossed, up the side of the cord at which they enter. The detailed proof of these statements rests on Dr. Head's observations, particularly on cases of Brown - Sequard's paralysis, and in general depends on the fact that if a cord lesion abolishes pain, it abolishes it entirely—we never have cutaneous analgesia with retention of pain on deep pressure. Similarly, when from a cord lesion sensibility to light touch is destroyed, so also is the sensibility to deep tovich; and when the power of appreciating warmth and coolness goes, so does that of recognising extremes of tempera- ture. Further, the loss of sense of position goes hand in hand with the loss of power to discriminate between adjacent points. It follows, therefore, that in cord lesions we get an entirely different grouping of sensory disturbances from that which occurs in peri- pheral lesions. Head has happily termed the peripheral distribution the "primary level," and the cord distributien the "secondary level"; there is reason to suppose that in the brain a further recombination constituting a