SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 302 push of the upper part of the body can be restrained. An important question is, When may treatment be dispensed with in spinal caries 1 The absence of pain is no test, since pain naturally ceases if a support be worn. But if pain ensues on the removal of the support, the jacket must be put on again. Then if the deformity has remained stationary for a year or two, the support may gradually be dispensed with under careful super- vision. But in all cases it should be remembered that if the curvature be at or immediately above the eighth dorsal vertebra, axillary crutches and shoulder-straps should be used, and if it be above the fifth dorsal vertebra, a head support must be added to the spinal one. The Complications of Spinal Caries.—The most important are abscess, compression-para- plegia, and deformity. Spinal Abscess.—The tendency to the formation of abscess is greater the lower in the spine the disease occurs. And, roughly, it may be said that in out-patient practice about one case in ten develops an abscess. But the earlier the treat- ment is begun, and the more efficiently it is carried out, the less liable are abscesses to form. Yet it must not be assumed that the occurrence of abscess is evidence of incomplete treatment, for in many cases an abscess cannot be avoided. In the cervical region when an abscess forms, the direction the pus takes depends very largely upon the relation of the suppurative focus to the deep cervical fascia. Thus pus may pass directly forwards, and form a post-pharyngeal abscess with its dangerous train of symptoms, or it may pass laterally and appear at the anterior margin of the trapezius, or directly backwards and appear on either side of the vertebrte. Sometimes, however, it tracks down- wards, enters the posterior mediastinum, and opens through an intercostal space posteriorly. Pus formed in the dorsal region, if it comes from the upper or mid dorsal spine, appears as a dorsal abscess following the course of the posterior branches of the intercostal arteries. If pus arises in the lower dorsal vertebrte, it passes beneath the ligamentum arcuatum inter- num and forms a psoas abscess. If it arise in the dorso-lumbar and lumbar region, it may give rise to either a psoas, lumbar, iliac, or pelvic abscess, and its course is dependent upon the relation of the suppurative focus to the attachments of the lumbar fascia. The contents of the abscess vary; sometimes they are serous, or sero-purulent fluid with caseous masses. In old-standing cases the contents are cheesy, and in almost all cases fragments of carious and necrotic bone are found. The future course of an abscess is variable, but the great point is to prevent it bursting spontaneously and without antiseptic precautions, because the abscess track may become septic and persistent suppuration ensue. The question of spontaneous absorption arises. and there is no doubt that some of these abscesses become smaller in size, but this is due to absorption of the more fluid contents of the abscess sac, leaving behind a residuum of cheesy or calcareous material, in which numerous tubercle bacilli can occasionally be detected. Treatment.—-The methods of treating spinal abscess are many, and they are the following: —The expectant, by aspiration, incision and drainage, incision and cleansing of the cavity and sewing up. The method which the writer has pursued for the last five years in the treat- ment of these cases is as follows :—All cases of spinal abscess should be placed at rest and carefully watched, and sometimes it happens that the abscess spontaneously diminishes in size, and it is better to let it alone. But if it steadily increases in size, it is well to wait until it comes to a point easily accessible to treat- ment. Take, for example, a psoas abscess which appears above and below Poupart's ligament. When the abscess is approaching the subcutan- eous tissues it should be opened in at least three or four places—one incision, if possible, being in the lumbar region, one in the iliac region, and one below Poupart's ligament. The con- tents are then evacuated, and the abscess sac is thoroughly washed out with sterilised water, and cleansed and dried with sterilised sponges. Either iodoform emulsion, or better still, a solu- tion composed as follows : Menthol 3j- dissolved in 3j. of alcohol, and then added to one pint of glycerine and well mixed, should be injected, and the sides of the abscess cavity well rubbed with it. The excess of the menthol solution is then removed, all the apertures immediately stitched up, pressure pads placed along the course of the abscess cavity, and firm bandages applied. Very often the abscess heals by primary union, but occasionally it happens that a little fluid collects beneath one of the incisions, and can be evacuated aseptically later. When the child is kept at rest no further trouble ensues from the abscess if the case be merely one of caries. But if necrosis is going on in the vertebrse, a re-collection of pus must be looked for, which must be treated on the same lines. Compression-p>ara'plegia.—It occurs sooner or later in about one in eight cases of spinal dis- ease, but fortunately is by no means a promi- nent complication in most instances. It is not due, except in rare instances, to direct pressure of bone on the spinal cord, but it arises from the presence of granulation tissue in the spinal canal, or is due to the formation of intraspinal abscess; or—as the writer believes—the most frequent cause is the thickening of the mem- branes, a tubercular pachymeningitis. With reference to pressure on the cord by pus, it is a very true observation that abscess and compres- sion-paraplegia are very seldom associated, and further, that if an abscess makes its appearance the nerve symptoms subside. Unfortunately,