SURGICAL 385 STOMACH: nature of the injury is recognised. The clinical features are those which attend all severe abdominal injuries along with pain and tender- ness in the epigastrium, the presence of blood in the vomit, rigidity and retraction of the belly wall, and diminution or loss of the liver dulness. The symptoms tend to merge into those of perforation-peritonitis. The diagnosis is usually conjectural until an exploratory incision is made, and this should be undertaken without delay, unless contra-indicated by the general condition of the patient. The usual measures to alleviate shock are indispensable. When the belly is opened, the escape of gas and presence of gastric contents may confirm the diagnosis. Having discovered and closed the rupture of the stomach, the condition of the adjacent viscera should be investigated. Penetrating Wounds.—These are caused by stabs, bullet-wounds, falls on spikes, and such- like injuries. If the stomach be empty and the wound a small one, there may be no leakage or haemorrhage, and the wound may heal. Such has been the experience in recent warfare. In most cases met with in civil practice, the chances of natural recovery are very small indeed. The wound in the stomach is usually large enough to allow of the leakage of gastric contents, even if the stomach is said to be empty, and by involving a blood-vessel in the gastric wall or in the vicinity of the stomach, it may be attended with dangerous haemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity. The clinical features may at first give little grounds for suspecting the gravity of the lesion. The character of the wound itself is often misleading: it may be small and contracted; its track may have become valvular from muscular contraction, or it may be filled with blood-clot. Its situation may appear to contra-indicate a gastric lesion ; the author operated on a case where a gouge entered the belly below the navel, and slanting upwards penetrated the stomach close to the lesser curvature. There is but little shock, the belly is tender, and the respiratory movements are diminished or absent; the vomiting of unaltered blood or of blood blackened by digestion is fairly con- stant. The treatment is to enlarge the abdominal wound. If the belly cavity be penetrated, the wound is further enlarged for purposes of ex- ploration. The presence of blood or of gastric contents confirms the existence of a visceral lesion. The leakage of blood or other fluid must be traced to its source. If the original wound be unfavourably situated, a fresh incision may be made in the middle line. Bleeding points are seized and ligatured. The stomach is drawn down into the field of operation, and if there is a wound in its wall it is closed by a double row of sutures. If the edges are ragged and bruised they should be paired or inverted. VOL IX. A second wound should be looked for, especially in cases of pistol-shot injury. The soiled peri- toneum is wiped clean with gauze, and the belly wound is closed, usually without a drain. In warfare the routine treatment is to place the patient under the influence of opium, to feed him exclusively by the bowel, and keep him under observation in case of complications, such as perigastric abscess. Injuries of Stomach from Within. — The stomach may be perforated by objects passed down the gullet, as in the case of " sword- swallowers," or from the unskilful passage of bougies. Diagnosis is rarely possible without an exploratory incision. The Effects of Corrosive Poisons.—Concen- trated acids or alkalies corrode the stomach, so that it may give way either at the time or later by sloughing, or the destruction of tissue may subsequently result in cicatricial contraction. The corrosion chiefly aff"ects the lesser curvature and pylorus, hence the cicatrisa- tion leads to hour-glass stomach and to pyloric stenosis, and either of these may be complicated by stricture of the gullet. These after-effects are treated on the same lines as the corre- sponding lesions from other causes. It is essen- tial for success that operative interference be undertaken before the patient's strength is seriously impaired. Foreign Bodies in the Stomach.—The most common objects to be swallowed accidentally are plates of false teeth and bones of animals. The range of objects swallowed by performing artists, lunatics, and others includes knives, forks, nails, coins, etc. Impaction in the pyloric orifice is rare ; the body either passes the pylorus or remains in the stomach, and it may do so for long periods without damage. Sharp-pointed objects may directly perforate into the peritoneal cavity or cause ulceration, perigastric adhesions, localised abscess, gastric fistula, or perforation- peritonitis. The clinical features vary widely, but in the main they resemble those of gastric ulcer and its complications. Large objects may be palpated through the abdominal wall. Metallic objects are demonstrated by the X-rays. Treatment.—If the body is likely to pass the pylorus and bowels without damage, its passage may be rendered safer by a diet in which chopped-up worsted and milk puddings bulk largely. Daily observations are made with the X-rays, and the stools are strained over muslin. Bodies which are likely to do damage are best removed by gastrotomy. Hair-halls, which are met with in girls who chew and swallow their own hair, may form a mass as large as a fist, or form a cast of the entire stomach. (In Mr. Swain's case the mass weighed 5 lbs. 3 oz.) They cause gastric pain, indigestion, and emaciation, and a tumour is to be felt in the epigastric region, which is possessed of such mobility that it has been 25