SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE 273 rotation of the chin towards the opposite shoulder is interfered with. Paralysis of the trapezius resulting from a lesion of the spinal accessory nerve is usually incomplete, the reason being that this muscle is also supplied by the third and fourth cervical nerves. The upper part of the muscle may be completely paralysed. When the trapezius is paralysed the point of shoulder on the aiTected side hangs lower than its fellow, and the superior angle of the scapula lies nearer the middle line than is normally the case. The natural slope of the neck from the head to the shoulder, which is formed by the upper fibres of the trapezius, is lost; the side of the neck which is now formed by the levator anguli scapulae muscle is more concave than in health. When the upper part of both trapezii is paralysed there is a tendency for the head to fall forward, and the shoulders can no longer be raised towards the ears. The vertebral borders of the scapulae cannot be approximated to the middle line so efficiently as formerly. The scapula does not project from the chest-wall when the arm is held out in front of the body, as is the case in paralysis of the serratus magnus. Atrophy and associated alterations in the electrical excitability of the muscles accompany the paralysis. The diagnosis of the nature and position of the lesion is to be based upon the history and the associated symptoms. Thus, if the lesion is in the vertebral canal, symptoms pointing to an affection of the spinal cord will probably be present] whereas, if it is intra-cranial, in all probability there will be involvement of the ninth, tenth, and perhaps other cranial nerves. The paralysis is commonly unilateral, but it may be bilateral, as, for example, in progressive muscular atrophy. Spinal Caries. See Spine, Surgi- cal Affections of {Caries); Syringomyelia {Diagnosis). Spinal Cord. The surgical affections of the spinal cord and spine are considered later (p. 286). Anatomical Considerations . . . 273 Vascular Supply . . . . .277 Physiological Considerations . . 277 General Symptomatology . , . 278 Morbid Anatomy— Developmental Peculiarities . . 282 Traumatic Lesions .... 283 Vascular Lesions . . . . .283 Thrombosis . . . . . .283 Toxic Conditions. . . . .284 Degenerations . . . . .285 Infections . . , , . .286 I^ew Growths ..... 286 Compression Myelitis . . . .286 VOL. IX See also Alcoholism {Pathology); Balne- ology {In Disorders of the Nervous System); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Etiology, Predisposing Causes); Deformities {Compression Paraplegia in Spinal Paralysis); Deformities {Rickets, Spine); Fractures {Pelvis); Hysteria {Spinal Hypercesthesia); Hysteria, Surgical Aspects OF {Hysteria of the Spine); Joints, Diseases of' {Neuro-Arthropathies); Neurasthenia ; Osteo- arthropathies ; Osteomalacia ; Parai,ysis (Varieties); Post-mortem Methods {Head and Spinal Cord); Pupil {Spinal Myosis); Syphilis {Tertiary); Syringomyelia] Spina Bifida; Tabes Dorsalis ; Teratology {Malformations of Spine); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce, Typhoid Spine); Visceral Pain {Tender Spine); Wry-Neck. Anatomical Considerations.—The spinal cord evidences the metamerio segmentation of the ancestral animal more perfectly than does any structure in the human body, and a spinal segment is anatomically defined as a portion of the spinal cord limited by the most anterior (cephalic) and posterior (caudal) fibres re- spectively of one pair of spinal nerves. Such a segment consists essentially of a mass of nerve cells; of fibres connecting the mass of cells (1) with other segments situated both cephalwards and caudalwards, and (2) with higher parts of the central nervous system ; and of afferent and efferent paths (the nerve roots) distributed to all parts of the corresponding somatic segment. The segmentation of the spinal cord does not, however, involve the grey matter, and func- tionally the segments have lost to a great extent their segmental distinctness. Such functional segmental separation exists to a much greater extent in the thoracic region where somatic segmentation is still apparent than in the limb regions; and throughout the spinal cord it is more marked as regards sensory-supply than as regards motor-supply. As an instance of the great importance of the last statement, it is held that no skeletal muscle receives supply from less than three spinal segments, though it may be supplied by one root. The sensory areas {vide vol. vii. p. 280) which are of the utmost value in localisation of spinal disease are sometimes referred to as segmental areas, but it is obvious, since there is no distinction in the grey matter between the segments, and since from the nature of the grey matter in warm-blooded animals its destruction in one segment interferes with the functional capacity of neighbouring segments situated caudally, that neither experimentally nor pathologically is it possible to deduce the sensory area corresponding with the segment. The " sensory areas" then are either areas of root-supply, or their limits have been deduced from cases of transverse lesions of the spinal cord. 18