347 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF basis for the consideration of disturbances of the function (indigestion or dyspepsia) and of diseases of the organs involved. Clearly the first consideration in respect to digestion is the food, its nature and character, more particularly the quantity and its appor- tionment into properly regulated meals at suitable intervals ; the state of mechanical sub- division as effected by cooking, mastication, etc., in which it is presented to the gastric mucosa; its freedom or otherwise from physically in- jurious or poisonous constituents; and lastly, its nutritive composition, containing, that is, the needful proportion of the several alimentary principles. From the aspect of gastric secretion there is required for a normal digestion a sufficient quantity of the fluid, with no deficiency and no great excess of hydrochloric acid ('1 to '25 per cent), poured into the stomach when food is there and not in the intervals when the organ is empty, which partly combines with the proteids present and in part (not more than 1 per 1000) remains free. By this agent, com- bined with pepsin, the proteids are chiefly digested and passed on into the intestines as albumoses and peptones. The chief proteid of milk, caseinogen, is coagulated and converted into casein by a special enzyme (rennin), and is afterwards peptonised by the pepsin and hydro- chloric acid. The digestion of the starch elements of the food which has been commenced by the ptyalin of the saliva is arrested by the free hydi-ochloric acid, and hence an excess of meat food in a meal gives a better chance to the continued digestion of the farinaceous food in the stomach by using up the acid, whilst an excess of starches or sugars diminishes the opportunity of their con- version. Further, the normal lactic, acetic, and other bacterial fermentations which take place in the stomach in the carbohydrate food- stuffs partially increase after the middle period of gastric digestion, but are normally held in check by the free hydrochloric acid present, whilst a deficiency of this material or a great excess of carbohydrates leads to the formation of undue quantities of the organic acids. The neutral fats of the food ordinarily under- go but little change beyond being melted in the stomach, only a slight decomposition and liberation of fatty acids, possibly due to bacterial agency. Hence portions of meat or other sub- stances, that might be satisfactorily dealt with in the mouth or stomach, may pass on un- digested if coated with a layer of fat such as melted butter. The various salts, phosphates, carbonates, malates, and other inorganic compounds occur- ring in the food undergo some decomposition due to gastric juice, the hydrochloric acid of which is derived from the sodium chlorides. Excessive quantities of some of these substances are apt prejudicially to aff'ect the activity of the gastric secretion. The mutual interference of the several ali- mentary constituents in the course of their digestion in the stomach is a circumstance of considerable importance, and to be taken into account in tlie treatment of dyspepsia and the framing of a suitable dietary. And still more is this so in respect to certain food accessories, such as alcohol, tea, coffee, and condiments. The first-named, unless very concentrated, appears to be less harmful to digestion than is ordinarily supposed, and being one of the few materials which are absorbed from the stomach, its stimulant effect on the circulation may be actually beneficial, especially in a condition of exhaustion. Experimentally, it has been shown that tea and coffee do interfere with the peptic digestion of proteids. The normal stimulus to the gastric secretion is less the contact of the food with the mucosa than the chemical qualities of the ingesta and the psychical states of appetite, sight and smell of food, with the pleasurable anticipation of a meal in agreeable surroundings. Hence some secretion takes place even before the food is swallowed. Moreover, it is said that different kinds of food excite the secretion of a juice best fitted for its own digestion, richer or purer in ferment or acid, and in greater or less quantity as may be required. Some alimentary principles, as fats, appear even to prevent the secretion. Important, if true, as enabling digestive habits to be readily established. The germicidal action of the gastric juice is also a fact that has important bearings, by restricting the fermentations which normally take place in the stomach, and also by destroy- ing many pathogenetic organisms which enter with the food. Regarded as a whole, the digestive changes which take place in the stomach may be looked upon as a preliminary—desirable, but not essential—to those which are carried on lower down in the intestine. During the very short time occupied by the passage of the chyme through the first half of the duodenum nothing special is to be noted; but below the entrance of the biliary and pancreatic ducts the alkaline fluids then poured into the canal neutralise the acidity of the chyme and cause a precipitation of albumoses. The way is also cleared for a further digestion of the proteids, and of the starches and of the fats, by the pancreatic juice. The efficiency of the gastric juice will be likely to be impaired if too much fluid be taken with meals, thereby unfavourably diluting the secretion. At the same time harm may result from a too sparing fluid diet by hindering the adequate mixing of the stomach contents. This mixing is effected by the normal churning movements of the cardiac two-thirds of the organ, and since it is in this region that the