SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 105 of a hernia and the wearing of a truss. The swelHng may be inguinal or scrotal; it is fluctuant and translucent, and diminishes on pressure only if the opening into the peritoneal cavity is patent. It occurs later in life, is of larger size, and contains a darker coloured fluid than encysted hydrocele of the cord. Treatment.—Simple tapping may be tried, but if anything further has to be done the complete removal of the sac on the lines followed in radical cure of hernia should be the treatment. Inguinal hydrocele is the name given to vaginal hydrocele when the testis is unde- scended, and occupies a position somewhere between the internal abdominal ring and the scrotum ; or the testis may have passed through the external ring, and be situated between the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle and the integuments. It presents itself as a tense, fluctuating, translucent swelling, irreducible, often with an impulse on coughing. The empty half of the scrotum and the testicular sensation at the site of swelling make the diagnosis complete. If anything more than simple tapping is required, excision of the sac with the testis is the best treatment, the weakened canal being secured against any tendency to subsequent hernial protrusion by closure, as adopted in operations for the radical cure of inguinal rupture. Hydrocele op the cord may be diffused or circumscribed. Diffuse or Infiltrated Hydrocele of the Cord.— This is a very rare affection, and was first described by Pott. Its existence has been doubted by many authorities, but of its occasional occurrence the writer can speak positively from his own experience. The spermatic cord is enveloped by a loose layer of connective tissue, which imites its several constituents and is continuous above with the sheaths of the abdominal muscles, while below it may be traced over the epididymis con- tinuously with the subserous connective tissue beneath the tunica vaginalis. The cremaster muscle is spread out upon its outer surface. This connective tissue, which is described by some anatomists as a separate fascia, the tunica vaginalis communis, becomes occasionally the seat of a diff"use serous infiltra- tion. This is probably of the nature of an oedema, but its causes are obscure. This connective tissue is very rich in lymphatics and small veins, and probably any obstruction from pressure above and within the abdomen will produce the diffuse hydrocele. Symptoms.—The swelling is uniform, cylind- rical, or pyriform, with the large end down- wards. The base of the tumour is formed by the firm fibrous tissue, which just above the testicle forms a septum below which the eff'usion cannot extend. The smoothness and uniformity of outline are due to the fluid being bound down by the tunica vaginalis communis. The cord is larger than usual, and feels somewhat like a soft omental hernia. Testis and epi- didymis below are normal. Pain is absent, discomfort from the dragging weight is felt in the loin. By gentle and continued pressure the swelling can be made to recede, but it returns quickly when the pressure is removed, and that as readily when the patient is lying down as when he is erect. Diagnosis is difficult and uncertain, it re- sembles most closely an old thickened omental hernia; both extend upward along the cord into the inguinal canal; both feel somewhat dense, but little yielding to pressure, and neither is sensitive to handling. The points of distinc- tion are chiefly the marked cough impulse in the hernia, its lobular or granulated feel, its complete reducibility, leaving the cord and external abdominal ring free and clear. Where such a hernia is irreducible diagnosis is very difficult, and can only be determined when necessary by careful puncture or incision. From an encysted hydrocele the diffused form may be known by its less clearly marked and less rounded outline, its extension upwards, and the alteration produced on it by pressure. Treatment.—Unless this form of hydrocele attains a large size and becomes consequently a real incumbrance, it is better left alone. It cannot be satisfactorily emptied by tapping, as the fluid comes away drop by drop only, and is secreted almost as quickly as it escapes. If for any reason radical treatment is called for, com- plete aseptic excision of the tumour along with the testis and cord as high up as possible is probably the least dangerous treatment. Encysted hydrocele of the cord is the term applied to circumscribed serous collections in the spermatic cord which have no connection with the tunica vaginalis. They occur in any part of, and affect any extent of the cord, but they are most commonly met with in the in- guinal canal, and are usually of short length. More than one may be present. They are due to effusions into unobliterated portions of a funicular process which has become shut off" at its upper end from the peritoneal cavity, and at its lower from the tunica vaginalis. They are met with in young patients, usually on the right side, as ovoid or elongated circumscribed tumours, smooth, painless, elastic, and trans- lucent. They are apparently freely mobile, and when of short length may be pushed or coughed in and out of the inguinal canal, either towards the peritoneum or scrotum, in the readiest manner. They are often mistaken for hernias because of their marked indirect impulse on coughing, but are easily distinguishable there- from by their translucency and by their tension, without symptoms of strangulation or discom- fort of any kind. Exploratory puncture with