SALIVARY GLANDS, DISORDERS OF 26 will be of service in most cases, and the imperfect oxygenation of the blood may be improved by inhalations of oxygen. Xerostomia The salivary glands sometimes strike work entirely and permanently without any known cause, and there results the condition known as xerostomia or dry mouth. But the loss of function is not limited to the salivary glands, for the nose and eyes are often similarly and simultaneously affected. Out of forty recorded cases thirty-two occurred in females, the mouth and tongue were alone affected in thirty-six, the nose also in ten, and the eyes also in seven. In these cases the tongue appears red, cracked, absolutely dry, and the papillas are markedly atrophied. The inside of the cheeks and the hard and soft palate are dry, whilst the mucous membrane of the mouth is soft, smooth, shining, and pale. The teeth often crumble away or fall out. The general health of the patient remains unimpaired and the digestion does not appear to be affected, though swallow- ing is difficult and the speech is hampered by the dryness of the throat. All the salivary glands must be implicated, but the parotid alone shows any gross lesions. It is sometimes enlarged either permanently or intermittently, occasionally it is tender and once it ulcerated. No treatment is curative, but some improve- ment is said to have taken place after the administration of pilocarpin in doses of one- twentieth to one-tenth of a grain given by the mouth. Ptyalism Ptyalism or salivation is an unduly abundant flow of saliva due to excessive activity of the salivary glands. It is thus the opposite con- dition to that producing xerostomia. It occurs physiologically in pregnancy and during den- tition. Pathologically in various affections of the mouth, in hydrophobia, and in some fevers: therapeutically as a result of the administration of mercury, pilocarpin, iodine, and copper salts. The condition must be treated casually, but increased comfort will be obtained from astrin- gent mouth-washes, and especially from a solution of potassium chlorate of the strength of twenty grains to the ounce. Tumours The tumours affecting the salivary glands may be classified as innocent and malignant; the innocent tumours being further subdivided into cystic and solid. Ranula Ranula is the name given generically to all cystic tumours of the floor of the mouth which are formed in connection with the salivary glands. Ranulse are either sublingual sub- mental, or congenital. The Sublingual Ranula is the ordinary form of tumour. It is situated in the floor of the mouth, and appears at first on one side of the frsenum of the tongue as a tense, shiny, and bluish swelling, which often attains so large a size as to push the tongue upwards, thus inter- fering with speech and mastication. The mucous membrane moves freely over the tense cyst, and incision of the swelling allows of the escape of clear fluid, which is sometimes as thin as saliva, but is more often glairy. Microscopical exami- nation of the fluid shows that it contains epi- thelial cells in various stages of cystic degenera- tion. Chemical investigation proves it to contain mucin and albumin, whilst it is free from any amylolytic ferment or sulphocyanide of potas- sium. It is not therefore simple or inspissated saliva. Pathology.—It was taught for a long time that a ranula was due to blocking of Wharton's duct. But this can be disproved by the fact that in some instances a bristle can be passed along this duct when a ranula is present. Pathological opinion then shifted and said that a ranula was due to a dilatation of the glands of Nuhn or Blandin which lie near the front of the under surface of the tongue covered by some fibres of the genio-hyoglossus. But microscopi- cal examination of the walls of the cyst shows that they contain pouches and diverticula lined by glandular epithelium in various stages of cystic degeneration, and that they are not simply derived from dilated ducts. The more likely explanation of a ranula is to be found in the fact that it is a true cystic degeneration of some of the many glandular structures in the floor of the mouth. Its origin is not always the same, as it may sometimes be formed by the cystic degeneration of the submucous follicle, sometimes of the sublingual gland, and less frequently of the glands of Nuhn. Treatment.—Simple incision of a ranula is neither easy nor serviceable, as the mucous membrane slides over the tense cyst wall so readily that it is difficult to puncture the cyst, and if only a small opening be made the cyst rapidly refills and becomes as troublesome as ever. The cyst should therefore be dealt with methodically. The patient should be placed in a good light, and the floor of the mouth should be rendered insensitive with cocaine. The mucous membrane is then seized with a pair of nibbed forceps and incised freely over the cyst. The cyst must afterwards be opened, and as miich as possible of the wall should be cut away with a pair of blunt pointed scissors. The inner wall of the cyst is then to be well rubbed with a pledget of absorbent wool wrapped round the end of a pair of pressure forceps, and soaked in a solution of zinc chloride (40 grains to the ounce). This rubbing must be done effectually, for the cyst wall may be itself honeycombed with smaller cysts. The cyst is then well washed