SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 297 patient, if left to herself, will " grow out" of it, but experience shows that such cases grow into it rather than out of it. Errors in prognosis are common. The first is, that the deformity is of the most serious nature; and the second is, that it is a trivial affection and will be out- grown. It may be briefly said that rickety scoliosis, beginning early as it does, and per- sisting all through the years of growth, is apt to do badly, and so do cases in which there is an hereditary history, and those following empyema and pleurisy and infantile paralysis. The later the age at which the deformity commences the better the prognosis, for the nearer is the age at which spontaneous arrest may occur. If the bodily health is well main- tained the prognosis is better. Patients with long, narrow, and yielding spines, who grow rapidly, are generally bad subjects, and curva- tures high up in the spine are troublesome to treat on account of the difficulty of giving efficient support. To persist in an unsuitable occupation naturally makes the prognosis un- favourable. Prevention and Treatment.—The essentials of treatment of scoliosis are—(a) To prevent the deformity if threatened; (6) To correct it when present; (c) To maintain the correction. (a) Prevention.—Careful attention should be paid to measures for improvement of the general health and nutrition. Weakly and town-bred children should be sent away into the country, and general loss of tone calls for massage, the use of the tepid bath in the morning, moderate exercise, and simple and sufficient diet. Children suffering from rickets or adenoids must be at once placed under treatment. All faulty positions should be corrected, and suitable chairs and seats ordered. The chief points in determining the suitability of chairs and desks may be thus enumerated :— The back of the chair should be at an angle of 120°, and shaped so that it fits the lumbar and dorsal curves, and suppoi-ts the whole spine. If the child be round-shouldered the back of the chair should be carried up sufficiently high to support the head and cervical curve. The seat should be of the same depth as the child's thighs, or a little less, and about the length of his legs from the ground, and sloped backwards at an angle of 10°. The distance from the top of the seat to the top of the desk or table should be one-eighth of the height of a girl and one-seventh that of a boy. To all school desks a comfortable foot-rest inclined at an angle of 20° should be added. The various means of treatment for the correction of the deformity and the maintenance of that correction are as follows :—1. Treatment of a general nature directed to the restoration of the general health. 2. Recumbency, to relieve the distorted spine of the superincum- bent weight. 3. Postural methods which teach the patient the assumption of correct attitudes. 4. Exercises so planned as to in- crease the strength of the weaker muscles, and at the same time to bring into action to a less degree the normal ones. With the exer- cises massage can be advantageously joined. 5. Methodical correction of the curves by man- ipulation by the combined efforts of the patient and surgeon. 6. Artificial aids to the mainten- ance of the erect position. But it should be noted at once that such aids should be avoided as much as possible, and the more physiological methods tried. There is no doubt that those cases are in a minority where any one of the above means of treatment is alone applicable, and the keynote of successful treatment lies in a judicious com- bination of the measures enumerated, due care being taken to see that all predisposing causes are eliminated. We will speak of these various measures in order. Recumbency can only be employed to a limited extent, and most cases will not require more than one to three hours daily. It may be carried out either in the supine or prone position, or in the lateral position with a firm pillow placed beneath the ribs on the convex side. A Wolff's suspensory cradle is viseful for carrying out lateral decubitus. In slighter cases partial recumbency for two to four hours daily is sufficient, and Ward's reclining-chair, adapt- able to any angle, is of great value. Postural methods: — All faulty sitting and standing should be corrected, and regular drilling for half an hour daily may be resorted to. Patients who habitually stand at ease should have any shortening of one leg compensated by a cork sole. In cases of primary lumbar curvature Volkmann's oblique seat is very useful. Exer- cises are of the greatest value, and of all forms the manipulations designated Swedish are the best, and with the exercises massage of the weakly muscles is extremely valuable. In addi- tion it is also important to develop the chest as much as possible by singing exercises. Dumb- bells and Indian clubs are spoken highly of by some writers, but they are often unnecessarily heavy. Treatment by suspension from two parallel horizontal bars is also useful, except in cases where the spinal muscles are weak. When these bars are used, the hand on the concave side of the spine should be placed on the higher bar. Or a single bar may be swung obliquely, and then the hand on the concave side is placed on the higher part of it. Methodical correction by manipulation is useful, and it is carried out as follows :—The patient lies prone on the couch with the arms fully extended, and the couch is tilted slightly at the head. The attendant then presses on the convex ribs in a direction forwards and to the opposite side in such a way as to press all the prominent ribs in succession with the object of diminishing their projection,