456 SYNCOPE strain, and of gouty heart, a tendency to syn- cope and actual fainting are not uncommon. In cases of bradycardia there may be syncopal attacks. The cases of this nature have, as a rule, been in persons of advanced years affected with marked arteriosclerosis, whilst in some of these cases the syncopal attacks have been re- placed by attacks of vertigo or by epileptiform seizures. Syncope is also liable to occur in cases of antemia, as in chlorosis and in the ansemia resulting from hsemoi'rhage, further in persons suffering from organic brain affections and chronic renal disease, and may be one of the immediate effects of pneumothorax or of the rapid withdrawal of a large pleural effusion. Fatal syncope is seen in diphtheria, most com- monly during the convalescence of the patient, and in croupous pneumonia, being in both these latter instances usually brought on by some muscular effort, as, for example, when the patient attempts to sit up in bed. In the diagnosis of syncope, one must be careful not to mistake an epileptic seizure for a fainting attack. Error can hardly arise in the case of a typical attack of grand mal. In the milder and atypical forms of epilepsy there is more difficulty, especially when one is dealing with girls and women. The biting of the tongue, the occurrence of the attack during sleep, the involuntary passage of urine, and the full bounding pulse during seizure, are some of the points which serve to distinguish epilepsy from syncope. Syncope very rarely leads to a fatal issue unless the individual be suffering from some serious disease such as fatty heart, aortic in- competence, renal disease, or pneumonia. Treatment.—The main object of treatment being to promote the passage of blood to the brain, the patient's body should be at once brought into the horizontal position and the head kept low, lower if possible than the rest of the body, whilst the feet and legs may at the same time be elevated. The loosening of any tight clothing about the chest is also indicated. To induce contraction of the cutaneous blood- vessels friction should be applied to the limbs, and the patient should obtain plenty fresh cool air, the heart's action being stimulated by the inhalation of ammonia and by throwing cold water upon the face. If these measures fail to restore consciousness, sinapisms should be ap- plied to the precordia, the extremities bandaged, and some cardiac stimulant injected hypoder- mically. It is seldom necessary to resort to transfusion or to artificial respiration. After the patient has regained consciousness, it is advisable tliat the recumbent position be main- tained for some time, and a little stimulant may be given by the mouth, unless there be reason to suspect ha;morrhage. Syncytiolysin.—A material believed to be developed in the maternal blood, which renders innocuous a poison (syncytiotoxin) pro- duced by the foetal tissues during pregnancy, but if found in excess causes eclampsia. See Eclampsia, Recent Theories {Placental Origin). Syncytioma..—A tumour composed of syncytial (plasmodial) elements; deciduoma or chorioma malignum or chorion epithelioma. Syncytium.—^The epithelium which covers the villi of the chorion in the young placenta; it shows no cell outlines, and is a Plasmodium with many nuclei. See Pregnancy, Pathology of. Ovum and Decidua {Affections of Chorion). Syndactyly or Syndactylism. —Adhesion of the fingers or toes to each other; webbing of the digits. See Deformities {Hands and Fingers., Webbed); Deformities {Toes, Syn- dactylism). SyndesmitiS.—Inflammation of a liga- ment (Gr. crw, with, and hea-fios, a band). Syndesmotomy.—Division of a liga- ment ; Parker's operation. Syndrome. — A symptom - complex or group of symptoms constituting the typical clinical picture of any disease (Gr. crw, with, and SpofjLos, a running), e.g. Potain's syndrome {q.v.). Synechia.—A pathological union of neighbouring parts, e.g. of the pericardium, or of the iris to the cornea or to the capsule of the lens; synechotomy is the division of such a union. Synerg'y.—The correlation of functional activity between different organs, healthy or diseased. Syngenesis.—Reproduction by means of two sexual elements (ovum and spermato- zoon) ; the theory that the embryo contains the germs of all future generations. Synkinesis.—A movement of one (para- lysed) part of the body occurring at the same time as that of another (non-paralysed) part and as the result of it, the former movement being involuntary and the latter voluntary or reflex. Synocha or Synochus. — A con- tinued fever (Gr. o-wox??, a holding together). Synopsia or Synophthalmia.— Fusion (complete or incomplete) of the two eyes; cyclopia {(/.v.). Synorchism or Synorchidy.— Fusion, more or less complete, of the two testicles. Synostosis or Synosteosis.— Union or ankylosis of bones which are normally separated. See Joints, Diseases of {Impaired Mobility, Bony Ankylosis).