448 SURFACE WATER Surface Water. See Water {Rain). Surg'eOII. — One who practises surgery (Gr. x'^'-Pi hand, and epyeiv, to work) as distinguished from medicine, or, more generally, a general practitioner; it forms part of such com- pound words as surgeon-accoucheur (a surgeon who practises midwifery) and surgeon-apothe- cary (one who has passed the examinations of the Royal College of Surgeons, England, and of the Apothecaries' Hall); in the Naval, Mili- tary, and Indian Services such titles as Surgeon, Staff-Surgeon, Fleet-Surgeon, Surgeon-Captain, Surgeon - Major, Surgeon - Lieutenant - Colonel, and Surgeon-General are now given to medical men in these services. Surg'ery. — The work and art of the surgeon, especially when that is operative. There are various subdivisions into aural surgery, clinical surgery, dental surgery, mili- tary surgery, orthopsedic surgery, and plastic (reparative) surgery. See Aseptic Treatment OF Wounds, and many of the articles in this Encyclopcedia and Dictionary, such as Abdomen, Injuries of ; Ankle-Joint, Injuries and Dis- eases OF ; Bladder; Bone ; Brain, Surgery of ; etc. Sufg^icala—Belonging to surgery or to a surgeon : e.g. sm^gical anatomy, or anatomy considered specially with a view to the proper performance of operations; surgical neck of the humerus, or that part of the bone which is thin and so more prone to fracture than the thicker part (anatomical neck). Surmenag^e.—The condition of body and mind due to over-exertion, strain, or over- pressure (Fr. surmener, to overdrive). Surra. See Parasites (Protozoa, Mastigo- phora, Trypanosoma Evansi). Surrog^ate or Surrogratum.—A drug substituted (Lat. sticcedo, I come in the place of) for another which is more expensive or less suitable ; succedaneum. Suspended Animation. See As- phyxia ; Catalepsy ; etc. Suspension.—A method of treatment in which the patient is placed in a hanging- position (supported by neck, chin, and shoulders); it has been recommended in tabes dorsalis. See Tabes Dorsalis (IVeatment, Mechanical). Suspensory.—Supporting or serving to suspend an injured or affected part; e.g. a sus- pensory bandage for the scrotum or breast, the suspensory ligament of the lens, etc. Sustentaculum.—A supporting part (Lat. sustento, I support); e.g. the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, for the support of the astragalus, and the sustentaculum lienis or phreno- colic ligament, on which the base of the spleen rests. Susurrus.—A whispering sound heard over aneurysms, contracting muscles, etc. (Lat. s^ls^lrro, I hum or buzz). Sutures.—The lines along which the cranial bones fuse together in ossification, or the stitches which are used to close incisions in operative surgery. See Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Disinfection of Ligatures and Sutures); Children, Clinical Examination of {Bead, Ossi- fication) ; Hydrocephalus {Morbid Anatomy); Labour, Physiology of (Passenger, Foetal Head). Suzanne's Gland.—A small mucous gland in the floor of the mouth. SwallOWing;'. See Alcoholism (Chronic, Symptoms, Difficulty in Swallowing); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels (Paralysis from Vascular Lesions, Reflexes); Cerebellum, Ap fections of (Tumour, Symptoms, Deglutition); Dysphagia ; Larynx, Acute and Chronic In flammations (Foreign Bodies in Larynx) OESOPHAGUS; Paralysis (Cerebral Diplegia, Clinical Aspect); Physiology, Food and Diges- tion (Sivallowing). Swaniinbar. See Balneology (Grea Britain, Ireland, Sulphur). Sweat Glands. See Skin, Anatom AND Physiology (Coil-Glands); Skin, Diseases OF Sweat and Sebaceous Glands. Sweating^. See Aorta, Thoracic An- eurysm (Symptoms); Diaphoretics ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (Malignant Endocarditis, Symptoms); Hysteria (Disorders of Circulation and Trophic Disorders); Labour, Stages and Duration (Second Stage, Consti- tutional Symptoms); Liver (Tropical Abscess, Symptoms); Lung, Tuberculosis op (Constitu- tional Symptoms, Sweating); Malaria (Symp- toms) ; Mediastinum (Tumoiirs, Symptoms, Uni- lateral Sweating); Meningitis, Tuberculous (Symptoms); Physiology, Excretion (Excretion by the Skin); Psoriasis (Sweat-Duct Psoriasis); Rheumatism, Acute (Symptoms); Rheumatism IN Children ; Skin, Anatomy and Physiology ; Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands ; Syringomyelia (Symptoms, Paralysis of Cervical Sympathetic); Typhoid Fbvee (Symptoms); Undulant Fever (Symptoms, Tegumentary System). Sweden. See Balneology (Nonvay and Sweden). Swedish System.—Ling's system of active and passive movements with massage used in the treatment of various diseases.