SCLEROTIC, DISEASES OF THE 77 to enter its substance from the periphery, the excision of a circumcorneal ring of conjunctiva tends, by cutting off the abnormal vascular supply, to facilitate the disappearance of nebu- lous opacities, and so to improve the sight. At other times the excision of a piece of iris opposite the clearest part of the cornea not only reduces the intraocular tension, but forms, at the same time an artificial pupil, thereby restoring a measure of sight to an eye which had till then been practically blind. The incision must be made as much in the sclerotic as possible, and the iris separated completely from its ciliary attachment, care being after- wards taken that its cut edges are in no way caught in the lips of the wound. In sclerotitis, however, it is not wise to perform an iridectomy until all acute inflammatory symptoms have passed away, because if the operation be pre- mature it may aggravate matters, and be speedily followed by a rapid distension of the eyeball. Scleral paracentesis and peritomy are, on the whole, the safest operations, as they can be repeated again and again, and are never likely to do any harm. Unfortunately, however, in the steady downward course of events the time comes when sight is altogether lost, and then, in order to relieve the patient from intolerable suffering, the disorganised eye- ball must be enucleated. Injuries of the Sclerotic Wounds of the sclerotic may be divided into lacerated, incised, and punctured. Those of the first class are the result of a blow, which causes a rupture of the sclera— most frequently at the upper and inner aspect of the globe, and concentric to the cor- neal margin. The part of the sclera which bursts is that which overlies the canal of Schlemm, from two to three millimetres from the margin of the cornea. A blow severe enough to rupture the eyeball always causes damage to the deeper parts. Very frequently the lens is dislocated and extruded. The con- junctiva is, however, so elastic that it may not give way, and the dislocated lens is therefore seen lying beneath it. The iris is displaced backwards, and the part opposite the wound passes out of sight altogether, leaving a gap resembling that resiilting from an iridectomy. There is always considerable effusion of blood into both the anterior and the posterior chambers of the eye. In other cases the rupture may be very much more extreme, the worst examples being seen in persons who have been severely assaulted, or whose eye has been struck by a cow's horn. In such instances there is a wide rent in the sclerotic, a large escape of the clear structures takes place, and the choroid and retina are seen hanging from the lips of the wound. The eye is filled with blood, which often forms a thin layer behind the cornea. giving rise to the appearance of a pupil, though no pupil is there. The blood may infiltrate the substance of the cornea, and always causes dis- coloration of, and a great amount of swelling in both conjunctiva and lids. Incised and punctured wounds are inflicted by some sharp instrument, e.g. a knife, scissors, a fork prong, a pen, a piece of glass, a chip of metal, a bullet, etc. The great danger when a wound has perforated the sclera is, that the instrument which caused it may at the same time have infected the eyeball. Aseptic wounds are to be found only after carefully performed surgical operations; all other wounds may be regarded as septic. The injury to the sclera may, in a case of puncture, be very slight—so slight, indeed, as to be completely hidden by conjunctival ecchymosis—yet micro-organisms have been conveyed into the interior of the ball, and in a few days the eye is entirely destroyed by suppuration. The difficulty in the diagnosis of these seemingly trivial cases will be considerably lessened if care be taken to examine the tension of the globe. Whenever there is an opening in the sclera the intraocular tension is markedly diminished. Incised wounds, usually self-evident in them- selves, are, besides, accompanied by a prolapse of the ciliary body of choroid, and by escape of the vitreous. If they be extensive—and more particularly if the ciliary region be involved and the escape of vitreous be large—the eye will be almost certainly lost, because, even although the wound heal kindly, there is always subsequent inflammation of the uveal tract; and this leads to shrinking of the globe, and possibly to sympathetic inflammation. When the injury has been caused by a knife, fork, or pair of scissors, the chances of the presence of a foreign body are very remote; but when it has been inflicted by a chip of metal, of stone, or of glass, by a splinter from a percussion cap, or by a bullet, the case is very different. Under tliese circumstances the probability that a fragment of the substance has lodged inside is very great indeed, and this makes matters all the more serious. If the patient be seen immediately after the accident the foreign body may be detected in the vitreous chamber by means of the ophthalmoscope; but should any little time have elapsed between the in- fliction of the injury and the examination, the foreign body will be concealed either by blood- clot or by the inflammatory exudation which its presence has induced. Here the Rontgen rays become at once of the utmost value, for, although careful inquiry into the history of the accident and accurate observation of the nature of the wound may afford much information, yet the presence or the absence of an extraneous substance can rarely be determined with cer- tainty otherwise than by the existence or non- existence of an image on the photographic