SEPTUPLETS 131 Sept up lets.—The birth of seven infants at one time as the result of a single gestation ; the cases recorded in the human subject must be regarded as doubtful. Sepulture. See Burial Places; Cremation. Sequelcl.—A morbid state arising as a consequence of a preceding disease or malady, and following upon it; e.g. nephritis may be a sequela of scarlet fever. It is sometimes difficult to distinguish between sequelae, complications, and relapses. Sequestrum.—A piece of dead bone, lying partly or completely detached and usually in a cavity; the formation of such a piece of bone is called sequestration, and the removal of it is called sequestrectomy or sequestrotomy. See Bone, Diseases of (^Acute Suppurative Osteo- myelitis a7id Periostitis, Pathological Anatomy). Seria,wa,n. See Sprue {Synonyms). Sericeps.—An arrangement composed of loops of ribbon which used to be attached to the foetal head in order to expedite delivery of the child in labour; its place is now taken by the forceps. See Labour, Operations {Forceps). Sero-.—In compound words sero- (Lat. serum) means relating to serum, or serous; e.g. serocolitis (inflammation of the serous or peritoneal covering of the colon), serofibrinous (made up of serum and fibrin), seromucous (composed of serum and mucus), serosanguineous (consisting of blood and serum), etc. Serothera.py.—The treatment of dis- ease by means of sera, i.e. preparations of the blood of specially prepared animals or of immunised persons. Serpentariae Rhizoma. —Serpen- tary or Virginia Snakeroot, the dried rhizome of Aristolochia serpentaria (or Aristolochia reticu- lata), contains a bitter principle (aristolochin), an alkaloid (aristolochine), a volatile oil, and resin; it acts, like calumba, as a bitter tonic and stomachic; and there are three official preparations—the Infusum Serpenta^rice (dose, ^ to 1 fl. oz.), the Liquor Serpentarice Concen- tratus (dose, | to 2 fl. dr.), and the Tinctura Serpentarice (dose, J to 1 fl. dr.). See also Aristolochia. Serpig'inOUS.—Creeping (Lat. serpere, to creep); e.g. certain skin eruptions and ulcers are so called because they tend to advance in one direction and to heal or recede in the opposite. Serrated. — Saw-like, with teeth like those of a saw, e.g. a serrated suture such as exists between some of the cranial bones. SerratUS.—The name given to certain toothed muscles, e.g. the serratus magnus, an important muscle of the back. See Nerves, Peripheral {Injuries, Nerve to the Serratus Magnus); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of {Paralytic Deformities, Paralysis of the Serratus Magnus). Serre-fine.—A pair of fine metal forceps, used to compress divided vessels, and acting by means of a spiral spring. Serre-noeud.—An instrument used for compressing (by ligature) the pedicle of some body {e.g. a tumour) preliminary to its removal. Serum. See Blood {Plasma and Serum); Physiology, Blood and Lymph {Coagulation); Pigments of the Body and Excreta {Serum). Serum-Reaction. See Immunity, Re- cent Views {Pfeiffer Phenomenon); Typhoid Fever {Diagnosis, Widal's Reaction). Serum-Therapy. See Therapeutics, Serum Therapy ; Anthrax(?Vea<men<); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Malignant En- docarditis, Widal's Test); Immunity {Serum 'Therapeutics); Kidney, Surgical Affections {Renal Tuberculosis, Serum Therapy); Puerper- lUM, Pathology {Puerperal Infection, Treatment by Antistreptococcic Serum); Snake Bites {Serum Therapy) ; Stomatitis, Gangrenous {Treatment by Antistreptococcic Serum); Suppuration {Treat- ment) ; Tumours, Inoperable {Treatment, Serum Therapy); Typhoid Fever {Pathology, Serum Diagnosis). Service Reservoir.—A water reservoir for the supply of a part of a town, or in case of an emergency ; it only contains enough water to last for a few days, and so differs from the large storage reservoir; it is of special use in a hilly town, and there may then be several of them. Sesame Oil. — The Oleum Sesami is obtained from the seeds of Sesamum indicum, and is used in place of olive oil in the pharmacy of Eastern countries ; it is officinal in the Indian Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia; Teel oil or Benne oil. Sesamoid. — Resembling in shape a sesame seed, e.g. the sesamoid bodies or bones developed in tendons such as those of the thumb. Sesqui-.—In compound words sesqui- (Lat. semis, half, que, and) means one and a half; thus a sesqiiisalt is one containing one and a half times as many parts of the element as does the protosalt of that element. Seton.—A thread passed through a fold of skin to produce a continuous local irritation