SKIN—TUBERCULOSIS 184 Diagnosis.—The occurrence in children, the unusual nature of the rash, in which papules and pustules are arranged in circles, and seg- ments of these, and the presence of some other evidence of tuberculosis, usually make this easy. Treatment.—No treatment is so successful as that originally introduced by Hebra, which consists in the internal administration and the external application of cod-liver oil. Skin Diseases of the Tropics Physiology of the Skin in Warm Cli- mates ...... 184 General Care of the Skin . . .185 Caused by Climatic Conditions— Prickly Heat 185 Intertrigo . . . . .186 Leucodermia and Keloid . . .186 Constitutional Infective Diseases with marked Skin Lesions. . . 186 Skin Diseases of Bacterial Origin— Boils 186 Furunculus Orientalis. See vol. iii. Veldt or Natal Sores . . .187 Tropical Phagedmna . . .187 Pemphigus Contagiosus . . .188 Craiv-Craw . . . . .188 Ulcerating Granuloma of the Pudenda. See vol. viii. Dub to Animal Parasites— Chigger 189 Myiasis. See vol. vi. Pani Ghao, or Ground Itch . 189 Filarice. See vol. iii. Ixodiasis or Ticks . . . .189 Leeches . . . . . .190 Caused by Vegetable Parasites— Bhobie Itch 190 Tinea Imbricata . . . .190 Mycetoma. See vol. vi. Otomycosis . . . . .191 Pinta. See vol. viii. Piedra .191 Introductory.—To attempt a full description of tropical cutaneous diseases would be quite outside the scope of this article, since it would necessitate reference to almost all morbid skin conditions. Many pandemic diseases, such as Scabies or the Syphilides, are hardly affected by tropical conditions, except perhaps in the direction of increased severity. Contrasting with these are some in which such conditions either have a decided influence in causation, as in Furunculosis, or impress, as in Ringworm, distinct features upon the disease. Yet another class is limited in distribution, as far as is yet known, to warm climates, and apparently altogether depends for development upon their climatic or other peculiarities. To this last group therefore, and to any peculiar ities in the second resulting from change of climate, attention in tliis article will mainly be directed. Physiology of the Skin in Warm Climates.— The general physiological effect of tropical heat is to withdraw the blood from the centres of circulation to its periphery. The amount of increase varies, of course, with the degree of heat, the fluid ingested, the exercise taken, and inversely with the degree of humidity ; but Rattray calculates that the skin circulation is increased by 33-27 per cent, balancing the reduction in that of lung and kidney. The Negro, with his copiously secreting sweat and sebaceous glands, appears to have accomp- lished this adjustment of the circulation, and the chilliness and polyuria generally experienced by the European on leaving the tropics, and his increasing habit of perspiration when long resident there, suggest that with him also it occurs to some extent. The hypersemia and increased functional activity, with the profuse secretion induced, must therefore be expected to predispose in his case to cutaneous disease, or aggravate that already existing, just as in the negro this circulatory alteration appears to predispose to pneumonia in cold weather. Not infrequently, however, some chronic complaints, for instance certain forms of eczema, derive benefit from a change to the tropics. The amount of sensible perspiration naturally varies with the degree of humidity, a fact of some significance, for it is during rainy seasons and in humid climates, where the clothing is constantly saturated, that Prickly Heat chiefly occurs, and that the epiphytic and ectozoic skin diseases find especi- ally favourable influences for development. The chief conditions, then, which influence the prevalence and impress peculiarities upon cutaneous diseases in warm climates may be summed up as follows :— (1) Purely climatic conditions, such as solar heat, high temperature, and humidity. (2) Personal Conditions. — The entry of organisms is favoured by difficulties attending cleanliness of person and clothing where per- spiration is constant and excessive, by faulty personal hygiene among natives, which reacts upon neighbouring Europeans, and by the prevalence of small abrasions from insect bites or scratching. When once entered, the debility and malnutrition, so frequently the result of climate and disease, materially aid their develop- ment. (3) Environmental Conditions.—The distri- bution of the Chigger itself and of the inter- mediate hosts of Filarise determines the occurrence of disease associated with these parasites, while inefficiently supervised water- supplies, and the careless habits of natives with regard to washing, are largely responsible for the spread of these and allied ailments. With