STOMATITIS 401 or a weak solution of permanganate may be used (liquor potass, permanganatis Ttlx. in an ounce of distilled water); in very foul cases the liquor sodse chlorinatse (rrixx. in an ounce of water) may have a cleansing effect. By some it is recommended that the ulcers should be painted daily with a solution of alum (gr. x. to |j.) or of silver nitrate (gr. v. to §j.), or the glycerine of tannin may be used. In all cases the local treatment must be sup- plemented by a generous diet, which will have to be given usually in the liquid form, and may comprise such food as has been recommended above for the cases of aphthous stomatitis: in some cases it will also be advisable to order stimulants in the form of port wine, brandy, or champagne. Gangrenous Stomatitis (Cancrum Oris) Of all forms of stomatitis this is by far the most serious, and happily also the most un- common. Cancrum oris very rarely occurs in adults : it is seen most often in children between the ages of three and twelve years. Of 58 cases collected by Yates and Kingsford, 40 occurred within the first two years of life, 17 between the ages of five and fifteen years, and 1 at twenty- six years. A greater liability of the female sex was shown in the same series, 36 being females, 22 males Any debilitating illness seems to predispose to this disease, but there seems to be some special liability to it after the specific fevers, particularly after measles ; the writer has seen it also as a complication of tuberculosis. It may also follow some local injury; for example, in one case under the writer's care it followed the cauterisation of a small nsevoid spot on the frsenum of the tongue. A gangrenous sto- matitis occasionally follows the prolonged use of mercury, as in a child under the writer's obser- vation ; and West alludes to a similar sequence, but it may be doubted whether these should be regarded as unusually severe cases of ulcerative stomatitis or as actual cancrum oris. There can be little doubt that cancrum oris should be regarded as a specific disease, distinct even from the most severe form of ulcerative stomatitis ; and there is reason to believe that it is due to a specific micro-organism, a bacillus described by Lingard as " thread-like, varying from -004 mm. to '008 mm., and about "001 mm. in thickness." This bacillus is found in large numbers in the zone of tissue immediately adjoining the slough. Other observers have re- garded the streptococcus, which has been found in some cases, as the cause of the disease. Symptoms.—The disease appears in the mouth as a reddish and then a bluish-red area in the mucous membrane, which quickly becomes ulcerated, whilst the surrounding tissues become swollen and indurated; this area commonly appears first on the inside of one cheek, but it VOL. IX may begin over the alveolar portion of the jaw or on the inside of the lip. Holt mentions the occurrence of a similar process in the nose and in the external auditory meatus. A similar afi'ection of the vulva, starting usually on the inner surface of the labia majora, is hardly less frequent than the affection of the mouth. The indurated tissue rapidly sloughs, and a dirty brownish or black slough is left exposed on the inside of the mouth, whilst the infective process spreads outwards until the whole thick- ness of the cheek is tense and brawny, and the skin on the outside has a tense shiny appear- ance, with a bluish-red spot showing where the necrosis is approaching the surface. In this way the whole thickness of one, and rarely of both cheeks, may slough, and complete destruc- tion of the cheek may occur, leaving a ragged opening into the mouth; or if the sloughing occurs over the jaw the bone may be exposed and necrotic. The spread of the disease is fear- fully rapid : a few hours suffice to enlarge the affected area from a small spot up to an area the size of a shilling or larger. Saliva flows from the mouth, and a horrible foetor accom- panies the gangrene, but fortunately the con- dition is less distressing to the patient than might have been expected, for it is accompanied by little or no pain as a rule. The constitutional disturbance is usually great; there is considerable pyrexia at first, but at a later stage the temperature is some- times subnormal; the heart's action is rapid and feeble, and as the disease progresses the patient shows the grey colour and apathetic manner which go with a profound toxaemia. It is important to remember, however, that in some cases there is remarkably little con- stitutional disturbance at first, and the child may play with its toys and take an interest in its surroundings when there is already actual gangrene of the tissues. Hfemorrhage of any severity seldom occurs from the affected part, owing, no doubt, to thrombosis of vessels oc- curring as the disease advances. As a result, perhaps, of the inhalation of infective particles from the diseased part, broncho-pneumonia is a frequent complication, and diarrhoea may result from the swallowing of gangrenous material, or indirectly from toxaemia. Prognosis.—The usual course of the disease is steadily downwards; the gangrene shows, as a rule, no tendency to spontaneous limitation, but extends rapidly until the child dies, usually of exhaustion. Rilliet and Barthez, in 21 cases, saw only 1 recovery; West, in 10 cases, saw 2 recoveries. The usual duration is from four to ten days. But it is encouraging to find that occasionally, even after sloughing has become so extensive as to involve the whole thickness of the cheek over a considerable area, the dis- ease may cease to progress, either as a result of spontaneous limitation or as the result of 26