SCARLET FEVER 43 In the mildest type of scarlet fever the rash is scarcely visible, forming as it does a mere diffuse scarlet blush, which is so evanescent in character, lasting only a few hours, as to have totally disappeared before the visit of the doctor. It is usually stated that the eruption of scarlet fever is shown first upon the neck, cheek, and upper arms, and that it does not appear upon the face. But I can testify that the eruption does present itself on the face, less raised in character, perhaps ; and from its appearance behind the ears, too, I have little doubt that it also occurs on the hairy scalp. 1 should say that it commences on the scalp, extends to the face, neck, chest, and gradually downwards over the whole of the body. In further evidence of this statement, I would cite that the earliest desquamation is perceptible on the tips of the ears and on the prolabium of the lips. Certainly the eruption is visible on the forehead and cheeks, while the circle round the mouth stands out white in contrast, and the former regions, in addition, shed a browny desquamation. The sore throat commences with the other symptoms of invasion. The eruption appears twenty-four hours later, spreads rapidly from above downwards, except on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, and attains its maximum in three days, when desquamation begins in the same order of process. The aspect of the eruption from a distance is that of a diffuse, bright brick-red, assuming a darker dusky red when the eruption is intense. On close inspection, however, or with the aid of a magnifying-glass, it is seen to consist of aggregated red papules or pin-heads, with the intervening circles of skin of a normal colour in the first instance, transformed later into an erythema which disappears earlier than the red papules. The papillae are more raised on the outer surfaces of the limbs, where the skin is naturally thickest, than elsewhere. It is the close aggregation of these papillae which gives the rash a uniform red appearance, the colour varying from a pale red to a brick red, and the depth of colour being usually in direct proportion to the intensity of the fever. The colour can be pressed out of the skin by the pressure of a finger, and writing with the finger-nail on the skin depicts it in white lines. Heemorrhagic points appear sometimes in very intense eruptions, and even gangrene. The hypersemia of the papules may also sometimes entail a miliary eruption, appearing chiefly on the hands and wrists, arising from exudation of serum within the papules. When the skin begins to act, sudamina even may supervene. When the eruption attains its height, oedema of the skin also occurs. At the termination of the eruption, which takes place in about a week, the skin assumes a yellowish appearance prior to desquamation. After death no eruption is visible, though, in consequence of exudation in the rete Malpighii, the skin is found to be thickened. (x.) Desquamation. — The hypersemic con- dition of the skin, arising from the scarlet-fever eruption, entails an excessive growth of newly formed epidermis, which, on the subsidence of the exanthem, exfoliates, and consequently varies in amount and extent according to the intensity of the eruption. In very thin skins, and in instances where the eruption has been very transient, the peeling would naturally be slight. In these cases I have rarely failed to find it on the tips of the ears and the pro- labium of the lips. If the eruption has been severe, peeling commences early on those parts where the eruption first fades; follows the fading immediately ; and spreads, in the same order, over the whole of the body. If, however, the eruption has been very scanty, peeling may not be visible anywhere save on the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet, and does not commence in those parts until late. The desquamation varies in duration accord- ing to the preceding eruption, and is usually complete within six or eight weeks, except on the palms and soles, where its cessation is frequently delayed for ten or twelve weeks. The desquamation also varies in extent accord- ing to the consistence of the skin in the various regions of the body. When closely observed it is found that desquamation begins around the raised points of the eruption, leaving a hole for the papilla in the centre. These circles coalesce, and the epidermis is shed, varying in character (according to the antecedent eruption, and the region from which it is cast) from a fine white powder to shreds and sheets of considerable size, and in the region of the fingers and toes the shedding sometimes occurs in one piece like the finger of a glove. Partial peeling may take place a second time, and so prolong its period. (xi.) Digestive System.-—In addition to the vomiting the bowels become early confined, and diarrhoea also succeeds. (xii.) Nervous System.—In slight cases the nervous system is unaffected, but when the attack is severe the delirium, restlessness, and sleeplessness are very marked, and indicate that the nervous system is profoundly involved by the toxin. Ushered in with convulsions, the convulsions may recur, muscular tremors arise, and coma supervene with hyperpyrexia. (xiii.) Urinary System.—The urine during an early period of the illness presents a character similar to that attending an acute fever, with a diminution or absence of chlorides. Apart from acute nephritis, which will be discussed under the sequelfe, albuminuria is not infrequent, and occurs occasionally in the first week; usually, however, it does not appear until the third week, and most commonly on or