30 SARCOMA OF (Turnouts); Intestines, Diseases of (Malig- nant Tumours); Labour, Precipitate and Pro- longed (Deformed Pelves, Sacral Sarcomata); Laeynx, Malignant Disease of ; Liver, Dis- eases OF (Malignant Disease); Mammary Gland, Diseases of (Sarcoma); Mediastinum (Growths, Sarcomata); Nose, Diseases op Nasal Orifices AND Septum (Malignant); Ovaries, Diseases of the (Sarcoma); Pregnancy, Ovum and Decidua (Malignant Disease of Decidua); Puerperium, Pathology (Deciduo-Sarcoma); Spleen, Medi- cal Affections (Tumours); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (JVew Growths, Sarco- mata) ; Tumours (Sarcomata); Tumours, In- operable, Treatment op; Tumours of the Skin (Sarcomata); Uterus, Malignant Tu- mours op the (Sarcoma); Vagina, Disorders OP (iVeif Formations, Sarcoma); Vulva, Dis- eases OP the (Sarcoma); X-Rays (Cancer and Sarcoma). Sa.rCOmela.nin. See Pigments of the Body and Excreta (Melanins of Melanotic Tumotirs). Sarcoptes. See Parasites (Arthropods, Acarina). SarCOSporidia.. See Parasites (Pro- tozoa). Sarsaparilla. — Sarsce Radix is the dried root of Smilax oi-nata, imported from Costa Rica and known as Jamaica sarsaparilla. It contains smilacin (a neutral principle), resin, and traces of a volatile oil. Preparations—1. Extractum Sarsse Liquidum. Dose—2-4 3. 2. Liquor Sarsse Compositus Concentratus. Dose —2-8 3. Although devoid of any known physi- ological action, sarsaparilla appears to have some general action on the system, and is used empirically as a "blood purifier" in chronic rheumatism and in some skin diseases. It is stated to give particularly good results in cachexia and anaemia resulting from syphilis; and specific affections which prove obstinate to ordinary treatment are said to yield to a mixture of iodide and sarsaparilla. It has been employed in a large number of different forms, including the well-known Zittmann's Decoction, a com- plicated mixture the composition of which is variously stated by different authorities. Sartori US.—The name given to the muscle which crosses the legs in the assumption of a tailor's attitude (Lat. sartor, a tailor). See Spine, Surgical Affections (Injuries of Lumbar Plexas, Paralysis of Sartorius). Sassafras.—The dried I'oot of Sassafras officinale. It contains a volatile oil the action of which is probably similar to that of other volatile oils. It is hardly ever used, but is a constituent of some of the Decoctions of Sarsaparilla. Sassy Bark. See Erythrophlceum. Saturnisnri.—Lead-poisoning or plumb- ism. See Toxicology (Irritants, Lead); Trades, Dangerous (Lead-Poisoning). Satyriasis.—Excessive sexual desire in the male; priapism. See Tabes Dorsalis (Symptoms, Genital Organs). Satyromania.—Satyriasis (q.v.) Sauces. See Invalid Feeding (Cookery in Diabetes, etc.). Sausag^e-Poisoning'-—^ll^Qt)iasis or botulism. See Toxicology (Animal Foods and Ptomaine Poisoning). Saviil'S DiseaeS.—Dermatitis exfolia- tiva epidemica. Savin Poisoningf. See Toxicology (A bortifacients). Saviotti'S Canals.—Artificial canals in the pancreas believed to be formed by the injection of coloured fluids. Sayre'S Jacket.—The plaster-of-paris jacket, as used in the treatment of spinal disease. Scabies, or the Itch. Definition ...... 30 The Parasite ..... 30 Symptoms . . . . . .31 Etiology ...... 32 Diagnosis ...... 32 Differential Diagnosis .... 33 Treatment ...... 33 Other Acari which attack Man . . 34 See also Pruritus (Diagnosis); Puerperium, Pathology (Nipples, Scabies). Synonyms.—La Gale (la Gratelle), die Krdtze, la Rogna (Ital.). Among stablemen in London the itch is spoken of as the "dukes," very prob- ably, according to Dr. Murray, editor of The Netv English Dictionary, a local or vulgar per- version of yukes—phonetically altered to jukes and dyukes. Compare yuke—regular northern name for itch ; also jiicken, German for to itch ; jeuken, Dutch. Definition.—The itch is a disease due to an animal parasite, the Acarus scabiei, and is characterised by a special lesion, i.e. the burrow of the female, and by multiform lesions pro- duced by the violent scratching. The Parasite.—The Acarus scabei (aKap-q';, indivisible) (vel Sarcoptes hominis) is not an insect, although it is so stated in some books on diseases of the skin. In the adult condition it has eight legs, whereas insects have only six. It belongs to the Arachnida (a sub-class of the Arthropoda), and is included in the order Acaridea (Cambridge).