SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE insidious disease, and is overlooked by the patient for a long time. It sometimes appears as if it originated in an acute inflammatory attack, but the symptoms as a rule are so characteristic of the affection that the diagnosis is not difficult. Even in the early stage the insidious formation of a small painless nodule in the tail or head of the epididymis, to which the patient's attention may be only drawn acci- dentally is enough to at once excite a suspicion of commencing tuberculous disease. A little later another enlargement is noticed at another part of the epididymis. These little nodules gradu- ally run together, and form an irregular nodu- lated mass, which, of somewhat crescentic shape, surrounds the testis at its posterior and outer aspect. As the altered epididymis thus in- creases in size, the testis feels small and usually soft, more rarely one or two nodular masses are present in its substance. The patient's health suffers but little at first. After a varying period, usually three or more months, one of the nodules in the epididymis becomes enlarged, the soft parts over it are found to be adherent, becoming thinned ; before long the skin, dusky red and purplish, and shining, at one spot gives way, and the characteristic discharge of ill- formed pus and caseous material follows. To this succeeds a fistulous sinus, from which weeps constantly thin sero-purulent discharge. Where such a sinus closes, a depressed adherent cicatrix remains; the affected part, whether epididymis or testis, being left smaller in size and irregular in shape. Tuberculous epididymitis may result in per- manent cliokage of the canal of the epididymis and consequent sterility of the testicle. Treatment.—This will be either medical and palliative, or operative. Medical treatment may be tried as long as the deposits are small and hard, but as soon as caseation has commenced surgical measures should be resorted to. Uncomplicated primary tuberculosis of a single epididymis or testicle should be treated by immediate castration, for so long as the disease remains, extension to other parts is liable to occur. When other lesions of the genital tract are present, however, but little is to be gained as a rule by removal of the testicle. In rare cases where a testicle and a seminal vesicle of the same side are alone implicated, both structures may be taken away either at the same or different times with advantage. Where castration is contra-indicated but little permanent good results from active local surgical treatment. Abscesses may be left unopened until they are close to the skin, when they may be incised and treated after- wards with simple antiseptic dressings until they heal. The erosion of localised tuberculous lesions in the epididymis or the testicle is usually unsatisfactory in its final result. Some authorities, however, advocate active local treatment in all caseating foci. Morris thinks that if improvement does not soon follow upon general hygienic and climatic treatment, some surgical operation will be requisite, and should be undertaken without further loss of time. He advises erasion of all the softened areas, and thorough rubbing of the cavities with iodoform, which in many cases has been sufficient to check the disease, and should always be tried first when the deposits are small and few, and there is no extension of the malady along the genito - urinary apparatus, or secondary deposits of tubercle elsewhere. When erasion has failed, when the fistulse per- sist or are numerous, when there is fungus with a small wasted testis, and when the whole or greater part of the organ is involved, castration is the only treatment. A f ungating tuberculous testis is better removed probably under all circumstances. The general treatment of tuberculous orchitis is to be conducted on those lines which will best improve the general health—fresh air (night as well as day), good food, warm clothing, cod-liver oil, and tonics. Tumours of the Testicle.—The following is a list of the tumours which, according to Ziegler, have been met with in the testicle :—Adenoma, adeno - sarcoma, chondro - adenoma, chondro- cystoma, cystadenoma, enchondroma, fibroma, cystic fibroma, myxoma, osteoma, papillomatous cysto - sarcoma, rhabdomyoma, dermoids, sar- coma, lympho-sarcoma, cysto-sarcoma, carcinoma, and chondro-carcinoma. From this list it may be seen that the testicle is liable to be affected by turnout's with cyst-forming tendencies, and among these some—such as chondro-cystoma— are most peculiar to this organ. The pathology of testicular malignant growths has not yet been thoroughly worked out, for whilst at the present time some British pathologists hold that carci- noma is an unusual form of malignant disease of the testes. Continental writers, on the other hand, speak of it as one of the " commonest tumours " of this gland. Nothing would be gained by treating each of the above varieties of tumour in detail; it is only necessary to refer at length to the more distinctive among them to which the testicle is liable to be affected. Tumours. — General Cystic Disease of the Testis.—A name given by Curling to a form of adenoma formerly known as " hydatid disease of Astley Cooper." The morphology of these tumours has been independently investigated by Sutton and Eve. They originate in the remnant of the Wolffian body—the paradidymis, which lies between the globus major of the epididymis and the testes proper. In their typical condition these tumours are made up of large numbers of cystic spaces, varying in size from a rape seed to a cob-nut. Many are distinctly tubular, and the cysts may communi-