142 SHOCK ment becomes essential, small doses of beef-tea, the white of egg beaten up, wine whey, and such easily assimilated foods to begin with, milk in some form as soon as it can be borne—a little at a time and often, and other additions when digestion seems re-established. Treatment of Wou7ids.—Although a temporary dressing may have been applied, it is highly essential that the wound be thoroughly explored, disinfected and dressed, with a view to prevent further irritation, and to facilitate union by first intention if possible. Should the necessary manipulation be likely to cause increased pain and shock, an anaesthetic, local or general, must be used. Locally, eucaine or a concentrated solution of chloretone will enable a wound of small dimensions to be thoroughly explored, but if the injured tissues be extensive, a general ansesthetic becomes necessary, to enable thorough cleansing to be carried out and efficient treat- ment applied. Ether is the ansesthetic of choice in the majority of cases. Operations during Shock.—In the shock at- tending a strangulated hernia, a ruptured bladder, or a severely lacerated limb, around which a tourniquet has been placed, very little time should be lost before effectively dealing with the cause. A few whiffs of ether act as a marvellous stimulant and ansesthetic, and the operation should be carried out with celerity. From the brilliant, lightning-like rapidity of pre-chloroform days we are in danger in recent times, owing to ansesthesia, of dawdling over operations, from a common but erroneous notion that shock is not possible when a patient is ansesthetised, except from loss of blood. Every prolonged abdominal operation teaches the con- trary : rough handling of the intestines pro- duces marked depression ; nerve currents still play, else how could the patient's heart and lungs keep going % The patient must be well wrapped up in warm blankets, or cotton wadding bandaged on the limbs. If in pain, a hypodermic of morphia, or atropine if the respiration is feeble, should be given before the general ansesthetic. Many operations can, however, be carried out under local ansesthesia, Schleich's method, or eucaine. A few well-chosen words of encouragement by the surgeon have often a marked good effect. The ansesthetic is best administered away from the scene of operation, amid quiet surround- ings. The theatre should be well warmed— 75° F. is not too hot. Many surgeons judge of the heat of a theatre by its effect on them- selves : it can easily be too hot for the fully clothed operator, and yet too cold for a stripped and depressed patient. If possible, the oper- ating table should be well heated by hot-water appliances fitted in, or a liberal supply of hot bottles conveniently arranged. If there has been great loss of blood, saline injection may be employed before commencing. and in cases of fsecal vomiting, washing out the stomach is a very necessary preliminary. During ansesthesia the patient should be hori- zontal, or, better still, the head and shoulders on a lower level than the abdomen, to allow gravity to compensate for loss of splanchnic vaso-motor tone. Experiments on dogs placed under ansesthesia demonstrate a marked fall of blood pressure and paralysis of the splanchnic vaso-motor tone, so that when the animal is placed in the vertical position, an alarming fall of general blood pressure is produced by the welling of the blood into the abdomen, recover- ing itself on changing the dog's position back again to the horizontal. Undue exposure of the surface of the body is to be avoided; and rapidity, consistent with asepsis, and thoroughness, specially cultivated. At the end of the operation, a quantity of hot saline solution left in the abdomen, or after amputations a pint or more injected into an ex- posed vein before final suture, acts as a tonic, by giving the heart a larger volume to contract upon, and providing a large addition of heat. The injection is often followed by a peaceful sleep, on awaking from which a feeling of elation and general well-being is often noticed. After a serious operation, recovery is much facilitated by isolation, quietness, warmth, and the judicious use of stimulants, drugs, and saline injections (see above). When reaction is re- stored, discriminate feeding provides the nour- ishment to the harassed and fatigued nervous system and the depleted vascular system. With all that surgery can suggest at our disposal we must be prepared to meet with failure in some cases, when (1) the injury in itself is necessarily fatal, (2) serious complica- tions ensue, such as uncontrollable hsemorrhage, (3) a diseased condition of the patient's con- stitution prevents reaction, or (4) when extreme juvenility, extreme senility, or a general feeble- ness of the patient prevents recovery. Prevention of Shock in Minor Surgery.—It is advisable to perform all minor operations, when a general ansesthetic is not required, with the patient lying down; syncope is then very rare. Local ansesthesia should be used whenever pos- sible, and rigid attention paid to all the de- tails of aseptic surgery. Such a proceeding as passing a catheter should be performed with all aseptic precautions: washing out the urethra, the use of a sterile instrument, and in very sensi- tive urethrse the preliminary injection of a drachm or two of a 2 per cent solution of eucaine (cocaine is dangerous) ; when these details are attended to, shock following cathe- terism will be hardly ever met with. Shoemaker's Cramp orSpasm. See Neuroses, Occupation [Varieties). Shone'S System.—A method of re- moval of sewage ; it is a non-gravitation method