55 SCARLET FEVER that now remains of that period of history is the practical adoption of the axiom which Graves bequeathed as his epitaph—"He Fed Fevers." In an ordinary case of scarlet fever some such dietary rule as the following is a good working method :— 1. For the first four days the nourishment should consist exclusively of milk—not exceed- ing two or three pints, with as much water as is desired—with the exception, perhaps, of some lemonade and soda water. 2. For the next four days an egg and all forms of farinaceous food may be added. 3. During the ensuing four days the diet may include some weak broth, fish, fruit, and vegetables. 4. After this period poultry, game, and meat may be gradually allowed, and the food admin- istered as freely as is desired. In young children and adolescents the amount of food that can be consumed with impunity, where it has been withheld during the primary course of the illness, is astonishing. When feeding has begun at an earlier stage, such as I have seen prescribed in slight cases of scarlet fever which presented no palpable illness, and where an ample diet has been strenuously demanded in consequence of ap- petite, the course has usually proved, in my experience, the precursor of albuminuria and other troubles. 5. Where marked anorexia exists; or where, owing to the severity of faucial ulceration, or submaxillary swelling, deglutition, in conse- quence of pain, is well-nigh impracticable, the food swallowed should be of the most nourish- ing character, such as milk, eggs and milk, raw meat juice, and chicken jelly. Stimulants may also be necessary in such instances, and must be regulated according to the age of the patient, his state of debility, and the nature of the attack. I veto all commercial preparations of " wine and meat juice," so extensively employed, since they are invariably made with very inferior wine. 6. Where food is absolutely refused adminis- tration must be effected by the nose, and the necessary mode of operation in these cases is the insertion of the tube for half an inch in one nostril, with the closure of the other, and the fluid is allowed to descend into the stomach in gulps only. (iii.) Curative.—1. The Neutralisation of the Poison.—Until the antitoxin of scarlet fever is discovered no drug which we possess can be said to be absolutely reliable. Various drugs for this purpose have been advocated from time to time. Personally I have found the biniodide of mercury efficacious, not only in arresting the fever, but in minimising the desquamation, and reducing the duration of the illness and the necessary isolation. But it would require more extended experience than mine, in a disease like scarlet fever, to affirm that a causal connection exists between this treatment and the result. Other physicians have also adopted the sulpho- carbolates and the hypo-sulphites with apparent advantage. 2. The promotion of elimination of the fever poison. (a) The primary requirement in the treatment of all fevers is the unloading of the alimentary canal at the start; for this course alone, by increasing the action of the excreting organs, will often at once convert an apparently serious illness, commencing with alarming symptoms, into one of a milder type. This procedure must be effected in scarlet fever with caution, on account of the tendency to vomiting and diarrhoea at the onset, which sometimes form ominous symptoms in the anterior stage, and invariably so at later periods. Aperients, therefore, should generally be avoided during the earlier history of scarlet fever. This does not affirm that they should be absolutely dispensed with, but simply that they should be employed with judgment and caution. A simple enema is sometimes the least injurious remedy; but a saline aperient, a small dose of a mer- curial, or of liquorice powder, may be necessary, and will be found to be safe. {fi) Febrifuges.—A mixture of a saline nature, such as acetate of ammonia, accompanied by nitre, or nitric ether, or chlorate of potash, where the throat is much involved, is desirable. 3. The Reduction of Temperature, and of the Frequency of the Heart's Action.—Where the temperature is unusually high, and the pulse frequency excessive, tepid or cold sponging, and the use of the wet pack, are sometimes of incal- culable value. 4. The Improvement of the Condition of the Blood.—As marked anaemia sometimes attends, or follows scarlet fever, the use of iron and arsenic is indicated at a later stage. 5. The relief of distressijig symptoms. (a) Troublesome affections of the nervous system are the first to appear, and comprise headache, delirium, convulsions, restlessness, and insomnia. These are greatly relieved by tepid sponging or the wet pack. A small dose of Dover's powder, varying according to age, is useful for young patients; and of paraldehyde, phenazonum, sulphonal, or the bromides for older ones. (/3) Where hyperpyrexia occurs, the cold affusion or the wet pack, as I have already stated, possesses the greatest value in these desperate cases, which eventually, however, are too frequently fatal. (y) Symptoms affecting the throat are the most distressing of all to the patient, and demand immediate assistance for their relief. The greatest benefit is derived from hot drinks. All food should be administered in this form; and the facility and ease of swallowing them