THE TROPICS 190 SKIN DISEASES bed, and a lighted lamp alongside it, will keep ticks off at night. The recent discoveries as to their role as carriers of infection constitute additional reasons for efficient protection from their attacks. (/) Leeches.—Leeches, terrestrial in their habits, occur in abundance in many tropical countries, while they so abound in pools that natives often refuse to enter them. Additional reasons are thereby afforded for efficient pro- tection of feet and legs and for care about wading in these regions, as the attacks of these parasites may result in very considerable loss of blood. Manson saw cases of horse-leech in the nostrils of men as well as animals in Formosa, and a similar infection has been seen in Southern Europe and Northern Africa. Headache, re- peated epistaxis, and anaemia were the symptoms produced. V. Caused by Vegetable Parasites (a) Dhobie Itch.—Synonyms: Tropical ring- worm, Herpes circinatus, Eczema marginatum. Tinea circinata, Burmese ringworm.—The name dhobie itch is frequently given in hot countries to almost any itching cutaneous eruption in the crutch or axilla. True ringworm, here as else- where, is probably due to the presence of tinea trichophyton or microsporon audouini; but not only must it be distinguished fi'om the pre- valent erythema intertrigo and from pemphigus contagiosus, which in adults involves these regions, but also from erythrasma. The usu- ally unirritating microsporon minutissimum and also microsporon furfur, stimulated by tropical conditions, may produce patches not unlike true ringworm, which in colder weather become brown, furfuraceous, desquamating surfaces, yielding the characteristic fungus on examina- tion ; only to relapse when again exposed to similar influences. Etiology.—Though often unjustly blamed, the washerman frequently conveys infection to Europeans. For instance, in the writer's ship, off the Gold Coast, where no one landed, all whose clothes were washed ashore were attacked, while no one else suffered. With natives the opportunities for direct contagion provided by their crowded houses and the proximity of their domestic animals, and for indirect by their inattention to hygiene and careless habits with regard to bathing and to clothing, together with the favourable climatic conditions for the possible growth of the fungus as a saprophyte, no doubt account for their great liability. Symptoms.—Although scalp ringworm is com- paratively less common, no part of the body is exempt, but the crutch and axilla are the regions usually involved. Dull red itching spots of lean ham-colour develop and spread in festoons over scrotum, buttocks, or thighs, forming an irregular patch. As the raised erythematous itching margin extends the centre becomes pale and scurfy, although always liable to again inflame. Hot rainy weather increases the severity of the disease, and it tends to dis- appear in cold and recur in warm weather. It is more deeply situated than in temperate climates, and from heat, moisture, and irrita- tion is apt to assume a much more irritable aspect, and to be complicated by vesicle forma- tion or even pustulation or vilceration. The fungus is sometimes diflScult to find by micro- scopic examination. Treatment.—After thorough cleansing of the part, chrysophanic acid gr. 20 to lanoline §i. may be rubbed in twice a day. It should not be applied to the face, and should be stopped when erythema appears around the patch, while the staining effects on the clothes must be re- membered. Linimentum iodi of double strength (Manson) is useful for natives, and, although painful, also in the writer's experience for Europeans. One or two applications of glacial acetic acid, followed by ice to relieve the pain, tincture of leaves of cassia alata, freshly prepared sulphurous acid or naphthol in alcohol, 1 per cent, may all be substituted. Prophylaxis. — The use of light cotton drawers, which have been washed by a trust- worthy person, and proper attention to the toilet of the skin, are useful prophylactic measures. (J)) Tinea Imbricata. •—• Synonyms: Gune, Tokelau or Bowditch Island ringworm. Herpes desquamans, Le Pita.—A scaly affection of the skin produced by a vegetable parasite. Geographical Distribution. — Europeans are but rarely attacked by this disease, but in many islands of the South Pacific and the Eastern Archipelago a considerable proportion of natives are affected, and it has gradually ex- tended to the Malay Peninsula, Burma, Bengal, and the Philippines and Formosa. Symptoms.—Experiments performed by Man- son showed that if a point be inoculated, a minute brown spot appears there after ten days' incubation. This steadily enlarges, and a few days later the epidermis ruptures in the centre and becomes separated from the corium every- where except at its outer edge. Once more a brown spot forms in the centre and a similar process occurs, thus forming two rings of scales, one inside the other. Thus the disease extends, and by inoculation of other parts gives rise to fresh centres of growth, and by their coalescence various designs are formed, and the original concentric pattern interfered with. When a patient presents himself, therefore, a large portion, or even the entire cutaneous sur- face, is often covered by these scaly concentric ally-arranged rings. The scales (about ^ inch in length by |- inch in breadth) are only attached by their peripheral margin, where the profusion of fungus produces a brownish dis-