TEETH 529 a sinus at or near the apex of root of abscessed tooth. Pus from an alveolar abscess may travel a great distance from its source, always taking the easiest route. The usual position for the pus to make an exit is through the external alveolar plate near apex of root. Alveolar abscess in connection with upper incisors has been known to point in the nostril. Tomes and others have drawn attention to this peculiarity of the maxillary lateral incisor, the pus from which has a tendency to burrow beneath the periosteum and bone of hard palate, and open- ing on the soft palate, forcing the soft tissues down to the level of the teeth. But pus may find its way on to the face, beneath the chin, or into the antrum. In the case of the third molars pus frequently passes between the muscles and the bone, and escapes at the angle of the mandible, the nape of the neck, or even on the thorax. There are also cases of chronic abscess without a sinus, which are much more difficult of treatment. Ab- scess of teeth in the mandible, as in the maxilla, more frequently points through the external alveolar wall than through the lingual. An abscess sometimes forms in the substance of the maxilla or man- dible as a consequence of the presence of diseased teeth, but differs from ordinary alveolar abscess in that it does not dis- charge through the tooth-socket, but causes considerable expansion of the bone and consequent disfigurement, especially in the mandible. In the maxilla it has been mistaken for antrum disease. Sequelfe of alveolar abscess: sub-periosteal effusion, producing necrosis of bone ; suppuration of adjacent lymphatic glands; pyajmia, oedema, and spasm of glottis; cellulitis; postpharyngeal abscess ; paralysis of facial muscles ; trismus; paralysis of arm.^ Treatment.—Acute.—In cases where pus is oozing from between the gum and socket of the tooth it is better to remove it at once. If the tooth is savable palliative remedies should be applied, the pus evacuated by free incisions, tinct. iodine lin. applied to gum, or by electrical cataphoresis, capsicum plasters, etc. ; half gr. pil. calci sulph. every three hours are useful to cause absorption of inflammatory exudate. After acute symptoms have disappeared the canals should be made aseptic and filled, also tooth cavity. In chronic alveolar abscess the root canals should be cleansed, and H2O2 forced through the tooth and sinus by means of an abscess-syringe, etc., finishing up with pure carbolic acid, tinctui'e of iodine, or alcoholic solution of hydronaphthol, the tooth temporarily dressed, and this treatment repeated every three or four days till all tenderness over root has disappeared. Immediate root-filling is practised by some, but cannot be depended on. In teeth 1 Article " Teeth," by G. W. Watson, L.D.S. See p. 537. VOL. IX with no sinus repeated cleansing of the root usually results in the abscess healing up, but it is necessary in some cases to drill a hole over apex of tooth, so that some antiseptic may be forced through, or the abscess-sac destroyed and the root and tooth filled. In cases of abscess in the substance of the bone, the tooth causing the condition should be removed, and the abscess cavity scraped and packed with boric lint till healing takes place. Excision of the whole or apical portion of the root of an abscessed tooth is sometimes practised for the cure of chronic alveolar abscess. Exostosis The cementum which forms the outer layer of root of tooth is very liable to hypertrophy, which is induced by chronic irritation of the peridental membrane. Normally, the amount of this tissue on healthy teeth varies greatly, so Laminated cementum. Dentine and pulp. Fig. 14.—T. section of Mg affected by exostosis. much so, that it is difficult in slight cases of exostosis to diagnose between normal and ab- normal conditions. The usual form of exostosis consists of an excess of the normal tissue, layer after layer of the tissue being deposited on part or whole of the root (Fig. 14). It is usually non-vascular, but sometimes blood-vessels pene- trate into it, the tissue forming a kind of Haversian system round it. Any part of the root may be affected by exostosis, but its usual situation is on the lower third of root of the tooth. The varieties are—(1) a globular, en- circling the extremity of the root; (2) an irregular mass encircling extremity of root or roots, or whole of the root: (3) an even in- crustation of whole root, becoming attenuated towards the neck of tooth ; (4) as small isolated nodules, very hard and attached to the side or near the extremity of root. When from alveolar abscess the whole or a portion of the peridental membrane is destroyed, no development of cementum can take place, which accounts for 34