217 SLEEP, NORMAL AND MORBID alysis of the insane. In spite of large doses of hypnotics and prolonged baths, the insomnia did not yield. Chart 8 is of a case of senile mechancholia with agitation and refusal of food, which ter- minated fatally. Chart 9 is a case of chronic mania with de- Date I 2 3 ' t 5 6 7 8 9 10 n 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 ?0 21 11 ?3 Z4 £5 26 27 28 f9 30 31 32 33 35 56 37 38 39 W 41 12 o 1 to ^ \l 5 " 5 7 ^ 8 9 7 A / f V \ A t r s. / / \ / V V J{otes !> "5 c Urine 3ci>veh 2 complete recovery. The brain appears to be- come too much damaged to be able to recover itself. Often, therefore, a glance at a sleep chart is enough to reveal the nature of the case as regards curability. Treatment.—The treatment of insomnia may be divided into rational and therapeiUic. The rational is chiefly concerned with the acquirement of habits most conducive to sleep. The bedroom ought to be cool, and with a liberal supply of fresh air. Careful at- tention to minor details are neces- sary, viz. the height of the pil- low, the state of the mattress and bedclothes, the number of cover- 70,. 1902 Chaet 6 —Disease : Puerperal Melancholia lusions of persecution. The chart represents only six weeks' out of several years' continuous insomnia. In this case sleep was very light, and the individual was roused on the slightest stimulation of her senses. Another patient of the same type sat upright in bed for several years and was never found asleep. In the earlier stages of both cases, treat- ment only suc- ceeded in causing oonfusion of their ideas without any alteration in the lines of the charts. Chart 10 is of a typical delu- sional case with- out any excite- ment or depres- sion. The use of a prolonged bath during the day- time served to mgs; some per- sons sleep better between blankets than sheets ; some individuals are able to sleep comfortably if the two sides of the mattress are slightly raised so as to enclose them in a hollow ; sometimes sleep is obtained by constricting the middle of the pillow and adapting it to the neck so as to give complete Chart 7.—Disease ; General Paralysis. induce more sleep, but without change in the mental condition. This case proved incurable. It will be seen from these charts that long- oontinued insomnia is unfavourable as to cura- Isility. An analysis of the thousands of charts ■of^recorded cases of insomnia in Bethlem reveals the fact that insomnia of a severe type, and protracted beyond a month, seldom results in rest for the muscles of the head and neck. If sleep is liable to be broken by dreams, attention should be paid to all the possible factors of causation. Posture can be rectified by various means. The occurrence of dreams with sexual excitement may sometimes be rectified by tying some object to the back, which when rolled upon awakens the sleeper. Baths are often extremely useful in obstinate