39 SCARLET FEVER mainly those of cool or cold climates ; just as in countries of variable climate, like Great Britain, the cooling autumn favours its development. IV. Geographical Range.—The origin and native habitat of scarlet fever are unknown ; nor do we possess any knowledge of the period when it first became prevalent on the continent of Europe, so intimately was it confused with measles. From Europe it has extended over most parts of the world, and more freely, in later times, on account of the extension of commerce. It appeared in Iceland in 1827, but not until 1847 in Greenland. Its presence in Africa, and especially Egypt, has been in- significant ; and it is rarely found in Asia, except on the coast of Asia Minor. In India and China occasional sporadic cases only occur, and in Japan the disease is unknown. It reached North America in 1735, but was absent from South America until 1829. Its final appearance in Austria and Polynesia occurred in 1848; in New Zealand in 1854. V. Etiology.—(i.) Predisposing Causes.—1. Age.—The greatest number of those affected, and those who are attacked the most severely, are children. During the first year of life, however, the liability to attack is a minimum ; during the fifth and sixth years it reaches a maximum ; and the susceptibility then decreases annually throughout life. 2. Sex.—The female sex throughout life is the more liable to scarlet fever in the proportion of about eleven to ten; but a fatal termination is more probable in males. 3. Season.—In this country scarlet fever is undoubtedly a seasonal disease ; its minimum of cases occurs in March and April; the maxi- mum in September and October, while its limit is attained in the last week of the latter month —in other words, its frequency begins to increase in the first cool days following the summer. It should thus be borne in mind that scarlet fever is mainly an autumn, and not a spring disease. Moreover, the mortality, as well as the prevalence, is greatest in the autumn, and least in spring. On the other hand, Dr Ballard found that the fatality, or case-mortality, was diminished during the third, or summer quarter ; increased during the first, or winter quarter; while in the spring and summer quarters the rates of mortality were equal. 4. Locality exercises some influence, as evidenced by the manner in which the disease frequently spreads in certain places, while practically absent in others. 5. Idiosyncrasy.—Few diseases exhibit so extensive a diversity in character. Sometimes the ailment is so slight that the patient experi- ences no sensation of illness, and during the entire period continues his ordinary mode of life; at other times its virulence is sufficient to cause a fatal termination within a few hours. Uncertainty also attends its power of infection, for even in an epidemic (and this feature is still more manifest in families) some will fail to be affected, however closely exposed; in others the attack will be so slight as to be scarcely recognisable ; while the remainder may suffer so severely that, even when a fatal result does not rapidly ensue, few of the internal organs will escape its ravages, although the source of infection may have been of the mildest character. That is to say, the most virulent poison may occasion the mildest infection to another patient, and vice versa. Some families, too, are so susceptible to the poison that every member of the younger branch dies when attacked. And occasionally individuals are found who are apparently so influenced by the poison that they contract the disease in some form whenever exposed to the disease, manifesting headache, sickness, malaise, and sore throat, though usually without a rash; and persons so affected are able to give true scarlet fever to others in contact with them. 6. Station in Life.—There can be no question that poverty, implying, as it does, deficient nutrition, inefficient nursing, and overcrowding in badly ventilated rooms, tends not merely to produce an increased frequency of the disease, in consequence of the impossibility of isolation, but also to augment its mortality and its fatality. (ii.) Exciting Causes.—1. Contagion.—The essential cause of scarlet fever has long been suspected to be a micro-organism, which extends from case to case by direct infection; and indirectly through the medium of the attendants, or visitors, on the sick; or by means of the fomites contained in the room, furniture, clothes and laundry, books, toys, letters, and photo- graphs. The bacillus is not only present in the skin, but is probably contained in all the secretions. It is undoubtedly emitted in ex- pired air, in the nasal and pharyngeal secretions ; and the probability of its presence, as in typhoid fever, in the urine and the alvine evacuations almost amounts to a certainty. 2. Distance of Transmission of Poison.—The distance of conveyance by aerial convection is not great. This is manifest from the fact that residents in the immediate vicinity of a fever hospital do not suffer in consequence as those do who live in the neighbourhood of a small- pox hospital. The disease, however, will spread in a ward or in a family residence; though, on the other hand, personal contact may be the producing cause in such instances. 3. Mode of Communication.—In addition to personal contact, dispersion can also be effected through the medium of pet animals, and insects such as flies. The disease is not, however, water-borne ; but it can be contracted by visit- ing the dead. It might be conjectured, a priori, that fresh milk would form an excellent channel