92 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE tunica vaginalis covering the epididymis is always somewhat inflamed. Microscopically the interlobular tissue is the seat of round-cell infiltration. The blood- vessels are distended, and the lumen of the tubules is filled with desquamated cells, exudate, and leucocytes. Symptoms.—Signs of inflammation affecting one side of the scrotum of a patient in whom any of the above causes are found to be present suggest at once the nature of the malady. Aching along the course of the cord and thickening of that structure are usually present. The shape of the swollen epididymis is character- istic—beginning below in the globus minor it rapidly increases until it forms a large crescentic cup-shaped mass behind and to the outer side of tlie testicle ; later, effusion occurs into the tunica vaginalis and obscures the characteristic swelling, and the testis may become involved by extension of the inflam- mation through the hilum. The scrotum is more or less red and oedematous. Rigors may usher in the attack, and the general phenomena of fever are present. In acute cases the symptoms increase for four or five days, and remain at their height for two or three days more, when they rapidly decrease, and the patient convalesces two or three weeks after- wards. Some hardening of the globus minor may remain for months, or even become com- pletely organised, and when this aff'ection is bilateral, permanent sterility may follow. When epididymitis occurs in the course of urethritis, the urethral discharge generally ceases or diminishes during the acute stage of inflammation, and returns again when this has subsided. Though both sides may be affected, they are never affected simultaneously. With few exceptions acute epididymitis terminates in resolution. A small hard thicken- ing in the globus minor may persist for a long time. Suppuration is rarely met with. Slough- ing has been seen, and in very rare cases a local or general peritonitis has been set up. Treatment.—The treatment consists in keep- ing the patient in bed, with the scrotum sup- ported on a small pillow, and an ice-bag con- stantly applied. Lotions of spirit, lead, and opium are serviceable, and glycerine of bella- donna often gives great relief. The bowels must be cleared with calomel, and a simple saline mixture, containing one-twelfth of a grain of tartarated antimony, given if the inflammation runs high. Where pain continues imder the application of local cold, warm fomentations — medicated or otherwise — may be svihstituted, and morphia suppositories may be employed. In strong individuals the application to the scrotum of eight or ten leeches is often followed by striking relief. The diet should be light and non-alcoholic. After the acuteness of the inflammation has subsided the organ remains large and somewhat tender, and should be carefully supported and gently compressed by a triangular bandage over several layers of absorbent wool. At the end of a fortnight, if all pain and tenderness have passed away, the testicle should be lightly strapped and the patient allowed up, the scrotum being supported in a well-fitting suspensory bandage or Baer's triangle. Chronic epididymitis is usually tuberculous, and in rare cases syphilitic. It is treated imder tuberculous and syphilitic diseases of the testicle. Localised chronic gouty nodules are seen oc- casionally in the epididymis, which may per- sist for months or years. Inflammation of the Testicle (Orchitis).— Inflammation of the substance of the testicle itself is met with in the acute, subacute, and chronic varieties, and must not be confounded with the more common inflammation of the epididymis (epididymitis), to which it may be primary or secondary, and with which it often coexists. Acute and Subacute Orchitis.—Acute inflam- mation of the testis is comparatively rare, owing to the presence of the firm, dense, unyielding tunica albuginea and the free mobility of the testicle itself. It may be due to the following causes:—- Injury, contusion or wound, cold, extreme and prolonged ungratified sexual excitement, mumps, gout, rheumatism, and certain specific febrile disorders, as influenza, smallpox, typhoid, scarlet fever, malaria, septicaemia, and pyaemia. It occurs also in leprosy and glanders. Little is known from actual investigation of the pathology of acute orchitis, as the malady is not fatal in itself, and the surgical removal of the inflamed organ is not called for. Acute and subacute orchitis may terminate by resolution, commonest of all; by suppura- tion, which is rare ; by gangrene of the testis, which is still rarer; and by atrophy, which is not at all uncommon ; or it may become chronic. In every case of acute orchitis it is judicious to warn the patient or his friends that atrophy may follow, and may be permanent. Symptoms of Acute and Subacute Orchitis.— Acute orchitis has to be distinguished from acute epididymitis, and the recognition is not difficult. The absence of pre-existing urethral trouble is suggestive. The shape of the swell- ing—if seen early — is smaller, rounder, and ovoid, as contrasted with the larger acorn cup- shape of an inflamed epididymis. The rapid onset, the previous history, and associated signs and symptoms elsewhere, make the diagnosis plain. Gouty orchitis commonly affects men over fifty who are subjects of gouty arthritis, or other gouty lesions, and is commonly attended with the formation of a considerable amount of