186 SKIN DISEASES OF THE TROPICS silken material which will absorb much moisture and thus permit evaporation. To make it loose and airy, braces and belts should be avoided and combination garments worn, while the position should be changed and grass mats, or "dutch wives," 1 used for the bed, with the same object of avoiding prolonged contact with the clothing. The latter should be frequently changed. No soap should be used in the bath, as it removes the sebaceous secretion, but inunction with some oily material after the bath, such as almond oil and lanoline—8 of oil to 1 of lanoline—with menthol to allay irritation (Pearse), or cocoa- nut oil (Moores), should be substituted, as it helps to prevent the swelling of the horny layers. Menthol, carbolic acid, or calamine lotions will temporarily allay irritation. (5) Intertrigo.—A certain degree of this almost invariably occurs in the tropics from heat and moisture combined with chafing. On board ship, possibly from salt-Avater bathing, it is particularly prevalent. It is raw and painful as well as itching, and if irritated may proceed to vesicle formation or even pustulation, Avhile, as with ringworm, recurrences on return of exciting causes are very common. The usual site is the crutch, and the ailment is chiefly important as providing a favourable opportunity for the attacks of tropical ringworm or similar disease. Treatment.—Careful toilet of the skin is the best preventative. If developed, rest, separation of the opposing surfaces, and dusting with some soothing antiseptic powder usually suffices for the time. (c) Leucodbrmia and Keloid.—Although the exact pathology of these two diseases is at present unknown, the extreme liability of many natives of warm countries to disease of the pigmentary system of the skin, such as leuco- dermia and albinism, and of black- and yellow- skinned races to keloid, seems to point to climatic influences as factors in their causation, and they are therefore mentioned here. II. Constitutional Infective Diseases with marked Skin Lesions Some of the exanthemata, and in particular scarlatina, do not flourish in tropical countries, but, on the other hand, chickenpox and smallpox are infinitely more common. The absence of vaccination probably accounts for the latter. In addition to these, however, there are three constitutional diseases — leprosy, yaws, and verruga—which are prevalent in the tropics and which more particularly affect the skin. These are elsewhere described. Shima mushi, the river fever of Japan, might also perhaps be mentioned here, although it is not com- municable. 1 These are hollow cylinders of open rattan work, used in tropics. III. Skin Diseases probably or certainly caused by Bacteria (a) Boils.—Although universally distributed, this troublesome affection is particularly common in the tropics, and in hot, moist climates few escape. The sodden state of the skin and clothing, the numerous minute lesions resulting fi'om insect bites and prickly heat, the debilitat- ing effect of excessive heat and poverty of diet, provide conditions eminently favourable to the presence, entry, and development of the re- sponsible organisms. They are especially prevalent on board ships after long spells of ship's food and distilled water, and among men rather than officers, probably because these conditions are then aided by salt-water bathing and less care about underclothing. Moist weather increases their prevalence, while defective diet undoubtedly predisposes, and largely from this latter cause more than half the crew of the writer's ship suffered on one occasion, although the infection was doubtless conveyed from one to another. Treatment.—Fresh diet, vegetables, attention to general health, cleanliness, and care of the skin form the most useful prophylactic measures. Calcium sulphide and other drugs have been recommended. When the disease has developed, removal of the constitutional condition which has favoured development of the bacterial cause is perhaps even more indicated in the tropics than elsewhere. With this object, purgatives and cholagogues are often valuable, but fresh meat, vegetables, or lime juice are even more necessary. Calcium sulphide in quarter-grain doses every two hours is recommended by some, yeast by others, but with anaemia at all evident port wine or iron and quinine tonics are probably more useful. Local Treatment. — Salicylic acid plaster application, or boring into the centre with a pointed wooden match charged with pure carbolic acid (Manson), will often abort a commencing boil. With general furunculosis frequent antiseptic baths are of value. In advanced stages soothing and protection, with prevention of auto-inoculation by absorption of discharge, are the chief desiderata, and Bulkeley's method of treatment answers admir- ably. The centre of a square of absorbent cotton is coated with the following ointment: R Acidi carbolici, gr. 10; ext. ergotse liq. 3i; pulv. amyli, zinci oxidi, aa jii; imguent simpl. |i, and fixed over the boil by strips of plaster so applied as to leave the centre free from pressure. Incision is valuable in boils of scalp and axilla. Boils of External ^ar.—Although a com- mon enough affection at home, this is infinitely more prevalent in damp tropical regions like West Africa or the West Indies. No doubt their occurrence is favoured by constitutional