563 TETANUS strictly anaerobic as was formerly supposed, and some have maintained that it can grow under aerobic conditions. This assertion is in part true, for the tetanus bacillus undoubtedly multiplies when cultivated in bouillon together with some other bacterium, for example bacillus subtilis, which absorbs oxygen from the medium; and further, both Zumpe (1899) and Debrand (Annales de VInst. Pasteur, 1902, xvi.) have shown that the tetanus toxin elaborated under such conditions is as virulent as the toxin ob- tained by the ordinary anaerobic methods. In other instances the bacilli cultivated under aerobic conditions have been avirulent, and have consequently been regarded as pseudo- tetanus bacilli. The tetanus bacillus does not grow in media containing no trace of proteid. The vitality of the spores is well maintained for a long period. A wooden splinter, for in- stance, was proved to be virulent eleven years after removal from a case of tetanus (Henrijean, 1891). The spores are also markedly resistant. They are killed by five per cent carbolic acid in fifteen hours, by one per thousand mercuric chloride in three hours, by moist heat at 100° C. in from five to thirty minutes, according to their resistant power, but withstand moist heat at 80° C. for one hour. Exposure to dry heat at a temperature of 155° C. destroys them in twenty minutes. There is much difference in the susceptibility of the various animal species to tetanus. The most highly susceptible are the horse and man, somewhat less susceptible are the goat, guinea- pig, mouse, donkey, and ox; still less suscep- tible are the rabbit, rat, dog, and cat. Pigeons, crows, and parrots are but little susceptible. The fowl is still more highly immune. Knorr (1897) states that the minimum toxic dose for the fowl is equal to the O'OOl part of the mini- mum lethal dose for the horse. Frogs, after inoculation, do not acquire the disease unless kept at 37° C. Lizards and tortoises have not yet been shown to be susceptible. The usual modes of entrance of the virus into the body have been already mentioned. The introduction of spores into the healthy respir- atory passages (Thalmann, 1900), or into the normal alimentary tract (Sanchez Toledo, 1890), does not cause infection, but the virus may gain entrance through a wound of the nasal mucous membrane, or through the alimentary tract (Suess, 1901), or the deeper parts of the respiratory tract when the latter are in a state of catarrhal inflammation. If the virus has been introduced into the subcutaneous tissues, it there finds anaerobic conditions well adapted for its existence and multiplication. The spores germinate, the resulting bacilli multiply, but remain localised at this situation, and do not invade the body, although in exceptional in- stances they may penetrate as far as the neigh- bouring lymph glands (Schnitzler and Biidinger, 1893). The bacilli multiplying, now elaborate their toxin, which is carried away to the spinal cord and medulla by the blood stream, and also, so it is supposed by some, along the peripheral nerves. A point of no little importance is that the introduction into the normal tissues of tetanus spores alone—all traces of toxin having been previously removed from the spores by washing with water, or by heat for twenty minutes at 65° C.—does not induce tetanus (Vaillard and Vincent, 1891 ; Vaillard and Rouget, 1892, 1893). If, however, the spores be introduced into damaged tissue, or be intro- duced together with some substance such as cultures of other bacteria, lactic acid, or other chemical substance, capable of inducing damage, or of exerting a negative chemiotactic influence on the leucocytes, the spores germinate and the bacilli form their toxin. The same result is attained by enclosing the spores in collodion sacs, and thereby protecting them from the leucocytes. In every case of natural infection with tetanus, spores alone are never introduced. The presence of some or other foreign substance in the wound usually implies the simultaneous presence of other bacteria, hence in most cases of tetanus there is mixed infection from the outset, and suppuration at the seat of the wound. Tetanus Toxin.—All the features of this disease can be reproduced by injection of tet- anus toxin obtained by filtration from cultures. The exact chemical nature of the purified toxin is still uncertain—Brieger and Boer (1896) found that it yielded no proteid reactions; Hayashi (1901) regards it as an albumose. In many respects it resembles the enzymes. Thus it is de- stroyed in a few minutes by moist heat at 65°C.; three hours' exposure to dry heat at 140° C. is required to completely destroy dry tetanus toxin (Morax and Maria, 1902); and in contra- distinction to inorganic poisons such as strych- nine, there is an incubation period between the injection of toxin and the first symptoms of tetanus. The purified toxin is extremely viru- lent ; 0'000,000,05 gram suffices to kill a mouse weighing about 15 gi'ams. The activity of the soluble toxin in filtered cultures undergoes re- duction with age, on exposure to air or sunlight, or by the addition of chemicals such as iodine salts. This change is due to dissociation of the constituent elements of the toxin one from another, i.e. to the formation of toxoids which are relatively inert. The toxin is absorbed from the wound into the blood. In the case of the guinea-pig the toxin remains in the blood for a relatively long period ; whereas in the case of the rabbit and of man the greater part of the toxin soon passes out of the blood and becomes fixed in certain cells—mainly those of the central nervous system —which have an affinity for it. Nearly all investigators agree that the toxin is, after