580 THERAPEUTICS : HEALTH RESORTS sufferers from chronic or stationary pulmonary disease may pass the winter very well in these southern Italian resorts, but they must not overrate the warmth they are likely to experi- ence there any more than on the Riviera. In exceptional winters snow may fall even at Palermo, though rarely. The few resorts on the Italian Riviera will be dealt with in conjunction with the French Riviera. The Rivieba For about fifty years the Riviera has been one of the favourite resorts of English people; and for a long time, when travel was much more restricted than it is now, and much more the monopoly of the wealthy and luxurious, the Riviera was the fashionalale wintering-place of the English upper classes, its only rival being Madeira, which was exclusively frequented by consumptives, often of an advanced type. The latter also went to Mentone in large numbers. Since the high Alpine resorts have come into fashion Madeira has been discredited, and rightly, and Mentone rather strives to exclude consump- tives, who are not received at many of the hotels. From its proximity to this country the Riviera must always remain a favourite resort with English people, as there is no other place within easy reach where sunshine and comparative warmth in winter are so easily to be obtained, or where accommodation so good and often luxuri- ous can be got by those willing and able to pay for it. The Riviera stretches from Toulon to Genoa, and what is often called the Italian Riviera, from Genoa almost to Spezzia; it consists of a belt of land which varies in width from one to four miles, extending from the sea to the foot-hills of the Maritime Alps. The mountains rising behind to a height of 3000 feet more or less form a protection from the north, and, according to the locality, also from the north-east, north-west. The neighbourhood of the Mediterranean, with its large mass of water at a comparatively high temperature, together with the backing of mountains, is the cause of the mild climate as compared with other places in the same latitude. The season for the Riviera is from November to May, though not many visitors arrive before the middle of November, and few stay on after the end of April. The intervening months are very empty, and most of the hotels are closed. It is a great mistake for invalids to leave the Riviera too early, particularly if they return straight to England, while the weather is still cold and the journey may be a serious risk. Speaking generally, they should not leave at the earliest before the middle of April. With regard to accommodation, there is a wide choice and no lack of comfort, but it is most important that invalids should have their bed and sitting rooms facing south, as otherwise much of the benefit of the climate will be lost. French and Italian houses are also much more difficult to keep warm than English ones, the only means of heating being an inadequate wood fire. Many people who winter on the Riviera for the first time make a great mistake in not providing themselves with suitable clothing. They expect only warm weather and do not bring the thick clothes required for an ordinary English winter, which are often equally necessary out there, although after the beginning of March thinner things are generally needed. It is always desirable for invalids to carry an extra wrap, as the changes of temperature in going out of the sun down a shady street are often great, and a severe chill may be incurred. Care should also be taken not to be out after sun-down, as, whatever the truth may be as to the fall of temperature at that time, an invalid may suff'er severely from neglecting this pre- caution. There can be no doubt that the Riviera has in these respects a somewhat treacherous climate, besides the further draw- back of very cold north-east and north-west winds in the spring. Speaking generally, however, its temperature is 10° F. higher than that of London during the winter months, the rainfall is much less, fog is almost unknown, and snow falls very rarely. The most rainy months are September and October and sometimes March. Looking to these facts, the Riviera climate may be described as dry, warm, and bright when compared with other districts in the same latitude, also stimulating; its drawbacks are the high winds just mentioned, the diiTerence between its sun and shade temperatures, and the chill at sunset. Also to some people it is found, owing to this stimulating quality, to be very depressing, and those suffering from in- somnia or nervous irritability may find their condition aggravated by residence on the coast. Among the individual health resorts the most sheltered are San Remo and Mentone, which have less of this exciting quality, while Cannes on the whole has it the most. Nice is no longer so much of a health i-esort as a social centre, both on account of the amusements to be found in the town itself, and also because of its proxi- mity to Monte Carlo. Nice is in fact the chief town on the Riviera, and has the advantages and disadvantages of its position, the latter weighing most with those who are in search of health, and for whom too many social distrac- tions are not to be recommended ; the suburbs of Mont Boron and Cimiez are much better in this respect for invalids than the town itself. A beautiful resort in the mountains, about eleven miles from Cannes, is Grasse, a town which has many advantages for those who find the sea coast unsuitable. It has a bracing climate and is fairly well sheltered, but the hotel accommo- dation is unfortunately rather limited. For quiet people who do not care for social distrac-