SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 81 usually diffuse, and may be recognised by the hard feel and the angry appearance of the part, added to the dry tongue and low feverish state of the patient. Abscess is rare in the scrotum. Treatment. — Dusting with dry powders — boric acid, zinc, and starch powders, etc.—may be tried at first, but when these fail to give relief moist applications must be substituted. Where warm fomentations, rest, etc., do not cause a diminution in the swelling, numerous small punctures should be made early. Where the swelling is already great, the scrotum tense and glossy, its tissues and those of the penis brawny and oedematous, where there is any discoloration of these parts, especially when they tend to become ashy grey, incisions must be made freely, and alcohol, carbonate of am- monia, and bark, with light nutritious diet, liberally administered. But in spite of the above, it is not uncommon for these patients to pass into a condition of increasing asthenia which finally ends fatally. Gangrene.—The above-mentioned acute cell- ular erysipelas of the scrotum may soon involve the whole part in gangrene. The tissues of this region have no great degree of vitality. Gangrene also occurs after prolonged fevers in children recovering from one of the exan- themata. Treatment. — In addition to the treatment already detailed, special attention must be given to the process of separation of sloughs, which may be hastened by the constant application of charcoal poultices, and by the regular snipping away of loose parts which are hopelessly necrosed. The testes rarely if ever perish; they may become completely exposed and deprived of every vestige of their scrotal coverings, but they cover in and heal over in a remarkable manner, the resulting cicatrix being quite in- significant after such an extensive and serious- looking condition. Emphysema of the Scrotum.—Air or gases in the scrotal tissues are seen in connection with acute gangrene either due to erysipelas or ordinary extravasation : the gases are products of decomposition evolved by certain species of putrefactive organisms. Emphysema is oc- casionally seen after wounds of the part, and calls for no particular treatment. Prurigo Scroti.—This aifection occurs chiefly in elderly people, and consists of a number of solid lichenous papules upon the skin of the scrotum, chiefly on those parts of the scrotum which are opposed to the thighs and penis; the skin is usually slightly thickened and is marked by scratching. It is extremely obstin- ate, and its exact nature is often obscure. It is sometimes connected with a diathetic con- dition, such as gout, and is aggravated by un- cleanliness. Its treatment is chiefly local, and dry powdery applications—such as oxide of zinc, calomel, and powdered starch—appear to suit vol. IX it best. The cyanides, chloroform, tar, and the mercurials may be used to allay the distress- ful itching. Pruritus of the genitals may depend upon other local conditions, such as eczema, inter- trigo, and pediculi, and these must be treated by the methods found most serviceable for these afl^ections on other parts of the body. Eczema of the scrotum is a troublesome affection giving rise to great pruritus and irrita- tion. The more chronic forms occur amongst workers in tar and paraffin, and also in chimney- sweeps, being due to the constant irritation of the corrugated integument of the scrotum by dirty clothes. This condition may run on to epithelioma. It is best treated by cleanliness and dusting with dry powders. Scrotal Eruptions in Secondary Syphilis.— These occur under two distinct forms: (1) Mucous tubercles, and (2) Psoriasis. Mucous tubercles occur as raised, flattened, roundish, moist grey patches either at the part of the scrotum near the root of the penis, i.e. where the penis overhangs it, or at the sides of the scrotum where the thighs come in contact with it. They are seen during the ordinary period of the secondary stage, and are curable by frequently dusting with calomel and oxide of zinc in equal parts. The psoriasis form is a later secondary, and has peculiar characters in this region. It takes the form of irregular rings, which extend slowly and intersect each other in all directions. The rings are formed by slight thickenings of the skin, about a quarter of an inch in width, slightly raised and red in colour; the redness is covered, except at its extreme edges, by a thin layer of white scale, which is wrinkled transversely to the circumference of the circles. They are sometimes the only skin syphilide present. Itching is often complained of. They are best treated by weak mercurial ointments made with benzoated lard, and not vaseline. Dry powders are also suitable applications. They disappear under the general treatment suited to secondary syphilis. Gonorrhmal warts are occasionally met with on the skin of the scrotum. They are papillary, "branching," multiple, moist, and oflTensive, and may be cured by dusting with calomel, painting with tincture of iodine, or snipping away with scissors down to the corium. Scrotal fistul^e are usually due to the bursting of abscesses in connection with the urethra. They are frequently multiple, and may occur at any part of the scrotimi. A history of the conditions which precede them, and a deter- mination of the causes upon which these depend, will indicate the treatment appropriate to each case; for when their cause or causes are re- moved the fistulse themselves heal without any special treatment. Scrotal sinuses are often seen in connection 6