TEETH 536 do with its predisposition to caries. Leptothrix forms are very common in tiie oral cavity, and generally considered to be just transition forms of pleomorphous organisms. In 1888-95 Dr. Vincentini of Italy made a most interesting and valuable discovery in con- nection with the organisms associated with caries, and figured and described an organism of a higher type than usually obtains in the mouth, which he says is invariably found in great abundance adhering to the teeth in gelatinous plaques, and which he named lepto- thrix racemosa. He asserts that this is the parent organism of most of the bacteria of the mouth, and it certainly looks as if there was some truth in this, as preparations made from scrapings of teeth exhibit all the different varieties usually found in the mouth as well as the characteristic peculiarities of L. racemosa. Vincentini showed chromo drawings of this organism, and represented it as exhibiting four different stages, and that the highest of which was an arrangement of spores round a central stem forming club-shaped masses, and that the organism which produced these spores was the parent form of the whole, or nearly the whole, forms of microbes of the mouth; leptothrix filaments, so common in the mouth, being just portions of the stems. He described the parent organism as being composed of fertile filaments or stems, containing in their interior gemmules, and attached round their stems by very fine threads were a series of spores in six or more longitudinal series. Little or no attention was paid to this important communication for some years, till Mr. Mummery and Professor Miller took it up, and were able to make out with certainty the club-shaped bodies, etc., described. Later on Dr. J. Leon Williams worked at the subject, and was able to show by means of a series of beautiful microphotographs the various forms assumed by this organism, and established beyond doubt that this is a new and hitherto undiscovered micro-organism. It is most re- markable that this microbe has so long been overlooked by bacteriologists. Dr. Williams suggests that this was probably due to the fact that it can only be demonstrated by special methods of staining and mounting, for if mounted in balsam it does not show up at all. Dr. L. Williams' method in the preparation of specimens is as follows : — Wash with a stream of sterilised water the surfaces between two teeth, and with a small sterilised knife scrape the surfaces ; the pasty- looking mass so obtained is placed in a clean watch-glass and covered with 20 or 30 drops of a rather watery solution of methyl violet in aniline water for twelve hours, occasionally teasing it apart so as to allow the stain to penetrate; pour off" stain, and wash with steril- ised water, and then with equal parts of glycerol, alcohol, and water; remove this and put a drop of same mixture on a clean cover-glass, put stained mass into it, and invert on a clean glass slide, when it can be examined with the micro- scope. Dr. Leon Williams has done good work, and greatly enhanced our knowledge in respect to the pathology of the enamel, and likewise in regard to the bacteriology of the mouth generally. Mr. Goadby, having received a grant from the British Medical Association, has recently been making investigations in regard to the bacteria of the mouth, and has succeeded in cultivating bacillus maximus buccalis (lepto- thrix buccalis maxima of Miller), spirillum sputugenum, and spirochseta dentum, by grow- ing them on potato gelatine, and by so doing has demonstrated that leptothrix thread forms of various bacteria are just involution forms of various bacilli, etc., foimd in the oral cavity. It might be noted here that bacillus maximus buccalis occurs especially in dirty and unclean mouths full of carious teeth. Spirillum sputu- genum had never before been cultivated, there- fore to Mr. Goadby is due the credit of having been the first to do so. He obtained in twenty- four hours beautiful spiral and coma forms of this organism. Some years ago the coma bacilli of the mouth were supposed to be the same as the true cholera organism. Goadby clearly defines the difi'erences between them. Spiro- chfeta dentum is frequently found in the pus of alveolar abscess and in chronic empyema of the antrum, while spirillum sputugenum is always found associated with inflamed and filthy con- ditions of the oral cavity. Mr. Goadby by his research has materially advanced our knowledge of dental caries, and classifies the microbes into (1) acid-forming bacteria, (2) bacteria which liquefy blood-serum, (3) pigment-forming bac- teria, and insists that both the superficial and deep layers of carious tissue should be used to grow cultures from, searing each surface with a hot iron previous to taking material therefrom. Mr. Goadby has noted nine acid-forming bacteria, all of which, with two exceptions, streptococcus brevis and bacillus nccrodentalis, were found in the superficial layers. As regards the second group, liquefying bacteria, he found six, of which bacillus mesentericus ruber and vulgatus liquefy blood-serum and dentine, bacillus mesen- tericus fuscus and bacillus furvus Goadby liquefy both blood-serum and dentine. Besides these, two other organisms were noted : the yellow bacillus Goadby, supposed to be Miller's bacillus gingivfe pyogenes, and bacillus fluorescens motilis. Constantly associated with these or- ganisms he found an organism commonly found in sewage, cladothrix dichotoma; and other varieties of putrefactive bacteria have been found by him in the human mouth, and also in those of monkeys, associated with dental caries. All caries organisms grow best when the culture material is alkaline and contains