465 SYPHILIS dermatitis. There is often a tendency for the spots to develop in curved lines owing to the anatomical arrangement of the capillaries in the skin, and these crescentic, serpiginous, and horseshoe shapes are especially well marked in the ulcerating eruptions of the tertiary stage of syphilis. Syphilitic eruptions are also found in positions which are not usually affected by the non- syphilitic forms of skin disease. Many forms of secondary eruption are found on the scalp where the hair ends on the forehead, and papules are not uncommon on the face, back of the neck, trunk, and limbs. The erythe- matous syphilide appears on the chest, trunk, and flexor aspect of the limbs, whilst the squamous form is usually seen on the plantar and palmar surfaces of the feet and hands where the sebaceous follicles are absent. Pustular syphilides resembling acne and impetigo naturally occur where the sebaceous glands are most numerous, and are therefore common on the scalp and the more hairy portions of the body. Ecthymatous and rupial manifestations affect the lower limbs and the trunk most frequently, whilst tubercular nodules occur in any part. Mucous patches and condylomata are formed wherever the skin is thin, moist, and subject to irritation. They are found, therefore, at the margins of the lips, the edges of the nostrils, within the mouth, at the genital and anal folds, near the umbilicus, and between the toes. Certain regions of the body, on the other hand, are nearly exempt from syphilitic dermatitis, though they are not uncommonly affected by parasitic and simple eruptions. Thus the back of the hand, where scabies is common, and the supraclavicular and infra- clavicular regions, where it is not unusual to find evidence of lice, are remarkably free from the earlier manifestations of secondary syphilitic skin eruptions. Treatment.—The treatment in all cases of cutaneous syphilis consists in the internal administration of mercury in the form best suited to the individual patient (p. 467). White precipitate ointment is generally serviceable as a local application, and great benefit will often be derived from mercurial fumigations. Syphilitic Affections of the Hair and Nails (Alopecia).—The structural connection of the hair and nails with the skin renders these appendages especially liable to alterations as a result of syphilis. The hair is affected equally in men and women. It falls out either wholly or in patches soon after the first general erup- tion on the skin, and this is most often about the second month, though the alopecia may be delayed until the second year after in- fection. The prognosis in every case is good, and after a longer or shorter time the hair grows again, even when the alopecia has been complete. VOL. IX The treatment consists in cutting the hair short, washing the bald surface with soap and water every night, and afterwards rubbing in an ointment made by incorporating half a drachm of white precipitate ointment with an ounce of cold cream or other convenient ointment. Onychia and Paronychia. —Secondary syphilis may affect the nails either by setting up trophic changes in the matrix—onychia—or by causing a chronic inflammatory condition of the con- nective tissue of the ungual phalanx in the neighbourhood of the nail—paronychia—which leads secondarily to implication of the matrix. These changes usually occur within the first year after infection with syphilis. As a result of onychia the nail is rendered brittle, grows craggy, is partially detached, or may be shed entirely. The fingers and toes are equally affected. Paronychia may end in ulceration and destruction of the nail, or it may remain as a chronic thickening of the whole border where the nail is inserted into the skin of the phalanx. The treatment in the ulcerating forms lies in the application of compresses soaked in a solution of perchloride of mercury (1 : 1000), any exuberant granulations being restrained by the application of nitrate of silver or nitric acid. The use of a finger-stall to protect the nail will be useful in the simpler cases when the fingers are affected. As the lesions are rarely isolated manifestations of syphilis, the patient is usually taking mercury when they appear. The Mucous Membranes.—The manifesta- tions of syphilis on the mucous membranes are of great practical importance, because they are very common and are highly infectious. The mucous membrane of the mouth is affected by a diffuse erythema and by mucous patches. The erythema is especially liable to affect the uvula, the tonsils, and the larynx, causing the sore throat which is well known as a sign of second- ary syphilis. The inflammation appears about the same time as, or a little before, the first syphilitic rash. The sore throat is very chronic, and is peculiarly liable to recur from time to time during the first year after infection. The earliest symptom is dryness of the fauces, with slight pain on swallowing, but as the inflamma- tion progresses there is a copious flow of mucus. Examination of the throat at an early period shows that the velum palati, the pillars of the fauces, and the tonsils are uniformly red. In a few days the redness becomes abruptly limited and symmetrical. It never fades away gradu- ally into the surrounding healthy tissues, but is bounded by a distinct line of demarcation. In the fui-ther course of the disease the mucous membrane shows sharply defined ero- sions covered with a red or whitish deposit, and surrounded by a narrow zone of infiltration. Gradually the erosion heals, the infiltration 30