20 RUBELLA: ROSERASH when I was able finally to prove what I had long suspected, I had, with the profession generally, confused two diseases under the head of rubella. I concluded that there were two varieties of this disease : the one showing a rash resembling that of measles, the other almost identical in appearance with scarlet fever. It is quite clear, however, that these are not varieties of the same disease, but two distinct diseases, neither of them protecting against the other. For in a series of cases of the " Fourth disease" 42*1 per cent had already suffered from roserash (see also " Scarlet Fever "). (iii.) Roseola Simplex.—This eruption also, which arises in hot weather after chill, or as the product of various indigestible articles of diet, closely resembles roserash. It is, however, distinguished by the absence of fever, as well as by the absence of enlargement of the lymphatic glands. (iv.) Caterpillar Rash.—During the season when roserash is rife, as I pointed out in the Lancet in 1881, boys are very fond of keeping caterpillars, some species of which occasion a rash and a redness of the eyes which closely resembles the signs of roserash at its commence- ment, and may involve considerable difficulty in diagnosis during the middle or the beginning of a roserash epidemic. The only safe plan is isolation for twenty-four hours. The chief creatures which occasion this rash are :—the oak-eggar or Bombyx quercus, the Liparis auriflua, the Arctia caja, and Arctia villica, and the common drinker or Odonestris potatoria. On the part of the body on which they crawl, or which is touched by the fingers that have handled them or cleaned out their cages, a measly rash appears. As a rule it commences on the fingers; these rub the eyes, and typical measly-looking eyes are presented. Then the face or neck is scratched; or, if in cricket-clothes, any part of the body, and then ensues a subcuticular or a measly-looking rash. So common is this occurrence in early summer that in making a diagnosis this possible origin is always in my mind. (v.) Flower Rash.—The eruption arising from handling the Primula obconica also closely resembles the rash in its early stage. (vi.) Drug Rash.—Some drugs may also create a difficulty when they are administered, as they produce a very similar eruption, such as the bromide rash, or the copaiba rash. Prognosis.—The prognosis is favourable, as the ailment is the simplest of the zymotic diseases. Under the head of "Sequelse" I have pointed out the cases where even this mild illness may cause anxiety. Treatment. — (i.) Isolation. — All cases of infectious illness should be isolated, and, where possible, in a separate house or hospital. Even this slight illness should be included in the rule, since it is not necessary that all should suffer from it, and it is exceedingly inconvenient and unpleasant when large numbers are simul- taneously attacked, even although the illness may neither be severe nor fatal. Isolation should be enforced, whenever possible, before the appearance of the eruption if the epidemic is to be kept under control. The difficulty is that so many fall without any palpable previous symptom. Still, during an epidemic, when the young look heavy and are not quite themselves, the time has arrived for isolation. (ii.) Prophylactic.—When the patient has been isolated, the question arises as to the requisite treatment for a safe and speedy cure, and the earliest possible release. My invariable custom in average cases is to keep the patient in bed for five days, to get him up for three days, and to send him out for six days. During these latter days he has a bath every night, and on the fifteenth day his clothes are passed through the disinfecting chamber. He is then safe, even if some desquamation continues, to mingle with his friends. In mild cases a few days less are assigned; and in more severe cases, or in the delicate, a few days more. (iii.) Dietetic.— During the fever-period a milk and farinaceous diet, with plenty of water to drink, is essential. As the fever subsides soups, eggs, and fish; and after a day or two the ordinary diet may be allowed—bearing in mind, however, that in children and adolescents the appetite is enormous, and may be satisfied, since growth proceeds even during illness. (iv.) Curative.—-Nothing is necessary beyond the ordinary rules of treatment for slight febrile ailments unattended by complications. (v.) Convalescents.—In respect of the period of convalescence of the young I desire to add a word on their behalf. Time passes wearily with them during isolation from their friends. They cannot always be reading, nor is this beneficial; but they do need in-door games and out-door games as conducive to a happy restoration to health. Rubeola,. *S'ee Measles {Synonyms). Rubidium.—Rubidium, an element (Rb) with the atomic weight 84'8 ; the iodide and the bromide have been used in medicine instead of the corresponding potassium salts. Rubina,t. See Balneology {Spain and Portugal, Sulphated Waters). Rue.—OleumRutae, or oil of rue, the volatile oil of Ruta graveolens, is no longer officinal in the B.P. ; it was formerly employed externally as a rubefacient, and internally (dose, 2 to 5 m.) as a carminative, antispasmodic, and especially as an emmenagogue. Ruffini EudorganS.—Special termi- nal nerve corpuscles found especially in the skin of the finger-tips.