SKIN GRAFTING AND 207 ALLIED PROCEDURES such as the arm, hand, or sole of the foot— and scattering them indiscriminately over the surface of the ulcer. A certain number of the cells take root and grow, and so help the healing process. They also act in some mysterious way —as all forms of skin drafts do—in stimulating the growth of the epithelium at the margin of the sore. The cicatrix thus formed, however, is found to be weak, and very liable to break down again. In view of the much more satis- factory results obtained by processes no more difficult to carry out, this method is but seldom employed and is not to be recommended. Epithelium Grafting. — Reverdin, in 1869, first suggested and practised the planting of minute fragments of vital epithelium with a view to hastening the healing of granulating surfaces. The results were so satisfactory that the method soon became an established procedure in plastic surgery. A portion of the patient's skin, previously purified, is raised with the point of a needle, and a small piece about the size of a split pea removed with a razor or with scissors curved on the flat. The graft consists only of the epidermis and superficial layer of the rete mucosum, and should be cut without drawing blood. The skin of the prepuce re- moved by circumcision from a healthy child furnishes most useful material for this method of grafting. The portion of skin is cut into small fragments, each about the size of a pin's head, and these are planted over the surface of the ulcer. As each of these fragments has only a potential growth of about half an inch in diameter, it is advisable to place them so that the edges of the epithelial islets which form will touch one another, and to plant them near the edge of the ulcer in order that the grafted epithelium may blend with that of the margin, and so consolidate the cicatrix. If the grafts are widely scattered all over the granulating surface, so that the circular islets which result from their growth are unsupported by one another and by the marginal epithelium, they are very liable to disappear again, being de- stroyed by the granulations which grow up between them. When sufficient material is not available to plant out the whole raw surface, it is better to confine operations to one portion of the ulcer at a time. The dressing applied consists of imbricated pieces of oiled-silk protective or silver foil, covered over with a pad of moist aseptic gauze and absorbent wadding, retained in position by a firm bandage. A splint or other retentive apparatus is useful in preventing movement of the part and disturbance of the grafts. The dressing is changed in four or five days. It is often found that many of the grafts have disappeared, but this does not necessarily mean failure, as they reappear a few days later as thin, bluish, glazed areas, which rapidly increase in size and thickness. The healing of the ulcer is markedly accel- erated by this procedure, but it must be admitted that the resulting cicatrix is somewhat weak and liable to break down, and that there is considerable tendency for it subsequently to contract. Lusk, of New York, has employed the epi- dermis raised by blistering for purposes of grafting. After purifying an area of the patient's own body, slightly larger than the size of the ulcer to be covered, blistering fluid is painted over it. When the blister rises, the fluid is let out, and the raised cuticle carefully cut off with scissors and transferred to the granulating surface. Similar material may often be obtained from cases of accidental burns or scalds, or by paring with a razor the surface of callosities on the sole of the foot, after thorough purification with carbolic lotion. Lusk has found that such material may be sterilised between glass plates in an ordinary surgical steriliser, and that after being dried it will keep for an indefinite period, and on being applied to an ulcer acts as efficiently as a recent graft. Over the grafts he applies a dressing of steril- ised gauze, saturated with balsam of Peru (one drachm to the ounce), and sterilised absorbent wool. This dressing is not changed for ten or fifteen days. Thiersch's Method.—The general concensus of opinion seems to be that the most generally satisfactory results are obtained by employing grafts cut in long strips, and containing half the thickness of the skin—the method associated with the name of Thiersch of Leipsig. Although Oilier of Lyons had previously suggested the principle involved in this pro- cedure, the credit of bringing forward the prac- tice and demonstrating its value undoubtedly belongs to Thiersch. The most convenient source of Thiersch grafts is the inner aspect of the patient's own thigh or upper arm, or, when these are not available, the front of the forearm, the skin in these situations being soft, pliable, and comparatively hairless. When more hairy parts are selected, they should be shaved before the grafts are cut. The area which is to furnish the grafts should be purified beforehand in the same way as any other part on which an aseptic operation is to be performed. Hirschberg believes that the grafts are more likely to grow if the skin from which they are taken is rendered hyper- £emic before cutting them. Fischer, on the other hand, has obtained his best results after producing an artificial ischgemia. The surface to be grafted is prepared in one or other of the ways already described, and the bleeding completely arrested before the grafts are placed in position. For cutting the grafts, a sharp, hollow-ground