372 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF pain, and the tenderness and hypersesthesia in this region may be so great that even contact with the bed-clothes is unbearable. Such ai'e the usual characters, but to each one of the statements exceptions occur. Thus, pain may be wholly wanting. Large ulcers have been found in the stomach post-mortem, which have given rise to no symptoms during life, and whose existence was quite unsuspected ; or it may be that a violent hsematemesis has first suggested the lesion, and a painless recovery has ensued; or pain may cease for long periods, to recur later, whilst other evidences of ulcer persist. Or, again, the pain may have no such definite relation to food as here described; it may come on when the stomach is empty long after a meal, or it may be almost continuous, and but little, if at all, influenced by what is swallowed. The explanation of this is doubtful; a flow of gastric juice of increased acidity has been suggested to account for the former phenomenon, and this may be why food has very rarely been known to relieve the discom- fort ; and the permanently distended stomach may determine a constant pain, although the associated gastritis may be partly responsible. Very exceptionally, pressure over the epi- gastrium has been known to afford relief, and in a case of duodenal ulcer within the writer's knowledge which was fatal by perforation, this circumstance was very marked. Vomiting.—This is almost if not quite as constant a symptom as pain, being very seldom absent when the ulcer is in the usual situation, viz. on the posterior wall at the pyloric end, although when the lesion is on the anterior surface or at the fundus it may not occur. Like the pain, it is usually induced by food or by an accumulation of saliva that has been swallowed, which act as irritants to the exposed nerves ; at the same time it is also liable to be excited by mental or bodily exertion, or other circumstances acting reflexly. As a general rule the pain is relieved, perhaps entirely, by the vomiting, although exceptions to this do occur. Hydrochloric acid is always present in the vomit, very often in excess, together with the products of digestion, albumose, etc., and frequently lactic acid. It is, however, the presence of blood, usually in large quantity, from several ounces up to one or even two pints, that especially characterises the ejecta. The hsematemesis may occur only once or be re- peated twice or more within a day or two, and is not infrequently preceded by an accession of pain, or by peculiar sensations of heaviness or distension of the stomach. The blood is bright, and coagulates after being voided, or clots may be brought up. However profuse the heemor- rhage may be, it is comparatively seldom fatal, though such a result is not unknown, and death has followed an escape of blood into the stomach without any being vomited or passed per anum. The bleeding, of course, reduces the patient to an extreme degree of faintness, and this, as well as pallor, is proportionate to the loss of blood. In exceptional cases hsematemesis is the first symptom to suggest the presence of an ulcer in a patient who has made no previous complaint of either pain or vomiting, or even of the mildest dyspeptic troubles. Such blood as passes on into the bowels is ultimately voided as a black material resembling tar, due to the decomposition of the blood by the gastric juice, and the conversion of the iron of the haemo- globin into the black sulphide by the sul- phuretted hydrogen in the lower intestines. This constitutes true " melsena," a term that is often improperly applied to any haemorrhage from the bowel, whether this be of bright or reddish-brown altered blood. When the ejecta are actually black, it is proof that the source of the blood is above the entrance of the bile-duct, and that it has been submitted to the action of the gastric juice. Investigations directed to the functional capacity of the stomach when the seat of an ulcer have demonstrated a very constant excess in the secretion of hydrochloric acid, which has previously been referred to, properly playing some part in the production of the lesion. This hyperchlorhydria may even be met with when the stomach is empty, and in the dilatation which may follow on pyloric stenosis caused by cicatrisation of the ulcer. The pepsin also would appear to be frequently increased. Some deficiency of gastric motility is apt to occur when the general health is much impaired, as in chlorosis or in gastroectasis; and such ab- sorption as takes place from the stomach is alleged to be delayed in this disease. Associated with these very definite mani- festations, there is a variable degree of gastric dyspepsia, which may be due to a chronic gastritis of some duration, in connection with which the ulcer may have been developed; or the indigestion may have been of the nervous variety and closely connected with secretory or motori-sensory disturbances in the stomach. Since, also, the greater proportion of cases classed as gastric ulcer occur in young and chlorotic women, the failures in normal gastric digestion as well as many of the general symp- toms may be properly referred to the quality of the blood and the malnutrition dependent thereon. Thus it is that the appetite is com- monly very indifferent or capricious, and thirst is complained of, especially if there have been any haemorrhage ; the tongue is pale and flabby and indented by the teeth ; and constipation, due to the deteriorated tone of the intestinal musculature and the lack of adequate stimulus to peristalsis from the small bulk of the contents, is the rule. With these are various degrees of discomfort, perhaps amounting to pain in the stomach or abdomen generally, with a sense of