STRABISMUS 410 is not such a constant relation between accom- modation and convergence. If there were, then all hypermetropes should squint, those with slight error squinting little, those with high refractive error squinting much. Actual observation does not bear that out. There may be hypermetropia and no squint. There may be little hypermetropia and much squint, or vice versa. By most persons the acts of accom- modation and convergence can be performed separately or judiciously blended in such pro- portions as to maintain binocular fusion and avoid squint. The desire for single vision is the real safeguard. Bonders' theory appears, however, to be the true explanation of the large class of periodic (accommodative) squints in young persons. Carried further, it seems to explain the lessen- ing of convergent squint which is often noted as age advances and accommodative power weakens. Divergent strabismus may be explained in the same kind of way, especially when, as is so often the case, it is associated with myopia of un- equal degree in the two eyes and with defective vision in one eye. A myope in looking at any object requires to exert no accommodative power until it lies between him and his farthest point of distinct vision, namely the point in space which represents the conjugate focus of the fovea of his fixing eye. The higher the myopia the less need for accommodation. It is not unreasonable to suppose that in some individuals this predisposes to a lessened activity of the associated centime for convergence. But owing to the fact that myopia is not often present in the first years of life, being gradually developed in adolescence or at least after the fusion faculty has been acquired, persons with myopia of equal or nearly equal amount and with good vision in each eye preserve the fusion faculty, and exercising convergence with little or no impulse to accommodation, do not squint. But if the myopia be of very high degree, the maintenance of the strong convergence required to maintain fusion at a plane so near the face {e.g. in reading without glasses) becomes irksome and is gradually relaxed. Further, if one eye be much more myopic than the other, or from any cause, congenital or acquired, has poor vision, it receives so little retinal stimulus to fusion that the innervation impulses sent from the centre of convergence become feeble by disuse. Thus a tendency to "insufficiency of convergence" induces first a latent divergence of the visual axes, then an occasional deviation outwards of the weaker eye during inattention, fatigue, indisposition, or attempted strong convergence for a near point, and finally, permanent divergent strabismus. The proper exercise of convergence giving place to a conju- gate lateral movement, the squint may alternate voluntarily or be made to show alternation, just as in convergent strabismus, by alternate covering of the eyes. Strabismus ascendens or descendens is more often latent than manifest. Like the commoner forms already discussed, it doubtless originates in some obstacle to facile fusion, some structural or functional asymmetry of the elevating or depressing muscles or their nerve centres. By the voluntary exercise of special muscular effort in the interest of binocular fusion it can often be overcome, and only manifests itself when an impediment to vision is present in or before one eye. Here again " alternation" of the squint can usually be demonstrated, the one eye ascending to fix, the other descending. A combination of vertical and lateral strabis- mus is not uncommon. The mobility of the eyes in squint varies in different individuals, and should always be tested. Many people imagine that the marked inversion of the deviating eye in convergent strabismus is comparable to talipes of the foot, and associated with a contracture of the internal rectus of the aff'ected eye, or a palsy of the external rectus, and that in divergent strabis- mus these conditions are reversed. Such a conclusion is never justified until the full range of possible movement of the eyes has been tested. This may readily be done by directing the patient to fix one's finger-tip, and then without turning his head to follow the finger with his eyes as it is moved to the right or left, up or down, or approximated to the root of the nose. The action of single muscles is thus fairly brought out, as well as the conju- gate lateral, conjugate vertical, and convergent capacity. In more refined diagnosis the angular ex- cursion of each eye may be accurately measured by moving a fine test object along the arc of a perimeter, noting the limit of fixability, and comparing it with the normal range. In con- vergent strabismus it is not at all uncommon to find some restriction in the direction of action of each external rectus, but (except in the rare condition known as " strabismus fixus," in which there is apparently some congenital adhesion to the inner side of the globe restricting move- ment) each eye can usually be turned volun- tarily outwards, and there is no rigid contracture of the internal recti. Similarly, in divergent strabismus we can usually demonstrate readily that each internal rectus is well able to rotate the eye towards the nose under a conjugate lateral impulse, and that it is to the weakness or instability of the func- tion of convergence that the deformity must be assigned. The State of Vision in the Squinting Eye.— An eye which habitually squints has almost invariably a higher refractive error and poorer vision than its fellow, even with a correcting glass. Some are congenitally amblyopic. Some