SUNSTROKE 428 with fevers of microbic origin presenting hyper- pyrexia, to justify an assumption of similar production. The theory is not supported by positive facts, and is improbable. The dy- namic theory, as ably developed by Wood, is most consistent with our knowledge of the circumstances and phenomena of sunstroke. Even if a toxic condition of blood were demon- strated as a primary factor preceding the onset of serious symptoms, its operation would still be governed by the agencies and processes which produce superheating of the blood, and it is quite certain that this superheating can be caused in both men and animals by heat alone. Diagnosis.—Some difficulty may be experi- enced in deciding whether a patient who has been found unconscious after exposure to heat is suffering from the effects of heatsti'oke or from hemorrhagic apoplexy, or from the results of alcoholic intoxication or narcotic poisoning. Perhaps, still further to complicate matters, more than one of these factors may be in opera- tion. The hyperpyrexia is, under these circum- stances, the key to the diagnosis. Greater difficulty may be experienced in distinguishing heat fever from a pernicious attack of malarial fever or hyperpyretic forms of eruptive and other fevers. It should always be borne in mind that persons suffering from pyrexia of any kind are not immune to heat influences—on the contrary, are specially susceptible to these ; so that cases originally of some other fever may turn into heat fever. The history of the case is a valuable aid to diagnosis—more especially in suspected malarious attacks—and the obser- vation in these of some indication of period- icity, the discovery of plasmodia in the blood, and the effect, if any, following the adminis- tration of quinine, should clear the issue. Convulsive phenomena in thermic fever may suggest cerebro-spinal meningitis; but careful inquiry as regards onset, examination of the patient, and study of the symptoms should dispel doubt. Prognosis.—The mortality of heat shock is much lower than of heat fever. In the Euro- pean army of India cases are registered under the heads of sunstroke, heatstroke, and heat apoplexy; the two former terms indicating roughly heat shock, and the latter heat fever. The case mortality is 9 and 25 respectively. Prognosis turns on the previous health of the patient, the severity of the noxa, and the gravity of the symptoms. Profound unconsciousness, absence of reflexes, convulsive phenomena, un- yielding hyperpyrexia, and gravely embarrassed breathing are bad signs; but recovery some- times takes place in very desperate cases, and after many days' hovering on the brink of death, and this justifies persistent effort and some measure of hope in the most unpromising plight. Prophylaxis. — Racial acclimatisation is a long process of physiological adaptation taking place from generation to generation under the Darwinian law of the survival of the fittest. The habits of the acclimatised are an outcome of the operation of this law, and lend themselves to practical hygiene. The most noteworthy are indolence and apathy, fatalism, and a slavish adherence to custom and routine—betokening an instinctive avoidance of work and worry ; a simple dietary, consisting mostly of grains, pulses, vegetables, and fruits, with sparing con- sumption of fish and flesh ; temperance ; light, loose, and porous clothing; head protection by means of turbans, umbrellas, wet cloths, thick leaves, etc.; early rising ; work in the cooler parts of the day, and rest or sleep during the hotter; frequent bathing ; shampooing and oiling of the skin; living in thickly thatched and shaded houses, and sleeping in the open. Many of these habits are worthy of imitation by persons entering on a tropical residence. When compelled to make unusual efforts, many natives of hot countries resort to opium and other nervine calmatives. In associated life in the tropics, the utmost pains should be taken to avoid crowding and promote cleanliness of habitations and their surroundings. Pure air and plenty of it is a prime desideratum. Houses and tents should be located in high, dry, and airy places, and ravines, swamps, and jungle avoided. Living and sleeping places should be as thoroughly ventilated as possible, and punkahs, thermantidotes, and tatties used. Soldiers should be marched in the cool of the morning, in open order, with frequent halts for rest and refreshment. They should be as lightly clothed and equipped as possible, and allowed to free their necks and chests of all constrictions. Tea or coffee, with a biscuit, should be given before starting, and the bheesti (water-carrier) kept in close attendance to supply drinking- water and douches if required. The sick and weakly should be carried in well-covered waggons, and those showing signs of exhaustion carefully attended to. Inspections should be held before starting to eliminate those not fit to travel on foot or horse. Horses and cattle are also liable to suffer from excessive heat if com- bined with fatigue, and require attention as well as the men. Personal prophylaxis depends on avoidance of those influences and habits which have been indicated, under the head of causation, as predis- posing to and aiding the noxious effects of high temperature. Exposure to great heat—solar, atmospheric, or artificial—should be rendered as rare and brief as possible. If symptoms arise in consequence of habitual or occasional ex- posure, such as headache, giddiness, lassitude, sleeplessness, and irritability of temper, prompt change to the sea or the hills or to a temperate latitude is advisable. During exposure to the sun the head and spine should be specially