THERAPEUTICS: SERUM THERAPY 586 an active serum the animal must be endowed with the highest degree of immunity. To pro- cure a serum of this description horses are em- ployed, which may be inoculated either with gradually increasing doses of the toxin or of living or dead bacteria. This must be done slowly and cautiously, but by following out this principle a serum of maximum intensity is obtained. Each antitoxin affords protection only against the particular disease to which it is antagonistic. For example, the antitoxin of diphtheria affords no protection against tetanus. Each infection requires for its prevention or cure a specific antitoxin. Probably the only exception to this is in the case of snake-bite, for a serum can be obtained which is so highly antitoxic against the venom of one snake that it will counteract the poison of a snake of a different species. The serum is usually injected into the anterior wall of the abdomen, but any part where the skin is loose will serve. It is better not to in- ject into the back or buttocks from the risk of bed-sores. The skin should be rendered aseptic by washing it first with soap and turpentine, and then with absolute alcohol or with dilute carbolic acid. When the bulk of the fluid exceeds 25 c.c, more than one injection will have to be made. Absorption soon takes place, and manipulation of the part is quite unneces- sary. A special syringe must be employed, and it should take to pieces so that it may be readily boiled in a test-tube. The most con- venient capacity is from 10 to 20 c.c, but the 25 c.c. is useful. There is no particular advan- tage in having the glass barrel or piston gradu- ated. The platinum and iridium needles can be sterilised in a spirit flame. The syringes are supplied by most makers of serums, and cost about 12s. 6d. Serum treatment is employed in diphtheria, in the pyogenic diseases, such as erysipelas and puerpei-al fever, in tetanus, glanders, anthrax, and snake-bite. There are indications that before long its scope of action will be extended to other diseases. The records of well-observed cases of necessity accumulate somewhat slowly, and it is necessary to rest on well-established ground before taking a new departure. There is reason to think that simple physiological serum may have some value as a curative agent, and of late horse serum has been employed ten- tatively. Horses are not prone to tubercle, and it is possible that ultimately advantage may be taken of this fact. Horse serum is supplied for test by several makers. Aiitidiphtheritic Serum. — The most notable success of serum therapeutics is in connection with diphtheria. Introduced originally by Behring in 1890, and elaborated by Roux of Paris, it has been universally adopted. Aronson was the first to utilise horses in the preparation of the serum. Statistics have accumulated to an enormous extent, and without exception show a marked diminution in the mortality from the disease under the serum treatment. There are many brands of antidiphtheritic serum, varying much in the number of units they contain. The serum is now always pre- scribed according to the number of units, irre- spective of the dose of the injection. The anti- toxin unit is the amount of antitoxin which, injected into a guinea-pig of 250 grammes in weight, neutralises 100 times the minimum fatal dose of toxin of standard strength. This is known as the Behring unit. The Ehrlich unit is somewhat different, the test dose being that which, when mixed with a unit of serum, just suffices to kill the animal in four days. Roux's constant is a toxic solution, of which O'l c.c. kills a guinea-pig weighing 500 grammes in twenty-four hours. These standards are arbi- trary and conventional, but they are convenient. The mode of manufacture of these serums is, under expert guidance, being constantly im- proved, and in most cases the maker's guarantee as to strength, purity, and dose has to be ac- cepted. Many of these products, however, are under some form of central control. In Germany all forms of serum permitted to be sold are subject to constant official examination. The bottles are filled under supervision, and to each is attached a lead seal, on which is stamped the number of immunising units. This plan is followed by one firm in England, every batch of antidiphtheritic serum being tested by the Superintendent of the Laboratories of the Royal College of Physicians of London and the Royal College of Surgeons of England, under whose supervision the bulbs are filled. It may be that the guarantee is not greater than that afforded by the experts attached to other firms, but it is an additional security. The antidiphtheritic serums in common use in this country are those prepared by (1) The Jenner (formerly the British) Institute of Preventive Medicine, (2) Burrougiis Wellcome and Co., (3) Parke, Davis and Co., (4) E. Merck (Darmstadt), (5) Behring (Fabrik : Hochst-Am- Main), (6) Aronson (Berlin : Schering's Fabrik), and (7) Roux (Institut Pasteur, Paris). The preparations used in the United States are those of: (1) The New York Board of Health, (2) Parke, Davis and Co., (3) Burroughs Well- come and Co., (4) Mulford and Co. -)f Phila- delphia, (5) Gibier of New York, (6) Behring, (7) Aronson, and (8) Roux. Many of these preparations are sent out in several different forms. The Jenner Institute (Chelsea Gardens, Grosvenor Road, London; agents, Allen and Hanbury) offers the serum in vials containing 2000 units, supplied in cases holding two vials, at 5s. the case. Burroughs Wellcome and Co. (Snow Hill Buildings, London, E.C.) supply their serum in hermetically sealed tubes con-