STOMACH: SURGICAL 387 be conjectured if the ulcer can be located by the site of pain, its period of onset after food, the influence of posture, and the direction in which the pain radiates (Mayo Robson). With regard to treatment all are agreed that medical means should have a fair trial. If the hsemor- rhage continues in spite of these, or if it recurs, then the question of operative interference should be discussed in consultation. After a second serious haemorrhage, operation should be recommended as soon as the condition of the patient will allow of its being carried out (Mayo Robson). The Operation for Gastrorrhagia.—The usual means are taken to alleviate shock, including the infusion of saline fluid, before, and it may be also during, the operation. The abdomen is opened in the middle line, the stomach identi- fied, and its contents emptied by pressure into the duodenum. The stomach is examined for external signs of ulcer ; failing these, it is laid freely open by an incision in its long axis. The upper and lower edges of the wound are widely retracted and the whole interior examined systematically. The posterior wall may be invaginated by means of two fingers introduced through an opening in the gastro-colic ligament. The duodenum may be explored with the finger, and may also be invaginated into the stomach. If no ulcer or bleeding point be discovered, one must fall back on putting the organ at rest by a gastro-enterostomy. If an ulcer be found the procedure varies with its accessibility. If it is on the anterior wall or lesser curvature near the pylorus, it is best to excise it. Only very small ulcers or bleeding points can be ligatured en masse. If the ulcer be inaccessible—on the posterior wall eating into the pancreas, or high up near the cardia — the bleeding may be arrested by means of the cautery (Mikulicz) or by packing with gauze, the end of the gauze being brought out at the opening in the stomach, and the edges of the latter joined to the parietes. In very feeble patients it is hopeless to explore the stomach; a gastro-enterostomy should be performed straight away. In small repeated hcBmorrhages luith progressive ancemia there is no urgency; preparations are made, and a favourable opportunity selected for gastro-enterostomy, in the expectation that this will bring about the healing of the ulcer which is the source of the haemorrhage. Perforation.—This complication of ulcer is generally recognised as requiring immediate surgical treatment. The sites of perforation are well known, as are also the conditions under which it occurs, and the clinical features with which it is associated, so that we shall only draw attention to certain points which may be a source of difficulty. In about twenty per cent of cases there is more than one perforation. Although chiefly met with in anaemic young women, we have met with it in either sex up to the age of sixty. Perforation may be the first indication of the existence of an ulcer, the previous symptoms having been so slight as not to attract attention. The most constant clinical feature is the sudden onset and persistence of severe pain and tenderness. Vomiting is more often absent than present. The shock is usually severe enough to be of use in diagnosis, but it is sometimes very slight and passes off quickly, so that when the patient is first seen the pulse and temperature may be normal. The belly wall is usually drawn in, hard, and immovable, but we have met with cases in which it was quite flaccid and moved with respiration. The escape of gas from the stomach may cause a fulness in the epigastrium and diminution in the liver dulness. The presence or absence of liver dulness, however, is of very little significance. Mere distension of the hepatic flexure of the colon may cause a marked diminu- tion in the dulness. We must insist on the fact that in a considerable proportion of cases when the patient is first seen, his apparent well-being and the absence of complaint and of definite clinical signs may be most deceptive. While, on the one hand, we have seen patients absolutely felled, rolling about in agony, and only able to speak in whispers, we have seen others who were able to walk, to swallow liquids, and who were quite ignorant that anything serious had taken place. A minute perforation —and we have seen one no larger than an ordinary pin—or one occurring in an empty stomach, or in such a position that the contents are hindered from escaping by contact of the gastric wall with an opposing surface of peri- toneum, or by adhesions, is attended with features which may leave room for doubt as to whether perforation has occurred or not. Similarly, where perforation takes place into the lesser sac, the shock is often evanescent, and the clinical features far from convincing. In both of these types it is quite possible for the patient to recover, and develop later a perigastric abscess. Finally, there is a clinical type: a patient who is known to suffer from ulcer, and who is suddenly seized with pain and collapse, and presents many of the features of perforation, and yet on exploration the wall of the stomach is found to be intact. These are probably instances of threatened perforation or concealed haemorrhage. We have perhaps said enough to indicate that the diagnosis of perforation is sometimes one of considerable difficulty. When we are unable to say with certainty that there is no perforation, we should not hesitate to make a small exploratory incision. The differential diagnosis of perforated ulcer from other critical abdominal lesions, such as ruptured extra-uterine gestation or appendi- citis, is rarely difficult, and is of less importance, as a laparotomy is called for in any case.