204 SKIN—PIGMENTARY AFFECTIONS nitric acids, borax, the caustic alkalies and their carbonates, and above all corrosive sublimate. The aqueous solution of the sublimate, 5 grains to the ounce, should be applied closely and evenly to the pigmented area and left in situ, being re-wetted fi'om time to time, for three or four hours. When the compress is removed, some soothing paste or powder should be applied daily until the destroyed epidermis is removed and replaced by newly formed epithelium. It must be remembered that this treatment is only suitable for very limited patches; in cases of incurable chloasma it is advisable to inform the patients of the incurableness of their condition. This advice also applies to leucoderma, for which we have no remedy. Spurious Pigmentations of the Skin There are many cases in which parts of the skin are discoloured by pigments other than melanin, and these may be conveniently grouped together under the head of spurious pigmenta- tions. 1. Parasitic diseases which produce discolora- tion of the surface— (1) Pityriasis versicolor is a mycotic disease characterised by the formation of fawn-coloured or brownish scaly patches of irregular shape and size, chiefly met with on the chest, abdomen, and back, and occasionally on the limbs, and very rarely on the face and scalp. It gives rise to very little irritation, and is not accompanied by inflammatory symptoms. The fungus which produces this disease is Alicrosporon fiirfur, a mould of very low and imperfect type, which secretes a brown pigment. It produces my- celium and spores, which form little masses lying between the mycelial threads. Its my- celium vegetates in the horny layers, which it breaks off' into fragments or scales, thus pro- ducing the condition known as pityriasis. The only disease likely to be confused with it is leucoderma, and as this diagnosis might lead to trouble, it is important for the practitioner to be familiar with the points of distinction. In leucoderma the cuticle is smooth and co- herent, while in pityriasis it is scaly or readily crumbles under the finger-nail. The pigment ends abruptly in the parasitic disease, while in leucoderma it gradually fades into the sur- rounding skin. If any doubt exists, the micro- scope will settle it. Treatment consists in the vigorous use of soap and water, with the appli- cation of a lotion of hyposulphite of soda or perchloride of mercury. (2) Erythrasma is a mycotic, superficial, in- flammatory disease met with in the axilla, the inguinal, and genito-crural regions, and is char- acterised by the formation of rounded, scaly patches of a reddish brown tint. It is provoked by a mycelial fungus allied to the trichophyta, and called by Barensprung Microsporon minu- tissimum. (3) Pinta, or " spotted sickness." See vol. viii. p. 103. (4) Otomycosis aspergillina. See vol. ii. p. 475. 2. Chromidrosis and Sehorrhcea Nigricans.— Under certain conditions not yet understood the sweat and sebaceous secretions may be coloured. The pigments are unknown, but they are con- tained in the cutaneous secretion, and not in the tissues. The tints vary from red to blue or violet, blue being the commonest variety. The favourite locality is the face, especially the eye- lids, but it may occur on any part of the body. The pigment in the sebaceous secretion may be black, yellow, or blue. Laycock has collected several cases of seborrhoea nigricans. It seems certain that these pigmentary anomalies are associated with emotional or other neurotic dis- turbances. They may coincide with hypertes- thesia of the skin in the pigmented area. The pigmentary conditions of the sweat which result from the growth of chromogenic bacteria, or those due to the presence of coloured salts of iron or copper, are to be regarded as purely accidental pigmentations. 3. Mineral Pigmentation.—(1) Argyria is the name given to the slaty blue discoloration of the skin produced by the prolonged administra- tion of silver nitrate. It was more commonly met with in the days when silver nitrate was administered for epilepsy. It may follow the local application of the drug to the throat. Radcliffe Crocker records a case in which the blue discoloration did not appear till many years after the topical application had ceased. The colour is supposed to be due to the reduc- tion of the silver salt in the epithelium. (2) Tattooing.—In this barbaric operation gunpowder and red lead and other pigments are conveyed into the cutis by means of sharp- pointed instruments. We need not further consider it. Skin Grafting and AUied Procedures Introduction ...... 204 Terminology ...... 205 Cases and Surfaces suitable for Graft- ing 205 Preparation for Grafting . . . 206 Methods of Grafting— (a) Epithelium Sowing {See, Listey-) . 206 (b) Epithelium Grafting . . . 207 (c) Skin Grafting .... 208 Transplantation of Mucous Membrane 209 The generic term skin grafting is applied to a series of surgical procedures, which, while they are all directed towards the same object, vary widely in their range of applicability and in their technical details. The object in all cases is to bring about the rapid and sound healing of a raw or a granulat- ing surface, in such a way as to produce a strong