433 SUPPURATION 3. Virulence.—The virulence of a micro- organism is a more important factor than the dose when the virulence is subject to great variation in degree. It has been demonstrated by Marmorek and Dr. W. Bulloch that a culture of streptococcus pyogenes administered in a dose of 2 c.c. caused death in forty-eight hours, and that by increasing the virulence of the same culture a dose of half a millionth of a c.c. caused death in seven hours. 4. Method of Inoculation.—If the micro-organ- ism be deposited in masses, its action is more sure to lead to suppuration than if it be in- jected in fine emulsion in a large quantity of fluid. The writer has not seen many cases of pyaemia, but the majority were admitted into hospital with pus in one or more places, and oedematous painful points in other parts which subsequently suppurated, and it was uncommon for a fresh undiscovered spot to become a focus of suppuration. If this is a correct and a common observation, it would appear that the foci of most subsequent sites of suppuration are inoculated early in the disease, in fact possibly at the time of primary infection. The blood or lymph streams may have been the combined or solitary paths of a general primary infection rather than the paths by which a local infec- tion became disseminated and produced second- ary lesions. The writer has never been able to induce pyaemia in animals, and therefore cannot speak from experimental evidence upon this point, but he believes there is reason to sup- • pose that, if the mass of the micro-organisms inoculated has been from the beginning localised and not generalised, suppuration will remain local. Upon this point the writer has recently sought experimental evidence, and although pyaemia could not be induced, it was found that if an animal were killed five minutes after in- oculation of staphylococcus pyogenes aureus in sufficient dose to cause only an acute local sup- puration in a control animal, even then cocci could be demonstrated sometimes in the liver and sometimes in the spleen of the killed j animal. Experimental evidence of this kind repeatedly led one to suppose that, although the mass of the injected micro-organisms caused ' an acute suppuration in the subcutaneous tissue at the site of inoculation, many of them became generalised at the time of injection, but gave I rise to no morbid anatomical changes. This fact will be further alluded to in discussing re- covery from suppuration. ; 5. Nidus or Tissue in which the Micro- organism is deposited.—Bone, periosteum, sub- cutaneous tissue, serous, mucous, and synovial : membranes, are common seats of activity for the jj micro-organisms of suppuration. Some micro- ' organisms do not necessarily find a suitable nidus in all these tissues. Thus micrococcus gonorrhoese does not act on skin and subcutane- ous tissues, but it is most active on the mucous VOL. IX membranes of the urethra, conjunctiva, and cervix uteri, and it acts slowly on synovial and serous surfaces. A diffusing subcutaneous lymphangitis often clears up, leaving foci of suppuration only in the burste of its track (bursa patellse and the bursa over the olecranon process of the ulna). In the writer's experi- ence, the lips and cheeks are associated with fatal infection accompanied by isolated collec- tions of pus more than any one part of the body. On three careful post-mortem examina- tions being made, the lower lips and lower parts of the cheek were involved in two of them, and the face and lips in the other one. There was no involvement in the pterygoid plexus, and the sinuses of the skull were free from disease; the lymphatic glands in the neck were involved and contained many micro-organisms. Strepto- cocci existed in one case. The very vascularity of the part may be the essential factor in the cause of the danger of this site of infection. The exudation of fluid and emigration of leuco- cytes may be so large in amount and of such rapid accumulation that the capillaries become compressed by them, and hence the trouble. Micro-organisms of suppuration find uncon- genial soil in hair, nails, cartilage, fibrous tissue, erectile tissue, and arterial tubes (excepting aneurysms). With regard to blood as a soil, it may be said that the infection is more likely to give rise to thrombosis than the thrombus to provide the soil for infection. 6. Purity or Mixture of Infection. — The action of some micro-organisms is more detri- mental to the host in the presence of others; for instance, streptococcus pyogenes is more active if the bacillus prodigiosus be present, and the bacillus tetanus is more poisonous when accompanied by a mixture of infection. 7. Dissemination. — This is a complicated question, but the process is mainly facilitated when the micro-organism gains access to pre- existing channels, such as the blood and lymph streams, sheaths of tendons, and communicating synovial cavities. Dissemination is limited or retarded by the anatomical relations of the site of inoculation, if that be circumscribed by fascia or aponeurosis or bone. The motility and flagellation of micro-organisms probably have nothing much to do with dissemination. B. Factor's con7iected with the Host. 1. Siisceptibility to infection by the micro- organisms of suppuration is relative. Two hosts in apparently sound health are not neces- sarily equally susceptible to the same dose of any one micro-organism. This natural diff"er- ence may be increased by general or local disease or by injury. 2. Immunity, — Even in a protected host cold, fatigue, etc., render infection by any of the micro-organisms of suppuration more possible. 28