126 SENILE INSANITY symptoms are often benefited by the use of nitro-glycerine or cafFein, and phenazonum in 15-grain doses may greatly relieve the paroxysms. In the neuroses with signs of organic change, faradism to the affected muscles and limbs and iodides are indicated. Simple dementia requires treatment on general principles only. Where complicated with a gross lesion, the iodides, either alone or along with bromides where necessary, are again the most serviceable drugs. In the cases of the delirium of collapse from shock or traumatism, strychnine should be begun early, and its administration should be pressed. In cases following acute illness, digitalis and strophanthus are very valuable, and may be given along with diffusible stimulants. On the improvement of the circulatory system often depends the issue of these cases. In the toxic class of case there is almost no absorption from the intestinal canal, so that hypodermic injection should be employed. Stimulants such as ether and strychnine seem to relieve the symptoms most. Paraldehyde is the best hypnotic, and in doses of 1| to 3 drachms gives sleep quickly and without bad after-effects. Where the taste is objected to, it may be given by the rectum. It is particularly useful in cases with weak heart or where there is cardiac dyspnoea. Bromides in 30-graiu doses may produce sleep in the milder cases. Chloral is very unequal in its results, and it may produce bad after- effects. Opium is of great service in a limited class of cases. In mild melancholia with rest- less agitation by day it often has an excellent sedative and hypnotic action, and it may con- tinue to do so for long periods before increase of the dose is necessary. In many cases, however, it deranges the digestion or causes an aggravation of the symptoms. Sulphonal is the best of the motor sedatives, and in 15-grain doses, repeated three times daily, may control all the motor excitement and may also give satisfactory sleep. It generally acts well in recurrent mania, and its use may enable many of these noisy and troublesome cases to be treated at home. Trional is not so imiform in its results, but maybe given where the sulphonal fails to act. Hyoscine may be tried in some excited states, but requires to be given with great caution. Hyoscyamus in conjunction with bromides often acts well in cases with local bladder or prostatic symptoms. All patients require careful and constant attention, and each fresh symptom should be studied and provided for. Senility.—See Senile Insanity. See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Senile Nerve- Deafness) ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-Sup- purative Disease {Deafness from Deficient Blood Supply, Diagnosis); Fragilitas Ossium {Causes); Gangrene ( Varieties, Senile); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties); Lungs, Emphysema of {Atrophic Form): Sterility {Etiology). Senna. See also Pharmacology; Pre- scribing ; Liquorice ; etc.—There are two forms of senna in the Pharmacopoeia, Alexandrian {S. Alexandrina) and East Indian (.S*. Indica). The former consists of the dried leaflets of Cassia acutifolia, and the latter of those of Cassia angustifolia, and both belong to the Natural Order of the Leguminosse. Both varieties contain a glucoside, cathartic acid (CisQH,g2Ng2SOo), chrysophanic acid, catharto- mannite (a sugar), and sennacrol and sennapicrin (glucosides). There are seven official prepara- tions of East Indian or Tinnevelly senna : there is (1) the Confectio Sennoe (containing also figs, tamarind, cassia pulp, prunes, liquorice, coriander fruit, and sugar), of which the dose is 60 to 120 grains ; (2) Infusum Sennce (dose, I to 1 fl. oz., or 2 fl. oz. as a single draught); (3) LiqxLOr Sennoe Concentratus (dose, J to 1 fl. dr.); (4) Mistura Sennoe Composita, or Black Draught (containing also magnesium sulphate, extract of liquorice, etc.), of which the dose is 1 to 2 fl. oz.; (5) Pulvis Glycyrrliizoe Compositus (dose, 60 to 120 grains) ; (6) Syrupus Senrm (dose, J to 2 fl. dr.); and (7) Tinctura Sennce Composita (containing also raisins, caraway, and coriander), of which the dose is | to 1 fl. dr., or 2 to 4 fl. dr. for a single administration. Senna is a commonly employed and safe purgative, especially useful in the constipation of children, but frequently taken also by adults, more especially, perhaps, in the form of Tamar Indien lozenges. Senna may be given in association with a mercurial purgative, the latter being administered at night and the senna on the following morning. Sensation. See also Physiology, Neuro- muscular Mechanism {Common Sensibility, Sense of Taste, Smell, Colour, Sensation, etc.).— Conduction of sensory impulses. Dr. Henry Head's researches on sensation have shown that the mechanism of the transmission of afferent impulses is more complex than has hitherto been supposed. His deductions concerning it follow on a long series of observations on the effects of disease of the central and peripheral nervous system, on referred pain in visceral disease, on the results of nerve injuries, and on the pheno- mena produced in his own person by division and subsequent suture of a peripheral nerve. Sensory Peripheral Mechanism. — Dr. Head recognises three sets of sensory impulses :—(1) Deep se7isi6t7i«y—sensations of muscular and articular movement, and sensations of deep pressure, the latter culminating in pain when the pressure is severe. (2) Protopathic sensi- bility— the sensation of painful cutaneous stimidi, and of extremes of temperature below 20° C. and above 50° C. Protopathic impulses