254 SODIUM been recommended as an antiseptic in various diseases of the alimentary canal, and to prevent fermentation in gastric dilatation. It is now little used. The other salts of sodium—iodide, bromide, salicylate, etc.—are described under the different headings. Soft Palate. See Palate {Injuries, Dis- eases). Soft Passages.—The name given to the ligamentous, muscular, and fascial parts lining the pelvis, through which the infant has to pass in the process of labour; they are con- trasted with the hard passages, viz. the pelvis. Soft Soap. See Sapo {Sapo Mollis). Soft Sore. See Syphilis {Primary, Hard and Soft Sore); Venereal Disease {Soft Sores or Chancroids). Softening'. See Brain, Atrophy, etc. {Chronic Progressive Softening). Soil. See Cholera, Epidemic {Etiology, Breeding Places, Soils); Climate {Effect of Culti- vation of the Soil); Meteorology {Influence of Meteorological Conditions on Health, " Change of Soil") ; Sewage and Drainage {Soil Pipes). SojaorSoya Beans.—The seeds of Glycine soja or Soya hispida, an East Indies plant, which are used in the dietetic treatment of diabetes mellitus. Solan ine. See Solanum. Solan ism.—Poisoning resulting from the eating of the berries of the Nightshade {Solanum Dulcamara) or, occasionally, from ordinary pota- toes {Solanum tuberosum). See Toxicology { Vegetable Foods, Potato). Solanum Dulcamara.—The Bitter- sweet or Woody Nightshade; it contains an alkaloid {solanine) which, by the action of dilute acids, is converted into a sugar and solanidine; solanine occurs also in small quanti- ties in the potato {Solanum tuberosum). Solar Plexus. See Abdomen, Injuries OF {Shock); Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease (Morbid Anatomy, Condition of Sympathetic Ganglia); Alcoholism (Visceral Variations); Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Spi- nal Nerves, Splanchnic Fibres). Solayres' Obliquity. — In normal labour the fact that the foetal head lies with its long (antero-posterior) diameter in one or other of the two oblique diameters of the pelvic brim (and not in either the transverse or conjugate diameter) is known as Solayres' obliquity. Soldier's Heart. See Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {General Pathology, Etiology, Excessive Physical Effort). Soleus.—-A muscle of the calf, arising from the fibula and tibia and inserted into the tendo Achillis. See Muscles, Traumatic Affec- tions of {Rupture). Solitary Glands or Follicles. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {St7-ucture of Alimentary Canal, Small Intestine, Lymphoid Tissue). "Solurol."—A nuclein derivative said to act as a solvent of uric acid. Solution. — A liquid containing a sub- stance (medicinal, chemical) dissolved therein; in Phai'macy, this is known as a liquor, e.g. Fowler's Solution, Donovan's Solution, Normal Saline Solution, etc. SomatO-.—In compound words somato- (Gr. (rCifj-a, body) means relating to the body ; e.g. somatopleure (the body-wall), somatopagus (twins united by the bodies, pelves and thoraces), etc. See Fcetus and Ovum, Development op {Segmentation, Somatopleure). SomatOChrome. Insanity^, Path- ology of {Pathological Anatomy, Cortical Nerve- Cells). SomatOSe.—A proprietary food-pi'oduct, obtainable in the foi-m of milk-somatose, iron- somatose, etc. Somite.—A segment of the body of an embryo, or, more particularly, a protovertebra. Sommerfeld's Streptococcus. —A streptococcus found by Baginsky and Som- merfeld in the tissues in cases of scarlet fever ; it is not, however, regarded now as the causal organism. Somnal. — A preparation consisting of chloral hydrate and urethane, given in doses of 30 grains for its hypnotic and diuretic effects. Somnambulism. See Hypnotism {Hypnotic State, Stages); Hysteria (Vigilam- btdism and Somnambulism) ; Memory in Health AND Disease {Periodic Complete Loss of Memory); Rheumatism in Children {Nervous Affections) ; Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Somnambulism); Unconsciousness {Double Consciousness). Somnifacient. — Sleep - producing; hypnotic. See Hypnotics ; Pharmacology {Opium Series); Sulphonal ; etc. Somniloquence.-Talking during sleep. See Rheumatism in Children {Nervous Affections). Somnoform.—An anaesthetic contain- ing ethyl and methyl chloride and ethyl bromide. See Anaesthesia {Ethyl Chloride). Somnol.—A preparation producing hyp-