SKIN—DISEASES OF SWEAT AND SEBACEOUS GLANDS 175 impossible. It seems probable that the bacteria present upon the surface in some way stimulate the glands to continued and increased secretion, this being especially likely on the palms and soles. Treatment.—The general health of the patient should be carefully attended to, and all abuses stopped. Ansemia should be corrected by the administration of iron, and other constitutional diseases should be appropriately treated. The drugs which have a repute for checking the secretion of sweat are, curiously, of com- paratively little value in this condition. Atropin and belladonna, agaricin and such like, usually disappoint the administrator. Accord- ing to Crocker, sulphur administered in large and repeated doses has a distinctly beneficial effect. The local treatment consists in rigidly enforcing the most scrupulous cleanliness—the parts being washed, if necessary, several times daily—and dressings being applied, if necessary, so as to soak up the fluid as it is exuded, and prevent it from causing maceration of the skin. For axillary hyperidrosis frequent bathing with very hot water is often successful; it generally checks the secretion for a time. The hands and feet may be treated by causing exfoliation of the epidermis, by the use of salicylic acid, resorcin, or some other reducing agent. This is always followed by some improvement, but unless treatment is continued relapse is inevitable. In hyperidrosis pedum it is a very common practice to advise repeated bathing and changing of the socks, which before they are put on should be powdered with a mixture of boric acid and powdered talc. Other applications are solutions of chromic acid, which hardens the skin, perchloride of iron, nitrate of silver, alum, etc. The feet are often cold, and means should be taken to improve the circulation in them by exercise, the wearing of woollen socks, and easy shoes. Tar is a remedy which possibly is not sufficiently used in this disease ; if the skin will stand strong solutions painted upon it, marked improvement often follows. Neebe recommends a very heroic treatment in advanced cases, which consists in patients standing for some seconds in a flat dish which contains just enough hydrochloric acid to cover the soles of the feet, which are the regions specially affected. The feet are then bathed in an alkaline solution and dressed with some soothing ointment. Ch^'omidrosis, or coloured sweat, should always be regarded with scepticism. One or two authentic cases have been recorded where the sweat has been stained blue, after excretion, by the growth of the bacillus pyocyaneus, and instances are frequent where the under- clothing covering the axillary region is stained red. If in such cases the hairs in the axillae are examined, they will usually be found to be sheathed with a dull substance which consists largely of bacteria, and the red staining is brought about by these bacteria. The only cure for this condition, which is very obstinate, is shaving, and the constant and prolonged application of antiseptics to the part. It is said that green sweat is occasionally seen in those who work in the manufacture of the copper salts. Hcemidrosis, or bloody sweat, is extremely rare, and any supposed cases should be investi- gated most strictly. Possibly the sweat may be slightly blood-stained in hemophilia. Seborrhoea.—The derivation of this name from sebum and peco, to flow, shows that it is, etymologically, an incorrect term, and the word stearrhoea has been suggested in its place. The word, however, has the general approval, and is not likely to be displaced. It was originally applied when the scales found on the scalp were supposed to be dried-up sebaceous secretion, and the name remained when that was shown to be incorrect. Recently Sabouraud has harked back on the ancient meaning of the word, and has sought to use it as an argument for his theory of the disease. It is therefore desirable to clear the ground, and to define the different meanings attached to the same term by the two most prominent German and French observers, Unna and Sabouraud. Sabouraud regards seborrhoea as a disease produced by the presence of an organism, which structurally is a fine bacillus, in the mouths of the sebaceous glands. This organism, he holds, stimulates and alters the character of the excretion of the sebaceous glands, so that it becomes more fliiid. When the stimu- lation stops there, and there is merely an increased supply of grease on the surface of the skin, he applies to it the old term of seborrhoea oleosa. In many cases, however, a further effect is produced, the mouth of the gland is plugged completely by a horny concretion, and the disease becomes that generally known as acne. Sabouraud further holds that the disease known as alopecia areata is caused by the growth in the hair follicles of this same bacillus. Unna, who was the creator of the term seborrhoeic eczema, holds views entirely different from those of Sabouraud. According to him the scaling of the scalp, to which our prede- cessors attached the term seborrhoea sicca, is the prototype of the disease. The scalp is peculiarly tolerant of irritation, and active counter-irritants applied to it often produce only a slight amount of scaling, while on the smooth skin they would produce a ves- icular eruption or an actual blister. Unna suggests that this scaling is due to some organism, and as the most likely of these he