284 SPINAL CORD thrombosis and not as "myelitis," which are identical in nature with the lesions of acute myelitis of the spinal cord. Moreover, there are acute infective diseases of the spinal cord {vide infra) to which the term acute myelitis is strictly applicable, and these are comparable also to a like condition occurring in the brain, acute infective polio encephalitis (Striimpell). Thrombosis of the spinal cord is most com- monly of syphilitic origin, otherwise its etio- logical factors are those of arterial thrombosis in general. It may be distributed in small scat- tered patches over many parts of the spinal cord (disseminate myelitis), or, as more com- monly happens, it affects a transverse area of the spinal cord (transverse myelitis). In the common form the affected area is not sharply limited in the direction of length of the spinal cord, and there are often small separate foci of disease separated by healthy tissue from the chief lesion. The vessels supplying the white matter are those most frequently affected, and the grey matter (supplied from the ventral spinal artery) is very often free from disease. It is also generally true that the white fibres lying, next the grey matter tend to be pre- served. Just as cerebral thrombosis may result either in a condition of softening or one of dry necrosis (the two conditions occur in about the same proportion of adult cases, and dry necrosis much more commonly in early life), so does thrombosis in the spinal cord result rarely in softening, commonly in dry necrosis. In the latter condition there may be little change to the unaided eye, the spinal cord being perhaps a little harder and whiter than normal, and on section opaque and granidar. In the softened condition the spinal cord in the affected area may be of a semi-diffluent creamy consistency if examined soon after the occurrence of the thrombosis. Long afterwards the softened sub- stance becomes of a cheesy consistency. Within the affected area the larger vessels lying upon the surface of the spinal cord hardly ever show any change. It is the vessels running into the cord from the last-mentioned arteries that are conspicuously affected, and these show in all their coats the characteristic changes of sclerotic arteritis, and around those which are thrombosed there is usually a scanty and local small-celled exudation. There is no other evi- dence of inflammatory reaction, and there is never any meningeal infiltration. As has been above mentioned, the branches of the ventral spinal artery supplying the grey matter are rarely affected. Thrombosis of the spinal cord, when local, much more commonly affects the lower half of the dorsal region. Among 68 cases observed at the National Hospital, Queen Square, London, the position of the lesion was as follows:— Cervical region, 10 cases; dorsal region 1-6, 11 cases; dorsal region 7-12, 37 cases; lumbar region, 10 cases. No adequate explanation of greater tendency of the lower dorsal region to be affected has been brought forward. It has been stated in explanation that this region is less well sup- plied with blood than other parts of the spinal cord. Other observers, however, state upon ana- tomical and experimental grounds that the lumbo-sacral region is the least well supplied with blood on account of the distance of its vessels from the main arterial trunks, and on account of the effect of gravity. It may be pointed out, notwithstanding, that tissues re- ceive a supply of blood corresponding with their bulk and functional activity, and that probably the lumbar enlargement receives a correspond- ingly larger blood-supply than the lower dorsal region. Further, the writer is unaware that paucity of blood-supply has been proved to pre-* dispose to thrombosis, and the sitiiation of a vessel at a great distance from the main trunk supplying it certainly does not predispose to the occurrence of arterial disease. Toxic Affections.—At the present time our knowledge of the pathology of the nervous system is so limited, that it is impossible to accurately distinguish between toxic and de- generative changes. It may be argued that all primary degenerative changes are of toxic origin, but since in some progressive degenera- tive diseases, as, for example, Friedreich's dis- ease, the nervous system never attains a perfect condition of development, and in this disease, as in other familial diseases, it would appear that the nerve elements are possessed of a certain subnormal vitality, which is responsible for their imperfect development, and they ai'e endowed with capacity for a certain tenure of life only, towards the expiration of which period they undergo slow degeneration. The diseases of toxic origin which will con- cern us here are those in which the nerve cells are chiefly implicated. There is some evidence, however, that the baneful influence of the toxin may in some diseases affect the medullary sheaths especially, and in others the neuroglia, but as yet our knowledge is very scanty. As the result of acute toxic processes, the changes in the nerve cells affected are very striking and definite. The sequence is as follows:— The cell swells, and its outline tends to become rounded. The tigroid bodies decrease in number, lose their regular arrangement, recede to the periphery of the cell, break up, and finally disappear. The nucleus leaves the centre of the cell, and approaches the periphery; subsequently it may lose its distinctness and its nucleolus, or may even be extruded from the cell.