RICKETS 12 be done in the milder and early cases, while the bones are still soft, to correct the deformities by manipulation and to strengthen the muscles and ligaments by massage and baths. Oste- otomies ai-e chiefly of value in the later stage when the bones have become hard ; if performed too soon, there is danger of relapse if great care is not taken to keep the child off its feet for many months after the operation. Rictus LupinuS.—Cleft palate {q.v. under Palate). Ridea.l'S Method.—A chemical method of rendering water, suspected of being infected with typhoid germs, innocuous; it consists in the addition of hypochlorite of lime, permangan- ate of potash, and tablets of sodium bisulphate to the water. Rider's Bone.—A sesamoid bone oc- casionally developed in the adductor muscle of the leg, from prolonged pressure against the saddle. See Groin {Diseases of the Groin). Ridg^e.—An elongated elevation or crest, as the genital ridge in Embryology and the occipital ridge in Anatomy. Ridg'e'S Food. See Infant Feeding (Proprietary Foods, Farinaceous). Riedel's Lobe or Process.— A tongue-shaped process of the liver occasionally met with, lying external to the gall-bladder. See Liver, Diseases of (Anatomical Abnormal- ities, Tongue-like Lobes). Rigra'S Disease.— A malady, chiefly observed in Italy, in which a pearly membrane develops under the tongue, usually of an infant, and is associated with induration and often witli ulceration of the floor of the mouth ; it may be an epidemic affection. Rig'g''S Disease.—Pyorrhoea alveolaris. See Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Inflammatory Diseases of the Jaw). Rigidity. See Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels (QiJdema, Symptoms); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels (Paralysis from Vascular Lesions vjith Rigidity); Joints, Dis- eases OF (Impaired Mobility); Labour, Pre- cipitate AND Prolonged (Faults in the Soft Passages); Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs (Laceration of the Cervix Uteri, Causa- tion ; hijuries to the Perinetim, Causes); Par- alysis (Cerebral Diplegia, etc.); Pregnancy, Intra-Uterine Diseases and Death of the Fcetus (Cadaveric Rigidity). RigfOr.—A chill or shivering fit ushering in an attack of fever. See Brain, Surgery of (Cerebral Abscess, Symptoms); Catheters, Uses and Dangers {Septic Poisoning, Rigors); Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Pyelitis); Liver, Tropical Abscess {Constitutional Symptoms); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Constitutional Symp- toms, Pyrexia); Malaria (Clinical Manifesta- tions) ; Pancreas, Diseases of (Pancreatitis, Symptoms); Pneumonia, Clinical {Clinical Feat- ures) ; Prostate Gland {Hypertrophy, Symp- toms) ; Typhoid Fever (Symptoms, Rigors). Rigor IVIortiS. See Death, Signs of {Cadaveric Rigidity); Medicine, Forensic (Signs of Death, Rigor Mortis); Physiology, Tissues (Muscle, Death of) ; Post - mortem Methods (External Examination, Rigor Mortis); Cholera, Epidemic (Morbid Anatomy). Rima.—A fissure or narrow opening, e.g. rima glottidis (the upper opening of the larynx). Rinderpest. — Cattle plague. See Im- munity (Immune Serum in Rinderpest). Ringf.—In Anatomy the word ring is used as the name of a circular opening; e.g. the inguinal ring, umbilical ring, etc. Ring, Bandl'S.—The ring of contraction in the uterine wall marking the line of de- marcation between the upper active uterine segment and the lower passive segment; both segments are believed to belong to the corpus uteri. See Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Obstructed Labour, BandVs Ring). Ring Bodies. — Ring-shaped bodies found in erythrocytes, and perhaps representing the remains of nuclei; they are seen in severe anjemias (e.g. in pernicious anaemia, in that which follows sepsis, etc.). Ring, IVIuiier'S.—The ring of contrac- tion which in pregnancy marks the upper boundary of the cervical canal of the uterus. Ring Pessary. See Uterus, Displace- ments OF (Descent, Treatment). Ringer's Solution. See Physiology, Circulation (Nature of Cardiac Contraction). Ringworm. See Skin, Parasites {Tinea Tonsurans); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Cratv-Craw, Dhobie Itch); Nails, Affections OF THE {Parasitic Diseases, Onychomycosis). Rinn^'S Test. See Ear, Examination OF (Hearing Tests, Tuning Fork); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-suppurative Disease (Tests for distinguishing Middle from Internal Ear Disease). Riolan's Bouquet.— The mass of muscles and tendons attached to the styloid process (styloglossus, stylohyoid, stylopharyn- geus). Riolan's Muscle.—Part of the orbicu- laris palpebrarum miiscle.