SKIN DISEASES OF THE TROPICS 191 coloration, which contrasts with the paler colour under the rest of the scale. Severe itch- ing may be experienced, but otherwise there is no discomfort. The eruption avoids the crutch, axillse, and nails, and usually the hairy scalp, palms, and soles. The most typical patches are found between the shoulders or other parts protected from mechanical irritation. Etiology.—If, after moistening with liquor potasses, a scale is examined microscopically, a profusion of fungus, not unlike the ordinary Tricophyton, is found. It differs, however, in its greater abundance, and its chains of spores are oval, rectangular, or irregular rather than globular, and more numerous than the mycelial threads, which, in their turn, are long and straight or gently curved rather than short. Fairly high temperature, moisture, and un- cleanly habits favour its growth and spread; but too high temperature, cold, or dryness exert an unfavourable influence. Tribondeau appears to regard it as a lepidophyton. Clinic- ally, the disease is distinguished from ordinary ringworm by the invariable presence and the microscopic features of the fungus, the absence of inflammation, the large scales, the wide surface involved, and its avoidance of the axillse. In addition, the corium is not invaded, nor the hair-follicles, when the scalp is attacked; the disease does not abandon a part once in- volved ; and, lastly, there are the effects of in- oculation. Treatment.—Any epiphyticide will, from the extent of surface, kill the parasite, but time is required, and the clothes must be burnt or disinfected. Manson recommends the lini- mentum iodi for natives, but chrysophanic acid or cassia alata leaves are also valuable. (c) Mycetoma.—See vol. vi. {d) Otomycosis.—Highet and others have shown that this affection is common in Singa- pore and Bangkok, and no doubt it frequently occurs elsewhere in the tropics, as constitutional deterioration, with heat, moisture, and the very general presence of the spores of peni- cillium, aspergillus, and mucor provide favour- able conditions for its development. Symptoms. — Sensations of blocking and stuffiness, deafness, itching, and yellowish watery discharge, with the presence of soft wool-like substance in the meatus, are the leading features. Intense pain usually means the advent of diffuse inflammation, a not in- frequent complication. Microscopic examina- tion will settle the diagnosis. Treatment.—Removal of the fungus, repeated syringing with warm perchloride of mercury lotion, 1 in 5000, and subsequent instillation of alcohol, thorough drying with wool, and dusting with some soothing antiseptic powder constitutes the treatment recommended. It will probably have to be repeated. (e) PiNTA.—See vol. viii. (/) PiEDBA.—This disease of the hair is con- fined to the inhabitants, more particularly the women, of the United States of Colombia. At irregular intervals along the hair-shaft, minute hard pigmented and gritty nodes de- velop, which crepitate when the hair is combed or shaken. They first occur about half an inch from the point of exit of the hair, and completely invest it; many may attack a single hair. The disease is not contagious. Although barely perceptible, the nodes are easily felt, and when well developed are not unlike pediculi (nits). Only the head is involved, and the affected hair is said to be weakened and to smell acid. The nodes are rather hard, and are deeply pigmented on the surface. If examined micro- scopically after treatment with ether and liquid potasses, they are found to consist of honey- comb masses of mycelia and spores. These latter are large, angular from pressure, and joined together by a cement-like material con- taining minute rod-like filaments. Evidently, therefore, piedra is a fungus growth, but it is thought to be predisposed to by the mucil- aginous oil used as hair-dressing by native women, or by the water of certain streams. From its frequent occurrence in warm valleys, heat also appears to favour development. Treatment.—Cleanliness, the application of epiphyticides, or, if obstinate, shaving the affected hair is the treatment recommended. Parasites Introductory 191 Method of Examination . . .192 ,, Staining .... 192 ,, Cultivation . . .193 Tinea Tonsurans 193 Due to Microsporon Audouini . 193 Due to Megalosporon Endothrix 194 Kerion 194 Etiology 194 Treatment and Prognosis . . .194 Tinea Circinata . . , . .196 Barb^ 197 „ Unguium 198 ,, Versicolor 198 ,, Erythrasma .... 199 ,, Nodosa 199 ,, Imbricata {see p. 190). See also Favus, Pediculosis, Scabies, etc. Introductory. — Ringworm has during the last few years received a great deal of attention, thanks mainly to the exhaustive investigations of Sabouraud, especially as regards the differ- entiation of the various fungi, their microscopical appearances, cultivation, and botanical relations generally. And although the discussion of these points has been somewhat academic, and has not up to the present led to any advancement