574 THENARD'S METHOD lead to lead-poisoning in the operatives. See Trades, Dangerous (Lead-Poisoning). Theobromatis Oleum.—The oil of theobroma or cacao butter, much used in the making of suppositories ; it is got from the seeds of Theobroma cacao (from which, also, chocolate and cocoa are prepared), and it contains stearin, olein, and the alkaloid theobromine (C-.HgN^0.2); it does not become rancid when exposed to air. Theobromine.—An alkaloid, dimethyl- xanthine, with the formula C^HgN^Oj. See Theobromatis Oleum ; Diuretin ; Pharma- cology ; etc. Therapeutics: Health Resorts. Introduction ...... 574 Classification ..... 574 Climate ....... 575 Reasons for Sending Patients Abroad 577 English Health Resorts . . . 577 Foreign and Colonial Health Resorts 579 Switzerland ...... 579 The Riviera ...... 580 Other Mediterranean Resorts . . 581 France 582 Germany and Austria .... 582 America ...... 582 South Africa ..... 583 Islands of South Atlantic . . . 585 See also Balneology ; Climate ; Hydropathy ; Meteorology ; Mineral Waters ; and under various diseases, e.g. Tuberculosis, Diabetes, etc. This article is confined strictly to the con- sideration of resorts which depend on climate only, and not on the effect of mineral water, whether internal or external. Owing to the limitation of space the subject can only be dealt with very briefly ; and it is impossible to do more than mention some of the most important. Descriptions of individual resorts must be sought for in more extensive works. New resorts are being opened out every year as the range of travel increases ; and it becomes constantly more difficult to keep up with every fresh locality. The plan adopted in this article has been simply to take the most important and best-known resorts in each country and indicate briefly for what diseases they are best suited. The general conditions of climatic treatment are briefly dealt with at the beginning of the article. Classification of Climates The simplest classification of climates is into (1) Marine climates, which admit of no sub- division, and (2) Inland climates, which are divided into high altitudes and low altitudes, the desert being a special sub-variety. Marine climates may be partially differenti- ated into coast and island climates. Of course in the case of small islands the whole climate is practically marine, though a very small amount of elevation above the sea-level makes a very considerable difference in the eff'ect of the climate on some people who are sensitive to the influence of the sea. Examples of marine climates are the Riviera, Madeira, and Bourne- mouth ; they are characterised by greater equa- bility of temperature, greater warmth in winter and coolness in summer, owing to the presence of the sea, which delays radiation, also greater humidity and usually a larger amount of sun- shine. In a country like England, where fog and mist are very prevalent inland during the autumn months, the amount of sunshine enjoyed on a greater part of the coast is very consider- ably more than in inland places, as the sea fogs are comparatively infrequent. As to their eff"ects on the organism, they vary considerably; some, e.g. the resorts on the east coast of England and the eastern portion of the south coast, are very bracing, those in the far west and such places as Madeira are distinctly relaxing, whilst others are intermediate : much depends on the exposure, the prevailing winds, and the soil. If we compare the eff'ects of the marine resorts with those experienced inland, and especially at high altitudes, a great diff'erence is observable, but hardly greater than may be observed between a very bracing and an enervat- ing marine resort. Perhaps the greatest difference is noticeable in the effect on the central nervous system, which in the case of high altitudes is much stimulated, whilst the sea almost invariably exercises a soothing influence. So great is the stimulation at elevations of 5000 feet and over that very unpleasant nervous tension is fre- quently produced by prolonged residence, and insomnia is a very common result. On the other hand, in a great majority of cases insomnia is benefited by a visit to the seaside. In both cases metabolism is increased and appetite improved, but the so-called "bilious- ness," accompanied by constipation, of which many people complain on the coast, does not appear in mountain resorts. The way in which metabolism is influenced must therefore certainly differ in the two cases, but we have at present no physiological explanation to offer. Increased activity of mind and body is a very marked feature of such climates as the Engadine and Colorado, and the sense of bodily fatigue is greatly diminished, which in itself is a danger to phthisical patients, as they thereby fail to notice the point at which they should check themselves. Some things, such as the increased rapidity of pulse and respiration, are naturally accounted for on physiological grounds by the diminished supply of oxygen ; but there are other factors, such as the electrical conditions, the eff'ects of