RUGA 21 Rug'cl.—A fold or ridge, e.g. of the mucous membrane of the vaginal canal. Rum. See Alcohol {Spirits). Rumina,tion. See Indigestion {Symp- toms, Motor, Rumination or Merycism); Stomach AND Duodenum, Diseases of {Symptomatology of Gastric Neurosis, Perversions of Motility). Rupia.. See Syphilis {Tertiary, Skin Eruptions); Bromism {Cutaneous System). Rupture.—Tearing or laceration of an organ (hollow or solid); also hernia. See Ear, Affections of Tympanic Membrane {Injuries); Labour, Faults in the Passenger {Membranes, Cord, Hydrocephalus) ; Labour, Accidental Complications {Rupture of Cord); Labour, Post - Partum Hemorrhage {Traumatic) ; Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs (Rupture of Uterus, Cervix, Vagina, Perineum) ; Medicine, Forensic (Various Kinds of Injuries, Ruptures of Internal Organs) ; Muscles, Dis- eases of the {Rupture of Muscle); Muscles, Traumatic Affections of {Rupture); CEso- PHAGus, Injuries and Diseases of (Wounds and Ruptures). Russell's Bodies.—Bodies found in cancer cells, hyaline or colloid in character; fuchsin bodies. Russia.. See ^AWEOWGY {Vapour Baths, Russian Spas). Rust's Disease.—Tuberculous spondy- litis of the upper cervical vertebrae. Rut. See Menstruation {Relation to CEs- trus); OEsTRUS. Ruysch's Membrane.—The lamina chorio-capillaris of the eye. Rye. See Ergot and Cross References. S.—S. is used as a contraction for signetur (let it be labelled) in prescription-writing, also for sinister (left) and for sacro in the names of the positions of podalic lies {e.g. L.S.A., left sacro-anterior position). Sabadin.—An alkaloid (CggH^iNOg) ob- tained from the seeds of Schoenocaulon officinale, acting as a sternutatory. Sabouraud's Theory.—The theory that acne vulgaris originates in an oily sebor- rhoea due to a bacillus, with the formation of plugs in the sebaceous follicles. See Acne {Acne Vulgaris, Pathogeny). Saburra.—Foulness of the stomach from decomposing substances retained in it; sordes ; the Latin word saburra means coarse sand or ballast. Sac.—A cavity or space in the body or in some formation, normal or abnormal, of the body, e.g. the amniotic sac, lachrymal sac, peritoneal sac, yolk sac, etc. Saccade.—A French term meaning a jerk, e.g. mouvements saccades, jerky movements. SaCCharated.—Made up with sugar, e.g. the saccharated carbonate of iron {Ferri Carbonas Saccharatus). Saccharin. — Glusidum ; Benzoyl - sul- phonic - imide. A white, minutely crystalline powder, soluble 1 in 400 of cold water. It is derived from toluene, a coal-tar product. It combines with soda to form " soluble saccharin," which is freely soluble in water. Elixir Glusidi (B.P.C.) contains 1 gr. in 20 m. The dose of saccharin is |-2 gr. It is used as a sweetening agent in place of sugar by diabetic patients and by persons who are on special diet for the reduction of weight. It is excreted from the body unchanged. If given in too large doses it may aggravate or cause dyspepsia. As it is two hundred and twenty times stronger than sugar in sweetening power, only very minute quantities require to be taken. The elixir is an excellent agent for disguising the taste of nauseous drugs. Saccharomyces. See Am, Examina- tion of {Micro-Organisms); Micro-Organisms {Moulds and Yeasts). SaCCharomyCOSiS.—A morbid con- dition due to yeasts or saccharomyces. Saccharoses.—Carbohydrates isomeric with cane-sugar (CjjHggOjj), and sometimes cane-sugar itself. SaCCharoSUria. — The presence of saccharose or sucrose (cane-sugar) in the urine. Saccharum LactiS.—Sugar of milk, or lactose {C-^^H^Jd-^yll,f)), is contained in several official preparations, such as the Extractum Nucis Vomicce and the Extractum Opii; and it is often used as an addition to cow's milk in the artificial feeding of infants. See Infant Feed- ing. Saccharum Purificatum.—Cane- sugar (Cj.2Ho20j^) exists as refined sugar in the B.P., and is used as a sweetening agent; there are two official preparations, the Syrtipus and the Syrupus Glucosi (for making pills). Saccule.—A small sac; also a part of the membranous labyrinth of the internal ear. See Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Hearing, Internal Ear). Sacer Morbus.—Epilepsy {q.v.); liter- ally, sacred disease. Sach'S Disease.—Amaurotic family