STATUS LYMPHATICUS 330 observers, and it has been given as a cause of death in some cases of operation on exoph- thalmic goitre. Lymphatism has also been found in several cases of epilepsy (Ohlmacher). Symptoms. — The condition is not usually diagnosed during life, but is found after the sudden death of its victims. Subjects have a pale, thin skin and pasty complexion. There is usually a good pad of subcutaneous fat. Signs of rickets often coexist. Physical de- velopment is retarded, and when older persons are affected they are undergrown and sexual development is late, the body retaining many infantile characteristics. Enlarged tonsils and adenoid vegetations in the pharynx are present, together with enlargement of the follicles at the base of the tongue. The superficial lymph glands of the neck, axillse, and groins are enlarged, but not to any marked extent. The deeper glands — bronchial, mediastinal, and mesenteric—are also enlarged, but more difficult to detect during life. The glands are discrete, moderately firm, and show no tendency to fuse together or to break down. The blood a priori should show an increased lymphocytosis, and Ewing has described this in one case, a child of five who died under antesthesia, and whose blood contained 76 per cent of lymphocytes. The blood taken post-mortem in several of my cases showed a marked lymphocytosis; and in 4 cases with every sign of the condition, ex- amined during life, the blood showed respec- tively 8500 white cells with 52 per cent lymphocytes, 12,187 with 48 per cent lympho- cytes, 10,000 with 43 per cent lymphocytes, and 14,067 with 34 per cent lymphocytes. All these children were between five and ten years of age, a period when the normal lymphocytosis of infancy should have disappeared. The blood in this condition needs further investigation, for if such a lymphocytosis be constant it will be an important diagnostic sign. The existence of an enlarged thymus may be shown by the presence of dulness on percussion over the upper part of the sternum. The normal area of thymus dulness even in young children should not extend much beyond the margins of the sternum. Dulness extending more than 1 cm. beyond the margin, above the second rib, shows in the absence of other causes an enlarged thymus. Simply engorged lymph glands, according to Blumenreich, who has made a careful study of thymus dulness in a large series of children, cause no dulness, while caseous glands do. When much enlarged the thymus can be felt in the suprasternal notch. Hochsinger has made a radiographic study of the thymus, and finds that when the shadow extends much to the left of the sternum the gland must be considered to be enlarged. Some authors describe an increased excit- ability of the muscles and peripheral motor nerves. Trousseau's phenomenon and Chvos- tek's symptom being present. Gastro-intestinal trouble and catarrh of mucous membranes are frequent, and some of the children suffer from the " mucous disease " of Eustace Smith. In the majority of cases symptoms distinctly referable to the lymphatism are absent, but in some the pressure of the enlarged thymus gives rise to respiratory troubles, classed under the general heading of " thymic asthma," a condition which has been confounded with laryngismus stridulus. Lange states that the paroxysm in thymic asthma differs from that in laryngismus in that regular sighing respiration is present throughout the attack in the former condition. In thymic asthma there is a dangerous pro- gressive dyspnoea with stridor and cough occurring in paroxysms. In some instances the child dies in the first attack or series of attacks, whilst in others the condition may last for weeks or even years and finally terminate fatally if not relieved by operation. The cases in which the child dies during an acute attack after a few hours or even in the first attack are more common than the cases running a more protracted course. Some cases die with signs of suffocation and without definite asthmatic seizures. The child shows accelerated respira- tion, an access of suffocation, cyanosis, dilatation of the pupils, swelling of the veins of the neck, and death occurs in a few minutes. Laub has described a cerebral form of death from lymph- atism. It usually occurs in young adults, and causes death in a few hours—twenty at the out- side. The patient is attacked suddenly with coma or epileptiform convulsions. Sometimes cramp of the glottis occurs, or vomiting of a cerebral type. The post-mortem picture is the ordinary one of lymphatism with, in addition, cerebral oedema. The majority of cases of lymphatism do not show signs of respiratory trouble, and the con- dition is not suspected till death occurs with startling suddenness. A number of cases, usually yoxmg infants, have been found dead in bed. The manner of death is naturally uncertain, but there are grounds for thinking that the infants are not perfectly well for a short time; sometimes they refuse food some hours before death, which probably takes place in a convulsive seizure. Nordmann and others have reported cases where sudden immersion in cold water was followed by instant death ; possibly some of the deaths attributed to ci'amp may in reality be due to lymphatism. Trivial injuries and operations may cause sudden death : A son of Professor Langhans of Berlin died after a prophylactic dose of diphtheria antitoxin, and other similar cases are recorded. The prognosis of the acute infections is much more serious in these children than in normal children, in that sudden death may occur at any stage or during convalescence. Diphtheria is especially dangerous owing to its depressant nature.