117 SEDATIVES SedSitiveS.—Drugs having a soothing or sleep-producing effect, such as bromide of potassium, hydrobromic acid, chloroform, paraldehyde, chloral hydrate, sulphonal, and opium. Seg'ITien't.—A portion, part, or sub- division of anything; e.g. the anterior and posterior segments of the pelvic floor, the lower uterine segment, the cusps of the valves of the heart, etc. Seg^lTienta.1.—Belonging to or made up of segments; an animal composed of a longi- tudinal series of similar segments (more or less modified to perform different functions) is said to be formed on the segmental type and to have serial homology. Segmentation.—The division of the impregnated ovum into numerous cells, and the formation of the morula mass. See Fcetus and Ovum, Development op {Segmentation). Segregation. — The separation of affected persons from the general community, as in cases of leprosy; partial isolation. Segregator.—-An instrument by means of which urine from each kidney can be separately obtained for analysis. Seguin's Signal Symptom.—The initial convulsive movement or movements in epilepsy, indicating the beginning of an attack; it is specially noticed in Jacksonian epilepsy. Seidlitz Powder.—Pulvis Sodse Tar- taratse Effervescens. As obtained from the chemist the powder is in two parts : one, wrapped up in blue paper, consists of 120 grains of tar- tarated soda and 40 grains of bicarbonate of soda; while the other, in white paper, consists of 38 grains of tartaric acid. The powder in the blue paper is dissolved in nearly half a pint of water, that in the white paper is then added, and while effervescing is going on the mixture is drunk. Seidlitz powder acts as a mild purga- tive, and is taken commonly in the morning before breakfast. Seidlitz Waters. See Balneology {Austria, Bohemia). Seismotherapy. — The treatment of disease by mechanical vibration (Gr. treio-/ios, a shaking or shock, OepairtCa, medical treatment). SeleniaSiS.— Lunacy (Gr. a-fkrivrj, the moon). See Insanity. Self-Abuse. See Masturbation. Self-Mutilation.—A symptom of in- sanity, the patient removing some part of the body (hand or genital organs), usually under the delusion that he is thereby obeying an injunction of religion. See (Edipism. Sella Turcica.—The upper part of the body of the sphenoid bone, so called from its resemblance to a Turkish saddle ; the pituitary body is lodged in it. Seltzer Water. See Balneology {Ger- many, Hesse-Nassau). Semeiography. — A description of symptoms ; symptomatology ; it is derived from the Geeek a-rnMelov, a mark or sign. SemeiolOgy. — Symptomatology or se- meiotics (Gr. a-rnMelov, a sign). Semelincident.—Occurring once only in the same person, e.g. a semelincident disease is one which does not attack a patient twice. Semen. — A seed, e.g. (in the plural) semina physostigmatis, strophanthi semirva, stra- monii semina, etc.; also, the impregnating fluid secreted principally by the testicles, and con- taining spermatozoa. Semester.—A period of six months, half a year. Semi-. — In compound words semi- (Lat. semis, half) means half, or partial, or incomplete ; e.g. semicanalis, a groove or sulcus (literally, half a canal), semia'etijiism (the condition of being an incomplete cretin), seiriinorrnal (half the normal), etc. Semicircular Canals. See Audi TORY Nerve and Labyrinth ; Brain, Physi- ology op {Nucleus of Deiters); Physiology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Sense of Hearing, Internal Ear); Vertigo {Meniere's Disease). Semilunar.—Crescentic, shaped like a half-moon; e.g. the semilunar cartilages of the knee, the semilunar bone of the carpus, and semilunar ganglia, folds, lobes, notches, and valves. See Knee-Joint, Injuries of {Disloca- tion of Semilunar Cartilages); Heart, Con- genital Malformations of {Abnormalities of Semilunar Valves); etc. Semimembranosus.—The name of a muscle (partly membranous) at the back of the thigh. Seminal Emissions. See Sperma- torrhcea ; Circumcision {for Phymosis); Medi- cine, Forensic {Death from Asphyxia, Post mortem Appearances). Seminal Vesicles. See Vesiculb Seminales. Semiplegia.—Hemiplegia, or paralysis of one half of the body. Semiprone.—Lying partly on the side, and partly on the face and chest; Sims' posi- tion. See Gynecology, Diagnosis in.