SKIN—BACTERIOLOGY 171 harmless saprophytic existence on the skin, but a number of them may, under altered circumstances, so proliferate and increase in virulence as to become pathogenic. For ex- ample, the staphylococcus epidermidis albus of Welch, which is one of the most constant of all the denizens of the skin, though usually harm- less and saprophytic, may, by being passed through animals, assume virulent properties indistinguishable from those of the staphy- lococcus pyogenes albus. Similarly, the strep- tococcus pyogenes is generally admitted to be a less virulent condition of the streptococcus erysipelatis. Several bacteriologists have at- tempted to classify the various species of bacteria which are generally present in the healthy stratum corneum, and complicated lists of them have been published; but these differ to such an extent in the number of the organisms included, and in the types which are regarded as pathogenic, that they are of comparatively little value, and they only serve to emphasise the difficulties of the subject. These difficulties are in great part due to the fact that it is almost impossible to draw a hard and fast line between bacteria which are slightly pathogenic and those which cause no apparent disturbance. At the present time the confusion is increased by the endeavour on the part of several well- known observers to find specific pathogenic characteristics in almost every micro-organism which they find on the skin, and the equally strenuous effort on the part of others to limit the number of specific micro-organisms by simply regarding the majority of them as different stages of a few polymorphic types. It will be possible here to refer to only a few of the bacteria which are commonly found in the healthy epidermis, and to the most im- portant of those which are pathogenic and cause various forms of dermatitis. For purposes of convenience the latter will be described under the heading of the diseases with which they have been identified, arranged in alphabetical order. Bacteria present on the Healthy Skin.—A list of the bacteria which may be present on the healthy stratum corneum, and which lead there a saprophytic existence, either owing to their occurring in small numbers, or being in a state of diminished virulence, would of necessity be a long one. Only a few of the more common of these need be mentioned.^ Bacillus epidermidis: obtained from the skin between the toes, and from the epidermic scales (Bordoni-Uffredezzi). Bacilli: 2-8 /a to 6-3 in length, and 0-3 /x in breadth ; grow slowly on gelatine and do not liquefy it; aerobic. Bacillus epidermidis capsulatus: obtained by ^ For a more extended list, see Galloway's article in Allbutt's System of Medicine, to which the writer is indebted for much assistance in preparing this article. Damman from scrapings of the skin between the toes. Bacilli: large, motile, with rounded ends, and generally occurring in pairs; capsule forms in gelatine cultures; on gelatine it grows in irregularly shaped bluish colonies, which evolve gas and emit a peculiar odour. Bacillus jiuorescens epidermidis: obtained by Damman from the tip of the finger after thoroughly washing with absolute alcohol. Bacilli: motile, usually arranged end to end in pairs; liquefy gelatine rapidly with fluor- escence, the liquefied gelatine showing an upper green layer and a lower fluorescent one. This bacillus resembles, if it be not identical with, B. fluorescens liquefaciens of Flugge, and the B. fluorescens liquefaciens minutissimus of Unna. Bacillus gelatinosus: obtained from the skin between the toes. Bacilli: slender, motile, with distinct capsule and often beaded like tubercle bacilli; gelatine cultivations produce a colourless transparent gelatinous material, which being incorporated with the purely chromogenic organism has a granular or mottled appearance; plate-colonies are rusty brown in colour on microscopical ex- amination, and yellowish to the naked eye. Bacillus graveolens: obtained from between the toes (Bordoni-Uffredezzi). Bacilli: short, liqiiefy gelatine, and give off a fetid odour like that of the feet. Bacillus aureus: described by Tommasoli as occurring in the epidermis. Bacilli: slightly bent; 1 -5 /x to 4 in length, and 0-5 ju. in breadth ; arranged parallel in pairs or groups ; grow on gelatine as irregular whitish yellow colonies, and do not liquefy it. (The same observer describes 6 bacilli, 10 cocci, and 6 yeasts as being present in any scale from the epidermis.) Micrococcusjluorescens subsidens: obtained from the healthy epidermis. Micrococci: in irregular groups or short chains ; form pale yellow creamy colonies on gelatine ; do not liquefy it. Staphylococcus epidermidis albus of Welch: the most constant denizen of the skin ; closely resembles S. pyogenes albus, except that it is much less virulent; liquefies gelatine more slowly, and coagulates milk more feebly; is generally regarded as a less virulent stage of the ordinary white staphylococcus ; is the same as the S. cutis communis of Sabouraud; on gelatine it forms opaque whitish colonies like porcelain, with irregularly rounded edges ; on agar the colonies are generally smaller than those of the S. pyogenes albus. Polymotphic coccus of Cedercreutz : assumes different appearances according to the medium on which it is growing, the temperature, and its state of virulence; said by Cedercreutz to have been variously described as the morococcus