150 SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF Treatment.—The treatment consists in apply- ing a bandage to the hand and arm. A small pad of wool powdered with zinc oxide or starch is then placed in the axilla, and the elbow is carried well across the chest to counteract the inward displacement of the lower fragment. It will sometimes be found advisable to mould a guttapercha shield reaching from the middle of the clavicle to the upper part of the forearm, which is flexed at a right angle, and sufficiently large to fit the outer, anterior, and posterior aspects of the limb. Passive movements should be commenced on the fourteenth day in simple cases. The p7-ognosis is good, but a dislocation may be combined with the fracture, and the upper fragment may be so twisted that it can only be replaced by manipulation when the patient is under an anaesthetic. Separated Epiphyses. — Anatomy. — The upper end of the humeriis is developed from three centres which blend with each about the sixth year, and form the fully ossified head at the age of puberty. The three centres are one for the head, one for the great tuberosity, and one for the lesser tuberosity. The united upper epiphysis is cup-shaped, and includes the two tuberosities, the upper fourth of the bicipital groove, the whole of the head and anatomical neck, as well as a very small portion of the bone external to the lesser tuberosity. Pathology.—The whole upper epiphysis may be separated with or without displacement, or the great tuberosity may be detached separately. Separation of the whole epiphysis occurs most frequently between the ages of ten and fifteen, though instances are recorded from birth up to twenty-five. It is produced by falls or blows upon the shoulder, and when the whole epiphysis is detached the violence is often sufficient to make the injury compound. The diaphysis is either completely or incompletely separated, and when it is complete the end of the shaft may be displaced in any direction. Signs and Symptoms.—The arm hangs help- less against the side of the body, with the elbow drawn slightly away and projecting backwards or downwards according to the displacement. There is abnormal mobility just below the shoulder joint, so that the arm can be brought close to the side, and passive movements are free though painful. There is often great pain, and the swelling is rapid and considerable, in- volving the whole of the shotilder and the upper third of the arm. The shoulder is increased in width antero-posteriorly, and the head of the bone occupies its normal position. There is muffled crepitus, and the arm is not materially altered in length. Differential Diagnosis.—The separation of the whole upper epiphysis has to be diagnosed from a dislocation, which is one of the rarest accidents in children, from true fracture of the surgical neck, from separation of either tuberosity, and from sprains and contusions. Prognosis.—The prognosis is good in the simple cases, though there may be some arrest of development, but there is often so much stripping of the periosteum from the shaft of the humerus that periostitis and necrosis may take place. This separation of the periosteum forms an additional danger in compound injuries, which I have seen followed by rapid death from pysemia. Treatment.—The patient should be ansesthet- ised, and the diaphysis should be methodically replaced by steady traction upon the arm aided by slight abduction and rotation. Splints should then be applied, and the shoulder treated as if for a fi'acture, by flexing the forearm and bringing it forwards so that the fingers lie upon the opposite shoulder. This carries the elbow well across the chest, and the injured arm is then fixed securely by a broad flannel bandage. Some means of extension may be employed advantageously in older children. Massage, supplemented by a judicious use of electricity, will be of great service when there is loss of power with muscular atrophy. It should be commenced about the beginning of the third week after the accident. It is sometimes impossible to reduce the displaced upper end of the diaphysis, and in these cases, when there is great displacement, deformity, and interference with the movements of elevation and rotation of the shoulder, the question of excision of a portion of the bone may be advantageously considered, with or without subsequent wiring. Separation of the Tuberosities.—The great tuberosity is usually torn off by direct violence, though it has been detached by muscular force. The tubercle is drawn upwards and backwards towards the back of the acromion process, whilst the shaft of the bone is pulled upwards and inwards. Symptoms.—These changes in position lead to a great widening of the shoulder, which is best seen by looking at the patient sideways or from behind, and there is a marked prominence of the coracoid process on the injured side. The separated epiphysis can often be taken between the finger and thumb, and can be moved into its natural position, and if the arm be extended at the same time, the deformity is temporarily overcome. Treatment.—The best results are obtained by putting the patient to bed, raising the arm above the head, and securing it in such a position that the greater tuberosity lies over its point of separation. When from any reason the patient cannot be kept in bed, a guttapercha or leather cap should be moulded to the shoulder, and fitted on its inner surface with a pad to retain the great tuberosity in position. The lesser tuberosity of the humerus may