STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 355 the latter, which is further increased as the new-formed fibrous tissue in the mucosa develops and contracts, compressing the glands and blood- vessels. Owing to an unequal distribution of the morbid change and irregular contractions of the cicatricial tissue, the mucous membrane is thrown into the most varied thickenings, the surface at places assuming a polypoid appear- ance, constituting the so-called etat mamelonne. Unless very advanced the change is chiefly re- stricted to the mucosa and submucosa, but should it extend into the muscular layer, the contractile fibre cells are likely to be atrophied by pressure of the new-formed material, a result which is also to be seen in the muscularis mucosae. In the somewhat rarer cases when the fibrotic change more uniformly affects the stomach, and to which the term " cirrhosis " is perhaps more usually confined, the association with a chronic catarrh is much less constant, and the condition appears to be rather of the nature of a primary overgrowth in the submucous and subserous connective tissue, the determining cause of which is seldom obvious, although alcoholism is apparently responsible for some cases. The mucous membrane suffers less both relatively and absolutely than the other coats, and the muscular coat is usually much hypertrophied. A general fibroid change, also with hyper- trophy of the muscular layer, involving some- times the entire organ, may be associated with a malignant growth of the stomach, the struc- tural characteristics of which are perhaps best marked or even restricted to the pyloric region, and this is especially likely in scirrhus carcinoma. Cases are occasionally seen where the fibrous overgrowth is due to an extension of a chronic peritonitis into the subserous and other layers. An extreme fibroid induration of the pylorus, causing often extreme obstruction, is of not in- frequent occurrence, and is by some regarded as essentially a modification of scirrhus cancer, but if this be so, the cases exhibit none of the characteristic clinical features of malignancy. Gangrene. — Owing to the extensive and freely communicating blood-supply to the stomach, gangrene on any extensive scale is seldom if ever seen. A considerable destruction of the walls has been alluded to as the result of corrosive poisons, and sloughing to a limited extent may be seen in connection with new growths, the vessels of which have been blocked, and also in the phlegmonous variety of gastritis. The digestive power of the gastric secretions upon such of the tissues as have lost their proper vascular-supply is an important factor in the destructive change, and plays a large part in the production of gastric ulcer. Septic emboli, acute yellow atrophy of the liver, gan- grenous stomatitis, pneumonia, and acute tuber- culosis have been noted as causes of necrotic patches in the stomach. Erosions of the Mucous Membrane.—Super- ficial abrasions and destruction of very limited extent —often indeed almost microscopic—may be seen in the course of acute gastritis, or as the result of intense congestion or altered blood states—hsemorrhagic erosions—and may in rare cases be regarded as produced by the mechani- cal injury of coarse particles that have been swallowed, though the solvent power of the gastric juice is doubtless in great measure re- sponsible. Owing to the readiness with which under ordinary circumstances repair takes place in a mucous membrane, such lesions as these are but of short duration and quickly healed; a slight extension of the process, however, may result in the formation of a distinct ulcer in which the tissue necrosis is more serious. Ulceration.—Besides the superficial erosions of the mucous membrane just referred to, and those more extensive areas of destruction of the gastric walls brought about by corrosive poisons or other violent irritants that are not immedi- ately fatal, the stomach and the duodenum— at least as regards its first part—are the seat of a very characteristic ulcerative process which is of frequent occurrence, but with a singular difference in sex incidence ; for whilst the gastric lesion is far more common in women, especially in young adults, the duodenal affection prepon- derates in middle-aged males, a fact which suggests that local conditions rather than sexual differences are more concerned in the production of the disease. The actual frequency of gastric ulcer has been variously estimated. From the post-mortem appearances either of actual ulcer or of cicatrix, it has been set down as 5 per cent of all autopsies ; some observers have stated the percentage to be much higher. The ulcer or ulcers, for there may be more than one, either in the stomach only, or both in the stomach and duodenum, present, accord- ing to their duration, certain very distinctive appearances. The more recent the ulcer the smaller it is, averaging half to three-quarters of an inch in diameter, of a round or oval shape, with remarkably clean punched outline, with no special thickening of the edges, and the adjacent tissues being healthy in appearance except, perhaps, for a few scattered hsemor- rhagic spots. The depth to which the ulcer has extended varies, and the base may be formed by the muscular layer or by the perito- neum, or this may have perforated and communi- cation established with the peritoneal cavity. There is, however, a general disposition for the area of the destruction of the several coats progressively to diminish with the depth to which the necrosis has extended, so that the destruction of the mucosa is greatest, and of the serous membrane the least. In the ulcers of long standing this last character is commonly well marked, so much so as to give a shelving appearance to the area of destruction, the edges