SPINAL CORD 281 ■conductivity of the skin in different individuals renders accurate investigation difficult. It must be pointed out that clinical electrical reactions are the reactions of muscles covered with skin. If electrodes be placed directly in contact with the muscle, as by using needle electrodes plunged through the skin, no muscle ever fails to re- spond to faradic stimuli so long as it is muscle and not fibrous tissue. The rapid decrease of and final disappearance of faradic irritability which occurs in myasthenia during the applica- tion of a series of stimuli is pathognomonic of that disease, and of remarkable physiological interest in connection with fatigue. In familial periodic paralysis the transient .attacks of palsy are accompanied by complete loss of every form of excitability in the affected muscles, and this phenomenon, which disappears as rapidly as does the paralysis (in a few hours), is likely to fundamentally alter our present .conceptions of the nature of muscular con- traction. Ataxy and inco-ordination are terms used loosely for many disorders of movement. The ■division into static and dynamic ataxy is entirely artificial and furthers no purpose. The compli- city of the mechanism for the co-ordination of movement makes division into types unneces- :sary. Much more valuable is the detailed investigation of the nature of movements and of the subjective difficulty in performing an act which the patient experiences. From the sub- joined list of the better-known factors in co- ordination the great extent to which compensa- tion is possible will be obvious :— An hereditary faculty (a chick, for instance, is born with perfect co-ordination); ocular guid- ance ; vestibular guidance ; the muscular sense ; the sense of passive position ; tactile sensibility ; a normally acting motor mechanism. The last factor is of considerable importance, for a well-performed act and a well-maintained position are produced by good sensory guidance and good motor execution, and the resiilt is perfect co-ordination. If either of the former fail the sum is less. As an example it is diffi- cult to conceive a patient with spastic para- plegia from affection of the pyramidal tracts alone, who is not to some extent ataxic. Tremor.—Trophic phenomena, herpes, vaso- motor phenomena, erythromelalgia, are fully •described under such headings. Organic Reflexes.—The very beautiful physio- logical mechanism subserving the organic re- flexes has been worked out upon mammals by •careful experimental investigations. Clinically the disorders of micturition and defsecation •occurring with diseases of the nervous system in man cannot be explained on this hypothesis. Certainly the constant irritation of the centres by cystitis, with the effect of the latter upon ■the bladder wall, must complicate the disorder. It is doubtful, however, whether the mechanism in the human subject is so simple as that above referred to. Making no attempt to explain the human nervous mechanism subserving micturi- tion, a few isolated facts may be here of service. (1) In an infant of six weeks the spinal cord was completely destroyed below the fifth cervi- cal root (fojture dislocation rupture of cord, and haemorrhage into the theca), no trace of any nerve elements being recognisable in the necrotic tissue representing the lower segment of the cord. A normal forcible reflex flow of urine resulted from application of cold to the peri- neum. This phenomenon was observed several times by the writer. (2) Total transverse lesions of the cord not involving the lumbar enlargement do not give rise to overflow, incontinence, and distended bladder, except perhaps for a few hours after the lesion. The sphincters are relaxed (not completely), the anal reflex diminished, some- times lost, and the urine constantly escapes. (3) Persistent retention and overflow are rare in the spastic paraplegia resulting from severe lesion of the cord. These conditions are most often met with in slight forms of spastic paraplegia. (4) In cases of tabes dorsalis the dysuresis has a great multiplicity of forms. Its nature varies from time to time, precipitancy, hesit- ancy, retention, and paralytic incontinence often alternating in one case. A very frequent phenomenon of tabes is residual urine—the bladder is only partly emptied at each act of micturition ; the desire ceases, the sphincters close, and the patient is satisfied that he has emptied his bladder, while perhaps 8 to 12 ounces remain. Such stagnat- ing urine predisposes greatly to cystitis. Reflexes.—It suffices here to enumerate the superficial reflexes of the tendon reflexes, and point out the approximate segments of the spinal cord with which they are associated. A superficial reflex should theoretically be obtained by stimulation of any part of the skin, and is actually obtainable when the skin is hyper- sesthetic. Similarly a tendon jerk should be obtainable from every muscle, but the position of a few muscles only lends itself to a ready evocation of the tendon jerk. Easily excitable regions of the skin only are used clinically for the elicitation of skin reflexes. Supeiflcial Reflexes. — The pectoral reflex, C5-C7 ; the scapular, C5-C7; the epigastric, D6-D12; the dorsal, C5-L1 j the abdominal, D6-L2 ; the cremasteric, L2 ; the dartos, L2 ; gluteal, L5-S1; the femoral, L3 ; the plantar, L5-S1. Deep Reflexes.—The scapulo-humeral, C5-C7 ; the biceps jerk, C5-6 ; the triceps jerk, C6-7 ; the wrist jerk, C7-8 ; the gluteus jerk, L5-S1 ; the knee jerk, L2-L4; the hamstrings jerk, S2-S3 ; the tendo-Achillis jerk, L5-S1. The majority of these reflexes are well known