TABES DORSALIS 498 frequent. Ptosis on one or both sides, paralysis of the internal rectus or even complete paralysis of the third nerve, but much more frequently it is a partial paralysis affecting one muscle. The early ocular paralyses are usually tran- sient, lasting a week or two or a month or two, and then disappearing; they may, however, be permanent. There may sometimes be opthalmoplegia externa affecting one, but more often both eyes, in which all the external muscles of the eyeball are paralysed. This is a permanent paralysis. Pupil Phenomena.—The attention of the physician may be attracted by the small, even pin-point pupils, or by unequal pupils; or while the patient is suffering severe pains or crises, he may notice that the pupils do not dilate. By far the most important symptom, however, and one which, if present, renders a diagnosis certain, is the Argyll-Robertson pupil, i.e. the pupil reacts to accommodation, but not to light or painful stimulus. This phenomenon is usually present in both eyes, but it may be present in one and not in the other; the re- action to light may be sluggish as compared with accommodation, but it must be remembered that sluggish reaction to light is not necessarily a pathological condition, and unless there is a difference between it and accommodation, it may be of no import. In my cases 73'5 per <;ent showed Argyll-Robertson pupils on both sides; 3 per cent showed Argyll-Robertson pupils on one side; 3-7 per cent were sluggish to light; and 15 per cent were inactive to light and to accommodation. Irregularity of the pupils is also very fre- quent, and, independently of synechim, the pupil may be angular, elliptical, or oval. Sensory Symptoms.—Subjective.—The earliest and most constant symptom, and one for which the patient will often seek relief, are the lightning pains. He may consider them rheu- matism or sciatica ; or, even when occurring in the thorax, they may be mistaken for pleurisy or pleurodynia. They occur in paroxysms and shoot down the limbs, or may be localised in some particular part. They are deep-seated, and are described as "boring, burning, stab- bing, or shooting." They generally last during the whole course of the disease, and the skin may be hypersesthetic during the attack; and in rare cases of a severe nature, paroxysms of pain may be followed by herpetic or erythe- matous, even bulbous eruptions. The patient may complain of formication, pins and needles, and numbness—a feeling like putty or wool on the soles of the feet. These subjective symp- toms are spoken of as parsesthesia. Objective Symptoms.—Disturbances of cutan- eous sensibility to light tactile impressions, to painful impressions, as by pricking, and to heat and cold are found. The researches of Lahr liave shown that one of the earliest and most constant signs of tabes is cutaneous trunk anaesthesia to light tactile impressions, and this probably accounts for the frequency with which " a girdle sensation " is experienced. I found it present in forty out of forty-seven cases. The zone of ansesthesia usually affects the fourth and fifth segments, and extends as the disease progresses above and below. It is very rare that it extends to the second interspace, the reason being that the cervical plexus supplies the skin in this region, and it is seldom that the upper cervical roots are affected. The anaesthesia may extend down the ulnar side of the arm; there may be hyper- sesthesia above and below the anaes- thetic region; this cutaneous anses- thesia of the thorax demon- strates the seg- mental character of the degener- ative process. The region next most liable to be affect- ed is the part sup- plied by the lum- bar sacral roots, so that the feet and legs, especially the peroneal side, often show, even early in the dis- ease, disturbance of sensibility. Here it is, how- ever, more fre- quently loss of, or diminished sensi- bility to, pain. Sensibility to heat and cold persists much longer, and it is only in very advanced cases that they are lost, and then very frequently cold produces a burning sensa- tion. Anaesthesia and analgesia of a skin area may be preceded by hypassthesia and hypal- gesia. In testing sensibility it will often be noticed that there is great delay in the re- sponse to stimuli, and that after repeated stimulation an area which was previously anaes- thetic or analgesic becomes sensifacient by a process of summation. Wrong localisation of the parts stimulated is frequently observable, Fio. 1.—Sensory disturbances of a case of tabes in the preataxic stage. Cutaneous thoracic anaesthesia to light tactile impressions (just per- ceptible touching with the tip of the investigator's finger, the patient's eyes being covered). The sensory disturbance corresponds with the distribution of the fourth posterior root on the left side, and with the third, fourth, and fifth on the right. This patient presented no ataxic signs or symptoms, the knee-jerks were present on both sides. For more than a year the sole subjective symptoms were gas- tric crises. The diagnosis was made upon the presence of Argyll-Robert- son pupils, and cutaneous thoracic anaesthesia, associated with attacks of vomiting and pain at the epigast- rium. The anaesthesia extended as the disease progressed.