6 RICKETS bowing backwards of the spine, the natural curves being lost in the general bend. By the end of the second year the child may have made no progress in crawling, or walking, or standing. In other children who have managed to get on their legs the stretching of the ligaments plays an important part in the production of knock- knees, flat feet, and later curvatures of the spine. Complications and Associated Conditions. —Rickets is often associated with various con- ditions, and it is difficult to say if they are an integral part of the disease or complications. Bronchitis and Broncho-pneumonia. — Many rickety infants suffer a good deal from bronchial catarrh ; they seem exceedingly sensitive to cold, and in consequence are kept indoors in an over-heated, badly ventilated room for months together. Sometimes the bronchitis is associ- ated with laryngismus. There can be no doubt, also, that infants who suffer much from bronchial catarrh, and are kept in the house and deprived of fresh air, develop severe rickets. The de- formity and want of rigidity of the ribs, as well as the weakness of the muscles of respira- tion, predispose to these catarrhs. Broncho- pneumonia is apt to be very fatal in rickety children. Gastro - intestinal Catarrh. — The enlarged rounded abdomen is always present in a well- marked case of rickets. There is a constant formation of gas in the stomach and bowels in consequence of the fermentation of the food, while the muscular coat of the intestines is poorly developed and toneless; this tends to the stagnation of the imprisoned gas. In some cases, at least, the stomach is also dilated and constantly distended. Constipation, which is so common in rickets, is due also to the toneless state of the muscular coat of the intestines. Chronic indigestion is very commonly present as an early symptom, and is mostly present during the first two years or more. Through the whole course of rickets the digestion is weak, and the stools apt to be pale in colour and foetid. Scurvy.—Rickets and scurvy are frequently associated with one another. In severe cases of rickets there is frequently a certain amount of tenderness of the bones and perhaps no other sign of scurvy. All degrees of scurvy may be present in a bad case of rickets {see "Scurvy, Infantile "). Syphilis. — Since the days when Parrot asserted that congenital syphilis was the real cause of rickets, there has been a good deal of difference of opinion as to the part syphilis has played as a complication of rickets, if certain signs and symptoms often seen in cases of rickets were to be regarded as due to syphilis or not. No one now believes that syphilis has anything to do with the causation of the majority of cases of rickets, but there is some difference of opinion as to whether the natiform skull, cranio-tabes, ansemia with enlarged spleen, etc., should be regarded as signs of syphilis or not. While the subject cannot be looked upon as settled, it is certain that both the natiform skull and ansemia with enlarged spleen are associated with marked deformity of the bones in the immense majority of cases. It is clear, however, that syphilitic children often become rickety. Ancemia and enlarged Spleen.-—In many cases of rickets there is no anaemia, and indeed children with rosy faces may be seen who are unable to stand alone, and have bent legs and deformed chests. An enlarged spleen is by no means constant in rickets, but in the earlier stages of rickets and in a severe case there is often marked anaemia, and at the same time there is, perhaps, also an enlarged spleen to be felt some few fingers' breadth or more below the ribs. Marked rickets, striking pallor, and a spleen reaching two or three inches or more below the edge of the ribs, form a not uncommon combination of symptoms in children, especially during the second year. These cases, when well marked, have been described as "splenic anaemia" or "pseudo-leukaemia infantum," but according to the writer's experience the signs of rickets are almost constantly present. The natiform skull, the rickety rosary, and enlarged epiphyses are commonly seen. It is not possible to say in these cases if rickets is the primary disease, and the splenic anaemia secondary and dependent on the rickets; certainly, as regards time of onset, rickets often comes first. It has been suggested that these cases are a combina- tion of rickets and syphilis, but a history of syphilis is often absent, while the signs of rickets are almost universally present. An examination of the blood in these cases shows a diminution of the number of the red corpuscles (2,000,000 to 3,000,000 per cm.) and an in- creased number of leucocytes (25,000 to 30,000 per cm.), also many nucleated red corpuscles. There seems to be no constant departure from the normal with regard to the different leu- cocytes present. These cases are essentially chronic, but usually improve under treatment, the spleen diminishing in size and the number of blood corpuscles increasing. If death takes place it is usually through some complication, as measles or pneumonia. The writer has seen several of these cases, when four and five years of age, with more or less rickety deformity remaining, the spleen still to be felt well below the ribs, and some slight anaemia. Apart from the cases just referred to, in which there is a very noteworthy hypertrophy of the spleen, most authors agree that there is a more or less enlargement of the spleen during the course of some cases of rickets, but that this enlarge- ment is not constant. Cohn found the spleen enlarged 58 times in a clinical examination