SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 93 fluid in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis ; it is very prone to relapse, and is often, therefore, very tedious; it occurs in sudden seizures, and is sometimes transferred by metastasis from one testis to the other. It occasionally suppurates, and may extend to the epididymis. Rheumatic orchitis appears chiefly to be an affection of the tunica albuginea. It comes on suddenly, with much tenderness and little tumefaction ; often shifting from one testis to the other, and disappearing almost as suddenly as it comes on. Mumps orchitis occurs in about 15 per cent of all cases of mumps in males, and is therefore by no means uncommon. It is usually met with at the period of puberty, and begins about the fifth of sixth day in one or both testicles. It reaches its height in four or five days, is ex- tremely painful, and rarely suppurates. It usually resolves, sometimes becomes chronic, but often ends in rapid and complete atrophy, especially in cases which occur in epidemics. Typhoid orchitis rarely, if ever, affects the epididymis, unless the inflammation is set going by catheterism, and then the epididymis alone may be attacked. The testis only is implicated. The onset is commonly gradual, but may be sudden; it occurs during the height of the fever, or during convalescence later on. The pain is not so great as in other forms of orchitis. The inflammation is not generally severe ; the attack lasts from six to ten days; it usually ends in resolution, but suppuration, atrophy, or persistent induration occasionally follows. Malarial orchitis follows or accompanies the fever, but generally at a late period of the disease, and yields readily to quinine. It comes suddenly, lasts two or three days, during which the testicle swells to three or four times its natural size, being blended with the epididymis in a hard, smooth mass. The scrotal veins swell, the skin is oedematous, and there is generally a little fluid poured out into the tunica vaginalis. Pain is severe, and may be paroxysmal, and passes off when the tempera- ture falls. The swelling may take three or four weeks to disappear, and the testis may be left atrophied, and the epididymis enlarged and hard. Treatment of Acute and Subacute Orchitis.— Treatment will vary somewhat with the cause of the inflammation. Ice locally, or iced lotions, are spoken highly of by Jacobson. Leeches, followed by warm belladonna or opium lotions, have been useful in my practice. Needle punc- ture of the inflamed gland has been strongly advised by Smith and Macnamara. Glycerine of belladonna often gives relief. Rest in bed, with the scrotum supported on a high pillow or in a " sling " is essential. Calomel purges and saline draughts, with small doses of tartrate of antimony, sometimes act like specifics. Con- stitutional conditions must be treated according to their nature. After a few days, when the painful symptoms have subsided, light strapping of the testis will shorten convalescence. Chronic Orchitis.—Chronic inflammation of the testicle is usually of syphilitic origin. It occurs occasionally as an affection secondary to tubercular epididymitis, and sometimes follows an acute orchitis from injury. From its fre- quent association with syphilis, chronic orchitis may be considered under the heading of syphil- itic affections of the testicle. Infantile Orchitis. — Inflammation of the testicle may be met with in infants and young children. A subacute form occurs in children of a few months old, the testis being found somewhat enlarged and hard. It is probably the result of slight injury, and passes away under simple protective measures. Syphilitic Affections of the Testicle.— Syphilitic Sarcocele.—The affections of the testis due to syphilis are acquired or congenital:— Acquired. — Orchitis and epididymitis in secondary syphilis ; gummatous and interstitial orchitis in tertiary syphilis. Acquired Affections in Secondary Syphilis.— Although a matter of rare occurrence, there is no doubt that occasionally during the progress of serious secondary syphilitic symptoms the testicle becomes affected with a subacute form of inflammation. I have seen this form of orchitis several times. In the fifth or sixth month after the primary sore the testis becomes larger, hard, and tender, its surface irregular and " knobby," the knobs varying in size from a pea to a hazel-nut; the tenderness is not excessive, and little pain is complained of. The organ slowly increases in size for four or five weeks, and then gradually subsides, leaving the gland apparently in its normal state again. This condition is distinct from the more fre- quently seen syphilitic epididymitis, which comes on early in the secondary stage, is pre- ceded by urethral discharge, and consists of a localised nodular mass in the globus major— the body of the testis remaining quite unaffected —and which also disappears entirely under the influence of mercury. Gummatous Orchitis.—This, the more common form, may coexist with the above, or may appear at a later stage. It commences in a localised proliferation of the corpuscular elements of the intertubular connective tissue, which is quickly followed by fatty degeneration. The gummata are usually multiple, and in size varying from a pea to a walnut. They appear as somewhat elastic and yellowish white or grey knobs, are firm to the touch, owing to the intermingling of fibrous tissue with the fatty debris of which they consist, and are dry, owing to their slight vascularity. As in other visceral gummata, those of the testicle are surrounded at first by a vascular area, which later on is converted into a whitish fibrous capsule. Within this are