256 SPARTEINA poisonous alkaloid obtained from broom tops (Scoparii Cacumina); poisoning by sparteine is called spartism. See Alkaloids (Vegetable) ; Broom Tops. Spasm. Physiology 256 Cramp 256 Varieties of Spasm .... 257 Paramyoclonus Multiplex. . . 259 Diagnosis 260 Treatment 260 See also Alcoholism (Motor Variations in); Brain, Inflammations, etc. {Chronic Progressive Softening of the Brairi, Clinical Features); Catheters, Uses and Dangers of {Pain and Spasm); Diaphragm {Spasm); Facial Spasm ; Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases of {Gall Stones, Biliary Colic) ; Hysteria {Motor Disorders, Saltatorius Spasm); Larynx, Con- genital Laryngeal Stridor ; Medicine, For- ensic {Signs of Death, Cadaveric SjMsm) ; Meningitis, Epidemic Cerbbro-Spinal {Nervous Symptoms); Muscles, Diseases of the {Changes in Muscle due to Vasczilar Disturbances); Neu- roses, Occupation {Cramp); Tetany ; Toxi- cology {Strychnine, Ergotism). By muscular spasm is meant an unusually pro- longed or recurrent, and often excessive, con- traction produced irrespective of the will. Spasm may be either tonic or clonic, and may affect either voluntary or involuntary muscle. Physiology. — Contractility is an inherent birthright of protoplasm, and therefore of muscle, and a muscular contraction produced by means of a nervous stimulus is but a sudden heightening of its normal tonus, or so-called physiological tone. This tonus, ever varying in degree, is largely dependent upon a constant succession of nervous impulses reaching the muscle from its trophic centre, nerve cells in the spinal cord or medulla, and is therefore dependent in turn on varying neural tonus, but not entirely so. Involuntary muscle may con- tinue to contract rhythmically when severed from all nervous connections, as seen in the excised heart muscle of tortoise. Again, circulating poisons may affect muscular irritability directly, and not by way of the nervous system, as veratria, ergot, and digitalis, or in the rapid onset of rigor mortis after death from cholera, or in an animal hunted to death. Cramp, or painful spasm, the irregular tetanic contractions pressing on intra-muscular nerve- endings, and thus producing pain, may be due to circvdating toxins produced within the body, as is seen in the cramps met with in diabetes, tetany, and in uraemia. Cramps may be bac- terial in origin, as from the toxines of tetanus or hydrophobia, or they may be due to poison absorbed from without—organic, as in ergotism, or metallic, as in lead-poisoning. Cramp, again, may result from fatigue, the irritable state of the muscle perhaps depending on local accumu- lation of metabolic products. Anfemia of muscle, again, may so heighten its irritability as to produce spasm or cramp, as is seen in the nocturnal cramps in the legs that ansemic women are liable to. In this case the spasms are not relieved by extension of the limb; but getting out of bed, by the assuming of the erect posture, improves the blood-supply to the limbs, when the cramps will pass off. The same variety of painful spasm or ci'amp is seen in some cases of progressive arteriosclerosis, or endarteritis obliterans, the condition being named by Charcot " Claudication intermittente." I have seen precisely the same condition in the calf muscles after popliteal thrombosis of both legs, in which the exertion of walking a hundred yards always brought on painful cramp in the calves, though nothing was noticed while sitting or moving quietly about the house. This is explained by the increased contractions of the gastrocnemii in the effort of walking, demanding the physiological increase of blood-supply necessary for a muscle in action, yet denied to it by the insufficient collateral circulation de- veloped after the popliteal thrombosis, thus producing a relative anaemia of the muscle. The same pathology explains the painful cramp of the heart muscle in angina pectoris, attacks being induced either by diminution in calibre of coronary branches from vasomotor spasm, or from progressive atheroma suddenly diminish- ing the blood-supply to certain territories of heart muscle, or by exertion or emotion calling for more frequent contractions without the corresponding dilatation of coronary vessels to supply the hard-worked muscle, the failure of dilatation being due to arteriosclerosis, or vaso- motor spasm, or to a combination of these causes. Congenital peculiarities of the muscle fibres may also result in transient spasm at the com- mencement of a movement, as in Thomsen's disease. I have also seen persistent tonic spasm with hypertrophy of both sterno-mastoids in a case of pseudohypertrophic muscular dystrophy producing double wryneck, or retraction of the occiput with protrusion of the chin. Spasm is, however, largely reflex in origin in almost all cases, and the excessive stimuli reaching the muscles and causing them to con- tract depend in turn upon afferent impulses running centripetally from the muscles them- selves, the skin, joints, mucous membranes, etc. That this is so may be shown by the flaccidity and apparent total paralysis produced in a limb by section of all the posterior roots that conduct afferent impressions from it to the spinal cord. Muscle tonus, therefore, is in part dependent on the conditions affecting the muscular sub- stance directly, but more so on the varying tonic stimuli reaching it from its spinal nerve