SMALLPOX 241 aperient. As the disease progresses and the eruption appears in unvaccinated patients, the more complete rest the patient has the better are his prospects of recovery; daily tepid sponging and daily change of linen are neces- sary, but it is not good to sponge frequently, nor to give him frequent baths, these in severe cases appear to aggravate his condition and to promote and increase suppuration; pain from the eruption, for example on the hands, may be relieved by cold compresses ; to prevent pitting, various applications to the face have been tried, e.g. collodion, ointments, such as those of oxide of zinc, mercury, or boracic acid, painting with iodine ; also evacuation of contents of pustules, but none of these has any permanent effect. The oily ointments are most soothing, and appear to hasten the processes of maturation and desiccation, but if one half of the face is treated in either of these ways, and the other half left alone, the ultimate results are the same. Throughout the illness strict attention must be given to dieting ; the nourishment which the patient can assimilate will usually be in a liquid form, and the administration of wine or brandy will be governed by his condition. Delirious patients must be carefully watched to avert accident. During convalescence, tonics, as quinine, are useful, and at this stage baths are of the utmost value, and facilitate the scabbing and scaling processes. Boils are common, and must be treated surgically. Small ulcers at the edge of the cornea are frequent at this stage, and usually get well if a little powdered calomel is blown into the eye. The mild forms of modified smallpox call for no special treatment. Smedley's Paste.—Smedley's Chilli Paste is believed to have a constitution some- what similar to the Unguentum Capsici of the British Pharmacopoeia. See Capsici Fructus. Smeg'ma..—Sebum, especially that se- creted by the sebaceous glands of the prepuce. See Penis, Surgical Affections of the (Balan- itis) ; Tuberculosis {Diagnosis of the Tubercle Bacillus from the Smegma Bacillus) ; Urine, Bacteria in (Tubercle and Smegma Bacilli). Smell. See Nose, Examination of (Senses of Smell and Taste); Nose, Nasal Neuroses (Neuroses of Olfaction). See also Brain, Physi- ology (Sensory Centres, Smell; Cranial Nerves, Olfactory); Bb.ain,Tvmovrsof(Localising Symp- toms, Smell, Anosmia, etc.); Children, Develop- ment op (Smell); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppur- ation of (Symptomatology, Taste and Smell); Fifth Nerve, Affections of (Affections of Taste and Smell); Hypnotism (Experimental Pheno- mena, Special Senses); Hysteria (Sensory Dis- orders) ; Mind, Education of the (Education of Sense of Smell); Paranoia (Progressive Syste- VOL. IX matised Insanity, Hallucinations of Smell) ; Pregnancy, Affections and Complications (Nervous System, Perversion of Smell). Smellie's Forceps.—Midwifery for- ceps furnished with the typical British or Smellie lock ; at first Smellie used short for- ceps, but in 1751 he added the pelvic curve, making the instrument long. See Labour, Operations (Forceps). Smel lie's Scissors.— A perforating instrument used in the obstetric operation of craniotomy. See Labour, Operations (Embry- otomy). Smelling' Salts.—Ammonium carbon- ate with some aromatic substance added to it. See Ammonium and its Salts (Carbonate). Smilax Ornata. See Sarsaparilla. Smith's Cramp.—An occupation neu- rosis of the arms occurring in smiths or hammer- men. See Neuroses, Occupation (Hephaistic Hemiplegia). Smith's Fracture. —Fracture (trans- verse) of the radius about two inches above its lower end. Smith's Gag. See Palate, Cleft (Oper- ation, Instruments). Smith's Palsy. See Smith's Cramp. Smoke-Test.— A method of testing whether the drains of a house are leaking or not; smoke is forced into the drains by a generator, and its escape at any point in the course of the drains indicates the position of the leak. Smut.—A fungus (Ustilago segetum) found sometimes in flour or meal. Smyrna. See Balneology (Turkey). Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes. Introduction . . . . • .241 Classification 242 Geographical Distribution . . . 242 Anatomical Characters . . . 242 The Venom 243 Clinical Symptoms .... 246 Treatment ...... 246 Serum Therapy 247 Poisonous Fishes 248 See also Immunity (Natural Resistance to Poison); Purpura (Toxic) ; Therapeutics, Serum Therapy (Antivenene). From very early times there has been a common belief that certain people had a peculiar power of freely handling venomous snakes, and that a measure of resistance to the poison was 16