201 SKIN—PIGMENTARY AFFECTIONS cedent substance is formed. To this hypo- thetical substance I shall refer again on account of the importance attached to it by Delepine. The Correlations of Epithelial Pigmentation A description of the anomalies of pigmenta- tion should, by right, be preceded by an account of the general laws relating to the formation of melanin, without which the anomalies them- selves are unintelligible. Unfortunately our very limited knowledge does not allow more than a mere outline sketch, in which many gaps must of necessity occur. 1. The colour of the skin and hair, so far as this depends on their own pigment, is controlled by heredity; whether much pigment is found or little, or whether it falls to this or that area of the skin, is predetermined by the mutual influence of the sperm and germ in utero. 2. Epithelial pigmentation is correlated with the emotional character of the race, family, or individual. It is a popular and imiversal belief that the complexion is a sign of the tempera- ment or emotional character of the individual, and this belief rests on a sure scientific basis. 3. A fair epithelium when stimulated becomes coloured by the increased formation of melanin. This is a remarkable fact, but one which need not surprise us when we remember that the fair races are descended from dark-skinned prehistoric races. It will help us to understand many pigmentary anomalies if we regard the coloured skin as the real normal type, and the fair or colourless skins as a condition most removed from a state of nature. In the light of this hypothesis, pigmentation following stimu- lation of the epithelium is merely a reversion to the ancestral or normal type. It is to be noted that the pigmentation has no relation to the nature of the stimulus, for fleas suffice in some, mental shock in others. Further, the precipitation of melanin does not alter the growth relationships of the cells, thus a freckle grows neither more nor less than the surround- ing pale parts. But if the stimulation be long continued it may lead to erratic developments of the germinal epithelium, as when epithelioma grows out of a pigmented spot. Delepine has pointed out that all the stimuli capable of acting on gland cells with the addition of light are capable of inducing the formation of melanin. It is a matter of common observation that pigmentation of the skin follows the stimulus of light (actinic rays), dark heat, chemical irritation such as mustard plaster, mechanical irritation as in scratching, the pressure of garters, clothes round the waist, nervous stimu- lation as in nerve leprosy. As an example of toxeemic stimulation, arsenical poisoning is among the most striking. Other examples of toxeemic pigmentation will be referred to again. 4. Is epithelial pigmentation correlated with the oxidation processes of the body 1 Although, as stated above, the precipitation of melanin neither increases nor diminishes growth, we cannot avoid the inference that this precipita- tion implies some change of cellular character. By analogy with the colouring matter of plants, we might presume some physiological function to be attached to the formation of melanin. And according to Delepine this is actually the case. He has collected evidence which, so far as it goes, is favourable to the hypothesis that in the process of pigment formation some pale substance is formed under the influence of light, which is antecedent not only to melanin, but to hsemoglobin. This pale or colourless pre- melanin (or melanogen) is secreted by the germinal epithelial cells, passes into the lymph stream, and combining with iron in the liver, and possibly some other elements, forms the haemoglobin of the red corpuscles. The final term of the process, namely, melanin, he does not regard as essential to the formation of pre- melanin, so that pale skins may still continue to secrete a part of the elements of haemoglobin. Dr. Muir, working under the direction of Delepine, was able to show that the percentage of haemoglobin is raised in cases of arsenical poisoning accompanied by deep pigmentation— a fact which, while it does not prove Delepine's theory, is certainly not opposed to it. Con- sidering that the process of pigment formation, and therefore of pre-melanin, is so extremely irregular, it is difficult to conceive that the cutaneous epithelium is the primary source of the mother-pigment. Facts, however, may be cited which favour the idea that the epithelium is a complementary organ to the pigment- secreting suprarenal bodies. Thus in Addison's disease, in which these bodies are generally the seat of tubercular disease, and may therefore be supposed to be incapacitated, we have the well-known deep pigmentation of the skin. Again, all the chronic diseases which are accompanied by asthenia, lowering of blood pressure, and changes in oxidation, such as tuberculosis, syphilis, malaria, cancerous ca- chexia, arsenical intoxication, senile debility, are accompanied by more or less increased formation of cutaneous melanin. It is not impossible that in these diseases the skin is attempting to supplement the functions of the suprarenal bodies. Possibly even the pigmenta- tion of pregnancy may be explained by the same hypothesis. Classification of Pigmentary Anomalies A. Melanin in Qvxintities sufficient to Colour the Skin locally or generally, TKUE OR Melanotic Pigmentation i \ \ i i I Racial Actinic Emo- Toxsemic. Neo- Post- and and tional. plastic, inflam- sexual, irritative. matory. 1. Under the head of sexual pigmentation I