SLEEP, NORMAL AND MORBID 212 tion has been to determine the intensity of stimulus required at various periods of sleep to arouse the individual to consciousness of the stimulus and of self to environment. Most observers agree that the depth of normal sleep increases during the first and second hour, after which it begins to decrease, then is again increased and maintained at about the same level. A typical sleep chart would be somewhat as follows :— AWAKE l^J STAGE DEEP i 7 Chart l.—Sleep tested at intervals of half an hour. Sleeplessness.—The necessity for sleep is evidenced in those who are confined in our asylums, and it is sufficient to state that 90 per cent of the cases admitted to Bethlem Hospital since the year 1820 have suffered from in- somnia. There is no more common cause of brain ex- haustion and insanity than insomnia, and the effects of prolonged sleeplessness are so injurious as to cause much serious care and study in nearly every case. The "repose of conscious- pess " is absolutely necessary for the metabolism and nutrition of the brain in order that the effects of the expenditure of energy during the waking hours may be counteracted and over- come. We have already seen that sleep does not necessarily arrest all cerebral activity ; but it ought at least to arrest those activities which subserve the highest of our mental faculties, viz. self-consciousness. Insomnia occurs in varying degrees of severity. Some individuals—especially those of neurotic temperament—sleep lightly and are awakened at the slightest stimulus; others again sleep profoundly, or the sleep may be protracted unduly. Perhaps there is no more definite sign of an unstable nervous inheritance than the occurrence of insomnia from slight causes. Overstrain either at physical or mental work, extreme heat or cold, intense joy or anxiety, suspense or the reaction which follows its alleviation, all these may be factors in inducing insomnia. In neurasthenics and hysterical sub^- jects sleep may be fitful and uncertain. Physi- cal pain also causes sleeplessness. In considering the various defects of sleep, we have to note not only the defect itself so far as duration is concerned, but also the character and stages of sleep affected. Thus some indi- viduals have a defective or prolonged first stage, as seen in the brain-worker, or the indi- vidual who has undergone some emotional or mental strain. He sinks but slowly into the deeper stages, which may be prolonged, and from which he can only with difficulty be aroused. Chart 2 is a typical chart of such a sleep. The experiment was conducted on a person who had worked for four- teen hours at the composition of an article for publi- cation. Another type is noticeable in those who have under- gone great emo- tional stress or strain, and also not infrequently after dietetic errors or excesses. The first stages are rapidly passed through, but after a few hours there is a return to the hypnagogic or dream level, which is protracted until a secondary profound sleep is reached. This type is also common in infancy, STAGES 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 ist c,ta6e: HYPNAGOGIC DREAM DEEP Chakt 2. and may be the result of reflex irritability induced by irritation of the gastro-intestinal canal. The next type is one quite characteristic of nervous, hghly strung individuals. Sleep is STAGES I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 I" STAGE HYPNAGOaiC DREAM DEEP Chakt 3. readily induced, but there is a comparatively rapid rebound to the higher stages of dreaming and even partial consciousness. The last type is that of excessive depth or morbid somnolence, where the individual rapidly