SLEEP, NORMAL AND MORBID 216 varied. The images in dreams may be so vivid that they persist long after waking, and not a few delusions of the insane have had their origin in dreams. To account for the vagaries is not difficult when we remember that con- scious thought and logic are absent during sleep. Mercier {Psychology, Normal and Morbid) has recently stated his belief that delusions come into being in precisely the same way as obsessions by the independent and quasi-parastic formation of nervous connections which may take place during sleep, and which are not necessarily attended by any mode of conscious- ness ; and therefore, if we seek the origin of a delusion among processes of thought, we are looking in the wrong direction. He regards the formation of a delusion as not strictly a psychological event — rather in the process Date 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 n 12 i3 14 15 16 17 18 19 21 li 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 1 2 5 4 5 O 1 4 6 % 7 ^ 8 9 A V \ ./ \ [ / A I s/ \ r- "A \. / ^ U V \ V JTotes 1 ki Is 0 o e =^ "5 :^ 8 00 ■c S^ 0 1 tj I. QO 1 •K Urmc 1 1 Chart 5.—Disease: Acute Mania (recovered). closely allied to that to which the name of ■"unconscious cerebration " has been given. Morbid dreams may occur with such intensity and vividness as to render the individual practically insane. They also sometimes herald the onset of some brain affection. In hysteria and epilepsy, illusions, hallucinations, and nightmare occur very frequently. Sante de Sanctis found that the dreams of epileptics are more liable to be affected by the weather than those of hysterics, so that in this respect epilepsy merits its ancient name of morbus astralis or lunaticus (quoted from Manac^ine, Sleep, p. 295). Dreams in hysteria are also said to be briefer and less complex than in epilepsy. Epileptic mania may arise during sleep; or there may be a sudden attack of acute mania in sleep quite independently of epilepsy. SoiiNAMBULiSM.—This is an affection most commonly manifested in childhood and youth. The eyes are frequently open, and as the vision is more acute and the pupils dilated in the som- nambulistic state, the individual can perceive objects with very little light. The tactile sense is also more acute, even though there may be analgesia. Sometimes somnambules hear and respond to verbal sounds. The senses of smell and taste may remain active. The muscular system is intact, and often very remarkably so. Many instances have been recorded of individuals who in a state of somnambulism have performed intellectual feats in music, literature, and mathematics. Cases are on record also of acts of homicide and sui- cide during somnambulism. Usually there is little power of recalling the events that have occurred during somnambulism. After recovery from attacks of insanity events may be partly recalled, and this constitutes a slight differ- ence between the two states. The statement that somnambu- lists never re- member what has occurred during their walks is not quite correct. There is in som- nambulism little or no conscious adjustment of the individual's acts to the envi- ronment. If any- thing is remem- bered, it is the dream and not the motor act. Sleep in Insanity.—As we have already stated, the insane show the most marked abnor- malities of sleep. In acute cases there is usu- ally insomnia in the early stages, and it is just as important to keep a chart of the condition of sleep in the earlier stages of insanity as it is to record the temperature in conditions of bodily disease. Insomnia is by far the most frequent of the dis- orders of sleep. Chart 5 represents in hours the amount of sleep nightly in a case of acute mania with excitement, restlessness, and general con- fusion of the mental faculties. Normal sleep with the aid of draughts was reached about the third week of the disease. Chart 6 represents sleep in a case of puerperal melancholia with hallucinations, restlessness, and refusal of food. In this case also normal sleep was obtained about the third week of the attack, and followed by recovery. Chart 7 shows the intractable nature of the insomnia in the maniacal stages of general par-