STAMMERING 324 sonants with the economic impulses of the pharynx instead of the wastefvil explosion of breath from the chest." Even Wyllie, in his classic work, The Dis- orders of Speech, has failed to note this import- ant practical point. Thus in speaking of his physiological alphabet he says:— " Before I proceed to draw up this alphabet let us consider, in the light of a few examples, the delicately co-ordinated action which is carried on in combination by the two mechan- isms, laryngeal and oral, in the production of ordinary speech. Take the word satisfy. Here the laryngeal mechanism is called upon to touch off three separate vocal sounds, each of which is evolved by the vocal cords during an instant of approximation, viz. the sounds a, i, and y; and, bettveen these sounds, the open glottis must permit the current of air to pass noiselessly into the mouth, where it will he utilised for the jwoduc- tion of the voiceless consonants, which are made, as it were, to clothe the vowels in front and be- hind. Let the naked vowels, as they sound in this word, be pronounced, and then the full word itself; and the extreme delicacy and ex- actitude of the three separate co-aptations of the vocal cords will be realised. Let there be any delay in the pronunciation of the first vowel, and the initial s will be hissed and prolonged exactly as it is by the stammerer. " But the voice is not an exclusive possession of the vowels; many of the consonants are also in part made up of voice. Take the word wonder, for example. Here every letter, consonant and vowel alike, contains voice; so that the larynx has to maintain its vocal cords in co-aptation throughout the whole word, which may even be repeated many times in a deliberate and con- tinuous hum. But add to this word the final syllable ful; and as the word, with this addition, is being hummed over, note the moment of interruption of the hum during the production of the voiceless /. For a moment the vocal cords have been thrown apart to permit of the passage of voiceless air for the f ; but they are immediately brought together again for the production of the vocal u. These examples may suffice to show what a delicate and exact work the larynx has to perform, in supplying the vocal element to the vowels and vocalised consonants, and in intermitting the voice production when the air is required for consonants that contain no voice." A comparison of the statements of Bell and Wyllie respectively shows a fundamental differ- ence between their conceptions of consonantal production. In the writer's opinion, not only is Bell's explanation the more accurate one, but it has the additional advantage of usefulness in the treatment of stammering. The practical lesson to be drawn from Bell's dictum is that it is not necessary to intermit the voice (as stated by Wyllie) in order to interpolate the con- sonants. In addition to the above-mentioned three points of closure which have, by Wyllie, been aptly named the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd "stop posi- tions " respectively, there is another point, at which the larynx can be completely obstructed, so that neither breath nor voice can issue. The discovery of this was made by Wyllie, and published by him in 1866. He then showed that there is in the larynx a double valve, con- sisting of the true and false vocal cords, and that the latter control the exit, whilst the former control the entrance of the air into the chest. Bearing these facts in mind, we will now consider what takes place when a fit of stam- mering comes on. In some few cases there is a want of co-ordination between the respiratory and laryngeal mechanisms, and the patient may even try to speak without first inhaling. In the great majority of cases, however, the want of co-ordination is between the laryngeal and oral mechanisms. The result has been well described by Kussmaul, who gives the following graphic word-picture of a paroxysm of stam- mering :— "He closes the oral canal at one or other of the closing points, according to the nature of the letter to be articulated, and this he does as well as a man who possesses the faculty of speech could do it; instead, however, of allow- ing the vowel to follow without delay, he presses his lips, or his tongue and teeth, or his tongue and palate, more firmly together than is neces- sary ; the explosive escape of breath does not take place, the other muscles of the face and those of the glottis, and even the muscles of the neck, become spasmodically aff'ected like those of articulation, gesticulatory movements are made, the abdomen is retracted, the head is drawn backward, and the larynx is drawn forcibly upward, until finally he works himself into a state of frightful agitation ; his heart beats forcibly, his face becomes red and blue, his body is bedewed with perspiration, and he may present the appearance of a complete maniac." In all such cases, voice, produced by the laryngeal mechanism, is wanting, and the stammerer, not knowing what is at fault, mis- directs his energy into the oral mechanism. " From the nerve centres of oral mechanism thus surcharged," as Wyllie points out, an " overflow in many cases occurs." " The habit of overflow in the nervous mechanism of articu- lation wears, in time, easy channels for the overflow; so that very slight surcharge may eventually suffice to produce spasmodic move- ment of the neighbouring muscles." When the obstruction is caused by the action of the false vocal cords the suff"erer may stand with the mouth wide open, and perhaps with