STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 349 A further general observation appears desir- able. Whilst it is the diseases of the stomach and duodenum and perversions of their functions that will be here described, the clinical neces- sity for their consideration in relation to other organs and other functions cannot be too strongly insisted upon, and especially for the formation of a prognosis and of a rational thera- peutic plan. A too restricted view of gastro- duodenal disease, as indeed of any other organ, will be likely to furnish a very imperfect con- ception of the case as a whole, though this is difficult to avoid in the conditions imposed by a descriptive article of limited extent. General Etiology Affections of the stomach are amongst the commonest of maladies. So closely associated are its functions with others, that few diseases, whether acute or chronic, are not sooner or later complicated by gastric distui-bance. Certain circumstances, however, would seem to confer a special liability, and so far may be regarded as predisposing causes, as others are more surely responsible for the actual determination of gastro-duodenal disease (exciting causes). Heredity.—How far any disease of the organs under consideration can be said to be the result of hereditary influence is exceedingly doubtful. Not infrequently, however, definite structural disease may develop in several members of a family in the same or succeeding generations as to suggest an explanation of this kind. Dr. Dreschfeld (Albutt's St/stem of Medicine, vol. iii. p. 520) has recorded eight examples of gastric ulcer thus occurring. Still more numerous are the cases of cancer of the stomach, with a family history of malignant disease—14 per cent in 1744 cases as determined by Welch— and commonest of all is the existence of a " weak digestion " in parent and child. Dys- pepsia of neurotic causation seems specially liable to be transmitted. Notwithstanding the figures that can be adduced in support of this view, it is doubtful whether, when not merely coincidence, they are anything more than an expression of the hereditary transmission of a tendency due to a deteriorated resisting power on the part of the tissues concerned, and requiring for the development of the malady a special excitant, such as members of the same family are likely to be exposed to, whether this be habit of life, diet, or the like. Age, as influencing the incidence of gastro- duodenal disease, is undoubtedly potent. Acute catarrhal affections are of great frequency at all ages, and children and infants are especially prone to suffer, the conditions being determined by comparatively slight causes, but it is to be noted that in such cases the intestine shares in the catarrh more frequently than in later life. The graver condition of phlegmonous gastritis is seldom met with except in adults, and the same also with cirrhosis ventriculi. Ulcer of the stomach is much more common between the ages of fifteen and thirty than at other periods, whilst a similar lesion of the duodenum tends to occur later, viz. from thirty-five to forty, if cases following on burns be excluded. Very rarely such ulcers have been seen in both situa- tions in infants, and especially those born in difficvilt labours, suggesting the probability in these cases of local haemorrhages into the mucosa and subsequent necrosis resulting therefrom. The greater number of cases of carcinoma ventriculi are met with between the ages of fifty and sixty, and very few are seen before thirty, although Dr. N. Moore records a case in a girl aged thirteen, and Drs. Osier and M'Crae have collected the accounts of thirteen cases between the ages of ten and twenty. A well- authenticated case of a cylindrical-celled carci- noma in an infant under a month old, probably congenital, was described by CuUingworth {Brit. Med. Jour. 1877, ii. p. 253). Sarcoma of the stomach, which is much rarer, has been known in several cases to have occurred under twenty. Some curious but unexplained differences exist in the sex incidence of gastric and duodenal disease, the most remarkable being in connection with the so-called peptic idcer, which occurs with more than three times the frequency in young females than it does in males when situ- ated in the stomach, but thrice as often in middle-aged males as in women when located in the duodenum, except as the sequence of burns, when the greater number is in females. In the mucli rarer aff'ection, phlegmonous gastritis, the preponderance in males is very marked. The frequency of malignant disease in the stomach is somewhat greater in males, and much more so when the duodenum is the seat of the growth. It is difficult to explain these facts in any essential proclivity in either sex, and in other maladies of the stomach—catarrh, dilatation, chronic congestion, cirrhosis, etc.—no such differ- ences are to be found. The predisposing effect of the nervous tem- perament is seen rather in the very important part it takes in determining indigestion, than in the actual causation of structural disease of the organs concerned, though even here its influence cannot be regarded as altogether wanting. The most obstinate disturbances of gastric motility or secretion are in many cases solely to be attributed to a neurotic tempera- ment, and persist in spite of the most careful regulation of the other factors concerned in digestion. Here may be mentioned the peculiar idiosyn- crasies exhibited by certain individuals in respect to certain articles of food, which to the majority are harmless or even beneficial, but to them are positively poisonous. Among such are fish, shell-fish, vinegar, etc. The undue suscepti- bility of some persons to gastric disturbance