SPINA BIFIDA 270 by a collection of cerebro-spinal fluid within the dura mater and arachnoid, the cord itself Taeing adherent to the sac posteriorly, and not infrequently causing thereby a longitudinal dimpling of the skin. Sometimes a slight depression of the skin shows the position of the attacliment of the very end of the cord. (In a syringo-myelocele such a dimple could not, of course, occur.) (Fig. 2.) The coi'd being free in the sac, the nerves Fig. 2.—Sleiiingo-Myelocele. Dissection of the parts concerned in a lumho-sacral spina bifida, showing the typical anatomical disposition in cases of meningo- myelocele. A portion of the sac-wall has been cut away to show the interior. A, Surface of cord, covered with arachnoid exposed by the removal of dura mater; B, dura mater entering into the formation of the sac-wall ; C, arachnoid lining the sac ; 1), lower portion of the spinal cord crossing the interior of sac ; some of the nerve-roots pass forwards upon it, towards the intervertebral foramina. The otlier nerve-roots arise from the posterior wall of the sac in a vertical series, and traverse the space horizontally. E, Falciform process continuous with the pia mater separating the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves of the left side. (From Report in the Clinical Society's Transac- tions, vol. XVlll.) have to pass through the cerebro-spinal fluid to reach the intervertebral foramina. In syringo- myelocele, it will be remembered, the nerves coursed on the outside of the sac. This feature, however, cannot be determined until the sac has been opened, either at an operation or at a post-mortem examination. When the meningo- myelocele is in the cervical or dorsal region, the cord quits the lower part of the sac to re-enter the spinal canal. In the tumour the cord is generally adherent to the back of the sac in the median line. In some cases of meningo-myelocele the medulla remains in the spinal canal, only the spinal nerves entering the sac. 4. In me7iingocele a protrusion of the dura mater and arachnoid has occurred through the back of the spinal canal, sometimes by a very small gap; the sac is then more or less dis- tended with fluid, but the cord and the nerves occupy their normal course. Many of these cystic protrusions have a slender pedicle, and if, as sometimes happens in the course of growth, the narrow com- munication with the interior of the canal becomes obliterated, the men- ingocele may undergo spontaneous cure. In such cases the removal of the tumour would prove a very safe and simple affair. 5. When an imperfect develop- ment of the neural arclies is unas- sociated with protrusion of the membranes, or with any other de- rangement of the spinal contents, the defect is quite unimportant and is likely to remain undetected. This variety of the affection vinder con- sideration is termed spina bifida occulta. Attention is sometimes directed to the defect by the skin which covers it being coarse, wrinkled, and pigmented, or by its being disfigured by a growth of hair. But spina bifida occulta may be associated with sufficient disturbance of the cord or the nerves to hinder the course of motor impulses, and consequently to render the lower limbs weak; or there may be such interference with trophic influences as to determine an unwholesome appearance of the skin of the lower extremities, or even of perforating ulcers of the feet. Results of Spina Bifida.—A simple deficiency of the neural arch of one or more vertebrse may exert no pre- judicial influence upon the indi- vidual, even when associated with the presence of a tuft of hair (oc- culta), or with a slight protrusion of dura and arachnoid {meningocele). But if in the latter case there be also develop- mental imperfection of the cord or the spinal nerves, there may be functional disturbance of the rectum or bladder, feeble innervation of the muscles of the lower extremities, and trophic disturbances of tissues generally, leading, per- chance, to mortification of the toes. Therefore, in cases akin to Raynaud's disease (vol. viii. p. 468) careful examination should be made of the back. In the case of myelo-nieningocele and of syringo-myelocele the effects may be still more marked and serious.