AFFECTIONS OF 308 SPINE, SURGICAL advanced from time to time : that most worthy of attention was formulated by Paul Bert, who suggested that the symptoms depended on the increased solution of gases by the blood during the sojourn in compressed air, and on their escape during "decompression" (Snell). Post-mortem examination of a few cases has revealed foci of haemorrhages, softening and laceration of the cord. The Treatment.—Mainly preventive. Careful regulation of the degrees of the pressure, and attention to the purity of the compressed air in the caisson, are essential. Care should be taken to ensure that the passage through the lock from the high to the ordinary pressure should not be accomplished too rapidly. Pleth- oric subjects are naturally more subject to this disease, and special care should be taken with regard to them. Most cases make a good recovery. Para- plegia and other severe manifestations must be treated on general medical principles. Morphia may be indicated if the pains are severe. If the patient is seen soon after the commence- ment of the illness, Snell says that " recom- pression " generally allays the symptoms in a marvellous way, and this improvement may be maintained if the recompression be followed by a very slow exit of, say, half or three-quarters of an hour. Auditory complications are not, as a rule, amenable to treatment. Spintha,riSCOpe.—An instrument for showing the peculiar physical properties of radium (Gr. <nnv$-jp, a spark, uKoireiv, to see); it was devised by Sir William Crookes, and it consists of a small brass tube fitted with magni- fying lenses at one end and closed at the other, having a piece of paper coated with crystals of zinc sulphide at the blind end, and having a metal pointer which has been dipped in a solution of a salt of radium placed in front of the zinc sulphide paper ; when one looks into the spinthariscope in a dark room a continuous shower of sparks is seen to be passing from the pointer. See Radium. Spintherism.—The sensation of sparks dancing before the eyes; synchisis scintillans (Gr. o-TTtv^T/jD, a spark). Spira.1.—Winding or curved like a screw ; e.g. a spiral bandage, a spiral duct, spiral fibres, a spiral groove, the spiral lamina (in the in- ternal ear), or a spiral line. Spirals, Curschmann's. SeeCvR- schmann's Spirals. Spirem.—The "mother skein" of chro- matin fibrils in a cell undergoing karyokinesis or mitotic division (Gr. a-weipa, a twist). See Physiology, Cell {Reproduction of Cells, Mitosis). Spirillum.—A micro-organism or bac- terium having a spiral form, e.g. the spirillum Obermeieri (the organism of relapsing fever) and the spirochsete pallida (of syphilis). Spiril- losis is the name given to any affection due to spirilla, and especially to a disease of fowls characterised by diarrhoea, loss of appetite, and convulsions. See Micro-Obganisms (Bacteria); Relapsing Fever (Synonyms); Teeth {Bacteri- ology of Month). Spirit or SpiritUS. —In Pharmacy simple spirits (spiritus) are solutions in alcohol of a volatile oil such as cinnamon, juniper, or peppermint, or of camphor, chloroform, or ether; there are also complex spirits, prepared by distil- lation, including spiritus aitheris nitrosi, spiritus amnionice fetidus, etc. See Alcohol. Spiritus Rectificatus. — Rectified spirit, containing 90 per cent by volume of ethyl hydroxide and 10 per cent of water. See Alcohol {Spirits). Spiritus Vini Gallici.—Brandy or cognac, containing not less than 43 J per cent by volume of ethylic alcohol. SpirO-.—In compound words spiro- (Gr. cnreipa, a twist) means spiral; e.g. spiro-bacteria, spiro7nonas (a biflagellate monad), and spiro- phore (an instrument used in artificial respira- tion). Spirochsete.—A spirillum or spiral bac- terium, such as the spirillum Obermeieri of relapsing fever and the spirochsete pallida of syphilis {vide Syphilis). See Micro-Organisms {Bacteria); Relapsing Fever {Bacteriology); Syphilis ; Teeth {Bactei'iology of Mouth). Spi rometer. — An instrument for measuring the respiratory capacity of the lungs. See Physiology, Respiration {Amownt of Air Respired); Respiration {Mechanism). Spital.—Hospital, e.g. spital-house. Spitting". See Expectoration; Fluids, Examination of Pathological; Lung, Tuber- culosis OF (Clinical Features); Lungs, Gan- grene (Symptoms); etc. Spitzka'S Bundle.—A tract of nerve fibres of the cerebrum which passes from the cortex of one side to the oculomotor nuclei of the other side through the pyramidal region of the crus cerebri. Splanchnic.—Relating to the viscera (Gr. cnrXdy)(i/ov, the inward parts or the bowels). iSee Intestines, Diseases of (Anatomical Con- siderations). Splanchno-. — In compound words splanchno- (Gr. a-n-kdyxi'ov, the bowels) means relating to the intestines or to the interior of