SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL CHILDREN, MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF 67 School Children attending Public Elementary Schools, 1905. (Blue Book.) 6. Report by Dr. W. Leslie Mackenzie and Captain Alan Foster on a Collection of Statistics as to the Physical Condition of Children attend- ing the Public Schools of the School Board for Glasgow, 1907. (Blue Book.) (Heights, weights and housing of over 72,000 school children.) 7. Report issued by Edinburgh Charity Organisation Society on the Physical Condition of 1400 School Children, together with some account of their Homes and Surroundings. (P. S. King & Son, London.) (The most ex- haustive investigation of its kind yet published in Britain.) 8. Reports on Examination of 1000 Glasgow Children by Dr. A. K. Chalmers and others. (Transactions of Royal Sanitary Institute, Glasgow Congress, 1904.) 9. Report by Dundee Social Union on 1000 Dundee School Children. (Leng & Son, Dundee, 1905). 10. Annual Reports by Dr. James Kerr, Medical Officer (Education), London County Council. 11. Annual Reports by Medical Officer of Dunfermline Carnegie Trust, 1906 and 1907. 12. Transactions of Nuremberg Congress on School Hygiene, 1904. (Four Volumes.) (Nuremberg: Verlag von J. L. Schrag.) 13. Transactions of London Congress on School Hygiene, 1907. 14. International Magazine of School Hygiene, edited by Sir Lauder Brunton, Dr. Axel Johan- nessen, and Dr. Herm, Griesbach. (Leipzig : Verlag, Wilhelm Engelmann.) 15. Memorandum on Medical Inspection of Children in Public Elementary Schools, under Section 13 of the Education (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1907 ; issued by English Board of Education (Circular 576). Model Schedules issued by same Board. 16. General Report on Teaching of School and Personal Hygiene to Students in training in Scotland. (Blue Book, Scotch Education Department.) 17. See also general works on School Hygiene, particularly EnzyMopddisches Handbuch der Schulhygiene, edited by Dr. R. Wehmer (Wien and Liepzig, 1904: Verlag von A. Pichlers, Witwe & Sohn), and Handbuch der Schul- hygiene, by Dr. Leo Burgerstein and Dr. A. Netolitzky (Jena : Verlag von Gustav Fischer). 18. Report by Dr. Crowley, Bradford, On a Course of Meals given to Necessitous Children from April to July 1907. (Full details of diets, increase of weight, menus for each day, cooking recipes, etc.) Schott'S Method.— A method of treating heart disease (myocardial) by Nauheim baths (containing carbonic acid gas) and exercises (resistance gymnastics). Schrager'sor Schregrer's Lines. —Curved (undulating) lines in the enamel of the teeth due to the curvature of the dentinal tubes. Schrapnell's or Shrapnell's Membrane. — The lower part of the tympanic membrane {membrana Jlaccida). See Ear, Examination of {Tympanic Membrane) ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Symptom- atology, Perforation, Attic Disease). Schroeder's Contraction Ring:. See Bandl's Ring. Scilueie'S Sig^n.—An arrangement of vertical folds of the skin between the eyebrows, supposed fancifully to resemble the Greek letter omega (Q or w) and to be characteristic of melancholia. Schiiiier'S MetllOd.—A means of performing artificial respiration. See Asphyxia {Hesuscitation, Methods). Schuitze'S Fold.—-A special fold of the amnion near the root of the cord on the foetal surface of the placenta, passing to and indicating the position of the relics of the umbilical vesicle (if present). Schuitze'S Method.—The swinging movements recommended by B. Schultze as a means of resuscitating still-born babies. See Asphyxia {Resuscitation, Methods); New-born Infant {Asphyxia Neonatorum, Treatment). Schuitze'S Tract.—A special tract of descending fibres in the spinal cord (posterior column) which undergoes degeneration after division of the cord and has then a comma shape. Schum berg's Process.—A method of sterilising water "by adding 1 c.c. of a bromine solution to 5 litres of water, and after 5 minutes' contact neutralising with ammonia water " ; it is believed to be effective in destroy- ing the bacillus typhosus. Schwabach'S Test. See Ear, Ex- amination of {Hearing Tests). Schwaibach. See Balneology {Germany); Mineral Waters {Chalybeate). Schwann's Sheath.—The medullary or white sheath of a nerve fibre. See Physi- ology, Tissues {Nerve, Axon). Schwartze's Operation. See Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Diseases of the Mastoid, Treatment). The Schwartze-Stacke operation is a modification. Schweizerhaile. See Balneology {Sivitzerland).