STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 346 stomach are derived from the three branches of the ca3liac axis, viz. : the coronary artery, which is distributed over both surfaces, chiefly towards the cardiac end ; the right gastro-epiploic and the pyloric branches of the hepatic artery supply the pyloric end of the stomach and the right part of the greater curvature, as well as the duodenum ; and the left gastro-epiploic, which arises from the splenic branch of the coeliac axis—from this vessel the fundus obtains its supply. These several vessels freely com- municate with one another, and also with the oesophageal branches of the aorta around the cardia. By these channels a large amount of blood is distributed to the viscera by branches which pierce the muscular coat, and after further dividing in the submucosa, form a close network in the mucous membrane between the glands, and in the duodenum extend into the villi. The blood is returned by veins which correspond to the arteries, and finally contribute to form the portal vein. There is also an extensive communication at the cardia with the oeso- phageal veins, which reach the superior vena cava via the right azygos vein. The LYMPHATIC VESSELS Commence in lymph spaces in the mucosa among the glands and blood-vessels. Thence they pass thi'ough the muscularis mucosae, and form plexuses in the submucosa, whence large branches pass through to the surface of the organs, and finally reach the thoracic duct, passing in their course through various retroperitoneal lymphatic glands. The NERVES of the stomach originate from both pneumogastrics, the terminal branches of the left being distributed over the anterior surface, and those of the right over the posterior surface, chiefly towards the pyloric end. Branches of the sympathetic system from the solar plexus also reach the stomach. From all these nerves branches pass through the walls of the stomach and duodenum to communicate with gangliated plexuses lying between the muscular layers (Auerbach) and in the submucosa (Meissner). Filaments from these supply the muscular tissue of the mucosa. Thus the efferent and afferent channels to and from the viscera (stomach and duodenum) and the nerve centres lie in the vagi, and in the white rami conimunicantes of the sym- pathetic from the tenth to the sixth dorsal spinal segments. And since, as Dr. Head has shown, the referred pains and areas of tender- ness in diseases of these organs are arranged on the body surface in accordance with the distribu- tion of the skin fields of the spinal ganglia, rather than with that of the peripheral nerve-trunks, some of these areas of reference are cranial and cervical as well as situated on the body. Digestion in the Stomach and Duodenum Digestion is that physico-chemical process whereby the food is converted into a fluid and diffusible condition suitable for absorption directly or indirectly {via the lacteals) into the blood-current. It is in some measure antici- pated by, and is a continuance of, the changes which are affected by cooking. Some of the food taken is absorbable at once, whilst other constituents are incapable of solution in the alimentary canal, and are consequently indi- gestible. The digestibility of food therefore depends on the facility and completeness with which it is reduced to a diffusible state; its nutritive value, which is a different matter, being in proportion to its suitability for tissue- construction and metabolism. For the carrying out of the function there are required various solvent juices to deal with the several kinds of alimentary principles, some arrangement by which these fluids and the food are mixed and propelled, and an adequate re- moval of the digested food-stuffs (digesta), an accumulation of which interferes with the proper progress of the digestive changes. These requirements are met (i.) by the alimentary canal, which is a tube of great length, present- ing various alterations in size and situation in its course, which allow such opportunities for delay in the progress of the contents as are necessary for the efficient action of the solvents ; (ii.) by the secretions of the salivary, gastric, pancreatic, and intestinal glands, which are abundantly poured into the canal; (iii.) an extended absorbent surface, which is furnished by the mucous membrane with its vast area of valvula) conniventes, villi, etc., where the blood capillaries and lacteal radicle are brought into close relation with the digested material; (iv.) a sufficient blood and lymph supply; and (v.) a controlling and co-ordinating nervous mechan- ism, which is derived from the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic systems, as well as an intrinsic arrangement of ganglia and fibres. With one section alone, viz. the stomach and dviodenum, is this article concerned, but pre- ceded as gastric digestion is by those changes which should be effected in the mouth, its relation to them has to be borne in mind. It has also to be remembered that the stomach is not an indispensable organ. Several cases of its total extirpation have now been recorded, the patients completely recovering, and some at least being able to return to an ordinary diet, with the maintenance of complete nitrogenous equilibrium and gain of weight. On the whole, gastric digestion is in the main preparatory to the more extensive and elaborate changes which take place in the intestines, where also the greater amount of absorption of the digesta occurs. The subject of normal digestion has been so fully treated (see articles " Diet," "Digestion and Metabolism," vol. ii. pp. 350, 365) that it is sufficient here briefly to indicate the main features of the process, so far as the stomach and duodenum are concerned, as a