SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 101 taken away between elliptical incisions running wide of the lesion. In operating for malignant growths it is desirable to remove the cord as high up as possible, and for this purpose the external oblique must be slit up in the length of its fibres from the external to the level of the internal ring. The inguinal canal can then be thoroughly cleared, and the whole extra- peritoneal part of the cord removed. The lower arched edge of the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles can be sutured to the inner surface of Poupart's ligament with continuous silk or catgut sutures, as in Bassini's operation, and the divided sides of the external oblique muscle overlapped as in the operation for radical cure of hernia. Where a testicular tumour is small or of moderate size, and the scrotal tissues are not invaded, it may be removed by an oblique incision made at a higher level than the one above described. The tumour being forcibly squeezed up on to the piibes, an incision is made over it sufficiently long to allow of its extrusion, and not encroaching upon the scrotum if it can be avoided. The cord is isolated and divided as above described, and the testicle cut away from its scrotal attachments, in doing which it is important to secui-e bleeding vessels as they are divided, otherwise they are drawn back deep into the scrotal pouch, where they are difficult again to find, and where also they may be easily overlooked until a subse- quently developed hsematoma indicates their presence. In castration for tubercular testis the vas deferens may be separated from its own artery, and torn away by traction in its length from its deeper attachments to the bladder wall and prostate. In this way the whole of the vas may be safely removed ; a great advantage in those where an aff'ected seminal vesicle is also to be taken away. Before wounds in the scrotum are closed it is very desirable to tie every bleeding point, as hsematoma forms so readily in the loose tissue of this part, and is liable to break down and delay union. A post- operative scrotal hgematoma should be cleared out at once by separating the lips of the wound to the necessary extent, the leaking vessel found if possible and the parts being subsequently well supported by means of softly compressing dressings. Scrotal wounds should be sutured through their whole thickness, and care taken that the sutures are not too tightly tied. Drainage for twenty-four hours is generally desirable, and is best made through the upper angle of the wound. The wound is dressed with dry aseptic gauze dressings, and the scrotum carefully supported by means of a von Baer's triangle. Drainage may be dispensed with in twenty-four hours, and sutures removed on the fifth day. Hydrocele.—Under this term is described the " watery," fluid collections which are formed in and about the tunica vaginalis, epididymis, testis, and cord in men, and the round ligament in women. Hydroceles should always be regarded as symptomatic until the existence of disease or defect in the parts about which they form has been negatived, either with or without the aid of puncture. Hydroceles in females are treated of in the section on diseases of women (see vol. iii. p. 250). Hydroceles in males are divided into those of (1) the tunica vaginalis, (2) the testis, (3) the epididymis, and (4) the spermatic cord. Hydroceles may be either acute or chronic ; the latter largely predominating. Hydroceles of the tunica vaginalis are of the following kinds :—Vaginal, congenital, and infantile. ActUe vaginal hydrocele is seen in traumatic orchitis, acute epididymitis, and after injection for the cure of a hydrocele. Its pathological and clinical phenomena, its consequences, and its treatment are described in connection with the radical cure of vaginal hydrocele by injection. Chronic Vaginal Hydrocele.—This consists of a collection of fluid in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, and appears either as a primary or a secondary condition. It is to the former that the term vaginal hydrocele is ordinarily applied, and which alone is dealt with in this section. The secondary hydroceles are vaginal, inas- much as they are effusions into the vaginal tunic, but they depend upon syphilitic, tuber- culous, or simple chronic inflammation of the testis or epididymis, and are dealt with, there- fore, in connection with these several affections. The causes of primary vaginal hydrocele are very obscure, and little is known positively concerning them. In the great majority of cases hydrocele commences insidiously and without any apparent cause. It is, as a rule, quite independent of any inflammation, and is a mere passive eff'usion due to the anatomical and mechanical conditions of the vessels and circulation of the cord and testicles. A not un- common cause is found in the presence of fibrous bodies attached or free within the vaginal tunic. They are usually attached, are sometimes cystic, and not infrequently calcify. The hydatid of Morgagni furnishes a certain number of them. The fluid from the vaginal hydrocele is usually yellow, but may vary from a pale straw to a turbid green or bronze. It is odourless, limpid, and transparent. It is neutral in re- action, with a specific gravity about 1025 ; it contains much albumin and a small amount of fibrinogen. Under the microscope only a few small cells are to be seen. Not infrequently it contains cholesterine scales, which in old- standing cases become very plentiful and fill the fluid with glistening particles. The quantity of fluid contained in a vaginal hydrocele varies between ounces and pints.