421 SUICIDE suicide rate. Exceptions to this rule are the occupations presenting inducements to intem- perance, such as inn-keepers and publicans, which have very high rates. Of the liberal pro- fessions the clergy alone have a low rate. The rate for soldiers is much higher than any other. Season of the Year.—The constancy of the seasonal curve for suicide is very remark- able. In all countries where records have been kept the suicide rate is lower in winter than in summer. In the northern hemisphere suicide is everywhere least frequent in the months of November and December, and the rate gradually rises from that time forward to May and June. After June it falls again steadily to November. In the southern hemisphere the curve is re- versed, being lowest in May and June, and highest in November and December. The limits of the present article do not permit of a discussion of the causes of this seasonal distri- bution ; but it may be noted that the course of the curve is not due to the influence of any one mode of suicide. The curve for hanging is the same as the curve for drowning. The Alleged Increase of Suicide.—It is impossible within the limits of the present article to discuss this question satisfactorily. It may be stated, however, that the figures on which the allegation of an almost universal increase is based are not entirely trustworthy. The writer has discussed the question elsewhere as regards England and Scotland {Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinhurgh). Two facts may, however, be mentioned, showing that in these countries at least the allegation is not to be accepted without question. One is that in both England and Scotland the suicides by hanging, which give the most trustworthy figures, show no increase during the thirty years 1865-94. The other is that deaths from wounding (gunshot, cutting, and stabbing) show no increase during the same period, though there has been an increase in the number of such deaths attributed to suicide, the increase in the number attributed to suicide being almost exactly counterbalanced by the decrease in the number attributed to accident. In order to avoid misconception, it is perhaps desirable to say that a detailed examination of the official figures throws no doubt on the view that the amount of suicide varies according to locality. In Scotland, for instance, the eastern counties show much higher suicide rates than the western counties, and this preponderance persists over a series of years. It does not seem possible to attribute this altogether to more careful regis- tration in the eastern counties, though that may partly account for it; because the pre- dominance shows itself most steadily in the rate for suicide by hanging, which is the rate least dependent on careful registration. In the eastern counties of Forfar and Kincardine, where the rates were highest, the rate for hanging was an annual average of 26 per million for the years 1877 to 1885, and again 26 per million for the years 1886 to 1894; and in Lanark and the other western counties south of the Firth of Clyde the corresponding rates were 14 for the years 1877 to 1885, and 13 for the years 1886 to 1894. Legal Relations.—By the law of England suicide is a felony {felo de se). At one time it involved ignominious burial, but this was abolished by a statute in 1823 and an amending statute in 1882. The rubric in the Church of England Book of Common Prayer, which forbids the office for the burial of the dead to be used in the case of a suicide, is, however, still in force. Suicide was also attended with forfeiture of goods and chattels, but this ceased in 1870, when all forfeitures for felony were abolished. In Scotland it still involves the penalty of single escheat except in cases of insanity. In both England and Scotland any person aiding and abetting another in committing suicide is guilty of murder; and if two persons conjointly try to commit suicide, and only one dies, the survivor is technically guilty of murder. An unsuccessful attempt at suicide is in English law a misdemeanour. At present the tendency is to allow all the penal consequences of suicide to fall into disuse. Suicide may come into relation with civil law in connection with marriage, will-making, or life assurance. In regard to the first two, it comes into question only as evidence of insanity for the purpose of setting aside a marriage or a will, and it has not been held in either case to be in itself sufficient evidence for that purpose, even when the suicide occurred within a day or two after a marriage or after making a will. In regard to life assurance, it used to be the custom to insert in the policy the proviso that suicide rendered it void. This proviso is, however, now seldom given effect to. Some offices have abolished the proviso, and others now limit its operation to a fixed period varying from six months to seven years from the date of issue of the policy. In cases where suicide occurs within these periods, or when there is no ex- pressed exemption from forfeiture, offices gener- ally act liberally by making substantial pay- ment, such as the surrender value or the amount of the premiums paid under the policy. Sulcus.—A depression or fissure between two ridges, folds, or convolutions, especially of the cerebrum, on which there are many sulci, including the sulcus centralis or fissure of Rolando. See Brain, Physiology {Anatomical); Physiology, Cerebrum(DwcAar^wz^ Mechanism). Sulphates. See Sulphuric Acid. Sulphide.—A compound of sulphur with an element or with a basic radicle; a salt of sulphuretted hydrogen. See Sulphur.