452 SYMPATHETIC OPHTHALMITIS clouding of the media, ophthalmoscopic examina- tion of these latter structures is usually only possible in the very earliest stages of the affection. In some cases optic neuritis or neuro-retinitis can be detected as soon as, or even before, the dots on the back of the cornea or the opacities in the vitreous humour ; in others the optic disc appears to remain unchanged so long as a clear view of it can be obtained. Microscopical examination of eyes which have been excised on account of pain in advanced stages of sympathetic disease not uncommonly show discrete patches of round-celled exudation scattered throughout the choroid, similar in character to those which are met with in the iris and ciliary body, and similar also to those which are found in exciting eyes. The amount of pain complained of in the early stages of the disease is not usually very great. There is some tenderness over the ciliary region and some dread of light, but not much aching pain. Later on, should the iris become bound down to the lens capsule and the tension become increased the pain is often excessive, of a very distressing character, and ex- ceedingly difficult to relieve; not uncommonly, indeed, at such a stage, excision of the eye becomes necessary and is gladly assented to by the patient, so great have been his sufferings. Sympathetic ophthalmitis is a disease which runs a certain course and then subsides, the eye quieting down, all symptoms of redness and inflammation disappearing. The duration of an attack varies considerably; if it remains through- out of the serous type it usually lasts from three to four months. When, however, it has assumed the more severe plastic type it may continue, with occasional exacerbations, for a year or eighteen months. Sympathetic Irritation.—It was at one time thought that sympathetic irritation was neces- sarily the precursor of sympathetic ophthalmitis. It is now known that though some cases of sympathetic ophthalmitis begin with symptoms of sympathetic irritation, the latter may exist for many years, and may pass off without any symptoms of inflammation supervening. Sym- pathetic irritation may, moreover, be excited by affections of the eye quite different from those causing sympathetic inflammation; e.g. it may be set up by a foreign body in the conjunc- tival sac. The condition may be regarded as a neurosis, which is at once relieved by the removal of the cause of irritation in the exciting eye, of the exciting eye itself, or by division of the nerves connecting the two eyes. The symptoms of it are photophobia; lacry- mation ; pains about the eye and over the brow, sometimes very severe and of a neuralgic char- acter; slight blepharospasm] conjunctival in- jection ; and temporary defects of vision due to inability to maintain accommodation. Some patients describe appearances like that of vapour rising before the eye. The symptoms will sometimes subside and then recur again after an interval of variable duration. Prognosis.—It has been repeatedly asserted that children are more subject to sympathetic ophthalmitis than adults, but statistics published with reference to this point seem to show that it has no just foundation (Gunn). It is doubtful also if the age of the patient has any influence on the length of incubation of the sympathetic disease or on its severity. Certainly both severe and mild attacks may be met with at all ages. As a general rule, the prognosis in sym- pathetic ophthalmitis appears to be more favourable when the disease comes on after a short interval than when it appears after a long one. In the early stages a very guarded prognosis should be given as to what is likely to be the ultimate outcome of an attack, as the mildness of the symptoms at the outset are often markedly out of proportion to the grave changes which subsequently ensue. Quite 50 per cent of eyes affected end in complete disorganisation and destruction of vision. In some cases, where the disease remains throughout of the serous type, perfect vision may be regained on the subsidence of the attack The failure to keep the pupil dilated with mydriatics must always be regarded as of grave significance. Pathogenesis. — The nature of the morbid influence in an injured eye which is capable o exciting inflammation in its fellow, and the path along which this morbid influence passes from the one eye to the other, in spite of much dis cussion and many experiments, still remain undecided. The disease was originally named sympathetic ophthalmitis, because it was thought that the second eye became inflamed in sympathy with the excitor as the result of some nerve irritation in the latter. This irritation Mackenzie de- scribed as being most likely reflected along the chiasma and optic nerves. Subsequently, when it was realised how com- monly a wound in the ciliary region was the lesion in the exciting eye, and how frequently the ciliary body and iris were the parts affected in the sympathising eye, it was thought more probable that an irritating impulse travelled up the ciliary nerves of the exciting eye to the nerve centres, and was there reflected along the ciliary nerves of the opposite side to the fellow eye. The passage of a morbid influence along the ciliary nerves, such as this theory supposes, is not inconsistent with the absence of any structural changes in them. Experimental irri-