365 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF fectly orthodox diet may provoke indigestion under conditions of depression or anxiety. The effect on the motiUty as well as on the secretion of the stomach is not to be disregarded in the result. Investigations, more especially in Germany, have gone to show that the secretion of the gastric juice is subject to very considerable variation both as regards quantity and time of production in relation to food ingestion. It cannot be said that in this country these results have received much clinical application, in great measure from the obvious difficulties connected with the withdrawal and analysis of the stomach contents under specified circumstances, more especially since such procedures require frequent repetition to obtain a knowledge of the real state and to avoid a general inference from a possibly chance condition. The alterations in the composition and quantity of the gastric juice at present recog- nised chiefly concern the hydrochloric acid; of the pepsin and other ferments less is known, but they do not in all cases appear to vary pari passu with the acid. Thus it is found that the quantity of gastric juice secreted may very much exceed the normal, being poured out either almost continuously (Reichmann's disease), or at intervals quite ir- respective of the presence of food in the stomach. Very frequently the fluid contains a greater per- centage of hydrochloric acid than in health. These conditions are for the most part met with in grave nervous states, such as the enormous secretion in the gastric crises of tabes, often lasting over several days, or the similar state observed in the rare and obscure cases of acute gastric dilatation which are usually rapidly fatal. They often appear to be quite uncon- nected with any obvious lesion of the stomach. In another group of cases of more frequent occurrence the percentage of hydrochloric acid exceeds the normal (•! to '25), and may be as much as '4 or '5, with no increase in the quantity of fluid. This hyperchlorhydria is a frequent accompaniment of chlorosis, and is constantly associated with gastric ulcer, with the production of which it is largely connected. Another cause for hyperacidity, quite distinct in character, is an over-formation of organic acids derived from fermentation of the carbohydrate ingesta—a true digestive fault—which is rendered possible by a deficiency in the hydrochloric acid secreted, or by a great excess of sugars and starches. It is important to recognise the difference in the nature of these two conditions, which may appear to be alike to the mere test of litmus paper. In contrast to the foregoing are those patients in whom there is a deficiency of gastric juice, even, it is said, to complete suppression— achylia gastrica—or a percentage of hydro- chloric acid below the normal. Although these conditions may occur without any change in the mucosa, and may be tlie effect of nerve in- fluence only, they are most frequently the result of the chronic catarrhal, or other alterations in the structure of the mucous membrane when the glands are destroyed, such as is particularly found in cancerous infiltrations or in cirrhosis ventriculi. The symptoms which these several morbid states give rise to are necessarily closely associ- ated with imperfections in digestion, and are in some measure modified by any coincident alter- ations in the motility of the stomach. All degrees of sensory disturbance are experienced, from a mere sense of weight and fulness, or vague abdominal discomfort, when the secretion is deficient, to a burning pain when the acid is in excess, or the juice is poured out into an empty stomach. Acid eructations and gaseous expulsions are frequent, and vomiting generally gives relief, though causing a smarting in the gullet from the nature of the ejecta. In hyper- secretion and hyperchlorhydria the appetite is often good, and frequently food relieves the pain, particularly if this be nitrogenous, by combining with the acid, but in the reserve condition the desire for food is variable, capri- cious, or wanting. As a rule, the symptoms supervene soon after a meal, when the secretions are deficient, and perhaps not for two or three hours, when there is excessive acidity. Owing to the very inefficient digestion of the food when the juice is deficient, the remote digestive troubles such as lassitude, headache, etc., are commonly complained of, and the case corresponds generally to a chronic gastritis, which indeed may be the cause. In excessive secretion, so long as there is food to deal with, symptoms are for the most part in abeyance, since digestion of proteids at least is effected, and the evils of excessive carbohydrate ferment- ation are averted; but when the stomach is empty, then the superacid fluid acts as an irritant on the mucous membrane, which, there is reason to suppose, is often hypersesthetic in such cases. As further contributing to the pain that is felt, pyloric spasm is liable to occur, being excited by the over-acidity. Irregularities of the bowels, constipation, or diarrhoea are almost surely present. Regard must also be paid to other manifestations of the underlying neurosis, which may or may not overshadow those referable to the digestive organs. There is little to add concerning the sensory neuroses of the stomach, to what has already been written about perversion of appetite, pain, nausea, and other abnormal sensations. No distinction can be drawn between those asso- ciated with definite gastric lesions and the same when no structural change is to be found and they are the expression of some general neuro- pathy or of a local neuralgia (gastrodynia). Such symptoms play an important part in the