THERAPEUTICS: HEALTH RESORTS 585 None of New Zealand is very bracing, unless a considerable elevation be reached, as on the slopes of the Southern Alps, the eastern side of which is very pleasant, the west being very rainy. In short, the climate is a very pleasant one to live in, and seems to suit the Anglo-Saxon race very well, as it admits of a large amount of open-air life, and the atmosphere is remark- ably clear and bright; but it has not in most places the stimulating properties which tuber- culous patients desiderate, and the country does not lay itself out to attract the travelling invalid. The Islands op the South Atlantic These comprise Madeira, the Canaries, Ten- erifFe, and Grand Canary, which all of course belong to the marine group. Madeira was in great vogue thirty or forty years ago, but has now been almost abandoned, so far as cases of con- sumption go. It is decidedly moist and some- what relaxing, with a tendency to depress people after any prolonged stay and to produce diges- tive troubles and diarrhoea. It is, however, in Sir H. Weber's opinion, well suited for elderly people with much loss of lung and emphysema, especially when complicated with albuminuria, and it is well adapted for sufferers from chronic bronchitis. The other islands mentioned are situated some degrees south of Madeira and therefore decidedly warmer, but they are drier, and on Teneriffe there is a possibility of attaining some degree of elevation and therefore more bracing effects. There is good accommodation to be got both in the Canaries and Madeira, but means of amuse- ment are rather lacking, though the scenery is very beautiful and the vegetation luxuriant. Therapeutics: Serum Ther- apy. Introduction ...... 585 Antidiphtheritic Serum .... 586 Antistreptococcus Serum .... 588 Antitetanic Serum . . . . .588 Antivenene ...... 588 Coley's Fluid 589 Mailein 589 Tuberculin ...... 589 Antienteric Serum ..... 590 Antipneumococcic Serum .... 590 See also Immunity ; Plague ; Snake-Bites ; etc. An attempt will be made within the compass of a short article to give an account of the prin- ciples and practice of serum therapy. In the first place, it is necessary to have some idea of what is meant by "immunity." It is the converse of predisposition. Some people exhibit a tendency to contract certain diseases, whilst others are proof against them. The immunity may be natural or it may be acquired. In some instances it is purely physical, as when toxic substances taken by the mouth are not absorbed by the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, but pass out luichanged. Natural immunity may be personal or it may be racial; it may be temporary or it may be permanent. The most familiar example of acquired immunity is the unsusceptibility to a second attack of a person who has passed through certain diseases. It is well known that many infectious diseases confer on those who have suffered from them a power of resistance against subsequent attacks. Soon after the discovery of the microbian origin of infectious diseases, it was shown experimentally that if the microbe constituting the cause of the dis- ease were inoculated into animals it would not only produce the symptoms of the disease, but would impart to the animal the power of resist- ing the morbific influence of the same microbe when subsequently inoculated. It was also found that the protection could be induced by the filtered and therefore microbe-free solution in which the pathogenic microbes had been cultivated, a conclusive proof that neither the original disease nor the artificial production was due to the microbe, but to the toxic substance produced by it. Later on it was shown that the blood-serum of protected animals, although destitute of toxic properties, when introduced into non-protected animals conferred on them a resisting power so great that even lethal doses of the virulent micro-organism or its toxin produced no effect. This is the basis of serum therapeutics, and the most marked results are those obtained by injecting substances derived from the blood of protected animals into the circulation of those not protected. The preparation of an immunising substance is attended with much difficulty, and a potent antitoxin may take many months to prepare, the process involving technical difficulties which can be overcome only by those thoroughly con- versant with the subject. The toxin is usually obtained by growing the bacilli in a flask con- taining nutrient broth, to which \ per cent chloride of sodium and 2 per cent peptone have been added. The fluid freed from micro-organ- isms is injected. A small dose produces no dangerous symptoms, but suffices to ensure the formation of sufficient antitoxin to neutralise the poison. After a time a second and larger dose of toxin is injected. This is partly neu- tralised by the toxin already formed, and the surplus stimulates the production of more anti- toxin. The process is carried on cautiously until there is enough antitoxin in the circulat- ing serum to render harmless what would other- wise be a bitter dose of the poison. The animal is then " immune," and the immimising serum from the animal is injected into a patient as a therapeutical agent. The curative value of a serum is in direct relation to its protective power, and to obtain