512 TAXIS ally for tlie reduction of a hernia or of a retro- verted uterus. See Hernia {Stra7igulated, Treat- ment). Tay'S Choroiditis.—Senile choroiditis, affecting specially the choroid round the macula lutea. T-Ba.nda.g'e. See Bandages {Made Bandages). Tea,. See Angina Pectoris {Etiology, Al- cohol, Tea, and Tobacco); Appetite {Loss of. Causes); Capfbina; T>ibt {Severages); Tempera- ture {Diurnal Variations). Teale'S Amputation. See Amputa- tions {Through tlie Lower Third of Leg). Note.—The name is also given to an amputa- tion of the arm and thigh with a long flap. Teaie'S Grate. See Ventilation and Warming {Open Fires). Tears. See Lacrymal Apparatus, Dis- eases OF ; Hysteria {Disorders of Circulation). Teaspoon. See Prescribing {Weights and Measures); Metric System. Teclinic or Technique. — The method of performance of any operation or test; the special details or modes practised by any operator ; the practical part of an operation as opposed to the theoretical. TectOCephaiy.—An abnormal form of the head, due to early ossification of the sagittal suture. Tectori U nri. A covering, e.g. the tectorial membrane of the organ of Corti. Teeth. 1. Comparative Anatomy op Teeth . 512 2. Anatomy and Physiology of Teeth . 517 3. Dental Caries . . . .518 4. Diseases of the Pulp . . . 523 5. Diseases of Peridental Membrane . 527 6. Alveolar Abscess .... 528 7. Exostosis 529 8. Pyorrhoea Alveolaris . . . 530 9. Dental Necrosis .... 532 10. Abrasion and Erosion . . . 532 11. Elbctro-Cataphoresis . . . 533 12. Oral Sepsis and General Bacteri- ology of Mouth . . . .533 13. Antrum Empyema .... 537 14. Neuralgias of Dental Origin . . 537 15. Tooth Extraction. H/emorrhage . 538 16. Mechanical Dentistry . . . 539 17. Bridge and Bar Work, Artificial Crowns, etc. .... 540 See also Achondroplasia {Clinical Features, Late Dentition); Breath {Smell); Children, Development op {Dentition); Children, Clini- cal Examination op {Mouth and Throat); Convulsions, Infantile {Causes); Cornea {Keratitis, Causes, Syphilitic, Diagnosis); Deformities {Rickets); Diabetes Mellitus {Symptoms, Alimentary Canal); Facial Spasm {Treatment of Decayed Teeth); Headache {Causes, Reflex, Teeth); Larynx, Laryngismus Stridulus {Etiology, Reflex Causes); Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Diseases of Lym2ohatic Glands, Causes of Lymphadenitis); Mental Deficiency {Cretinoid Cases, Late Dentition); Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Fracture of Jaiv, Periostitis, etc.); Neurasthenia {Symptomatology, Decay of Teeth); Nursery Hygiene {Mouth and Teeth); Orbit, Diseases of the {Orbital Cellulitis, Causes); Rickets {Clinical Features, Dentition); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Etiology, Carious Teeth); Syphilis {In Children, Teeth) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Symptoms, Teeth); Toxicology {Chronic Lead Poisoning, Symptoms, Teeth). Teeth are hard, calcified organs of variable shape, size, and condition of calcification. In man and the mammalia generally, teeth are only developed in the mandible and maxilla, whereas in Reptilia and Pisces teeth are also found on the tongue, palate, pharynx, etc. Teeth are derived from the epithelial tissues of oral cavity, epiblast, and mesoblast layers, and thus belong essentially to the tegumentary or dermal system. This analogy of the tissues is well exemplified in the lower vertebrates, where the gradation between teeth, bony plates, scales, spines, etc., is well shown. In some cases in the human subject deficiency of teeth is accompanied by want of, or deficiency of toe nails, finger nails, and hair. Function and Fm-ms of Teeth.—The principal function of teeth in most animals is to aid in the preparation of their food for digestion, or for holding or tearing their prey preparatory to swallowing. But they subserve other purposes : speech and appearance in man; attack and defence in the carnivora. The extinct Dino- therium, with its two long, curved tusks projecting downwards in the mandible, used them for digging up roots upon which it fed. The walrus helps itself along over the slippery rocks by means of its tusks, while the beaver, with its powerful jaw and chisel-shaped teeth, is able to cut down the hardest of trees with which to form its dam. The serpents use their teeth for retention of their victims, while the poisonous ones are also able to paralyse previous to swallowing; their teeth are also used for defence. The teeth of fishes are largely used for prehension, or for tearing their slippery prey. The function of some teeth is diflicult to make out. For example, the wart-hog {Sus Babirussa), with its two recurved teeth passing upwards and backwards over its skull, which they some-