SEWAGE AND DRAINAGE 133 cleansing capacity is correspondingly diminished. Although the use of iron pipes with caulked lead joints is now becoming more common, the usual practice is to use glazed socketed stone- ware pipes. These should be carefully selected; the sockets should be deep and perfectly round, to allow of a good joint being made, and there should be no defects in the glaze. In laying drains the trench should be dug in sections, and have a uniform gradient in the case of four-inch pipes of not less than 1 in 40, care being taken not to remove more soil at any point than is necessary, so that the pipes may rest on a firm bed. If the drain has to be laid in loose or made-up ground, it is necessary to lay a bed of cement concrete 6 ins. by 18 ins. for the pipes to rest upon. Where bends occur manholes should be constructed, the curve being formed in the floor of the manhole by half-channel pipes. All joints should be made of Portland cement, care being taken to prevent the cement from projecting into the pipe, and thus causing an obstruction to the flow of the sewage. The best way of guarding against this is to ram spun yarn, previously soaked in fluid cement, into the socket to a depth of about an inch, the joint being completed either with neat Portland cement, or a mixture of equal parts of cement and fine clean sand (see Fig. 1). In laying the pipes the soil should CEM SPUN YARN Fig. 1. be removed under each socket, so as to allow the bodies of the pipes to rest firmly on the bed of the trench, and also facilitate manipu- lation in making the joints. Before filling in the trench the drain should be tested in sections by means of water, the lower end being sealed up by means of a drain- stopper, and a curved drain-pipe being tempor- arily fixed at the top end with its socket turned upward at right angles to the drain ; the water is then poured slowly into the drain until it is filled up to the socket of the temporary pipe, and if the water retains its level say for four hours the section may be passed as sound. In filling in the trench, the soil must be carefully packed on either side of the pipes in order to guard against the risk of displacement and consequent fracture of any of the joints. It is well, if possible, not to carry a drain under a house ; but if this cannot be avoided the section under the house should be entirely surrounded by 6 inches of cement concrete, or, better still, iron pipes with caulked lead joints should be used. Sewers are constructed of pipes or built of bricks, according to their size, and in the former case the same rules apply as in the case of drains. Manholes should be constructed at intervals of not less than 100 yards, and the convenient points for these are where tributary sewers join. It is essential also to place a manhole at every point where a sewer has to depart from its straight course. Traps.—Traps are essential both in connection with drains and sanitary appliances, but they have to be used with discretion, as they all have a tendency to obstruct the flow of sewage. The only point at which a trap should be fixed in the course of a drain is where it joins the sewer or cesspool, as the case may be, or as near that poiut as possible. Every inlet to a drain, however, except in the case of water- closets and slop closets, should be trapped; for example, down spouts and yard drainage should discharge into gully traps, and all sink, lavatory, and bath wastes should be trapped within the house and discharge on to a gully trap outside. In the case of water-closets and slop closets, as already stated, it is neither practicable nor desirable to introduce any other trap than that which is connected with the appliance itself. Cellar traps are a frequent source of danger, first, because it is difficult to secure proper disconnection, and, secondly, because they fre- quently become unsealed from evaporation owing to infrequent use. It is desirable, there- fore, to abolish cellar drains entirely, as if they exist for the purpose of carrying away subsoil water the cellar itself should be abolished, while if the only purpose they serve is to facili- tate the washing of cellar floors that is not sufficient justification for their being provided. There are various forms of traps, but the only satisfactory ones are those which are designed on the principle of a syphon. The bell trap, the D trap, and the dip-stone or Mason's trap are all objectionable, chiefly because they are not self-cleansing, and the only forms which need FIG. be considered are the gully trap and the syphon trap proper. A good form of gully trap is shown in the drawing (Fig. 2); it is used for the purpose of