432 SUPPURATION lifeless. Although it is necessary to refer to lifeless excitants, the reader must appreciate the fact that it is with living excitants alone he will have to deal when treating a typical malady. To provoke any form of suppuration by means of a lifeless agent requires careful and elaborate preliminary precautions—pre- cautions of a character so definite and essential that they render suppuration from this cause one of the rarest events in practice ; to recognise the possibility of its occurrence is necessary, but beyond that the condition need only be regarded as an interesting laboratory experi- ment. There is no evidence to show that alterations in the biological conditions of animals will predispose to suppuration induced by lifeless agents. It will clear matters first to enumerate the lifeless excitants of suppuration; prominent amongst these are dead micro-organ- isms, products of micro-organisms, croton oil, pyrogallic acid, cantharides, carbolic acid, turpentine, and abrin; none of these agents are capable of multiplication in the blood or tissues of the body. Prominent among the micro-organisms that occasion acute m2ipuro,tion are the following :— Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. ,, ,, albus. „ ,, citreus. ,, cereus albus. ,, ,, flavus. Streptococcus pyogenes. Bacillus coli communis. ,, pyocyaneus. ,, mallei. typhi. ,, pestis. Diplococcus pneumoniae. Micrococcus gonorrhoeee. ,, tetragenus. Ducrey's bacillus of soft sore. The most common of these are staphylococci and mixed infection of staphylococci and strep- tococci. It is comparatively rare to find an acute suppuration due to a pure infection of streptococcus pyogenes, and then, in the writer's observation, the suppuration has usually oc- curred in lymphatic vessels which were directly related to an area of erysipelas. Among the mici'O-organisms that occasion chronic suppuration the almost constant excitant is the bacillus tuberculosis; indeed, chronic suppuration and tuberculous suppuration have become almost synonymous terms, and this too despite the fact that tuberculous suppuration, so called, is rather a process of degeneration than a true suppuration. Slowly forming sup- puration can also be induced by oospora bovis (actinomycosis), bacillus mallei, bacillus typhi, etc. Some recent experiments by Kocher and others show that other micro-organisms usually capable of provoking acute or subacute suppura- tion may in certain circumstances cause semi- quiescent conditions that can only be termed chronic suppurations. The micro-organisms which cause subacute suppuration are usually those of acute suppura- tion. On the other hand, occasionally a virulent action on the part of a micro-organism of chronic suppuration leads to this condition. Other micro-organisms have been found in pus, but convincing proof that they are the causal agents is still wanting. To this category belong bacillus anthracis, bacillus oedematus maligni, and certain hyphal fungi, especially varieties of aspergillus and trichophyton. Whichever micro-organism be the cause of any type of suppuration it usually gains entrance by means of a solution of continuity in one of the body surfaces. It is true Garre rubbed virulent cocci on the skin of his arm and pro- duced foci of acute suppuration, but there is a strong probability that in rubbing he made superficial wounds and inoculated them. The size of the wound is not of fundamental impor- tance. Fatal suppuration may occur through the infection of a minute wound, and only slight suppuration may occur through the infection of a large wound; nevertheless, a greater degree of infection is likely to occur in a large wound. Any infected article that causes a wound may also infect it, or a wound may be made by a sterile instrument and afterwards become infected. Modern bacteriological research has clearly proved that one and the same micro-organism may produce a great number of morbid con- ditions, hence it must not be supposed that inoculation by any of the above micro-organisms will result in one of the varieties of suppuration. Suppuration is produced only when several factors are so adjusted as to induce this result: these may be called the " regulating factors of infection," and can be divided into two groups:— A. Factors connected with the Micro-organism. 1. The particular Kind of Micro-organism.— Some of those enumerated are more likely to cause suppuration than others; for instance, as already mentioned, staphylococcus is more likely to cause suppuration than streptococcus. 2. Dose.—The dose of those micro-organisms is very important whose virulence may be said to remain fairly constant. Although staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus does vary in virulence, it is perhaps the most constant of all the micro-organisms that cause acute suppuration. Mr. Watson Cheyne has demonstrated that 250,000,000 are required to produce acute abscess in rabbits. Herman found that 500,000,000 staphylococci produced acute abscess in rabbits, and 50,000,000 produced the same result in dogs. It is, however, highly probable that these figures are very excessive in the case of man, who seems more susceptible to this micro- organism than the lower animals.