25 SALIVAEY GLANDS, DISORDEES OF Chemically they consist chiefly of carbonate and phosphate of lime with an organic basis. The presence of a calculus may lead to acute dilatation of the gland, to an acute inflamma- tion, which may end in resolution or suppura- tion, or to a series of chronic changes ending in sclerosis and atrophy. The symptoms vary greatly. In some cases the calculus may be discharged spontaneously or a pricking sensation may lead to an examination of the floor of the mouth, when the calculus may be seen projecting from Wharton's duct, from which it is easily removed. More usually, however, the presence of a calculus impacted in the duct causes pain, which becomes worse when excitation of the gland leads to increased flow of saliva. The pain may then be very intense, and may radiate to the ear on the same side. It is sometimes accompanied by evidence of vasomotor disturbance, as is shown by an acute oedema beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, which is sometimes called an acute ranula. Salivary calculi have been mistaken at various times for dermoids, lipomata, ranulse and malignant tumours, more rarely for tuberculous disease, and occasionally for periostitis of the jaw, and for ossifying tumours of the floor of the mouth. It should be borne in mind that calculi in the gland give rise to less marked symptoms than those in the duct, but that, on the other hand, they are more likely to cause an abscess. The treatment is prophylactic and curative. The prophylaxis consists in keeping the mouth clean and sweet, by brushing the teeth and using appropriate mouth washes: whilst the curative treatment is to remove the calculus. This should always be done, if possible, by an incision inside the mouth, but in long-standing cases where there is reason to think that the submaxillary gland is destroyed result of the inflammation, the whole gland may be re- moved by an incision carried beneath the jaw. Tuberculous Inflammation of the salivary glands may occur in two forms. It is usually an inflammation beginning in the lymphatic glands lying in immediate relation with the a0"ected salivary gland : more rarely it is a true inflammation of the salivary gland itself. The lymphatic glands are in closer relation with the parotid than with the submaxillary gland, and cases of tuberculosis of the parotid are conse- quently more numerous than of the submaxillary gland. Syphilitic Inflammation.—Manifestations of tertiary syphilis have been observed in the sub- maxillary, the sublingual and more rarely in the parotid gland. In the sublingual the whole gland has become uniformly enlarged: in the submaxillary only portions of the gland are alfected, whilst in the parotid it is doubtful whether it is not the lymphatic glands rather than the gland itself which is aff^ected. The prognosis is good, for the swelling subsides when iodide of potassium is administered. Acute Septic Inflammation of the loose connective tissue of the throat and neck often begins in the neighbourhood of the submaxillary gland. It is known as Angina Ludovici, and is of great clinical and pathological interest. Symptoms.—The inflammation attacks pre- viously healthy persons of both sexes and apparently of any age. The incubation period, if there be one, is not marked by any symptoms. The attack begins suddenly with a rigor which varies in intensity, and is associated with a rise of temperature which reaches its maximum at once. The pulse rarely rises to more than 110-130 beats a minute, and it is characterised by intermittence, weakness and easy compressi- bility. The patient complains of pain in the throat with much difficulty in swallowing, attended by great malaise and prostration, and the dysphagia increases until swallowing is impossible. The cellular tissue of the parts involved becomes acutely inflamed. The skin is hot and tense over the whole or one side of the neck, and there is a hard brawny infiltration, the swollen parts being acutely tender to pressure. The exudation into the cellular tissue is generally serous, but there may be diffuse suppuration, and sometimes localised abscesses are formed. Secondary abscesses, too, are sometimes found in the joints and in other parts of the body. Speedy death occurs in the most acute cases; but in others the inflammation subsides within a few hours, or at most a day or two, and the patient rapidly recovers. The exact channel by which the micro-organism enters the body is unknown, though it is presumably through the mouth, for the swelling first appears in the neck and afterwards spreads in both directions. The disease need not necessarily be limited to the parts first affected, for the inflammation may spread rapidly and involve the lungs and pleura, the peritoneum, and the meninges of the brain. Indeed the nervous system some- times appears to feel the full effect of the poison after the local inflammation has completely subsided. Treatment.—The treatment is based upon the knowledge that the effect of the poisoning is acute but transient, and that there is especial danger from cardiac failure, from suffocation, and from the difficulty in swallowing. The local inflammation should be controlled at first by cold compresses, but if the dyspnoea is urgent tracheotomy should be done early. When suppuration occurs, numerous small in- cisions should be made into the oedematous tissues. Stimulants are urgently needed, with such food as the patient can swallow, given frequently and in small quantities. Quinine combined with perchloride of iron and digitalis