TERATOLOGY 554 mena, a belief of which abundant traces are to be found in the witchcraft trials of the Middle Ages. According to yet other views monstro- sities were caused by peculiar conjunctions of the heavenly bodies, and a whole mass of astrological beliefs arose concerning stellar influence in teratogenesis. The moon also was supposed to have a maleficent effect upon the unborn infant, as is shown by the occurrence of the word "moon-calf" as a synonym for a monster, mole, or false conception. A third group of the theories of the past looked to purely physical agencies for the causes of monstrous births. In those early times it was thought that the male semen and the menstrual fluid of the mother together made up the new organism. Consequently it was a natural enough conclusion that defects in the male and female generative elements would result in the production of malformations and monstrosities. The teratological manifestations which showed defective formations, such as brainless infants and foetuses without eyes or limbs, were put down naturally enough to too little semen or too little menstrual discharge, while the double monsters and united twins were ascribed to too much. Other develop- ments followed: it was believed that the admixture of the generative elements in ab- normal proportions or in morbid states would prove teratogenic; and, finally, it was accepted that the mixture of the seed of animals of diflferent species would assuredly lead to the birth of all kinds of grotesque and iinnatural hybrid forms. Had the ancients, e.g. Aristotle, possessed more correct notions of the real nature of impregnation it cannot be doubted that their theories of teratogenesis would not have differed so markedly from those now in vogue as they apparently do: indeed, some modern views do not really differ much from the notions of too much and too little semen which were enunciated so long ago. The teratogenetic theoj'ies q£ the presejit may be divided into three groups according as the causal factor invoked is mechanical, patho- logical, or enibryological. It is necessary to devote a few lines to the consideration of each of these groups. The idea that foetal deformities may be due to mechanical catises, although truly modern in its full development, was present in the mind of Hippocrates when he wrote, in his De Genitura, about infants crippled in the womb on account of narrowness of a part of it; and Aristotle had evidently some notion of it when he explained double monsters in animals by the fusion of two contiguous vitelli. Many centuries later Pare also referred to malforma- tions produced by the straitness of the womb, and evidently thought that external pressure applied to the abdomen might likewise have a teratogenic effect. In modern times these theories appear under new names, but differ little in reality, and they may be grouped as follows:— Mechanical or Pressure Theories of Terato- genesis.—1. External pressure. (a) General maternal traumatism, e.g. falls and blows. (6) Injuries and pressure affecting the maternal abdomen, e.g. corsets. 2. Internal pressure. {a) Intra-abdominal, e.g. from abdominal tumours, pelvic contraction, and narrowness or malformation of the uterus. (6) Intra- uterine, e.g. from uterine tumours, a twin foetus, a foetal limb, the umbilical cord, the amnion or amniotic adhesions. In the minds of most teratologists there may exist some doubt about the teratogenic power of external pressure, but internal pressure of the kinds referred to in the above classification is generally accepted, rightly or wrongly, as a potent agent in producing monstrosities. Coil- ing of the umbilical cord round one or several limbs of the foetus has been freely accepted as a cause of the curious spontaneous amputations which are sometimes seen at birth; it is certainly often associated with the occurrence of grooves and sulci on the limbs and digits. The most popular of the pressure theories of the present day is that which looks to the amnion as the immediate cause of monstrous productions. Experiments in comparative ter- atogenesis by Dareste and others have shown that in the case of the chick, at least, non- development of the amnion very often exists along with various monstrosities; and in anen- cephaly and sympodia, for instance, it is a satis- factory hypothesis to regard the malformations of the head and pelvis as caused by non-separa- tion of the amniotic membrane in these regions. By inference the non-separation will cause pres- sure on the underlying part. As will be seen later, this view takes its place in the embryo- logical theory of origin of monstrosities. The second modern theory may be called the pathological, for it looks to diseases of the foetus for the causal factor in teratogenesis. This idea was first strongly advocated by Marcot and Morgagni in the eighteenth century, although indications of it are to be found in the work of Licetus published in the preceding century. The various forms of defective ossification of the bones of the head were ascribed to inflam- matory conditions of the cerebral ventricles which led to hydrocephalic states, and these in their turn to defects in the cranium ; when the hydrocephalus was very great, rupture of the cranial vault might occur, and thus anencephaly be produced. In a similar way exomphalos was supposed to be due to the accumulation of a large quantity of fluid in the abdomen and the giving way of the anterior abdominal wall; spina bifida by an accumulation of cerebro-spinal fluid in the spinal canal; cyclopia from the dropsical destruction of the bones of the nose;