279 SPINAL CORD General dull pain referred to the spinal column apart from that occurring in toxic states is characteristic of neurasthenia. Among diseases of the spinal cord it is Yery commonly- met with in the paraplegic forms of disseminate sclerosis. Localised dull pain is a more frequent and more important symptom. It is of distinct localising value, and such pain persisting is usually of organic origin. It is of usual occur- rence in syringomyelia and intra-medullary spinal tumours (sometimes absent), and is not infrequent in extra-medullary tumours, spinal caries, and tabes dorsalis. It is usually present at the onset of acute myelitis. Sharp pains occurring spontaneously are characteristic of tabes dorsalis and of implica- tion of the meninges and nerve roots by menin- gitis or new growth. Such pains radiating into the periphery suggest implication of the nerve roots, or of the nerve trunks, according to their area of distribution. Tuberculous spinal meningitis is not infre- quently unassociated with pain. Sharp pain occurring on movement of the vertebral column is characteristic of disease of the vertebral column, or of growth within the vertebral canal, so situated that tension is put upon nerve roots by movement of the spine. It is remarkable that subjective sensations of pain are referred always to the deeper parts, and never to the skin. Girdle sensations are characteristic of local lesions of the spinal cord of every kind. They are met with also in tabes dorsalis and in insular sclerosis. Always of great localising value, they mark the upper limit of a single lesion. Their exact causation is unexplained further than that the skin distribution of the nerve roots determines the "girdle." The sen- sation is described by some patients as one of constriction, by others as one of fulness (as if the skin over the area were not large enough). Similar sensations occurring in the perinseiim and limbs are referred to by patients as a feeling of weight, "of constriction," "as if the leg were hide-bound," or simply as stiffness. Tingling and formication are always referred to the skin, and are common both in diseases of the spinal cord and the peripheral nerves. Numbness is truly a sensation, and not an absence of sensibility. It is frequently present when anaesthesia is absent, and usually absent when ansesthesia is at all marked. It is referred to the skin. Psychrosesthesia, a subjective feeling of cold and many similar sensations, such as a feeling of heat, of running water, and vermicular sen- sations, are occasionally met with. No explana- tion of the causation is at hand. Objective Change in Sensibility. —Zones of hypereesthesia and hyperalgesia are met gener- ally immediately above (sometimes in partial lesions below) the skin region corresponding with the lesion. They have been explained as the result of an increased excitability produced in certain nerve fibres by an inflamed condition of the surrounding tissue of the spinal cord. Such an explanation appears incorrect, since such areas may persist almost indefinitely. Hypersensitivity is commonly met with in peripheral neuritis, and sometimes in tabes dorsalis. Aneesthesia may be considered (1) according to its distribution, and (2) its nature. According to distribution: (1) Nerve root, (2) nerve trunk, (3) nerve periphery in general, (4) glove and stocking ansesthesia, (5) hemi- ansesthesia. Special forms: Syringomyelic type, some cases of tabes dorsalis, Brown-S^quard type. Nerve-root anaesthesia includes all paranaes- thesise, the upper limit of which corresponds with a root area limit {see vol. vii. p. 280). This type, with few exceptions, is that met with in vertebral disease and injury, and in transverse lesions of the spinal cord, extra medullary tumours, and pachymeningitis, and in most cases of tabes dorsalis. Nerve-trunk anaesthesia follows the anatomi- cal distribution of a nerve trunk. It is nearly always of traumatic origin. Nerve-periphery Aneesthesia. — This type is met with upon the limbs. All the nerve fibres are affected in proportion to their length, the longest being most affected, so that anaesthesia (usually incomplete) is most marked in the extreme periphery, and lessens gradually as it is traced towards the trunks, while it is equally distributed in the direction of the circumference of the limb. This type is characteristic of multiple neur- itis. Stocking and glove anaesthesia are distributed in the form their name implies, the upper limits being sharp. When such anaesthesia becomes more extensive and invades the trunk, it takes the form of a sharply limited hemi- anaesthesia or paranaesthesia. This type is characteristic of hysteria. Syringomyelic Type.—In some cases of syrin- gomyelia, hsematomyelia, central focal myelitis, and intra-medullary growths, the distribution is peculiar and sui generis. Vide "Syringo- myelia." Certain cases of tabes dorsalis present peculiar and unexplainable anaesthesia, such as (1) uni- versal analgesia, (2) central part of face alone exempt, (3) neck alone exempt. Brown-Sequard Aneesthesia.—This was at one time considered to be the typical disturbance of sensibility resulting from a hemi-section of the spinal cord. There is loss of the muscular sense in the half trunk and limb on the same side below the lesion, with a zone of hyperses-