289 SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF nerve-supply to the muscles of the neck, shoulder, and upper extremities originates. Inasmuch as the cervical nerves run a comparatively long course within the spinal canal, the level of anaesthesia does not correspond to the site of injury, but is generally about one vertebra below it. That is to say, if the anaesthesia corresponds to the level of the seventh cervical vertebra, the cord is probably injured at the sixth cervical vertebra. As a generalisation, according to Thorburn, the higher the mischief extends in the cord through the brachial region the farther will the anaesthesia extend from the ulnar to the radial side of the forearm. Also be it noted that the biceps is the last muscle to be paralysed. In this region, too, is situated the cilio-spinal centre, and contraction of the pupil and narrowing of the palpebral fissure occur, and the pupil does not dilate on pinching the skin of the neck. If the damage is limited to one side of the cord, or the haemorrhage is unilateral, the pupil is smaller on the affected side. Great alterations of the temperature occur, and the rate of the pulse corresponds. Fracture-dislocation of the first, second, or third cervical vertebrae is necessarily a fatal injury, but not always immediately. The patient may survive for a short time if the symptoms are due to haemorrhage, and not to bony displacement. The Ophthalmoscopic Changes.—In four cases quoted by Thorburn, of crush of the upper portion of the spinal cord, that is, from the third cervical to the second dorsal vertebrae, ophthalmoscopic changes were found in three, and consisted in haziness, want of definition of the discs accompanied by slight distension of the retinal veins; and in most cases in this region the pupils and palpebral fissures are affected. Prognosis. —Fracture of the spine is an inj ury of the gravest character, and the larger number of cases terminate fatally, few living beyond six months. But the writer knows of one case that lived two and a half years, in which paraplegia was complete. The usual causes of death, apart from the immediate interference with respiration, are extradural suppuration leading to menin- gitis, acute bed-sores, cystitis, ulceration of the bladder, and broncho-pneumonia. The duration of life depends upon the region of the cord affected, but the higher it is the sooner the fatal result follows. Treatment.—The first point is—the removal of the patient from the site of the accident to bed. He should be gently transferred with all possible care on a board covered with a firm mattress or a blanket. The clothes must be cut off and all unnecessary movements avoided in getting him to bed. It is best, if possible, to place the patient on a water-bed at once. For the collapse, stimulants and hot-water bottles may be used, but the danger of sloughing from hot-water bottles must not be forgotten. At VOL. IX least two efficient nurses should be secured who have been accustomed to these cases, and realise the dangers arising from want of cleanliness, undue pressure on any part, and the risks of rough movement. The bladder should be emptied under the strictest antiseptic precau- tions with a soft catheter. As soon as possible an examination of the back should be made by the surgeon, to note the extent of the displace- ment. But it often happens that when the patient is placed flat in bed all displacement disappears, especially if the fracture is com- minuted. If the paralysis be asymmetrical or incomplete, if displacement be present, and if there be much pain from nerve pressure, an attempt at rectification may be made, but it must not be prolonged, and should be made with extreme gentleness. The method em- ployed is extension and counter-extension with manipulation. If the fracture be high up and the abdominal and external respiratory muscles are not working, great care must be taken in turning the patient on his face lest the action of the diaphragm be interfered with by the pressure of the abdominal viscera upwards. This has been known to cause fatal asphyxia. If the deformity cannot be relieved in the above way by the usual methods of extension and counter-extension with manipulation, ex- tension on an inclined plane may be effectual, but the results of such attempts at rectification have been by no means encouraging, and laminectomy has been employed. When the pressure is due to the laminae being driven directly down towards the cord this operation is of some service. It may happen that pressure can be directly relieved, and bony spiculae which have punctured the dura be taken away. But laminectomy does not hold out much hope when the cord has been injured by a fracture affecting the body, for removal of the laminae does not relieve the pressure in front, and access to the anterior aspect of the cord is almost impossible. Yet, considering the fatal nature of the affection, almost any means of treatment are to be welcomed. The statistics of W. W. White show that 37 operations for fracture performed during the antiseptic era resulted in 6 complete recoveries from the operation and injury, 6 recoveries with benefit, 11 recoveries unimproved, and 14 deaths—a mortality of 38 per cent. Those cases in which the lesion occupied the lumbar region, especially those in which only the cauda equina were involved, were particularly favourable, and so too were those in which fractures of the arches or laminae existed. It seems that the indications for operation are as follows:—In all cases in which the depression of the spinous processes or laminae is seen and felt. In some cases in which shortly after the fracture rapid degeneration sets in. If the Cauda equina be involved, or the characteristic symptoms of spinal htemorrhage are present. 19