SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 84 finger and knife, the mucous membrane of the prepuce being carefully detached at the line of its reflection. The isolation of the penis is completed as far as its suspensory ligament, which should not be injured. A vertical in- cision is now made from the pubes to the fundus of the tumour, over one cord and testis. By successive bold strokes these are exposed, and then dissected out by fingers and knife, and subsequently held out of the way by an assistant. The other testis is similarly dealt with. The three vertical incisions are then connected at their pubic terminations by two transverse cuts, which must be beyond the limit of diseased tissue. A circular or oval incision is now made round the rest of the circumference of the neck of the tumour, and by rapid strokes the whole mass is removed. Vessels are now looked for and tied ; the largest will be found in the centre of the perineum and on each side of the pubes. By gradually loosening the cord others will be observed to spurt, and as many as 30 or 40 ligatures may be required. The parts may now be trimmed if any diseased tissue has been left behind. The testes may now be stitched to- gether and fastened in proper position with catgut sutures. Pockets can easily be made for their reception by separating the deep layer of the superficial perineal fasciae from the sub- jacent fat and areolar tissue. The skin can then be drawn over them from each side to a consider- able extent by means of continuous catgut suture. The prevention of infection in such an extensive wound is difficult. The wound heals by granu- lation, and the process of repair occupies from six weeks to two months. Care must be taken to keep the penis free, as it is apt to become embedded in the mass of granulation tissue. The ultimate result of operation in the great majority of cases is satisfactory. Skin is dragged by the process of cicatrisation from the thigh to form a seamless substitute for the scrotum, and the penis acquires a fresh covering of epidermis. The sexual functions are restored, and both health and comfort re-established. If the skin of the penis is quite healthy, the scrotum may be removed alone by a circular incision round its neck, the testes being dissected out as the incision is deepened. Lymph Scrotum (" Varix Lymphaticus ").— This affection appears to depend upon a varicose condition of the lymphatics. The scrotum is noticed to enlarge and become peculiarly corrugated, studded with soft tubercles, which discharge from time to time a mixture of lymph and chylous fluids. The urine is often simul- taneously chylous, and in some cases tumefaction of the inguinal glands has alternated with the appearance of chyle in the urine. Fever attends these paroxysmal attacks. This condi- tion is allied to elephantiasis scroti, and is probably dependent on the same causes. The treatment consists in excision. Diseases of the Testicle and Cord Anatomy and Development . 84 Abnormalities .... 86 Malposition ..... 87 Hypertrophy and Atrophy . o o 88 Injuries ..... 88 Torsion of Cord .... 89 Hematocele of Scrotum 89 ,, Cord 90 HiEMATOMA OF CORD 90 Varicocele ..... 90 Epididymitis . . . - . 91 Orchitis ..... 92 Syphilis ..... 93 Tuberculosis ..... 95 Tumours ..... 96 General Cystic Disease 96 Enchondroma, etc. 97 Teratoma .... 97 Sarcoma, etc. .... y / Carcinoma .... 98 Hernia Testis .... 99 Methods of Supporting iUU Excision ..... . 100 Hydrocele ..... 101 n'f T^ii'T}')on vcifii'rijrtl.i.'^ 101 ,, Hernial Sac . 104 ,, Spermatic Cord . . 105 „ Epididymis .... . 106 ,, Testis ..... . 106 Impotence ..... . 107 Sterility ..... . 107 See also Abdominal Aneurysm {Pressure Symptoms, Pain in Testicle); Hysteria (Sensory Disorders, Hyperesthesia, Testicular); Leprosy (Clinical Features, Testicles); Syphilis (In Children, Later Symptoms); Syphilis (Tertiary, Visceral); Tabes Dorsalis (Symptomatology, Genital Organs); Tuberculosis (Lesions of Various Organs, Testis); Visceral Pain (Sensory Supply of the Testicle). Anatomy of the Testis.—The testes are supported each in a separate pouch of the scrotum by its own spermatic cord. Each testis is closely invested by a serous sac or tunica vaginalis, which consists of two layers —an inner or visceral closely incorporated with the testis and epididymis; and an outer or parietal which lines the corresponding cavity of the scrotum The testis is supplied with blood by the spermatic artery ; the vas deferens receiving a special artery, the differential artery, a branch of the superior or inferior vesical arteries. The spermatic veins commence in the testis and epididymis, form the pampiniform plexus in the cord, enter the abdomen through the inguinal canal, and open, the right into the inferior vena cava, and the left into the left renal vein. The lymphatics of the testis terminate in the lumbar lymphatic glands which encircle the large blood-vessels in front