381 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF pylorus ; and a gastrostomy affords most relief and a short extension of life for cancer of the cardiac end. But the postponement of operation until a definite tumour is to be felt greatly diminishes the chance of benefit, since by that time extension of the disease to adjacent structures or secondary deposits is likely to exist. {See Stomach, Diseases of, FROM THE SURGICAL ASPECT, p. 384.) Since no other means of cure are possible, all that remains is to prolong life as far as possible with the relief of symptoms, and this may be done in some measure by attention to diet and with the help of drugs. Having regard to the impaired digestion that takes place in the stomach the seat of cancer, when the efficiency of the gastric juice is diminished by lack of acid, and there is probably pyloric obstruction and dilatation of the organ, and in any case impaired mobility, it is clear that the gastric contents are very apt to become, from abnormal decompositions, very unhealthy, and to that extent a source of irritation. Hence washing out the organ is distinctly indicated, and when this can be regularly performed every day or every other day, it affords the greatest relief to the patient even from the pain and sickness, and gives the best chance for the digestion of such food as is taken. The difficulties, how- ever, are often great in pursuing this course, owing to the insuperable objections of the in- dividual ; for although no doubt lavage causes little or no discomfort when once the habit is acquired, it is distinctly unpleasant in its first practice to most people, and this especially so when begun on a patient who is seriously ill with malignant disease of the stomach, and promises of benefit will often fail to allow a fair trial of the method. If submitted to, it may be said that not even haemorrhage contra- indicates its employment. The chief points to observe in respect to the food are that it should be given in small quantities at intervals of three or four hours': a little digested and passed on into the intestines is better than larger amounts which decompose and irritate ; the bad appetite will generally prevent any overloading of the stomach. Considerable latitude may be given to the patient's own wishes as to what he takes, but it is well to avoid, as far as possible, fats and much sugar or starch food as well as vege- tables, and the more nitrogenous the diet is the better. Fluid food also should only be given in small quantity. Minced meat, chicken or fish, and eggs are all permissible so long as they can be taken. Peptonised foods, including milk, Benger's food, plasmon, soups, and meat extracts come to be the nutriment that has to be relied on, and these may have to be supple- mented by nutrient enemata or suppositories. Alcohol in the form of sherry, whisky, or brandy, or champagne iced, especially if there be much sickness, may be given in amounts proportioned to the habits of the patient and his condition. Fruit jellies or the juice of fresh fruits, and grapes, are often grateful to the sufferer. The appetite may be improved and the diges- tion aided by giving full doses of hydrochloric acid with vegetable bitters, gentian, quassia, chiretta, or condurango, and pepsin may also be added for the same purpose. Distinct bene- fit follows this treatment. Antiseptics to check fermentations in the stomach are only of moderate advantage : crea- sote, carbolic acid, resorcin, and many others are used, but salicylic acid is one of the best. Sooner or later morphia has to be adminis- tered by mouth or hypodermically for the relief of the pain, but previous trial should be made of hydrocyanic acid in an effervescing form with bismuth, which is conveniently given in the form of liquor bismuthi et ammoniee citratis, codeia, or of potassium iodide with bismuth, which sometimes gives distinct relief. Aqua chloroformi will sometimes answer the same purpose. The vomiting, as already said, is best treated by lavage, otherwise the effervescing hydro- cyanic acid and bismuth mixture, with or with- out a few drops of liq. morphinse acetatis or of llq. cocain. hydrochlor., or iced champagne may be tried. It is sometimes well to encourage the vomiting by swallowing a tumblerful of warm water, which washes out the stomach ; but the efficacy of many of these remedies will depend on whether the organ is dilated and whether it contains a quantity of ill-digested material. The constipation, which is often very trouble- some, may be met by laxatives such as cascara sagrada, or by simple enemata or glycerine suppositories. Special Symptomatology and Treatment of Dilatation of the Stomach—Gastroectasis The signs and symptoms of this far from un- common morbid state exhibit a considerable variety in degree dependent on the extent to which the distension of the viscus has taken place, as well as in some measure on the pri- mary causal condition, the specific manifesta- tions of which will be complicated by those of the gastroectasis. Physical Signs. — Some bulging over the dilated organ is generally perceptible, especially if the patient be at all emaciated. When the distension is considerable the line of the upper curvature may be seen in the epigastric region, with a depression just below the ensiform cartilage. The outline of the greater curvature is not always visible, but sometimes almost the entire contour of the organ may be apparent. When the condition is secondary to pyloric ob- struction, and there is hypertrophy of the muscular coat, exaggerated peristaltic move- ments may be seen spreading downwards over the organ from left to right, and the stomach