SYPHILIS 480 attack of hemiplegia, due to the blocking of one of the cerebral arteries, most often the Sylvian. The attack comes on in those who are as yet too young for atheroma due to senile changes, viz. under forty-five, and without obvious cause, i.e. where there is no valvular disease of the heart and the patient has never suffered from any condition likely to produce endocarditis. The onset is sudden, and is seldom attended by loss of consciousness. It is often preceded by severe headache, which is either general or is felt chiefly on the side of the head which will be affected. The pain may only be felt for a few days or a week before the attack, or it may last much longer. Occasionally a slight tingling or other sensation is felt for a day or two before the onset upon the side which is to be affected. The onset therefore, although it is rapid, is not quite so sudden as when a small aneurysm on a cerebral artery gives way and blood is poured into the brain tissue. The loss of power, though it is limited at first, usually spreads to a greater or less extent, because the fibres in the large nuclei of the brain, especially in the internal capsule, which is usually affected, are packed together very closely. Prognosis.—The attack is followed by the usual effects of cerebral thrombosis, owing to softening and destruction of the brain tissue, but the prognosis is rather better than the severity of the symptoms at the time of onset would otherwise warrant. Recovery follows the ordinary rule that the leg first regains its power, the face next, and the arm with its especially complicated movements last. During the attack the wrist, elbow, knee, and ankle reflexes are increased. The faradic response remains normal throughout the entire period of paralysis, and contractures are likely to occur though there is no appreciable atrophy. Aphasia in some of its various forms is not uncommon. The treatment consists in relieving the progress of the arterial inflammation by the administration of iodides. As soon as the im- mediate symptoms have passed off", the patient should be shampooed to prevent the occurrence of contractures during convalescence. Diffuse gummatous inflammation affects the meninges and cortex of the brain, and altho\igh it is diffuse it often presents patches of more intense inflammation, which makes it possible to localise the condition. The symptoms come on gradually, and do not differ materially from those which characterise a meningitis due to other causes—headache, stupor, increasing coma, and perhaps localised convulsive attacks—Jacksonian epilepsy—if the motor area be involved. In many cases one or more groups of nerves are involved as they leave the dura mater, so that various paralyses occur, some of which have already been men- tioned in connection with the syphilitic affections of the eye (p. 474). Gummata, as the more localised products of syphilitic inflammation, cause definite symptoms which enable their position to be detected with considerable accuracy. Like many other forms of cerebral tumour they may give rise to an optic neuritis. Spinal Cord.—The changes which occur in the brain as a result of syphilis take place too in the spinal cord, but in the spinal cord the meningeal inflammation is of greater importance than the arterial changes. The meningeal inflammation may begin in the membranes of the spinal cord, or it may be secondary to syphilitic disease of the vertebrae. The men- ingitis is often limited, and the symptoms consequently vary with the part affected, the higher the lesion in the spinal cord the more extensive being the disturbances produced. Peripheral Nerves.—The sensory and motor nerves of the body contain considerable quanti- ties of connective tissue, and they are in consequence no more exempt from syphilitic inflammations than other parts. The local neuritis manifests itself in various forms of neuralgia and sometimes in actual diminution of sensation, whilst paresis of one or more groups of muscles has been observed from time to time. Parasyphilis.—Reference has already been made (p. 473) to certain conditions in which mercury and the iodides have no remedial power, though syphilis appears to be the pre- disposing, if not the actual, cause of the condi- tion for which these drugs were administered. It has long been supposed that tabes and general paralysis bear some relation to syphilis, and Dr. Mott has recently brought forward a considerable body of evidence to show that in a large number of cases syphilis forms a prepondei-ating element in their causation. In the same manner Dr. Fournier has shown that some forms of neurasthenia and hysteria are produced indirectly by syphilis. Dr. Fournier has also called attention to the peculiar condi- tion of the skin known as the pigmentary syphilide, which may be mistaken for vitiligo or chloasma. The condition is found in women more often than in men, in the form of pig- mented spots, patches, or networks found usually on the side of the neck, though it may occur in other parts of the body. The colour varies from a light to a deep brown, and in some cases the affected surface is covered with white specks which may lead to an erroneous diagnosis of leucoderma. Inunction with mercury may prove serviceable in removing the discoloration, but neither mercury nor iodides administered by the mouth have any apparent effect upon the pigmented patches. Treatment of Tertiary Syphilis.—Pathology indicates the causes of the varying action of