378 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF slight that the real nature of the affection is unrecognised. Among the earliest evidences of gastric mischief is loss of appetite, which is frequently extreme, now and then exhibiting perhaps a transient improvement. It is usual for this anorexia to have existed for some time before the patient comes under observation, which event commonly follows the onset of some more serious symptom. Cases, however, do occur in which no impairment of appetite has been com- plained of. The distaste for food may amount to actual nausea, especially at the sight of meals. Gaseous eructations, chiefly of CO2 derived fi-om the fermentations taking place in the stomach, are sometimes most troublesome, and to the same cause is due flatulent distension of the stomach. Vomiting is one of the most constant signs, being rarely absent when the pylorus is the site of the growth, being less frequent when the cardiac end of the organ is involved, and may be entirely absent when the whole viscus is infiltrated with a scirrhous formation. The relation of its occurrence to the ingestion of food is variable, often not until an hour or two afterwards, or may be at once when the mucous membrane is very irritable. Whilst generally persistent throughout the course of the malady, it is nevertheless subject to variation in severity; and in the last stages, when there is much dilatation, it may almost entirely cease. The vomit contains the remains of very partially digested food, some of which may have been swallowed days or even weeks previously, and with more or less blood, de- pendent on the extent of the ulceration of the growth. The blood is usually altered in character, and of "coffee ground" appearance; but an extensive hsematemesis of bright blood may occur, though far less frequently than is the case with gastric iilcer. On the other hand, the amount may be so small as to require the microscope for its detection. Should the growth be sloughing, then portions may be recognised in the vomit, which is also likely to contain sarcina, torula, and other organisms associated with delayed gastric digestion, and lactic acid and other fermentations. The odour of the vomit is occasionally most offensive, even where communication with the colon has not been established. A valuable character of the contents of the stomach is to be found in connection with the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice. The method of examination has been described {see article "Digestion and Metabolism," vol. ii. p. 370), and it has been observed in a very considerable number of cases that this acid is absent in cases of carcinoma of the stomach. So frequent is this that it becomes a sign of diagnostic value, inasmuch as no such constant absence occurs in gastric ulcer, with which cancer may be confused. Whilst repeated absence is strong evidence in favour of cancer, it cannot be said that the presence of the acid in the material withdrawn from the stomach under proper precautions excludes the existence of this disease. In the absence of hydrochloric acid, lactic acid is commonly found, but some- times both are wanting. Even more constant than vomiting is pain, although cases have not been unknown in which it has been, if not quite wanting, at least very slight; as a rule, it is severe and constant, of a dull, gnawing character, diffused generally over the gastric region, sometimes increased after food is taken, and very occasionally eased by the same, and seldom much relieved by vomiting. Some tenderness, perhaps extreme, is elicited on pressure over the epigastrium or gastric area generally, but there is seldom any specially localised point. Referred pains and tender points over the regions of the trunk and head are complained of; but "cutaneous tenderness is of less value in gastric carcinoma than in other diseases of the stomach, for cases of malignant disease are complicated by the presence of tender areas due to secondary deposits in other organs; moreover, in long- standing and exhausting diseases, pains often radiate far beyond the areas usually associated with the affected organ" (Dr. Hale White). When the cardiac orifice is involved, the symptoms are those of (Esophageal obstruction ; there is dysphagia, and such food as is swallowed accumulates in great part in the gullet, whence it is regurgitated unaltered so far as gastric digestion is concerned. The bowels are variable, though generally constipated, and the motions may from time to time be black from sulphide of iron derived fi'om blood. Indican is a very frequent con- stituent of the urine ; otherwise no abnormality is met with with any constancy, the diminished urea elimination being common to many wasting diseases with a small intake of food. Albumin- uria and glycosuria may be present inter- mittently, and complete suppression may follow a copious vomiting; when also the gastric secretion is very considerable, the chlorides may temporarily disappear from the urine. An excess of creatinine has been noted. The tongue may be pale and moist, or furred, or dry and brown with red denuded edges. The recognition of a gastric tumour is most uncertain. In many cases none is to be made out, though post-mortem examination may re- veal one.of considerable size. When situated at the cardiac orifice it is quite beyond detec- tion, except by the passage of a stomach tube, and the same is sometimes the case with pyloric growths which may lie high up under the liver and margin of the thorax. Probably, on the whole, the mass is best to be felt when the stomach is empty. Tight lacing, by depress-