SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 301 spine or scoliosis is associated with prominent vertebrse. But it should be observed that in caries with lateral deviation there is no pro- minence of the ribs, and the distortion is not a sinuous curvature, but it seems as if the upper part of the spine were slipping off the lower. In cervical caries confusion may arise between it and wry-neck. But in wry-neck the movements are free in every direction, save when the contracted muscle is pulled upon; whereas in caries movement is limited in every direction. The writer has known dorsal disease to be mistaken for pleurisy and for perinephritis and perityphlitis, and lumbar disease to be mistaken for hip disease or sacro-iliac disease. Prognosis of Uncoinplicated Caries.—In un- complicated caries it may be said that the prognosis depends upon the following factors : the stage at which the disease is diagnosed—of course the earlier the better; the social sur- roundings of the patient; and the surgical care and nursing which he can obtain. In these events the outlook is by no means very serious, and many patients recover entirely, and become vigorous men and women. But far different is it for the children of the poor, who are often unfortunately unable to command all these attentions. Too often the disease assumes a retrograde form, and abscess or general tubercle follows. The actual percentage of recoveries is difficult to estimate, since the cases must be watched through so long a period. But Neidert investigated 31 cases, and the average age at the time of death was forty-nine and a half years. Treatment.—In spite of the severe nature of the disease, cure may often be effected, especially if the case comes under skilled observation in its earlier stages, and deformity may and should be prevented. The method of cure is by ankylosis, and when the disease is treated early and thoroughly, and the number of vertebrse affected is small, the patient recovers with a very useful back. The treatment may extend over years, and the writer is disposed to think that its duration is often shorter than is re- quired, and for want of continued supervision many cases relapse. The general treatment is comprised in fresh air, sunshine, regular and plentiful food. Local Treatment.—The principles are three in number: (a) To keep the spine as still as possible, and to place it under the best circum- stances for healing; (6) to remove the weight of the upper part of the body from the diseased vertebrae; (c) to prevent the occurrence of deformity, and if deformity has occurred, to endeavour to decrease it. To carry out these principles we have two methods at our disposal: recumbency (and with this may be combined methods of gradually extending the spine, if there be deformity), and the use of retentive apparatus. The indications for recumbency are as follows : in all acute cases, when on employing the palm- pressure test to the back it is found to yield anteriorly, also when abscess and paralysis are threatened, and particularly in cases of severe cervical and lower lumbar caries. In children recumbency may be resorted to with less danger to the general health than in adults. The immediate effects are good, the pain dis- appears, the nervous irritability is lost, the face loses its anxious aspect, and the patient puts on flesh. The disadvantages of recumbency can be combated by keeping the patient in the fresh air. It is difficult to speak of the duration of recumbency, and each case must be judged on its merits. But it may be said that when the patient becomes restless, moves his arms and legs freely, and attempts to turn over, and can do so without pain, then the time has arrived for the child to sit up with pi'oper supports. The objects of simple recumbency have been stated, but the removal of intra- vertebral pressure is desired also, and this can be accomplished by arching the back forwards at the site of disease. A very efficient apparatus is the gas-pipe frame, which was originally designed by Schapps of New York, and has been improved by Bradford and Lovett.^ If the spine is placed in the extended position, there is no necessity to apply weight extension either to the head or to the feet. But in little children it is necessary to prevent movement, and for this purpose a Fisher's bed frame answers admirably. Phelps of New York has designed a special box arrangement for cases of spinal caries in the poorer classes, but although useful for carrying them about, it is by no means sightly. When the surgeon is satisfied that the severer symptoms have subsided, the spine is firm, and the possibility of abscess or other complications is slight, it is well to adopt a combination of the methods of partial recumbency and fixation appliances. All complicated arrangements are to be avoided as much as possible; in the plaster of Paris jacket properly applied, to some extent in the poroplastic jacket, and in a Taylor's brace of the latest model, most of the needful requirements are fulfilled. Briefly, these are that every apparatus must firmly fix the site of disease, that all weight must be taken off the the affected region by transference of pressure from diseased to healthy parts; the apparatus must be comfortable, cleanly, and removable, and pressure on the skin and chafing must be avoided. If the apparatus is inexpensive and can be readily applied by the surgeon, the greater is its merit. Taking a case of dorsal caries, there are three fixation points : the pelvis, the site of disease behind, and the depression in front between the chest and the shoulder- joint. And from the latter points the forward ^ Orthopaedic Surgery, 2nd edition, p. 42.