SKIN—BACTERIOLOGY 174 Rhinoscleroma : specific short bacillus de- scribed by V. Frisch. Bacilli: 2 /X in lejigth, and 0'5 /j, in breadth; rounded ends ; enclosed in a gelatinous capsule; arranged singly or in characteristic groups lying in a gloea; situated in the protoplasm of Mikulicz's cells, or free in the lymph spaces ; form shiny pin-head colonies on gelatine, and do not liquefy it; pathogenic to mice and guinea-pigs, but did not cause rhinoscleroma when inoculated. Seborrhcea oleosa : considered by Sabouraud to be due to the niicrobacillus. Syphilis : various micro-organisms have from time to time been described in connection with the lesions of syphilis, and several have been put forward as the specific cause of the disease. Bacilli have been described by Lust- garten, Jullien, v. Niessen, and others, and cocci by Disse and Taguchi. Of these micro- organisms the best known is Lustgarten's bacillus. Bacilli : 3"5 to 4'5 yu, in length, and 0"28 /a in breadth; straight or curved, ends clubbed; stain by Zelh-Neelsen's method; resemble the smegma bacilli; have not been successfully cultivated outside the body. [The spirochtete pallida is now generally recognised as the microbic cause of syphilis.] Trichorrhexis nodosa : Hodara and Spiegler have identified peculiar bacilli in the shafts and follicles of the afi'ected hairs. Bacilli: 1 ^u, to 6 in length or longer, and 0'3 /X in breadth; rounded ends, stained in the hairs by aniline gentian-violet and by the other methods for staining the fungi of ringworm in the hairs; grow on agar in the form of small, round, whitish grey colonies which tend to become confluent; liquefy gelatine slowly; inoculation from cultures produced the disease in previously healthy hairs. Raymond has described a diplococcus. Tuberculosis cutis : due to Koch's tubercle bacillus. It has been found in lupus vulgaris, tuberculosis verrucosa cutis, and erythema induratum—Bazin. Yaws : several micro - organisms have been isolated in association with the lesions of yaws, and have been regarded as specific by those who described them; but specific characters have not been definitely established in any of them. Among these are a yeast (Powell), a bacillus (Breda), and a micrococcus (Nicholls and Watts). Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands Sweat Glands— Sudamina . . . . .174 Miliaria {see also vol. vi.) . . .174 Hyperidrosis . . . . .174 Chromidrosis . . . . .175 HcBniidrosis . . . . .175 Seborrhcea . . . . .175 Sebaceous Glands. .... 177 Diseases of the Sweat or Coil Glands.—It is now generally admitted that these glands excrete an oily fluid as well as the saline fluid known as sweat. On certain regions of the skin—notably on the palms and soles—they alone are concerned in the lubrication of the skin so very necessary in these situations. It is probable that a deficiency in this oily excretion has a more important connection with many diseases than has hitherto been supposed. Certain definite organic diseases are some- times, though rarely, observed. Cysts may form deep down in the course of the duct (hydrocystoma), and suppuration occasionally occurs (hydroadenitis). Localised suppuration in a sweat gland is probably the starting-point of boils in the axillary region, where the glands are especially large. Sudamina or crystallina is the term applied to the lesions produced in certain diseases accompanied by excessive sweating. The sweat pore is obstructed at its outlet, and the result is the appearance on the skin of a clear vesicle, which looks like a drop of free fluid, but which, when touched, is found to be covered by an extremely thin layer of horny cells. Miliaria, which is often confused with this condition, is a form of inflammation of the skin, and should not be classed among the diseases of the sweat glands. The functional diseases are the more common and the more important. Hyperidrosis, or excessive sweating, in its generalised form, is a frequent accompaniment of constitutional diseases, especially certain fevers, in which case it is, of course, of secondary importance. It is also sometimes influenced by nerve impulses, in which case it may be distributed over the area of a particular nerve, and is therefore frequently unilateral. There is often general sweating in angemia, and in some cases of hysteria, while in alcoholism the skin often has a damp, clammy feeling from excessive secretion of sweat. Certain regions of the body are, however, specially liable to localised hyperidrosis. These are the scalp, especially in premature alopecia, the axillae, the groins, and the hands and feet. The secretion may be so abundant, especially in the last two situations, as to lead to maceration of the epidermis. The skin, con- sequently, is easily irritated, and inflammation and fissuring often occur. In many cases of excessive secretion the odour is unpleasant, but in a certain proportion the odour becomes unbearable, and thoroughly deserves the name of bromidrosis (yflpo/xos, a stench). This change is due to the growth of bacteria in the sweat. When the condition affects the feet, owing to the method of foot- gear generally in vogue, the parts are shut up, and the symptoms are aggravated, the skin often becoming so tender that walking is