TAR 511 Carhonis Prmparata or prepared coal tar, obtained from commercial coal tar; it is made up of phenols, benzene, naphthalene, anthracene, and other hydrocarbons; and there is one offi- cial preparation, Liquor Picis Carhonis (closely resembling the well-known Liquor Carbonis Detergens). Tar is much used in the treatment of various skin diseases (chronic eczema, psori- asis, pruritus, etc.); internally it is little em- ployed, but may be given as an expectorant in chronic bronchitis (as the Syrupus Picis Liquidse or Vinum Picis of the U.S.P., or as the eau de goudron of the French). See Dermatitis Trau- matica ET Venenata {Special Eruptions, Tar Workers); Drug Eruptions {Papular, Tar and Carbolic Acid); Psoriasis, Treatment, Local). Tar Camphor.—Naphthaline (CjoHg). See Naphthaline ; Naphthol. Tarantulism or Tarantlsm.— Dancing mania ; choreic movements which were ascribed to the bite of a tarantula (a large spider or Tarantula apulice). Tarasp. See Balneology {Switzerland, Alkaline); Mineral Waters {Alkaline). Taraxaci Radix. — Dandelion root {Taraxacum Officinale) contains taraxacin, tarax- acerin, asparagin, inulin, mannite, salts, and resins, and acts like calumba and other bitters; there are three official preparations—Extractum Taraxaci (dose, 5 to 15 grains), Extractum Tar- axaci liquidum (dose, | to 2 fl. dr.), and Succus Taraxaci (dose, 1 to 2 fl. dr.); it has been used as a stomachic in the same class of cases as calumba, and also in chronic congestion of the liver and spleen. Tardieu'S Spots. — Subpleural and subpericardial ecchymoses found in cases of death from strangling, and asphyxia from other causes. See Medicine, Forensic {Death from Asphyxia, Post-mortem Appearances). Tarnier'S Forceps. — French mid- wifery forceps to which Tarnier added the axis- traction rods, plate, and handle. See Labour, Operations, Forceps {Compensation Curve). Other obstetric instruments were invented by Tarnier; e.g. Tarnier's basiotribe (a combined : perforator, basilyst crusher, and extractor) and I Tarnier's cephalotribe {mih. fenestrated blades). ' Tarsal.—Relating to the tarsus (Gr.rapcros, broad or flat part) of the foot or of the eye ; e.g. the tarsal arch, tarsal cartilage, tarsal glands, etc. See Eyelids, Affections of {Anatomy). Tarsalg'ia.—Pain in the tarsus, often rheumatic, gouty, or associated with flat foot {q.v.). Tarsectomy. See Deformities {Talipes Equina- Varus, Treatment). TarsitiS.—Inflammation of the tarsus of the eyelid. See Eyelids, Affections of {Affec- tions of the Glands of the Lids, Tarsitis). TarSO-.—In compound words tarso- (Gr. rapcrds, broad part) means relating to the tarsus of the foot or of the eye; e.g. tarsocheiloplasty (plastic operations on the edge of the eyelid), tarso-metatarsal (relating to the tarsus and metatarsus of the foot), and tarsotomy (removal of tarsal cartilages). Tarsorrhaphy.—A plastic operation on the eyelids to diminish their eversion. See Eyelids, Affections of {Lagophthalmos, Treat- ment). Tarsus. See Ankle-Joint, Region of. Diseases {Diseases of Tarsal Bones and Joints); Eyelids, Affections of {Anatomy, Sycosis Tarsi, Tarsitis, etc.); Fractures {Tarsus). Tartar, Cream of.—Acid potassium tartrate. See Potash. Tartar Emetic.—Tartarated antimony or potassio-tartrate of antimony. See Anti- mony ; ToxicoLY {Antimony). Tartaric Acid. — Tartaric acid or hydrogen tartrate (C^HgO^) has the general action and uses of the acids, is very soluble in water, and is incompatible with potash, lime, mercurial and lead salts, and with vegetable astringents; its dose is 5 to 20 grains; it is much used for making effervescent drinks. Tashkend or Tashkent Ulcer.— An endemic disease of Tashkend (Russian Turke- stan), characterised by the appearance of an indurated red spot on the face, followed by ulceration; Sartian disease. Taste. See Brain, Tumours of {Localising Sympt07ns, Taste); Ear, Middle, Chronic Sup- puration {Otitis Media Purulenta Chronica, Symptomatology); Fifth Nerve, Affections of {Affections of Taste); Glosso-Pharyngeal Nerve {Clinical Features); Hysteria {SensoryDisorders, Anaesthesia); Mind, Education of the {Senses, Education of); Nose, Examination of the {Sense of Taste); Paranoia {Progressive System- atised Insanity, Hallucinations of Taste); Physi- ology, Neuro-Muscular Mechanism {Sense of Taste); Pregnancy, Affections and Complica- tions {Nervous System). Tattooing'. See Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Spurious). Taupo. See Balneology {New Zealand). TaurOCholiC Acid. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Bile, Chemistry). Taxis.—Manipulation (literally, arrange- ment, Gr. Ttt^is, from rao-o-w, I arrange), especi-