530 TEETH those cases where the exostosis recurs on one side of root only or in patches. In well-marked cases of the disease distinct laminations are observed, lacunae and canaliculfe being scattered through them, intercommunicating with each other (Fig. 14). Two or three teeth or roots are occasionally found united together by cementum. Syrnjjtoms.—When the disease has its origin in a tooth also affected by caries, it is extremely difficult to diagnose, owing to the similarity of the symptoms to other pathological conditions, such as chronic pulpitis, etc., and this is much more the case when the crown of the tooth is free from any lesion. Neuralgic pain in face, head, or neck may be, and often is, the only indication of disease, making it very difficult to diagnose which tooth is at fault; and it is only after prolonged suffering that a diagnosis can be made, the tooth becoming painful on tapping, or to thermal changes. A ready method of diagnosing exostosis can be effected by taking a skiagram of the teeth on the side affected. In some cases tooth after tooth has to be sacrificed on account of this disease. The variety of exostosis which is productive of the most agonis- ing pain is the isolated nodule, which fortunately is somewhat rarer than most of the other forms. The severe pain incident to this condition is produced by the pi'essure of those irregular growths on the irritated nerves of the peri- dental membrane. Treatment.—Extraction. Pyobrhcea Alveolaris Pyorrhoea is a disease which has been prev- alent among mankind and also some of our domesticated pets from the earliest times. The local conditions to which the name pyorrhoea has been applied consist in a deeply congested condition of the mucous membrane round the necks of the affected teeth, to which it is non- adherent, accompanied by a thick, fojtid, puru- lent, or sanious discharge, laden with micro- organisms, exuding down between the gum and the tooth on pressure being applied, and which communicates a most offensive odour to the breath. After a time the alveoli become ab- sorbed, and the peridental membrane of the root is gradually destroyed, accompanied by loosen- ing of the tooth, exposure of part of the root, and a deposit thereon of salivary calculus of a greenish brown colour—though this is not invari- ably the case. In some conditions of this dis- ease there is no recession of the gum, and little or no tartar present. One tooth only, or several, may be attacked at a time, and the front teeth are more prone to this disease than the posterior. The disease may be acute or chronic, and gener- ally occurs in patients of middle age, and who are in a debilitated condition, suffering from some chronic disorder, such as gout, syphilis, Bright's disease, anaemia, tuberculosis, etc. Or the cause may be local, such as oral uncleanli- ness, the presence of tartar, or badly adapted artificial plates or crowns. The disease in its earlier stages is quite curable, but if allowed to progress till the tooth socket has been destroyed little good can be done. The extraction of affected teeth stops short the disease, and it is of interest to note that the destruction of the pulp likewise has this effect. Medical opinion in recent years, in reference to pyorrhoea, seems to bear out the idea that this disease is a fre- quent source, when neglected, of various dis- eased conditions in the lungs, bronchial tubes, pharynx, pericardium, etc. (Spencer, Savill, Ewart, Godlee, etc.). There is no doubt that very septic conditions frequently prevail in pyorrhcea cases, making it a source of danger. There are differences of opinion as to whether the disease is due to local or constitutional causes. Treatment.—The Americans, attributing this disease largely to the presence in the blood of uric acid, treat it accordingly; but there is no warrant for this belief, or that it should be pro- duced by this diathesis, more than that of any of the other conditions predisposing to it already mentioned. Local treatment consists of syring- ing out the gum sockets with 3 per cent HjOg or pyrozone, then follow up with a drop or two of pure carbolic acid, or with a flattened piece of wood pack the pockets with powdered sul- phate of copper. The latter treatment should be repeated every four or five days, and gener- ally in a few weeks results in a marked im- provement of the symptoms. All loose teeth should be removed, and also any tartar cover- ing the root, special instruments having to be used for this purpose. Another very valuable adjunct in the treatment of this troublesome disease is electricity applied by means of zinc or copper electrodes applied to the gum pockets in the presence of dilute acid, the beneficial effect of the acid salts so generated being obtained on the diseased tissues. Irregularity in Number, Size, and Position of the Teeth. Deficiency of Teeth.—The tooth, per- haps, most frequently absent from the series is the maxillary lateral incisor; one or both may be absent, and this is very often an hereditary peculiarity. Absence of teeth, however, does not always mean their entire suppression, as they frequently are deeply buried in the sub- stance of the jaw, and only turn up after all the other teeth are lost. The most of the so- called cases of third dentitions are just analog- ous cases. The author has models of two cases where in edentulous subjects, one aged eighty- six, the other seventy-eight, two canines ap- peared. Cases have been recorded of the entire absence of both temporary and permanent denti- tions, or of the presence of only a few teeth in either jaw. Supernumerary teeth might be divided into—(1) teeth resembling the normal