RODENT ULCER 14 its course, unless it should attack sensitive structures, the patient rarely complains of any pain. Itching, however, is usually a prominent and early symptom. In its early stages, if the parts are kept clean the ulcer may heal up, and then a very characteristic appearance is presented, which has been compared to a flat valley surrounded by ridges of hills. The patient often congratulates himself that the disease has disappeared, but the improvement is a misleading one, for the growth continues to extend under the surface. The origin of the disease has been the subject of much acrimonious discussion, some maintain- ing that it developed from the hair follicles, and others that it arose from the sweat or sebaceous glands. In the architecture of the growths there is often a suggestion of one or other of these origins; one form may have a tubular appearance, and thus suggest the sweat gland, another may spread in an acinous manner like the sebaceous one, while in some the close packing of the cells suggests the " whorled" appearance often seen in the hair follicles. Most of the observations have been made on cases of considerable standing. If the tumours are removed in the pre-ulcerative state, or better still, if moles are removed before there is any question of their being malignant, all the various forms may be found. In a chance collection of moles all the varieties of architec- ture seen in rodent ulcer may be observed. One form is tubular, another acinous ; in another the cells are arranged in an alveolar manner; indeed it is, without a knowledge of the history, often impossible to say whether a particular specimen is a mole or a rodent. Moles are really collections of epithelial cells which have become detached from the sui-face epidermis, and in most cases maintain a purely vegetative existence. If specimens are taken from infants or young children their develop- ment from the surface epithelium may be readily studied; and it is probable that Sir Benjamin Brodie's clinical observation made long ago, that rodent ulcer developed from an irritated mole, is the correct one. Diagnosis.—In the pre-ulcerative stage, where it resembles a mole, there are no points of distinction from that except the fact that it is increasing in size, and the removal of moles in the suspicious situations is always desirable. When ulceration has set in it may be confounded with syphilitic or tuberculous ulceration, both of which are fi'equently seen on the face. From the former it should be easily distinguished by its relative slowness of growth ; for a syphilitic ulcer will attain in a week or two a size which it would take a rodent months to reach. From a tuberculous ulcer the diagnosis is not so easy. While tubercle is essentially a disease of youth and rodent of middle age, exceptions occur in both cases. The tuberculous ulcer, however, lacks the characteristic edge of rodent, and the rodent ulcer the apple-jelly nodules of lupus. Prognosis.—The prognosis, unless treatment is efficacious, is extremely grave, for although the progress is slow it is steadily onwards. Treatment. — Moles may be destroyed by electrolysis. Like all caustic methods, electrol- ysis has it risks, for if the destruction is not absolute the irritation may result in stimulating the disease to fresh activity. The real treat- ment consists in early recognition and complete removal by the knife. The majority of cases of recurrence are due to the conservatism of the surgeon, who is anxious to destroy the patient's appearance as little as possible. The incision must be quite clear of the edge laterally, and the entire thickness of the skin must be removed. Some years ago the writer received a most instructive lesson. A small rodent about the size of a silver penny was removed from the face of a lady. Next day examination of the specimen showed that the knife had divided one cancerous globule. A further portion of the skin was therefore forthwith removed, and in it was found the other half. Had the examination not been made it would have been written down as another case of recurrence, whereas the fact was that the disease had not been removed. The patient was the wife of a medical man, who reports that now, six years after the operation, there has been no recurrence. When the ulcer has reached the size of a shilling the scar left by removal is often unsightly, and in such cases the method strongly recommended by so many American dermatologists, and by Unna, and Czerny, of destroying the growth by means of arsenious acid may be adopted. It must be explained to the patient that the pain is very great, and while means may be taken to modify it, the method is inapplicable in weak, nervous patients. Equal parts of arsenious acid and acacia powder are made into a paste with a little water, and applied to the part. If the skin over the edges is thick it should be curetted, or as some recommend, be painted with liq. potassse, which dissolves the epidermis. The duration of application depends on the extent of destruction which is necessary. Arsenic has some of the selective action which salicylic acid has on lupus; it destroys the cancerous tissue, while only inflaming what is healthy. When the destruction has been sufficient, poultices may be applied to hasten the separation of the slough and encourage the granulations to fill up the loss of tissue. This method thoroughly carried out is justifiable in certain cases, but there is no doubt that the knife, in capable hands, is a more certain method of treatment. Perhaps one of the most wonderful of all the properties of the X-rays is their effect upon this