437 SUPPURATION responsible for the general dissolution inside the abscess cavity. All leucocytes having reached or entered the infected area immediately incor- porate many of the invading micro-organisms, and may either digest them, or may themselves be killed by this intimate relationship. Apart from being killed by the organism actually included, many of the exuded cells, at fii'st at any rate, are killed by toxic products, and may be seen spherical, breaking up, and undergoing granular, fatty, and other degenerations. Some observers state that they have demonstrated lardaceous degeneration in leucocytes and pus cells a few hours after infection. It is by no means easy to confirm these statements. In the early stages of abscess formation {i.e. the first two or three days) emigration is not by any means limited to the actual site of the micro-organisms. From many capillaries in the apparently normal neighbourhood leucocytes have emigrated, or are collecting in greater number than normal round the margin of the interior of the vessel walls. This is not so marked in the later stages (seventh day). Since the discovery of the phenomenon of diapedesis by Cohnheim many ingenious at- tempts have been made to solve the problem as to what can be the power of attraction of the white cells towards the area of infection. In recent years new light has been thrown upon this complicated subject by experiments made on leucocytes, on many lower animals, and on many plants possessed of amoeboid movements. It has been found that the direction of these movements can be profoundly altered by a variety of physical agents, such as light, contact, heat, galvanism, gravity, chemicals, atmospheric pressure, and so forth, these agents possessing the power of attracting or repelling the organ- isms of experiment. For example, the sper- matozoids of ferns are attracted by certain chemicals (positive chemotaxis) and repelled by others (negative chemotaxis). The fact that bacteria and their products have been found experimentally capable of acting upon white blood corpuscles has been applied by Leber and most subsequent writers to the solution of the problems of inflammation and suppuration as seen in man and in the higher animals. How- ever tempting it may be to accept these views, our present knowledge does not justify us in looking; upon them as final. B. The fluid element of pus is yellow, some- times yellowish - green, and ti-ansparent; it coagulates on the addition of nitric acid, but it does not coagulate spontaneously; many of its constituents depend upon the micro-organism to which its formation has been due. Among many products of bacteria separated from arti- ficial cultures made in media containing albu- min and peptone, may be mentioned Buchner's mycoprotein, Leber's pylogosin, as well as sub- stances separated by Brieger and others—pro- ducts which are capable of provoking suppura- tion. A more important observation is that of Denys and van der Velde, who have separated " leucocidine" from the pleural exudate of rabbits inoculated with virulent staphylococci. These authors say it is a special and very powerful poison secreted by this organism, and that its action on normal leucocytes is to destroy them in a few seconds. On the other hand, if the exudate be heated for ten minutes at 60° C. the leucocytes are unaffected. The same authors have also obtained an anti-toxin capable of neutralising the leucocidine ; this they term " anti-leucocidine." Like the blood-plasma from which it comes, the fluid element of pus contains no fibrinogen. It is richer in proteids than is ordinary lymph, the proteids being serum albu- min and serum globulin; albumoses and pep- tones derived from the leucocytes and tissue cells destroyed by the toxic products of bacteria are also found. Lecithin is more abundant than in blood. Leucin and tyrosin have also been found. The fluid contains chloride of sodium, carbonates, and phosphates, to which pus owes its alkalinity. The question whether the fluid of pus or the cells of pus possess some or any of the functions necessary to rid the host of the invading micro- organism or neutralise its products is discussed elsewhere. Apart from these possible properties, the fluid of pus serves to dilute the poison and flush out the diseased area. III. Every circumscribed abscess has at first all the microscopical characteristics of a diff'use abscess, and it must be admitted that if a large dose of a highly virulent pyogenic micro-organ- ism be inoculated into a susceptible host, an abscess wall of new formation is impossible all the time the micro-organism is infiltrating, killing, liquefying, and peptonising tissues with which it comes in contact. In a section of subcutaneous tissue, twenty-four hours after its inoculation with pyogenic cocci, will be seen micro-organisms, emigrated cells, and dead tissue massed at one spot in the adipose tissue; but there is as yet no wall. Nevertheless, the spread of the abscess, for such it already is, is here and there being abruptly stopped by the fibrous tissue supporting the larger blood-vessels which traverse the subcutaneous tissue. The stoppage is quite accidental; it depends on pre- existing tissue that happens to be there, and does not constitute a true abscess wall. This state of things continues till the end of about forty-eight hours, at which time, in the normal fibrous tissue surrounding the abscess, but not actually involved in it, there may be seen here and there young granulation tissue. Such young tissue is seen separating the fibres from and among which it is derived. Young vessels can already be seen in this new tissue. This is the beginning of an abscess wall. The particular connective tissue from which the