SURGICAL 392 STOMACH: pancreas is a serious complication, as their removal adds greatly to the difficulty of a radical operation. Infection of the portal or retro-peritoneal glands contra-indicates such a procedure. 3. Adhesions to and implication of adjacent organs add to the risk of a curative operation and diminish the chances of its achievement. Those most likely to be involved are the colon, omentum, liver, pancreas, and abdominal wall. It is quite possible to successfully remove a portion of one or other of these structures, but it is rarely worth while to do so. Secondary growths in the peritoneum or liver contra- indicate removal. Having investigated and determined the above conditions, the surgeon must thereupon decide whether he is to abandon further inter- ference and close the belly, or proceed to the radical operation, or perform a palliative opera- tion with the object of diminishing the suffer- ings of the patient and of prolonging his life. The Radical Operation : Resection of the Can- cerous Portion of the Stomach and Removal of the Associated Glands.—The sharp definition of the growth at the pylorus resulting from the absence of communication between the duo- denal and gastric lymphatics allows of the section being made close to the tumour. On the cardiac side the growth usually extends in the submucous coat beyond its apparent margin, so that the section should be made at least 2^ inches beyond this. The glands are removed along with the growth. There need be no fear of removing an amount of stomach beyond that which will permit of end-to-end junction of the divided viscera, as it is always possible to close each of them and re-establish communication by means of a gastro-jejunostomy. Results of Resection. — The mortality is necessarily high, probably about 30 per cent in experienced hands; the chief causes of death are shock, peritonitis, pneumonia, and gangrene of the colon. The mortality will probably be reduced when cases are brought to operation at an earlier stage of the disease. Permanent Cwes.—These would appear to be quite as numerous as after operations for cancer of the tongue or rectum. As such we may regard those who are alive and well four years after the operation. Kocher, Jessop, Mikulicz, Billroth, Hahn, and others report cases alive and well after eight years. The histological characters of the cancer have a certain bearing on this question, the columnar epithelioma yielding the most favourable results because of its better definition and moi-e accurate removal. 2%e Condition of those who Recover.—The majority regain their former health and put on weight rapidly—up to 50 or 60 lbs. The motor functions of the stomach are recovered, the organ is able to empty itself, and the lactic acid diminishes or disappears. The hydro- chloric acid may or may not return ; where it is permanently absent, the patient may suffer from gastric discomfort and may be incapable of digesting butcher-meat unless the acid is administered along with the food. If only a small portion of the stomach is preserved, the patient may be compelled to take small meals at frequent intervals. Recurrence. — If this is going to occur it iisually shows itself within two years. If it take place locally, the former gastric sufferings return and the disease runs its course as if no operation had been performed. If it take the form of secondary growths in the liver, peri- toneum, or glands, the patient usually succumbs painlessly and without stomach symptoms. Palliative Operations. •— The tendency is to restrict these within narrow limits. Gastro- enterostomy is only to be performed if the patient suffers decidedly from pyloric obstruction, and yet has a fair prospect of living for some time. In many cases the vomiting ceases, the nutri- tion improves, and for a time the patient may feel quite well; but in a considerable proportion it gives no relief at all, or the patient never recovers his former health and strength. The mortality is fully as high as after resection, chiefly because it is performed on patients who are unable to stand the radical operation. The causes of death are the same as after resection. The prolongation of life varies very widely : the longest recorded survivals in undoubted cancer are 2\years (Mikulicz), 3 J years (Strauss), and 3^ years (Alsberg). The majority succumb to the original disease within a few months. Von Eiselsberg has practised exclusion of the pylorus, in addition to gastro-enterostomy, in order to prevent the discharge from the disin- tegrating cancer passing back into the stomach ; this is carried out by dividing the stomach on the cardiac side of the growth and stitching up each open end of the gastric tube. Resection of the cancerous segment of stomach as a palliative operation is recommended by Mikulicz and by Robson and Moynihan. Ac- cording to Mikulicz the mortality is less than after gastro-enterostomy, there is greater relief from pain, there is more often increase in the body weight and strength, and the subsequent death is more often an easy one, being usually due to secondary growths. Robson and Moy- nihan affirm that a local extirpation, even if followed by recurrence, will probably prolong life for a greater period and in greater comfort than a gastro-enterostomy. It is only feasible, however, in a small proportion of cases. Jejunosto7ny, with the object of putting the stomach at rest, when radical removal of the cancer or gastro-enterostomy is impracticable, has been strongly recommended by Maydl. Most surgeons prefer to close the belly under these conditions, as life can only be prolonged for a few weeks, and the state of the patient