179 SKIN—TUBERCULOSIS by the catarrh. But in the warty and in the fibroid forms of the disease they are often exceed- ingly difficult to recognise. In all cases the use of the diascopic method is to be strongly recommended. In addition to direct observation, a good deal of useful information can be got from the history. It is not likely that a patch of eczema, or, indeed, of any other inflammation of the skin than a tuberculous one, would last for eight or nine years, as these cases frequently do, and suspicions of a tuberculous nature being aroused, careful examination will usually lead to their confirmation. The greatest difficulty in connection with diagnosis is when a chronic ulcer occurs on the face of a patient of middle age. There are two diseases which under the circum- stances may be confused with tuberculosis. These are syphilis and rodent ulcer. There are certain differences between each, but these differences must be estimated as a whole and together; too much stress must not be laid on one. Tuberculosis is most apt to commence in youth, syphilis and rodent ulcer toward middle age. The rate of progress is slow in tuber- culosis, rapid in syphilis, and slow again in rodent. There is nothing very characteristic in the syphilitic ulcer, but the apple-jelly nodule of lupus and the pearly edge of rodent ulcer are each almost pathognomonic. Rodent ulcer is nearly always single, tubercle in this situation very often so ; if carefully sought for, some other sign of syphilis will be found elsewhere. If dependence is to be placed on the effects of treat- ment as a means of diagnosis between syphilis and tuberculosis, the trial must be a thorough one, and judgment must not be entered on the results of one bottle of iodide of potassium mixture. There is one routine examination which should never be omitted. No case of lupus of the face should ever be allowed to go with the mucous membrane of the nose and the gums unexamined. The proportion of cases in which the gum is affected is enormous, and the pro- portion of cases in which its occurrence is overlooked, lamentable. Lupus of the mucous membrane naturally looks different from the disease in the skin, on account, first, of the redness of the surrounding tissue, and, second, of the moist condition in which it is constantly kept. The nodules are usually a little elevated over the surface, and the whole area has an embossed appearance like shagreen leather. The disease in this situation often gives rise to little inconvenience, and patients are often unaware of its existence. Prognosis.—This is by no means easy. Cases which are left to nature usually occur in the lower classes, where the added disadvantages of insufficient care, food, etc., must be taken into account. If a simple case of lupus were left to itself, and the parts kept clean, and if the patient happened to be in good circumstances, the natural course would be for the disease to extend very slowly though steadily. Any disturbance of health would always involve the risk of catarrhal complications, with in- creased disfigurement and more rapid extension of the disease. On the other hand, cases are sometimes immensely improved by a simple change of residence to a more healthy locality, where the patient, usually a child, has the opportunity of being much in the fresh air. Indeed, it is unnecessary to waste words on this question. The prognosis of lupus is exactly the same as that of tuberculosis generally. When it is catarrhal, progress will be rapid ; when it is fibroid, advance is slow. When treatment is taken into account in the prognosis, we are still by no means certain of our ground. In the first place, all the various factors, such as the health of the patient, the surroundings, etc., have to be taken into consideration. When that is done, we can consider the bearing of the treatment directly and alone; and it must be most clearly understood by the patient that if he desires to get completely rid of his disease, which is quite possible for him to do, he must submit himself to a prolonged course of treat- ment, that patience must be wanting neither on his side nor on that of his physician, and that a certain amount of irksome detail must be attended to for years. The perfunctory surgical treatment of lupus, scraping a case and then not seeing it again for six months, has no prognosis, but if the case be carefully attended to after such an operation the chances are by no means bad. The fibroid variety of the disease has the best prognosis, cases on the limbs often recovering without any treatment while the catarrhal form has the worst. Treatment. — One object of dwelling so definitely on the varieties of the disease, and pointing out the essential differences of one from the other, was to make it clear that the treatment of all is not alike. Obviously the same treatment is not applicable to a case scabbed and discharging, as to a hard, fibroid patch. The aim of treatment is to reduce the complicated to the simple form, to get rid of the complications, and then to treat the disease directly. This involves separate consideration of the different varieties. After they have been dealt with, the treatment of lupus as a whole will be considered. Catarrhal Lupus.—This, as the commonest form of the disease, may be taken first. As has already been pointed out, this catarrh is due to the presence of micro-organisms and their products, and these must be got rid of. Though there are many methods, the simplest and most efficacious is the sharp spoon. It removes diseased tissues and organisms en masse, and will do in ten minutes what less active treatment will take weeks to accomplish.