122 SENILE INSANITY heart, which is often hypertrophied, beats more rapidly than in adult life, and with irregularity in its action. The digestive system is subject to disorder, and diarrhoea is frequent. Passing attacks of pareses, accompanied by inco-ordina- tion and increase of the mental confusion, and with rises of temperature, may confine them to bed for some days. They become gradually more inactive, less able to be out of bed, and increasing weakness leads by slow steps to death. This may occur from a slow marasmus, due to failure of trophic power; but generally some intercurrent disease, an apoplexy or throm- bosis in the brain, or congestion of the lungs or pneumonia, cuts them off. Such is the course of simple dementia. Its duration varies greatly. It may be taken as a rule that it lasts from two to four years. There are acute cases in which all the stages are passed through in from four to six months; on the other hand, there may be periods of remission in the progress of the disease, which may defer its termination for some eight or ten years. A steady down- ward course is, however, the more usual history. (b) Complicated Dementia.—The course and character of simple dementia may be altered or complicated by special features. Some of these may be briefly considered. 1. Senile Paralytic Dementia. — Clinically, these cases are closely allied to general paralysis, and histologically sections from the brain cortex of the two states cannot always be differentiated ; facts which point to a common origin, if not, indeed, to the identity of the two conditions. These cases occur most frequently in males. The dementia is marked and rapid, characterised by facileness and fatuity. There may be delusions of grandeur more or less marked. In this class of case the motor weakness is decided, and inco-ordinations, pareses of groups of muscles, inequality of the pupils, parsesthesips, and other sensory phenomena, and early loss of power in the sphincter, are present. Epi- leptiform attacks or congestion seizures occur, as in general paralysis, and are often fatal. The course is rapid and ends fatally, usually within eighteen months. 2. Dementia with Gross Lesion.—The symp- toms vary greatly with the situation and size of the lesion. When the damage is not too great, mild enfeeblement of all the mental functions may alone be observable, and this may not show the usual progressive nature. Usually there is irritability, emotionalism, change of character, and there may be restless- ness and confusion, with degraded habits. When motor tracts are involved, aphasia or paralysis of special muscles may complicate the mental condition, and when hemiplegia or other marked result confines them to bed, trophic lesions are prone to follow. Damage to the sensory areas is often accompanied by acute hallucinations—as, for example, when blindness results from injury to the occipital lobes, the visions may be so vivid that the person imagines he has regained his sight. Many of the cases with gross lesions are very acute in their degree, and all require careful attention. 3. Dementia vdth Apsychosis.—Dementia and the psychoses act and react on one another, altering the symptomatology of both. The gradual failure of the various centres forms a very favourable soil for the growth of many false ideas, and for the rise of errors of judg- ment or impulsive acts, which the coexistently weakened will power is unable to check. These psychoses should be considered as a superadded factor in the clinical picture of simple dementia. They are very changing in their phases, and may pass off, leaving always the substratum of the quieter dementia. They will be con- sidered in the following section. Psychoses of Senility—{a) Melancholia.—• This is the most common form of psychosis in senility, and it varies from the most mild to the most acute forms. There may be merely a passing want of interest' in their surroundings, with feelings of inactivity and slight gloom. When more decided there are two types of cases—first, those who are very depressed and miserable, with melancholic expression and attitude, who sit mute and not moving voluntarily for hours. They are generally sleepless and constipated, with feeble and irregular action of the heart, and witii coldness and lividity of the extremities. In these cases there are often feelings of great dread of impending calamity or misfoi'tune, associated with hallucinations of sight and hearing, In the second type the mental reduction is greater, and they are the restless, excited, and agitated class who emit groanings and cries of despair. There are marked motor signs, wringing of the hands, and uneasy pacings up and down, passing into a state of intense and inco-ordinate mean- ingless struggles, in which there is complete oblivion to their evironment, and where there are hallucinations of overpowering vividness. Speech may be incoherent, rambling, and confused. These persons have frequently delusions that they have committed great sins, and pray incessantly to be delivered from the punishment they imagine due for these. At- tempts at suicide are thus not uncommon, and may be repeated and desperate. This state is often associated with marked arterio-sclerosis. When dementia is present the depression may, in the milder cases, only be recognisable by the expression and tone of voice, and even when very marked there is a tendency to automatism in their groanings and movements which shows the underlying enfeeblement. These motor signs may be present even in the last stage of dementia, but as a rule their condition becomes then more listless and apathetic. There may be tearless weeping, which comes and goes