144 SHOULDER, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF partly to the fact that it is one of the most movable joints in the human body. Anatomy.—It is unnecessary to enter into full anatomical details, but certain pecuharities of structure may be pointed out because they have a direct bearing upon the pathology of the joint. The shoulder is surrounded by muscles of great strength, except upon its inferior aspect. The capsule is so loose that when these muscles are all divided the humerus may be drawn away from the scapula for nearly an inch. The capsule is thicker above than below, and it is reinforced on all sides by accessory structures, externally by the coraco-humeral ligament, behind by the tendons of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor, in front by the subscapularis. The capsular ligament is per- forated at three separate places, viz., at the lower part and in front by the long head of the biceps; behind, where the tendon of the subscapularis enters to attach itself to the lesser tuberosity, and by a less constant opening for the infraspinatus. The synovial membrane is for the most part simple in its arrangement, but it is prolonged through these openings in the capsule, the most complete prolongation extending along the tendon of the biceps, which it surrounds in such a manner that the tendon passes through the joint without opening into it. The actual articulating surfaces are neither large nor complete. They consist of the pear- shaped and slightly concave glenoid cavity of the scapula, upon which the ball-shaped head of the humerus moves freely. The joint is protected above by the bony arch formed by the union of the clavicle with the acromion, whilst on its inner side is the hooked process of bone called the coracoid. The epiphyses are numerous and important, because the apparently simple shoulder girdle of man is formed by the fusion and remodelling of many parts which are separate in the lower vertebrates. The more important epiphyses in connection with the scapula are those of the acromion, of which the upper one may remain separate throughout life, and that of the coracoid process. In the humerus, the upper epiphysis forms the head of the bone, and its line of attachment is marked by the surgical neck in the adult. But this epiphysis is itself composed of a primary centre of ossification, marked by the anatomical neck, with which are fused the epiphyses of the greater and lesser tuberosities. The superposition of bones, muscles, and muscular attachments at the shoulder leads to the formation of many bursse. The chief of these bursse are the subcoracoid, the subacromial, the bursa beneath the pectoralis major at its insertion, and the bursa between the tendons of the pectoralis major and the teres major. A large multilocular bursa lies beneath the deltoid, and there is a bursa beneath the infraspinatus, when there is no prolongation of the synovial membrane of the joint at this spot. The axilla lies on the inner aspect of the joint, and its contents have to be reckoned with in all injuries and many diseases of the shoulder. The space contains the vessels and nerves which connect the trunk with the arm, enclosed in loose connective tissue, in which are embedded the lymphatic glands. The axillary space is closed below by the dense axillary fascia. The connective tissue running in front of the vessels and nerves as they pass through the axilla, is thicker and denser than in other parts of the space. It is called the suspensory ligament, and is attached to the clavicle above,_ enclosing the subclavius muscle. It then forms a sheath for the pectoralis minor, and afterwards blends with the axillary fascia, which it supports, and renders concave downwards. It often opens out just before it joins the axillary fascia to form a little pocket, in which lie three or four of the largest axillary glands. The suspensory ligament is important in operating upon cases of cancer of the breast, for if it be removed entire, the infraclavicular, the pectoral, and most of the subscapular group of glands will also be removed, as they are closely attached to it. The axillary fascia often presents an open- ing which resembles the saphenous opening in the thigh. It transmits the intercosto-humeral nerve, and the long thoracic artery. An axillary abscess may find its way to the surface through this opening or weakened portion of the fascia, which is situated midway between the anterior and posterior folds of the axilla, just at the inner margin of the hair which grows in the armpit, but such an abscess more often burrows towards the apex of the axilla. The large axillary vessels and nerves lie in the outer wall of the axilla; the long thoracic artery runs along the anterior wall; and the subscapular, the dorsalis scapulte, and the posterior circumflex vessels are closed to the posterior wall. The line of safety, therefore, in opening an axillary abscess runs from the centre of the axilla, not too near the apex, along the inner or thoracic wall of the space. Bursal Enlargements.—The bursse near the shoulder joint are numerous, and in some cases, as has been shown, are in reality prolongations of the synovial membrane. They may be acutely or chronically inflamed. The acute inflamma- tion may result from sprains or blows; the chronic inflammation is nearly always tubercu- lous. Osteoarthritis has often been assigned as a cause, but inoculation experiments with the fluid obtained from such bursse will nearly always demonstrate the presence of tuberculous infec- tion. I have seen syphilitic enlargement of the bursse near the shoulder in a few cases. Treatment.—In the simpler cases the arm should be kept at rest, and evaporating lotion or