360 STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF two groups of cases usually takes some time, weeks or months, to be established ; but there is sometimes met with an acute form of this con- dition, the cause of which is often obscure. To this category belong those cases of gastroectasis which develop in connection with some of the acute infective diseases, when the walls of the stomach may be supposed to be weakened by the toxic substances produced in the course of these maladies. Similar acute dilatation which sometimes occurs in nervous states, such as hysteria aud neurasthenia, are far less easy of explanation. A large secretion of fluid, amounting to several pints, is usually found in these acute cases. The extent to which the stomach may dis- tend from these various causes is very variable, though occasionally enormous—three or four times the normal capacity. With this extreme enlargement the organ tends to fall in the abdomen, the upper part of which it nearly fills, and the lower margin may reach almost or quite to the pubis, bending upwards from the right iliac fossa towards the duodenum, which remains, except perhaps for the first part, almost constant in position. In other and less extreme cases the stomach lies transversely across the abdomen from left to right hypo- chondriac region, with the lower limit some- where below the level of the iimbilicus; and in exceptional cases the dilated viscus chiefly occupies the left side of the abdomen, being more vertical in position. These displacements downwards are most marked when the cause is an obstruction at the pylorus, and the greatest distension is associated with non-malignant stenosis. In the enlargement from atony the stomach seems rather to dilate upwards (Broad- bent). Except for such thickenings as may be due to new growths, and hypertrophy of the muscular layer, the walls of the dilated stomach are much thinner than normal, though rupture is of doubtful occurrence except there be previous ulceration or injury. In great eaters, and particularly when the food is chiefly vegetable, the stomach may exceed its normal size and capacity, but so long as there is no undue delay in the emptying of the viscus the condition is not to be clinically regarded as one of disease. Dilatation of the stomach and displacement of the right kidney have been noted as frequently coexisting. As the result of obstruction in its lower part the duodenum may become enormously dilated, the stomach being commonly also involved. The duodenum also appears to exhibit a special proneness to become sacculated as compared with the rest of the canal, and Drs. Perry and Shaw have suggested that this may be due to "an unusual degree of intra-intestinal pressure in this part of the alimentary tube." The base of an ulcer in this situation may yield and give rise to a diverticulum, or the bowel may be dragged on from outside by adhesions, forming "retraction sacculi." Sometimes no such cause is to be discovered. Occasionally, two saccules may be met with, preferably in the neighour- hood of the biliary papilla. The pouches are lined by a normal mucous membrane, which is wanting when there has been a previous ulcer, and are formed by all the coats, being about an inch in diameter. Sometimes the sac consists of a protrusion of the mucosa between the separated fibres of the thinned muscular layer, and covered by the peritoneum. The various causes of pyloric stenosis have been incidentally referred to, and may be collectively enumerated thus : (a) congenital, (b) fibroid overgrowth, malignant and non- malignant, (c) growths in the pyloric region, (d) cicatricial contraction of scar following ulceration, (e) pressure of growth from without, (/) displacement of pylorus by adhesions or by dilatation of stomach, causing kinking of the duodenum and functional constriction of the pyloric orifice, the so-called "stenosis by dis- location." Oastroptosis.—Besides the alterations in posi- tion assumed by the stomach in consequence of its increase in size, the organ may "drop" from its proper situation as a part of a general ptosis of the abdominal viscera, and less frequently may alone be so displaced. Deformities of the trunk from spinal curvature, tight lacing, etc., may also lead to some change in position of the viscus, which in these cases is otherwise normal. As the result of adhesive peritonitis the stomach may become fixed by firm fibrous adhesions to the diaphragm, abdominal wall, spleen, and other structures, and some distortion of the organ may result therefrom. Rupture of the healthy stomach or of the duodenum may be the result of injury, blows over the epigastrium, especially when distended by a meal, or being run over by a wheel. The existence of ulceration may favour the accident. Laceration of the duodenum has also been attributed to severe and prolonged vomiting. Fistulous communications between the stomach or duodenum and adjacent parts may be established by morbid conditions originating in the latter. Thus the gall-bladder or colon may ulcerate through into the duodenum, or abscesses in various situations, hydatid cysts, or aneurysms may burst into the stomach or bowel. Various foreign bodies that have been swal- lowed, or that may otherwise have gained en- trance into the stomach or duodenum, may be found therein. Masses of hair, string, coco-nut fibre, etc., felted together, pins, nails, etc., have been seen in the stomach in lunatics or hysterical patients. Gall-stones may lodge in the duo- denum, and ascaris lumbricoides is sometimes to be met with as high up in the canal, whilst