245 POISONOUS FISHES SNAKE-BITES AND Sir Joseph Fayrer found that cobra venom killed without destroying the coagulability of the blood, whilst Daboia (viper) poison caused complete and permanent fluidity, the blood of the animals so killed being excessively toxic. Cobra poison produces little change in the pupil, Daboia widely dilates; salivation is a constant symptom of the former, rare in the latter. When experimenting with venoms, Calmette and others at Lille use only the non-coagulable proteid, by which means they get rid of the intense local reaction of the second proteid ; and as the chief toxic properties are in the former, the physiological effects of the venom are better thus watched. He also at once mixes up the venoms of all his snakes, from the sum total of which he obtains his dried toxin for experimental purposes. It has been found that the non-coagulable filtrate of all venomous snakes, whether Viperine or Colubrine, has, when injected, the same characters and gives rise to the same symptoms. The rapidity of the onset and the severity of the case depends on whether the virus is in- jected direct into a vein or into the subcutaneous tissue. It is rarely absorbed by healthy mucous membranes, but Fayrer is strongly adverse to the practice of sucking cobra bites. Also, re- cently ejected venom acts as a powerful local irritant when applied to the conjunctiva, and may be absorbed. The question of absorption and the neutral- isation of venom by the various secretions of the body is of great interest, having been specially studied by Prof. Eraser and Capt. Elliot, I.M.S. Martin states that gastric digestion does not aS'ect cobra or Pseudechis venom. Mitchell says it does that of the rattlesnake. Eraser found that snake venom introduced by the mouth was not followed by any bad results. This was either due to non-absorption or to chemical changes produced there by the gastric secretions. The latter was disproved by finding that after removal it still retained poisonous properties when injected into the blood. He next found that by mixing bile with the venom it was rendered innocuous. Elliot has since, by experiments on dogs, proved that after diverting the bile completely, venom given by the mouth was still innocuous, but that if introduced into the small gut, it was rapidly absorbed through an unbroken epithelial surface, causing death. He concludes (1) That cobra poison can be absorbed through the mucous membrane of the small gut, though not so readily as when injected in the sub- cutaneous tissues. (2) That some change is induced in the swallowed cobra venom before it reaches a rapidly absorbing surface. (3) That though bile is powerfully antidotal, as proved by Eraser, yet it is not the only pro- tective agent. (4) That trypsin is very powerful in reducing the lethal properties of cobra venom. Martin states that all venoms are destroyed by pan- creatic digestion. The result of all venoms is at first to produce a rapid fall in the blood pressure, during which the animal may die; if not, the blood pressure again rises, going above normal, as occurs after the injection of toxic peptones. In cobra poisoning the blood pressure may remain high until the time of death, even during the as- phyxial period; if artificial respiration is then efiiciently carried out, convulsions are prevented and life may be saved. Lauder Brunton and Fayrer concluded that, besides paralysing the reflex activity of the cord, the poison acts on the nerve endings in the muscles like " curare." In the poisoning by vipers and Australian snakes, the dyspnoea and fall of the blood pressure occur together; but though producing the same paralysis of the reflexes of the cord, they do not especially select the respiratory centre. In these cases, there- fore, artificial respiration is usually of little avail. The action of venom on the blood has been shown by Martin and Halford to cause a rapid destruction of the red corpuscles, the leucocytes being relatively increased in numbers, these very quickly degenerating, their vital activity being destroyed. Martin placed two small pieces of sponge antiseptically in the abdominal wall of a guinea-pig, one having been soaked in a neutral saline solution containing 1 per cent of venom, the other in the solution free from venom; oedema occurred around the sponge containing the venom. After five hours the animal was killed. Both sponges were with- drawn, hardened, and sections made from them. In the first, healthy leucocytes were only found at the periphery, broken down ones filling the interior; in the second, the whole was permeated with healthy phagocytes. Calmette, from his experiments, finds that the venom does not act directly on the nerve- cells of the brain, but on the leucocytes, and that it is carried by them to the bulbo-medullary centre. The rapidity with which venom acts depends on (1) The quantity injected. (2) The rapidity of absorption. (3) The condition of the snake at the time of the bite. (4) The susceptibility of the animal; the personal factor, as pointed out by Elliot, being very important. A minimum lethal dose always takes a con- siderable time to produce its results, and, as the amount injected is generally small, there is frequently time to apply remedial measures. Calmette gives the toxicity of venoms ac- cording to their virulence, based on the number