285 SPINAL CORD The protoplasm of the cell acquires an opaque, " ground glass" appearance. It becomes vacuolated, ceases to stain, and its processes break off, and finally it under- goes fatty degeneration and disappears. In chronic affections, such as progressive muscular atrophy, and in the spinal form of lead paralysis, an entirely different sequence of changes occurs :—■ The cells gradually shrink, the nucleus re- maining throughout in a central position. The tigroid bodies lose their distinctness, and the protoplasm and cell processes stain more and more deeply as the cell diminishes in size. Later, a very small deeply staining mass at the junction of several well-marked pro- cesses is all that remains of the cell, and finally both this and the processes dis- appear. Great difficulty arises in determining the nature of the cell changes mentioned in the first group, since when a peripheral nerve or when either the anterior or posterior root is injured, similar changes are seen in the anterior horn cells corresponding. It is, then, almost impossible at present to determine whether the actual incidence of the toxine is upon the cell body or upon its processes. Take for an instance alcoholic neuritis, where the extremity of the longest process of the anterior horn cells in the limb region is affected. Does the poison act upon the ventral horn cell, the nutritive vitality of which being lowered, that part of the cell most distant from the seat of metabolism degenerates 1 The following facts support this view, that (1) Permanent paralysis and atrophy occur in some cases of alcoholic neuritis, the absence of regeneration of the nerve fibre indicating cell death; (2) All fatal cases of alcoholic neuritis die with bulbar para- lysis (Wernicke), and the final so-called " dia- phragmatic " palsy is in reality paralysis of res- piration in all its details, essentially a nuclear phenomenon. Does the toxine act upon the peripheral nerve fibres 1 If so, it has a minutely selective action upon certain physiological groups. The occur- rence of peripheral pain, however, in this dis- ease certainly favours the latter view. It has been suggested that in Landry's par- alysis an affection of the pyramid neurons (upper neurons) occurs similar to the affection of the lower neurons in peripheral neuritis. Degeneration and Regeneration of Nerve Fibres.—When a nerve cell dies partially or completely the nerve fibres arising from it undergo degeneration. The nerve fibre also degenerates when severed from its nerve cell. It is stated as the result of experiment that the degeneration of the nerve fibres occurs through- out the length of the nerve fibres. In the central nervous system of man, however, the stage of degeneration found in a given tract at different levels may vary greatly. It is certain that, as the result of a transverse lesion of the spinal cord, certain tracts degenerate much earlier than others; for example, the descend- ing mesencephalic tracts and GoU's column degenerate early, whereas the pyramidal tracts, degenerate relatively late. The phenomena of the process of degeneration in the spinal only differ from those seen in the peripheral nerves, in that since the medullary sheath of the fibres in the spinal cord contains no nuclei, there is no nuclear multiplication. The myelin breaks up into globules of varying size, the axis cylinder fragments, and is no longer visible ; the contents of the neurilemma then undergoes chemical change, so that it reduces osmic acid and stains black in the presence of a hardening agent. This reaction, which occurs only with degenerate myelin, is used as the specific test for a de- generate fibre. Regeneration.—In the peripheral nerves re- generation of fibres, both from the central and from the peripheral ends of a divided fibre, has been abundantly proved. In the central nervous system, on the other hand, while it is. probable that nerve fibres do regenerate to some extent, little is known as to the nature of the process. Nor can the prospect of regenera- tion be considered in the prognosis of any case. Degenerative Diseases.—It has been above stated that the distinction of the degenerative diseases from toxic diseases is for the most part artificial. The degenerations resulting from chronic toxic states, post-toxic conditions, and premature senility are at present not clearly distinguishable. The degenerative diseases may be broadly grouped into the neuronic and the non-neuronic diseases. In the neuronic group the degenera- tion begins primarily in the nervous elements and involves the whole of the affected neuron to a greater or less extent. The term "systemic" diseases has been used for this class, but it has the disadvantage of inferring that the disease is confined to one anatomical or physiological system of nerve elements, and that all the elements of that system may be affected. Only one group of diseases (familial spastic paraplegia and some forms of cerebral diplegia), in which the degeneration is confined to the pyramidal system, can truly be so named. Tabes dorsalis is largely an affection of the afferent system of the posterior roots, but in no case is that system completely or solely involved. Still less is the degeneration of Friedreich's disease confined to a system, and in the nearly allied general paralysis of the insane there is not a physiological unit in the nervous system which may not be involved. The non-neuronic group is best exemplified by the disease disseminate sclerosis. The in- cidence and distribution is not determined by"