283 SPINAL CORD the majority of cases to determine either from the position or from the character of the Hning membrane of a spinal cord cavity the exact mode of origin. It is also sometimes impossible to distinguish anatomically cavities, the result of long antecedent hsematomyelia, from those above mentioned. The term hydromyelia is perhaps best con- fined to cavitation of the spinal cord unassociated with symptoms. Traumatic Lesions. — The most frequently occurring traumatic lesion of the spinal cord is fracture dislocation ; less commonly concussion, crushing, punctured wounds, and bullet wounds are met with. In cases of fracture dislocation the conditions of the spinal cord and of the vertebrae may be several. 1. The dislocation is momentary, immediate reduction taking place. Little or no deformity •of the vertebral canal is found. The spinal cord may present no sign of the lesion, or perhaps a slight narrowing on external examina- tion, while microscopically all degrees of degen- eration of the nerve elements at the level of the lesion may be found. Among this class, cases of every grade of severity are met with, from a case presenting transient symptoms referable to injury of the spinal cord, and lasting a few days only, to cases where the clinical picture is permanently that of total transverse lesion of the spinal cord. 2. The spinal cord is compressed by a dis- placed fragment of bone, usually by the edge of the body of the vertebrae. The conditions in this case are those of compression myelitis. 3. The spinal cord is compressed by haemor- rhage occurring outside the theca (local or general) or within the theca (general). 4. The spinal cord may be completely broken across or incompletely torn, with much blood extravasation at the same level. From the nature of the lesions in classes 2 and 3, the vital importance of early surgical interference in cases of fracture dislocation of the spinal cord cannot be too strongly insisted upon. Vascular Lesions.—It is important to recognise (firstly) that lesions of the spinal cord may be the result of pathological states of the vessel walls. These will be considered here as vascular lesions proper. Secondly, in many diseases the first noticeable pathological changes occur in the immediate neighbourhood of the vessels, and are often confined to a special set of the spinal vessels. It follows that the distribution of these lesions is determined by that of the blood-vessels, while it is probable that some toxic or infectious agent, rather than a change in the vessel wall, is responsible for the path- ological condition. In disseminate sclerosis the patches are often of vascular distribution, but it is very improb- able that this sclerosis is determined by disease of the vessels. In combined degeneration also the distribution of the degeneration corresponds more or less with that of certain blood-vessels ; it is almost certain, however, that this degen- eration is caused hj a toxine circulating in the blood. The difficulty of this subject is greatly in- creased by the fact that all degenerative and sclerotic changes in the nervous system are followed, after some time, by changes in the vessel walls supplying the degenerate area, and these changes are indistinguishable from those of arterio-sclerosis. For example, the right lateral column of the cord some time after the occurrence of a left hemiplegia will be found to contain sclerosed vessels, while the vessels of the left lateral column are normal. When, howevei', shortly after the occurrence of an acute lesion, marked changes in the vessel walls of a chronic nature are found, it is right to consider such vascular changes as responsible for the lesion—for example, acute myelitis. Hcemorrhage.—Haemorrhage into the spinal cord and its membranes is a phenomenon of comparatively rare occurrence. It is in the majority of cases the result of injury, or is associated with persistent embryonal cavities in the cord; less often it is associated with the presence of neoplasms in the spinal cord, or with certain diseases in which haemorrhage is common, such as scurvy, purpura, etc. It must, however, be remarked that in wasting diseases small multiple haemorrhages into the substance of the spinal column not rarely occur shortly before death, but it is doubtful whether such haemorrhages are ever productive of symptoms. It is a striking fact that haematomyelia is not liable to occur under those conditions which predispose to cerebral haemorrhage. Embolism is extremely rare in the spinal cord. Infective endocarditis has been the association in most of the recorded cases. Thrombosis of the spinal vessels is of compar- atively common occurrence, nearly all cases of acute and subacute myelitis being of this nature. The term " myelitis " has survived from the days when a similar pathological condition occur- ring in the brain was termed acute cerebritis (acute red softening). The use of the term " myelitis" has unfortunately been associated with the retention of an obsolete pathology for the origin of " myelitis" as an inflammatory process. It has long since been proved that acute cerebritis was the result of occlusion of the cerebral vessels, and the terms "cerebral thrombosis" or "softening " are in general use. Spinal thrombosis, on the other hand, has been denied as the explanation of myelitis by many writers of the present day, who, nevertheless, describe lesions of the pons and medulla as