SCULTETUS BANDAGE 108 1595-1645) ; it is made up of short pieces which can be removed without moving the fractured limb. See Bandages {Many-tailed). Scurf.—The bran-like desquamation of the epidermis, or dandruff. See Eczema {Mycosiform, Pityriasis Capitis); Skin, Dis- eases OF Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Sehorrhoea, Dry). Scurvy. Infantile Scurvy 1. Introductory 108 2. Clinical Features . . . .108 3. Morbid Anatomy . . . .110 4. Etiology and Pathogenesis . Ill 5. Treatment . . . . .112 See also Colon, Diseases op [Hoemorrhagic Ulceration in Scurvy); Fragilitas Ossium ; Hematuria {Complication of Scurvy); Haemo- philia {Diagnosis); Lungs, Gangrene of {Etiology, Predisposing Causes); Meninges of THE Cerebrum {Vascular Disturbances, Eti- ology) ; Nails, Affections of the {General Diseases, Subungual Hcemorrhages); Retina and Optic Nerve {Hcemorrhages in Retina, Causes); Rickets {Complications). Synonyms :—Scurvy Rickets, Barlow''s Disease — the Moller-Barloiv Disease. 1. Introductory.—Of those who have made a study of the disease which forms the subject of this article, some have looked upon it as a form of rickets, others as a variety of scurvy, and others again as a distinct morbid entity. These several opinions are reflected in its nomenclature. Thus Moller of Ktinigsberg, who first described such cases (in 1859 and 1862), used the term "acute rickets," which was adopted by other Continental physicians who afterwards wrote upon the subject, among whom were Bohn, Fdrster, and Hirschsprung. On the other hand, in 1873, similar cases were recorded by Ingerslev in Denmark and Jalland in London, as examples of scurvy in infants, and in 1878 this view was independently taken up by Dr. Cheadle in a paper which, with his later writing upon the subject, must always rank among the most valuable contributions to its study. In one of Moller's cases the exophthalmos present during life was shown post-mortem to have been due to haemorrhage beneath the orbital periosteum, but the similar hajmorrhages about the long bones were first demonstrated in a case recorded by Sir Thomas Smith in 1876. In 1883 Sir Thomas Barlow placed our knowledge of the disease upon a firm basis, in a classical paper in which the clinical features were confronted with the lesions found after death in a series of cases; and the best testimony to the value of this contribution is the fact that on the Continent infantile scurvy is now usually spoken of as Barlow's disease. Like Dr. Cheadle, he adopted the scorbutic view, and looked upon the rachitic changes so usually present as constituting a variable and not an essential element. Since that time papers too numerous for mention have been written upon the subject, both in this country and abroad. An elaborate collective investigation has been carried out in the United States under the auspices of the American Pediatric Society, and the recent researches of Naegeli and of Schoedel and Nauwerk upon the microscopical changes in the affected bones may be referred to as supplying new facts regarding a feature of the malady which had previously attracted but little attention. 2. Clinical Features.—Infantile scurvy is usually met with in children between the ages of six and eighteen months, most often before the completion of the first year of life. Its most conspicuous and characteristic symp- toms, upon which the diagnosis rests, are :•— General tenderness and pain on movement, with resulting pseudo-paralysis, affection of the gums, and the development of swellings upon the long bones and elsewhere, which are due to sub- periosteal haemorrhages. These phenomena vary widely in their relative prominence in different cases. Tenderness is often the earliest symptom, and there are good grounds for the belief that, as Dr. Cheadle suggests, one is sometimes justified in forming the diagnosis of infantile scurvy from this symptom alone—certainly such tender- ness when standing alone is sometimes rapidly removed by antiscorbutic treatment. The infant is fretful, cries when it is handled or moved, and often cries when any one ap- proaches its cot, from mere apprehension lest it should be moved. Washing and dressing obviously cause severe pain. As a result of the painfulness of any move- ment, the limbs, and especially the lower limbs, which are chiefly affected, are apt to be held motionless. In the slighter cases the legs are held drawn up, but in more severe ones they lie flaccid and everted, as if completely paralysed. Indeed the account given by the mother is often that the child has lost the use of its limbs, as also in cases of syphilitic epiphysitis, in which a similar tenderness is usually a prominent feature. The aff'ection of the gums, too, is usually an early developed sign. It varies greatly in degree, and must not be regarded as affording an index of the severity of the disease. It is greatly dependent upon the progress of dentition, and in children who have cut no teeth may be altogether wanting, even when the swellings of the limbs are well developed. However, even in toothless infants the gums often show a purple discoloration over the oncoming incisors; and when teeth have been cut, the swelling and