4 RICKETS The infant may in this early stage be subject to convulsions without any very obvious cause, and also laryngismus and tetany may occur, but the two latter are more common during the second year. In spite of its evident ill-health the infant probably does not waste to any extent, and may be very well nourished as far as fat is concerned. Some infants at this period suffer much from bronchial catarrh, and they very easily "catch cold." The muscular system is almost certain to be weak, and the infant is late in learning to hold up its head or in attempting to sit up. The urine has often a peculiar strong smell, likened by some to tri- methylamine. The course of the disease if not checked by treatment is essentially chronic. As time goes on no teeth make their appearance at the usual time, the head becomes more markedly square, the chest more deformed, the epiphyses at the wrists and ankles enlarge, the infant cannot sit up, and perhaps cannot hold up its head. At the end of the first year, if the case is severe, the child presents a typical picture. The head is large and square, and out of proportion as compared with the stunted limbs, the chest is narrow and deformed, the abdomen is large and round from the presence of gas in the stomach and the intestines, and in some cases an enlarged liver and spleen can be felt. The rickety rosary can be seen or felt, and the epiphyses at the wrist and ankle are very prominent. The child cannot sit up without help, and is quite help- less as regards crawling or standing alone; its ligaments are weak, and its muscles very poorly developed. It is perhaps aneemic, in some cases markedly so. During the second year the most character- istic feature consists in the curvatures of the long bones. The child uses its limbs more or less at this period, and there is therefore a greater danger of their bending than earlier. When the child sits up in bed or on the floor it rests a certain amount of weight on its arms, and a curvature with the convexity outwards perhaps takes place in the bones of the arm and forearm. But the lower ends of the tibia and fibula are more likely to bend than the arms, when the child sits on the floor with its legs crossed or doubled under it; the bones perhaps bend with a sharp curve inwards in their lower third. If the child sits up, either by itself or is propped up, the spinal column is very likely to give way, the whole length of the spine bowing backward (kyphosis). The digestion is probably very poor, it cannot digest well, especially the curd of milk, and its stools are pasty and foul smelling. At this time laryngismus is common, and so also is a persistent bronchial catarrh, which returns again and again. The child may remain more or less in this state during the whole of the second year. The teeth appear slowly ; it is very slow in making progress in crawling or in attempting to stand alone. The limbs remain more or less stunted, the muscles soft and flabby, the joints loose from laxity of the ligaments. The child is probably late in learning to understand or talk, and is backward in mental development. It may perhaps learn to stand alone during the third year, or there may be still further delay. It is after that it has learned to get about on its legs that the knees give way and knock-knees appear. Some children remain for years making but little advance and being practically bed- ridden. Others are able to get about with a waddling gait in consequence of knock-knees and perhaps coxa vara; they are stunted in body and backward in intelligence. It is hardly necessary to say that the above description applies only to a severe case, and the combination of signs and symptoms may differ. It may happen the rickets may be fairly severe, and yet the head is of a normal shape, while the deformity of the chest is con- siderable. Or the epiphyses of the wrists may be normal, the chest fairly well formed, but the muscles are flabby and the joints loose, so that at two years old the child is not walking, and very likely not talking. In some others laryn- gismus may be very severe, and but slight curvatures or deformities of the bones present. In other cases, again, the infant is abnormally pale and fat, the muscles are flabby and weak, and there are no marked departures from normal as far as the bones are concerned. Having sketched the course of the disease, a more detailed description of some of the more important signs and symptoms may now be given. Head—Cranio-tabes—Natiform Skull.—It is not uncommon to find in examining the heads of infants, especially those who are wasting or not doing well, that in places, or all over generally, the occipital and parietal bones are abnormally thin, and can be pressed or bent in by pressure of the fingers. In examining an infant's head in this way it is well to avoid the sutures and posterior fontanelle, as the most characteristic patches of atrophy are usually nearer the centres of the bones. The whole of these bones may be abnormally thin from de- fective calcification, or there may be small patches scattered about which consist simply of membrane. Cranio-tabes was described as being a sign peculiar to rickets by Elsasser many years ago. Since his time it has been attributed to syphilis by Parrot and others. There is no doubt that it occurs in rickets, but it is not pathognomonic, as it occurs not un- commonly in cases of malnutrition which are not rickety. It is doubtful if its connection with syphilis is anything more than a casual connection, though this is not the universal opinion. It has already been noted that at times the ossification of the occipital bone is so