SYMELUS OR SYMMELUS 450 rotation and fusion of the lower limbs takes place ; sympodia; the sireniform or mermaid foetus. See Teratology (Malformations of the Limhs, Sympodia). Syme'S Amputation. See Amputa- tions {Ankle-Joint). Syme'S Excision of the Tongue. See Tongue [Carcinoma, Methods of Operating). Syme'S Urethrotomy. See Urethra, Diseases of {Stricture, External Urethrotomy). Symmetrical. — Corresponding, or having its parts in due proportion; e.g. sym- metrical lesions, symmetrical diseases, etc. Symonds' Tube.—A metal or rubber tube for introduction through an oesophageal stricture. See Oesophagus {Fibrous Stricture, Treatment). Sympathetic—Belonging to or pro- duced by sympathy; e.g. the sympathetic nervous system, sympathetic insanity, sympathetic in- flammation, sympathetic vomiting, etc. See Adrenal Glands {Addison's Disease, Pathology, JVervous Theory); Alcoholism (Visceral, Vas- cular, and Trophic Variations) ; Aorta, An- eurysm and Dilatation of {Symptoms, Unequal Pupils); Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Sympathetic Nerve-Deafness); Climacteric In- sanity {Sympathetic Insanity) ; Glaucoma ; Heart, Physiology op {Cardiac JVervous System); Physiology, Neuro - Muscular Mechanism {Spinal Nerves, etc.); Visceral Pain {Sym- pathetic System). Sym patheticectomy.—Excision of a part of a sympathetic nerve, as in the treat- ment of exophthalmic goitre; sympathicotomy. Sympathetic Ophthalmitis. Definition ...... 450 Nature of the Affection in the Exciting Eye 450 Time of Incubation . . . .451 The Course of Disease in the Sympathis- ing Eye ...... 451 Sympathetic Irritation . . . 452 Prognosis 452 Pathogenesis ..... 452 Treatment. ..... 453 Definition. — What is termed Sympathetic Ophthalmitis is a serous or plastic inflammation of the uveal tract, excited by inflammation of a similar character in the fellovir eye, the result of some perforating lesion. The eye which has been perforated, and which is the first affected, is termed the exciting eye, and the other, which is subsequently involved, the sympathising eye. There are cases in which inflammation of a serous or plastic type occurs in the uveal tract of an eye as the result of some constitutional dis- ease, without any perforation of its tunics, and where later the second eye becomes similarly affected. In such cases we are unable to say whether the inflammation in the second eye was excited by that in the first, or whether, as seems more probable, both eyes became affected as the result of the same morbid constitutional state. Nature of the Affection in the Exciting Eye.— Eyes which have received accidentally inflicted punctured wounds from some pointed instru- ment, or in which fragments of metal have be- come lodged, are the ones which most frequently excite sympathetic inflammation. Any eye, however, in which there has been a perforation, no matter how it has been occasioned, and in which a particular kind of inflammation has followed, is liable to excite a similar inflamma- tion in its fellow. Sympathetic ophthalmitis occasionally follows on operations such as extraction of cataract or iridectomy for glaucoma. It has been known to follow on perforating ulcers of the cornea, and on perforations of the globe caused by intra-ocular malignant growths. Eyes with a sub-conjunctival rupture of the sclerotic, and protrusion of a portion of the iris into the sub- conjunctival tissue, will sometimes become the seat of a uveitis, and excite sympathetic inflam- mation. It is improbable that an eye, the fibrous-tissue tunic of which has not been pene- trated, can give rise to this affection. Injuries of certain parts of the eye are more liable to be followed by sympathetic inflamma- tion than those of others. The ciliary region is frequently spoken of as " the dangerous area." Wounds which pass into the vitreous chamber are much more likely to cause trouble than those which simply open the aqueous chamber, or which penetrate the lens without involving the vitreous humour. A sub-conjunctival entanglement of a portion of the uveal tract in a wound is a dangerous complication. When sympathetic ophthalmitis follows on operative procedures, such entangle- ments are generally to be found. As already stated, it is necessary that the perforation of the eyeball should be followed by inflammation of the uveal tract before it can give rise to sympathetic ophthalmitis. This in- flammation may vary much in intensity, but it is always of a serous or plastic type. An eye with suppurative inflammation in it never ex- cites inflammatory trouble in its fellow. The intensity of the inflammation in the sympathising eye does not always correspond with the intensity of that in the excitor. The inflammation in the sympathising eye may be so severe as to cause its complete disorganisation, whilst that in the exciting eye is so mild as to