504 TABES DORSALIS the meningeal thickening is due to an irritative process, and causes the degeneration met with in the spinal cord. On taking out the spinal cord and making a transection, the posterior column is obviously smaller than natural, and presents a grey appearance, thus contrasting with the remaining white lateral columns. Microscopical Examination.— (a) Of the roots. Section of the roots of the cauda equina, stained by Weigert or Pal method, shows a more or less complete atrophy of the fibres of the posterior roots, the anterior roots appearing normal. Instead of the blue rings of myelin sheaths, are seen connective tissue and vessels. Teazed preparations of the roots, after staining with osmic acid, do not exhibit the appearances of Wallerian degeneration; the myelin sheath is either entirely absent or very much attenu- ated, as if the process were one of slow re- gressive atrophy rather than acute degeneration. Empty neurilemmal sheaths, with proliferated nuclei, fibrous tissue and vessels, showing chronic inflammatory changes, are apparent. Comparative examination of the coats of the vessels of the anterior and posterior roots shows no essential difference; moreover, the vascular changes are not constant, and are quite in- sufficient therefore to explain the degenerative change. In cases of prolonged tabes occurring in people past fifty, vascular changes of the nature of arteriosclerosis or arterio-capillary fibrosis are not unfrequently met with, but this cannot explain the election of the posterior roots by the morbid process. Such degeneration of the posterior roots extends back as far as the ganglia, whence they originate. Section of the ganglia examined by the same Weigert method shows a marked contrast in the appearance presented by the proximal and distal ends. Whereas, at the proximal end, the fibres emerging from the ganglion forming the posterior root may be in great measure, or even completely, atrophied, those at the distal end, which are proceeding to form the sensory fibres of the cerebro-spinal nerves, are practi- cally healthy and unaffected. Examination of the ganglion cells by Nissl and other methods may reveal chromolytic and other changes, even atrophy; but, as a rule, the cells of the gang- lion present a fairly normal appearance, and although some authorities have concluded from their observations that the changes met with in the ganglion cells are sufficient to account for the degeneration of the posterior roots, yet most authorities are of opinion that they are inadequate and inconstant. The farther the peripheral nerves are examined from the ganglia the more likely are changes to be found ; con- sequently, in advanced cases of tabes, atrophy of the small nerve fasciculi in the skin may be observed, also the nerves of other structures, such as muscle (which contains a large number of sensory fibres); but these peripheral nerve changes only occur, as a rule, in advanced cases, and are quite insufficient to account for the symptoms. The spinal element of the disease is essentially due primarily to an affection of the intra-medullary projections of the posterior roots, afterwards extending back as far as the ganglion of origin. Vide diagram. Fig. 8. The segmental character of the anaesthesia occurring in tabes supports the view of Leyden, that is a segmental spinal affection. But ataxy may occur without any anaesthesia, showing that the fibres conducting cutaneous sensations in the cord have not been affected ; but the fibres conducting muscular sense, joint and tendon impressions have been affected, so as to produce the ataxy. Pierret and Charcot long ago showed that a certain portion of the Association System ti ' t J ClarkesCol. Fig. 8.—" Sensibility." postero-external column, which they called the "bandelette," is the earliest affected in tabes; and, as we shall show, the fibres in this region convey sensory impressions to the anterior horn cells and to the cerebellum by way of Clarke's column. The former are concerned with the reflex spinal tonus, the latter with afferent impressions enabling us to maintain our equilibrium ; so that destruction of these fibres alone would account for ataxy and loss of deep reflexes apart from cutaneous disturbances. A posterior root on entering the spinal cord terminates in three sets of fibres—a set of short fibres which end almost immediately in the spinal segment to which the root belongs. This set of fine fibres forms Lissauer's tract, and ends in the substantia gelatinosa of the posterior horn. These fibres are probably concerned with cutaneous sensibility, and may be partially or