SNAKE-BITES AND POISONOUS FISHES 249 to the consumption of fish is very rare in the naval service, and also among well-to-do Europeans in tropical regions. The toxic properties inherent in fish, as Dr. GUnther pointed out, may depend on various conditions; some are only poisonous at certain stages of growth, others only at special seasons, as at the breeding time; again, others are apparently dangerous after they have been feeding on poisonous foods; thus most of those beautifully coloured fish belonging to the families Squamipinnes and Labridce, which frequent coral reefs and browse on the polyps of the young growing madrepores, etc., are generally considered to be dangerous; nevertheless, if these be properly cleaned before cooking, most may be taken with impunity. French medical officers have pointed out that many fish at other times wholesome become poisonous in the breeding season, and every one knows that a spent trout or salmon is very liable to give rise to gastric disturbance if eaten. The symptoms of poisoning due to fish fall into two distinct groups : (1) true gastro-enter- itis with colic and high fever, probably due to a bacterial infection; (2) nerve symptoms, often commencing some time after the ingestion of the food, attended by constipation, and various forms of paralysis, etc., probably due to intoxi- cation from the alkaloid substances produced during decomposition. The following fish are ci'edited with producing poisonous symptoms when taken fresh :— (1) Pagellus erythrinus, a "sea bream" com- mon in Indo-Pacific waters, quoted as nearly causing the death of Quiros, the Spanish navi- gator, and also described as poisonous in Cook's Voyages. Lethrinus mambo in the South Pacific is said to be poisonous when full grown, but harmless when young. ]\Iany of the Sqitamipinnes or Coral fish, as before stated, acquire poisonous properties from their food. These fish are generally gorgeously coloured, and are like butterflies in the aqueous gardens which they frequent. Sphyrcena, or " Barracudas." Their flesh is as a rule eaten with impunity, but two species in the West Indies are known to occasionally produce intense symptoms of poisoning—gastro- intestinal irritation with pain, vomiting, and diarrhoea, etc., followed by marked prostration, and, in a few cases, death from syncope. If the fish be unwholesome, Poe states that the teeth become blackened at the base, and natives say that if a silver coin placed on the flesh becomes black, the fish is unfit for food. Some of the mackerels frequently cause gastric irritation ; several species of Thynnus or tunny are stated by Giinther to be poisonous at times—being red-blooded fish, they are liable to rapid decomposition. The Carangidce, horse mackerel or yellow-tails, have a very bad name at the Cape of Good Hope as being poisonous, especially when they are old, C falax being the most dreaded. Almost every variety of this genus may be seen in the market at Aden for sale. After eating poisonous Bonito, Tunny, and Horse Mackerel, the symptoms are those of mild gastric enteritis, with urticaria, giddiness, headache, vomiting, and diarrhoea, which may assume a choleraic form, ending in collapse and death. Fish of the herring family are undoubtedly very frequently extremely poisonous. Giinther gives the following list:— Clupea thryssa, the sardine dore of the West Indies, often causes a rapidly fatal issue. There is a saying that "if you begin at the head you never finish the tail." The symptoms are pain, prostration, convulsions, and unconsciousness followed by death, sometimes in a quarter of an hour, but generally in from two to three hours. C. longiceps, C perforata, C. venenosa, the three latter from the Indian Ocean, are all known to have caused intense purging and collapse. C. humeralis of the West Indies is stated by Day to have caused death in a few minutes. The marine " cat fish " or Siluroids are, as a rule, too loathsome to ever be much used for food. They are invariably rejected, if caught, on board ship, but are, however, constantly seen for sale in the native markets. Most of the species of Balistes (file fish), Tetrodon (globe fish), and Diodon (porcupine fish) are rejected as being poisonous; they are foul feeders, or live on coral and other zoophites. Two cases are recorded by Sir John Richardson of acute poisoning from eating portions of the liver of a Tetrodon. One man ten minutes after eating it became very ill, with flushed face, swollen lips, signs of intense gastro-intestinal poisoning, followed by paralysis, laboured breathing, cyan- osis, and death in seventeen minutes. The second man died in twenty minutes. The whole fish was not more than eight inches long. Many of the small kinds are constantly seen for sale in the Bombay market and elsewhei'e, those from brackish and fresh water being more whole- some than the marine varieties. Macoy states that in Australia nearly all cases of fish poison- ing are due to eating Arripis truttaceoiis, one of the sea perch. This may be sometimes due to decomposition, but fresh fish also produce un- pleasant results in some people, the symptoms Ijeing flushing of the skin, particularly of the face, headache, vomiting, and a transient erup- tion, generally followed by rapid recovery, but a few deaths have been noted. JIu7-cena punctata, one of the "sea eels," is stated by Russell to be poisonous if eaten. Mosso states that the fresh blood of eels pos- sesses highly poisonous properties, due to the presence of ichthyotoxin, like the toxalbumens of vipers.