412 STRABISMUS Each tube can be separately illuminated. By increasing the brilliance of the illumination of the image which is falling on the defective eye and weakening, if need be, that of the better eye, the sense of diplopia is aroused. The pictures being dissimilar can be readily de- scribed by the patient, and being gradually brought together their combination presents some new feature for description. The exercise consists in a gradual training to fuse the images. This method seems specially useful for young children. Priestley Smith's " heteroscope " de- serves mention as another recent device for orthoptic exercises. Controlled or Bar-Reading.—A further means of encouraging binocular reading, advocated by Javal, consists in holding an opaque rod such as a pencil vertically between the eyes and the printed page at such distance that the letters which are shut off by the rod from one eye are visible to the other, and reading with both eyes open can be carried on uninterruptedly, pro- vided each can take its share. It is, however, only the slighter cases of strabismus, or those which have been rendered slight by operation, which are capable of cure by orthoptic exercises, and it must be confessed that the results are often very disappointing, probably because the treatment is not applied early enough. Operative Treatment.—This should never be undertaken until some or all of the above methods have been exhausted, nor should it be recom- mended in young children, whose powers of in- nervation are necessarily immature, and whose visual powers are undeveloped. In convergent strabismus of 15° to 20° the simplest surgical remedy is the division of the internal rectus of the squinting eye. The average effect of a single tenotomy is found to be a reduction of convergence by about 15°. If the primary deviation amount to, say, 35° to 40°, the effect may be divided between the two eyes by tenotomy of each internal rectus. Great care must be exercised, especially in young persons, not to produce too full an effect; indeed it is a safe rule to leave a few degrees of convergence uncorrected by operation, for as life advances the convergence spontaneously lessens and may give place to divergence if the internal recti have been weakened too much. Many surgeons prefer to advance the insertion of the external rectus muscle instead of tenoto- mising the internal rectus, claiming that it gives a better range of mobility, as well as a better cosmetic result. For slight cases, a simple tenotomy is more expeditious, requires less after-treatment, and is practically satisfactory to most people. Where the squint exceeds 35°, and in all cases where the outward movements of the eyes are feeble, advancement of the external rectus, combined with tenotomy of the internal rectus. is demanded. In the worst cases the combined operation may be necessary for each eye before the deviation can be satisfactorily remedied. In divergent strabismus, simple tenotomy of the external rectus is seldom of much benefit, and except in the slighter degrees of insufficiency of convergence, the advancement of the internal rectus is to be preferred, or must be superadded. For an accouut of the usual methods of per- forming these operations, the reader should consult any text-book of ophthalmic surgery. Vertical deviations of slight degree are usually relieved by the use of prisms in the correcting glasses, but if causing annoyance or disfigure- ment, operative benefit may be obtained by tenotomy of the superior rectus of the upturned eye or the inferior rectus of the downturned eye or both. Strabometry. See Strabismus {Mea- surement of Degree). Strain. See Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {General Pathology, Etiology). Strait.—The narrow part, e.g. the upper strait (or brim) of the pelvis. Strait-waist coat. See Insanity, General Treatment of {Mechanical Restraint). St ra m O n i U m. See also Analgesics ; Pharmacology ; etc.—The dried seeds of Datura stramonium, containing an alkaloid, daturine, identical with atropine. Preparation — Ex- tractum Stramonii. Dose—1-1 gr. The dried leaves of the same plant contain the same principles, but in less constant proportion. Preparation. — Tinctura Stramonii. Dose — 5-15 m. The action of stramonium is similar to that of belladonna ; but it appears to be less suitable for all the purposes for which the latter is employed, with the exception of relaxation of the bronchial tubes. It is therefore preferred for cases of asthma. It may be administered internally, smoked as cigarettes, or the fumes of a burning powder containing stramonium may be inhaled. Such powders usually contain stramonium, cannabis indica, lobelia, and nitre. The proprietary asthma "cures" are of similar composition. Strang^uiation. See Asphyxia {Causes); Hernia {Conditions of Strangula- tion) ; Medicine, Forensic {Death from Asphyxia); Ovaries, Diseases of {Cysts, Twisting of Pedicle, Diagnosis); Peritoneuji, Acute Peritonitis, General {Etiology); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Ectopia Testis). Strang^ury. — Micturition accomplished with pain, and generally drop by drop. See Colic {Diagnosis); Micturition {Pain).