253 SNEEZING Sneezing". See Hysteria {Disorders of Respiratory Organs, Sneezing); Nose, Nasal Neuroses {Neuroses of Covwion Sensation, Par- oxysmal Sneezing); Physiology, Respiration {Special Respiratory Movements, Sneezing). Snellen's Types. See Eye, Clinical Examination of {Visual Acuity). Snoring'. See Nose, Post-nasal Adenoids (Symptoms, Snoring). S n OW- Blindness. — The symptoms (photophobia, conjunctivitis) resulting from looking for long at the snow in bright sunlight. Snuffles. See Syphilis {In Children, Snuffles). Snuffs.—Insufflations or snuffs are medi- cinal substances in the form of light powders which can be drawn or blown into the nose, larynx, etc.; e.g. Ferrier's snuff in hay fever. See Hay Fever {Treatment). Soap. See Sapo. See also Acne {Treat- ment, Local); Aseptic Treativient of Wounds {Disinfection of Hands and of Skin) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sediments, Unorgan- ised, Soaps). Socaloin or Socoaloin. See Aloes AND AlOIN. SOCia Parotid is.—A separate part or lobule of the parotid gland; glandula parotis accessoria. See Mouth, Diseases of {Diseases of the Cheeks); Parotid Gland, Disorders of {Inflammatory Conditions). Socordia or Secordia. — Without understanding (Lat. se, without, cor, heart or mind); silliness, or weak-mindedness ; hallucina- tion. Soda. See Sodium. Soden. See Balneology {Germany, Muri- ated Watei's). Sodium. See also Diet {Mineral Con- stituents of Food); (Esophagus {Inflammation, Causes); Toxicology {The Alkalies).—Symbol, Na. Atomic weight, 22-88. A soft white metal decomposing water. From it is prepared Liquor SoDii Ethylatis by disolving 22 grs. of sodium in an ounce of absolute alcohol. This is a syrupy fluid of a light brown colour, and is an excellent caustic for warts and other growths. The salts of sodium have a tendency to effloresce, as contrasted with the potassium salts, which are usually deliquescent. Therapeutically the sodium compounds are as a rule less depressant than the corresponding potassium salts, and ai-e therefore preferred under certain conditions. SoDii Chloridum, common salt, is soluble 1 in 2| of water. Its official dose is 10-240 grs. Although in common use, it is probably not necessary for those living on an ordinary mixed diet; but it is essential as an addition to the food of vegetarians. Recently the oedema of Bright's disease has been treated by the em- ployment of a " chlorine-free " diet. Large doses of salt are emetic. Rectal injections are used in the treatment of thread-worms. Normal saline solution—a '8 per cent solution of sodium chloride in sterilised distilled water— is used for intravenous transfusion and for rectal and subcutaneous infusions. It is also largely used during the performance of surgical operations, in preference to antiseptic solutions. A solution of sodium chloride forms an excellent gargle in inflamed conditions of the throat. Sodii Carbonas is washing soda. It is soluble 1 in 2 of cold water. Dose—5-30 grs. Sodii Carbonas Exsiccatus is used in making Pilula Ferri. Dose—3-10 grs. Sodii Bicarbonas is known as baking soda. It is soluble I in 11 of cold water. Dose—5-30 grs. Preparation— Trochiscus Sodii Bicarbonatis, 3 grs. in each. The carbonate and bicarbonate of soda are more slowly absorbed than the corresponding potassium salts, and are less depressant. Solu- tions of sodium bicarbonate are employed as sedative lotions to relieve itching. The bi- carbonate is largely used in the treatment of dyspepsia, especially in combination with bis- muth and rhubarb. It is a stomach sedative, and helps to liquefy tenacious mucus. If given before meals it stimulates the secretion of hydro- chloric acid, and if given some time after meals it neutralises the hydrochloric acid already secreted. Sodii Sulphas is known as Glauber's salts. Soluble 3 in 1 of water. Dose—30- 120 grs. (repeated); 5 (single administra- tion). The effervescing sulphate is given in similar doses. Soda Tartarata, the tartrate of sodium and potassium, known as Rochelle salt. Soluble 1 in 2 of water. Dose—30-60 grs. (diuretic); 5 (purgative). Pulvis Sodoe Tar- taratoe Effervescens is Seidlitz powder. The blue paper contains 120 grs. of tartarated soda and 40 grs. of bicarbonate of soda. The white paper contains 38 grs. of tartaric acid. Sodii Citro-Tartras Effervescens is in the form of white deliquescent granules. Dose—60-120 grs. These sodium salts are excellent purgatives for occasional administration, especially in constipa- tion associated with gout and in " bilious " con- ditions. They should be taken in concentrated solution first thing in the morning. They are frequently employed to accelerate and complete the action of mercurial purges. The sulphate is an important constituent of most of the natural aperient watei's. The phosphate is a very mild and pleasant aperient. It has been used empirically in the treatment of exoph- thalmic goitre. Sodii Sulphis is prepared from sodium carbonate and sulphurous acid. Soluble 3 in 4 of water. Dose — 5-20 grs. It has