230 SMALLPOX back and legs. The petechial rash had almost entirely disappeared. Jidy Vist.—The vesicles on the face had become pustular, buttery yellow in colour, umbilicated, temperature sub-normal. July 227id, 23rd. — Progress satisfactory, petechias still faintly discernible, the eruption drying and scabbing. Complaints of the throat feeling a little husky, a condition which ceased to be men- tioned after twenty-four hours. The course of the temperature in a few JUNE ture will remain high. Case IV. typical cases is indicated on the charts of Cases VIL to IX. :— Jane W , aged 12 ; M. W , aged 14 ; Matilda B , aged 15. In each case the eruption was extremely sparse. In connection with the differential diagnosis of smallpox, difficulties are only likely to arise in the early stages of the disease, when there may be some doubt as to whether or not the case is a severe one of measles, of typhus fever, or of influenza. The practitioner will, of course, bear in mind the prevalence or otherwise of smallpox in the vicinity. He will also note carefully the con- dition of the patient in regard to vaccination,, and he will consider the age of the patient. If the case be one of measles, one of the most helpful things which he can have regard to is- the course of the fever during the illness. In smallpox, with the appearance of the eruption, on the third day, the temperature will begin tO' drop, and the general symptoms for the next twenty-four hours will be greatly ameliorated. With measles, on the other hand, the tempera- The history of the case should help him to decide be- tween smallpox and typhus fever, pneumonia, or influenza during the pre-eruptive stage, and there should be no difficulty what- ever in differenti- ating after the eruption has ap- p eared. Some confusion fre- quently arises between the highly modified cases of small- pox and chicken- pox. Here again the condition of vaccination and the age of the patient must be first considered, together with the presence or absence of small- pox in the vicin- ity, but the dis- tribution and the character of the rash will furnish the safest guide in these highly modified cases of smallpox, concerning which doubt might arise. In such cases of smallpox the eruption is mainly on the face, wrists, and the arms, very sparse indeed, if at all, on the back. The sequence of its appearance has already been alluded to and its character described. With chicken-pox at corresponding stages the eruption may also be on the face, arms, and wrists, but the bulk of it will be on the trunk, especially the back. In the early vesicular stages, the vesicles are very much more superficial than those of smallpox, resembling blisters from minute scalds. Frequently these vesicles break, leaving in severe cases, and especially when a