271 SPINA BIFIDA As already stated, the subject of myelocele is usually still-born, or survives but a few days. Froffnosis.—Very few of the subjects of spina bifida with an obvious tumour reach puberty. In most instances the child gradually wastes away and sinks without any active treatment having been undertaken. In others pressure or injury causes sloughing, when, the cerebro- spinal fluid escaping, death quickly supervenes after the intercurrence of septic myelitis and convulsions, or spinal meningitis or myelitis c A Pig. 3.—Transverse section of an embryo chick of the latter half of the second day, at the place wliere the vertebral somites cease. A, Medullary groove; BB, epiblast; C, medullary ridge. (After Kolliker.) may complete the history. Unfortunately the same contingency frequently follows active surgical treatment. But in rare instances spon- taneous cure has followed spontaneous rupture of the sac. And in some few cases the sac gradually shrivels up and spontaneous cure takes place, so far at least as regards the dis- appearance of the tumour; the deficiency in the neural arches of the vertebrse, however, necessarily persists. Sometimes the spontaneous or the surgical Fig. 4.—Normal disposition of the parts at third day before closure of the vertebral furrow. (After Kolliker.) cure of the meningocele is quickly followed by the occurrence of a hydrocephalus. Still, even though the tumour persists, the child may grow up and become a useful member of society, but this is quite exceptional. Very few children with spina bifida and meningocele attain adult life. Treatment.—Speaking generally, cases of spina bifida do not lend themselves to active surgical treatment, though there are certain cases in which satisfactory results may be hoped for. It is for the surgeon to endeavour to recognise such cases, and studiously to avoid active interference with the others. Taking the varieties in the inverse order to that in which they have been reviewed in this article, cases of spina bifida occulta may well be left alone. The careful surgeon would cautiously refrain from dissecting away an un- sightly patch of skin—perhaps covered with hair—from the middle line of the back, lest by so doing he should wound the adherent dura mater and arachnoid and thus invite the occur- rence of an attack of septic meningitis. Indeed, the surgeon should act with extreme caution with regard to all tumours situated in the exact middle line of the back, as in that position the most simple-looking growths are apt to be as- sociated with the interior of the spinal canal. In the case of a meningocele—especially if it is pedunculated—he can proceed with more hopefulness. Indeed, some of these cases Fig. 5.—Shows dilatation of the central canal of the cord, the nerve-roots passing round its outer surface. Syringo- myelocele. undergo spontaneous cure. A myelo-meningo- cele may yield to operative treatment, as will be shown directly, but the syringo-myelocele (which is usually associated with other serious complications) is generally beyond the reach of operative skill, whilst the infant with myelocele scarcely comes within surgical purview. Treatment by injectio7i is less resorted to now than was formerly the case. It is uncertain in its results, and its adoption is not without con- siderable risk. The solution usually injected was a drachm of " Morton's fluid," which was composed of ten grains of iodine and thirty grains of iodide of potassium dissolved in an ounce of glycerine. The injection was intended to have such an influence upon the sac as to cause it gradually to shrivel up and become effaced; and this result was attained in a certain proportion of cases. But in other cases persistent leakage of cerebro-spinal fluid at the site of puncture, the entrance of septic micro- organisms, or the direct eff"ect of the local or general irritation proved fatal. Obviously, an irritating injection is as likely to exert its influ- ence upon the delicate cord or the nerves within the sac as upon the spinal membranes. The cases best suited for the injection treat-