251 SNAKE-BITES AND POISONOUS FISHES part, lymphangitis and gangrene, attended with convulsions, delirium, and attacks of syncope. Other very dangerous fish are the Thalasso- phryna, of which two species are known, one in the Pacific, the second in the Atlantic Ocean. These fish, according to Gtinther, possess as perfect poison sacs and tubular spines as any venomous snake. The poison sacs are attached to the bases of the opercular and dorsal spines. In the " Weavers" Ty-achinus, common in European waters, the dorsal and opercular spines have deep double grooves, these being filled with fluid mucus, but there is no true poison apparatus. Wounds inflicted by them are followed by violent inflammation of the injured part. Many genera of the " cat fish " tribe Siluridce are excessively dangerous to handle, the dorsal and pectoral fins having very hard serrated bony spines, which may inflict serious wounds; in some of these fish glandular organs are found at the axils of the spines; the body is covered by an offensive tenacious mucus, which can readily inflict the wound. Great numbers are com- monly eaten by the lower "castes "in India, they are therefore frequently caught; the fisher- men immediately cut off the off'ending spines, it being rare to see a perfect specimen in the market. Treatment of Wounds. — These should be enlarged and the blood allowed to flow freely, or the part may be ligatured above, and the poison removed by cupping or sucking the wound, then ammonia or spirits of turpentine may be applied, followed by fomentations, opium being given and stimulants as necessary. The wounds caused by the serrated spines of rays and cat fish almost always suppurate. (5) Fish may act as Intermediate or Definite Hosts.—An example of the former is found in Lota vulgaris, which is commonly known to harbour the larval form of Bothriocephalus latus {see Cestodes). Congers are said to be infested with hydatids. A curious case has been de- scribed by Dr. Batten, namely, the fixation of a species of Lepcophtheirus, one of the " Cale- gidse" or fish lice, on to the cornea of a fish- monger (which specimen he kindly sent to me). These semi-parasitic copepods are very numer- ous on many flat-fish, moving about actively on the skin some time after the death of the fish. The saline condition of the ocular conjunctiva, with a certain quantity of mucous secretion, render this position particularly suitable for these parasites if accidentally introduced. It is, however, very rare : I have never heard of or seen a second case. The parasite was success- fully removed, vision not being impaii'ed. Snake-bite in the British isles. Introduction . . . . . .251 Species of Serpent involved . . 251 Clinical Features .... 252 Treatment . . . . . .252 As far as the British Isles are concerned, the subject of snake-bite is generally ignored in medical text-books, or at most is dismissed with a passing mention. The reason is, of course, that such cases are somewhat rare, though not more so than some other diseases and accidents that could be named, and also because the cases that do occur are rarely seen by those who write text-books, and indeed generally go unrecorded even in the medical journals. It is the country practitioner in re- mote districts, who has probably many miles to travel to see his patients, who now and then encounters a case, and who has very little time left him for writing up his observations to current medical literature. It is therefore the more necessary when a series of cases have come under the notice of a single individual—as has happened in the last year or two to the present writer—that these should be compared and recorded. (a) Species of Serpent involved.—There are only three serpents found indigenous in the British Isles, and of these three one only is venomous. This is the adder or viper (F?^jem berus). Like the other snakes, the adder is absent from Ireland, the Isle of Man, Guernsey, and Sark, but is present in greatly varying numbers in every county of England, Scotland, and Wales. It is the only snake found in Scotland, except in Roxburgh and Berwick, where very occasionally the ring snake or grass snake {Tropidonotus natrix) is met with. Its numbers vary with the nature of the district, as it retires before the progress of civilisation to the large woods, commons, heaths, and mountain fastnesses. The adder may be diagnosed from other species at once by the dark brawn or black zig-zag mark which extends along the whole length of the back, and by a V-shaped marking at the posterior end of the head. The adult length is from 18 to 25 inches as a rule. (6) Causes of Adder-bite.—The accident occurs in nine cases out of ten from the person bitten being unaware of the proximity of the reptile. The natural instinct of the adder is to escape observation if possible. It is only when ab- solutely cornered that it makes a deliberate attack—for example, when in a cage or box, or in some other position from which there is no escape. The most common ways of sustaining this injury are by stepping on or near the adder, when it strikes just above the ankle ; by picking up a stick or other object on the ground, not observing the adder lying at that spot; or by sitting down on a warm bank on which the adder is basking. In all these cases the adder strikes in self-defence. The anatomy of the fang and venom gland is similar to that of other viperine serpents, and need not be described here. (c) Diagnosis.—As a rule the history is too definite to permit of any doubt, but in doubtful