AFFECTIONS OF 298 SPINE, SURGICAL and so lessening the rotation of the vertebrse. Of the various supports it is not necessary to speak fully. SufSce it to say that they find their place in those cases in which the defor- mity is so advanced that there is little hope of remedying it, but of preventing it getting worse. Little children with rickety curvatures are best placed recumbent and carried about in the wicker tray designed by William Adams. The daily routine for a scoliotic patient in whom the deformity is fairly well marked but is not fixed, and shows signs of lessening on sus- pension, should be as follows:—A tepid bath in the morning, with friction of the back. After breakfast manijjulation and drill and manual correction for about twenty minutes to half an hour, followed by rest for half an hour; then massage for about fifteen minutes, suc- ceeded by recumbency and outdoor exercise. In the afternoon recumbency for one or two hours, and if the patient is strong enough to bear it exercises again for fifteen minutes. When the muscles remain persistently weak a light pair of spinal stays may be called for ; the patient feels fatigue in attempting to hold herself erect. These, however, should be dis- pensed with as soon as possible. Attempts have been made to reduce lateral curvature by the forcible method, but they have not been followed by such a portion of svxccess as to commend themselves to general approbation. Finally, it will happen that, in spite of all the methods indicated, certain cases, especially those of paralytic curvature, will get steadily worse, and one is obliged then to employ such supports as poroplastic jackets. Spinal Caries or Angular Deformity Definition . . . . , .298 Etiology and Causation .... 298 Pathological Anatomy . . .298 Symptoms .... . . 299 Diagnosis ...... 300 Prognosis of Uncomplicated Caries . .301 General and Local Treatment . . 301 Complications...... 302 Abscess and its Treatment . . . 302 Convpression Paraplegia and its Treatment 302 Deformity and its Treatment . . . 303 Definition.—A morbid process occurring in the vertebrie, usually accompanied by absorption of bone, and resulting in deformity. *S>mo?iy??i.s.—Angular curvature of the spine ; Pott's disease of the spine. Etiology and Causation.—Spinal caries occurs generally during the years of active growth, and especially in early childhood. It frequently follows exanthemata. From 40 to 60 per cent of cases are met with between the first and the fifth years, and then up to tlie age of twenty-five years its incidence rapidly diminishes, but it is occasionally seen in middle life and even in old age. It is seen as frequently in girls as in boys. There is no doubt that the actual cause is deposit of tubercle in the vertebral column, either with or without a history of traumatism ; but the injury to the back is the determining cause of the deposit of tubercle in that region. The writer is sceptical as to the existence of purely traumatic Pott's disease in the light of present knowledge. Pathological Anatomy.—The region most fre- quently involved is the dorsal, particularly from the eighth to the twelfth dorsal vertebrae, while the cervical and lumbar regions are less fre- quently affected. The part of the vertebrae first attacked is undoubtedly the bodies, owing to the influence of the superincumbent weight of the body and their cancellous structure. In childhood each vertebra has an epiphysial plate on its upper and lower surface, and here the disease frequently commences as a tubercular juxta-epiphysitis. Thence it spreads to the intervertebral disc on one side, and to the body on the other. Occasionally the first sign of caries is seen at the anterior aspect between the anterior common ligament, or the disease may commence in the centre of the body or at its lateral or posterior aspect. Again it may originate by several foci in different vertebrae. Rarely it begins in the costo-vertebral articu- lations or in the transverse processes. The disease is a carious process, and the lesion is always accompanied by the formation of tuber- cular granulation tissue, and one of the follow- ing events may hapjaen: [a) The granulation tissue is absorbed as fast as it is formed, the bone disappearing gradually without the formation of pus (caries sicca), but resulting often in considerable deformity. {h) The granulation tissue breaks down, and abscess forms, (c) In rapid cases portions of bone of considerable size may be isolated by rarefaction and form sequestra, always a serious event owing to the persistent suppuration which ensues, {d) If the area involved is a small one, calcareous degeneration of granulation tissue takes place, and an encysted nodule forms, which remains harndess for years, (e) In some cases ossification occurs in the inflammatory material, and ankylosis of the affected vertebrie follows. The ligaments, especially the anterior com- mon ligament, become softened and thickened, while the periosteum on the surfaces of the neighbouring vertebrae becomes inflamed, and occasionally spiculae of bone are thrown out which may subsequently serve as supports to the new tissue formed across the chasm at the site of disease. The immediate result of de- struction of one or more vertebral bodies is angular deformity, and it is the appearance of this which occasionally leads patients to seek advice. As a rule, the deformity is antero- posterior ; but in rapid cases combined with