277 SPINAL CORD long dorsal ray, and a lateral process on either side which is applied to the posterior horn of grey matter. The short ventral process per- sists as the central canal in the adult. The lumen of the dorsal process becomes obliterated and forms the posterior septum of the spinal cord. The lateral processes disappear, but the neuroglia originally surrounding them persists as the caput cornu post of Rolando. The central canal has several interesting pathological connections. Not unfrequently some diverticulum of the central canal is found in the region of the posterior horns or dorsal septum in an otherwise normal spinal cord. The various situations in which hydromyelia and syringomyelia may be found can generally be explained by the persistence of parts of the quadriradiate canal. Those parts of the foetal spinal canal which disappear seem to leave along their line of closure a zone of lessened resistance, so that a haemorrhage of any magnitude occurring in the spinal cord seeks at once the region of the dorsal horn, where it spreads upwards and downwards in the direction of less resistance. Vascular Supply. — The anterior spinal branches of the vertebral artery, arising from that trunk opposite the 1st cervical root, join to form a single vessel, the ventral spinal artery, which runs throughout the length of the cord lying in the mouth of the ventral fissure. Arising from the vertebral, close to the former, are the posterior spinal arteries, which run to the lower end of the cord immediately lateral to the dorsal nerve roots. These arteries are reinforced by a spinal artery entering each intervertebral foramen de- rived from the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, ilio- lumbar, and lateral sacral arteries successively. The grey matter is supplied chiefly by direct branches from the ventral spinal artery—the white matter chiefly by superficial vessels of the anastomosis. Physiological Considerations.—Considering the nervous systems of animals from the lowest to the highest, there is an increasing tendency for the subdivisions of the nervous system (for example the spinal segments) to lose their power of individual action and control, and to become mutually interdependent. In man and in the higher apes this is especially the case, and in them the nervous system in these animals may be said to act and react as a whole. When, further, we consider the multiplicity and choice of paths which are present for the passage of incitations both afferent and efferent, we can understand how readily the nervous system, acting as a whole, may partially compensate for the loss of one of its units. Complete compensa- tion occurs only perhaps in the young before the elements are unchangeably impressed with the nature of their functions. It is such com- pensation which renders the determination of the exact function of certain elements so difficult —for example the basal ganglia of the cerebrum. The paucity of symptoms which result from the partial destruction of these structures is so striking, that it has even been seriously enter- tained that they are disappearing elements in the nervous system of anthropoids and are practically functionless. Their complicated neuronic structure and their multiple connec- tion with important and better-known elements are facts suggesting a most important function for the basal ganglia. Three examples of this unity of the nervous system which are of fundamental importance in the symptomatology of nervous disease are necessary here:— (1) If a pair of electrodes be placed beneath a dorsal root of a monkey, and a single induction shock sent through, there result movements the nature of which is constant for a given strength of current. This reflex result may be taken as an index of a reflex act proper. If then the central nervous system of the animal be injured in any part, whether cephal- wards or caudalwards of the stimulated root, the reflex response to the same stimulus be- comes at once changed and constant. With a second injury, again, the reflex result becomes changed and constant, and similarly with re- peated injuries. Further, the more the stimu- lated segment is isolated by such injuries {i.e. the smaller the mass of central nervous system left attached to it), the less complex and the more feeble is the reflex result obtained. With reduction of the central nervous system as a whole the reflex response to a stimulus applied to one of its subdivisions changes. (2) If in the monkey all the dorsal roots supplying a limb be divided, more or less com- plete paralysis of that limb results immediately. The phenomenon most forcibly illustrates the mutual interdependence of the nerve elements. (3) While in lower mammals, such as the cat and the dog, after complete transection of the cord, a condition of spasticity results below the point of section, in man and in the monkey such a lesion is followed by great depression of the vital activity of the parts below the lesion; the muscle tone and myotatic irritability are lost, the sphincters are relaxed, and the super- ficial reflexes are difficult to retain and reduced in quality. Isolated portions of the spinal cord seem to have lost their capacity for such home rule as is manifest in the lower mammals. There is a tendency, also, for the elements of the spinal segments so isolated to undergo a slow form of histological deterioration. Motor Paths in the Spinal Cord.-—It is prob- able that incitations from the cerebrum reach the segments of the spinal cord by all the long descending tracts. One of these only is uninter- rupted, the pyramidal tract; the other thalamo-, rubro,- tecto-, and vestibulo-spinal tracts, and the