TABES DORSALIS 502 seizures and loss of consciousness. In most of these cases of adductor spasm there is per- manent weakness of the abductors, which, when considerable, constitutes a very grave complica- tion. In rare cases the spasm may extend to the pharynx, making swallowing impossible. Bronchial crises have also been described, likewise cardiac crises, with irregularity of the heart's action, precordial pain and constriction, a feeling of suffocation, and symptoms resem- bling angina; or there may be tachycardia. The hypoglossal nerve may be affected, causing hemiatrophy or atrophy of the muscles of the tongue. Mental Symptoms.—A patient suffering with tabes may be the subject of potential insanity ; consequently the disease may, owing to physical pain and suffering, and mental worry from physical disablement, excite in him an attack of mania or melancholia, with suicidal tend- encies; or he may become the subject of paranoia, with delusions of persecution. Such insane patients are subjects of pseudo- hallucinations and delusions, and put an insane interpretation upon the symptoms of the disease, ascribing the lightning pains in the limbs to enemies and unseen agencies having turned on electricity. The gastric and visceral crises they ascribe to poison put in their food, and imseen agencies twisting their bowels and scraping their stomach. Frequently, when suffering with impotence, they have the delusion that their semen is drawn off by imaginary persons at night. I have met with a number of cases of blind tabetics who have had visual hallucinations, usually relating to burglars, policemen, and people who are coming to do them injury. Even more common is it to have auditory hallucinations, and they hear the voices of their persecutors, who they believe are the cause of all their troubles. Some of these patients afterwards develop dementia, and die of the tabetic form of general paralysis. The first symptom of tabes may be an epileptiform or apoplectiform seizure, followed by a transitory aphasia. The patient then may develop the characteristic signs of the disease, and for years present no further mental symptoms; or, siinultaneously with the cord symptoms, mental symptoms in the form of mania or melancholia, and progressive dementia may develop, associated with grandiose delusions or delusions of persecution. The case is then recognised as one of tabo-paralysis. The cord symptoms may last years, and then the symptoms of general paralysis may develop, and very frequently, as the mental symptoms become prominent, the cord symptoms become less evident; the ataxic gait, imless advanced, gives place to a shambling, shuffling gait, and not unfrequently in these tabo-paralytics the knee-jerk may be present on one side, absent on another, and I have seen it present on both sides when there has been well-marked char- acteristic posterior-column sclerosis associated with lateral sclerosis. The existence of the knee-jerk on one side and absence on the other in a case of tabes is of evil omen, as it means, as a rule, cerebral destruction or degeneration. In my experience about 10 per cent of the tabetic patients become tabo-paralytics, and in asylums about 10 per cent of the general paralytics are tabetic. Occasionally hemiplegia or paralysis may arise in a subject of tabes, caused by syphilitic arteritis, but this condition is rare. Tabetics are liable also to valvular disease of the heart, and of the large vessels Sio. 5.—Tabo-arthropathies. from atheroma and arteriosclerosis (see also "General Paralysis," vol. iii.). Taho-Arthropathies.—Although there may be signs of the disease, such as Argyll-Robertson pupils and absent knee-jerks, of which the patient is unconscious, the first symptom which attracts the patient's attention may be a sudden painless swelling of a joint, possibly with dis- location or subluxation ; it may have followed a trifling injury, or come on spontaneously ; or the patient may suddenly, from quite an in- sufficient cause, sustain a fracture of one of the bones—viz. the thigli. Another form of the disease is the tabic foot: the bones of the tarsus are deformed; the foot is shortened and thicker in the instep, and the sole flattened, and there is grating on movement. As a rule, all these joints affections, as well as the fractures, are