SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF 296 Symptoms and Coiirse.—The symptoms and course of the disease fall into periods:— (a) The incipient period or stage of onset. {b) The stage of development, (c) The stage of arrest, (d) The stage of improvement, or, as too often occurs, the stage of bony fixation of the deformity. (a) The Incipient Period is but slightly marked, and little or no notice is taken of symptoms at that time. Pain is as a rule absent, although a feeling of weariness in the back may be complained of. A careful examina- tion of the ligure, which, however, is very seldom made, reveals slight elevation of one shoulder, some asymmetry of the flanks, projection of one hip, or a faulty habit of standing or sitting. {b) The Stage of Development.—In healthy children there is little or no pain, but in weakly girls the amount of pain varies considerably, and it is interesting to observe that the most frequent site of pain is usually just below the scapula, on the convex side of the curve. There is also in nervous patients a good deal of diffused pain. When the deformity is considerable and of old standing, much pain is caused by the contact of the depressed ribs with the iliac crest and consequent irritation of the lateral branches of the last dorsal and upper three lumbar nerves. The other symptoms complained of during the stage of development are referable to alterations in the position of the viscera. It is interesting to note that there are certain ages at which increase in scoliosis often occurs. If untreated it will increase spontaneously up to the age of twenty-five, and again about forty and in old age. The majority of cases may be regarded as having attained the maximum of deformity at twenty-five. But in a small proportion of cases, as the result of debility, especially that which occurs from frequent child-bearing, a recrudes- cence occurs between the ages of twenty-five and forty; and in a smaller number of cases, owing to the failure of general health, a scoliosis which has been quiescent for thirty or more years will commence to increase, and cases have been recorded in which such took place as late as the sixtieth year. (c) The Stage of Arrest.—This may be reached spontaneously, or as the result of treat- ment, and may occur either in slight or well- marked cases. And the possibility of natural arrest should always be borne in mind, for it shows that scoliosis is not always so serious a matter as it is sometimes said to be. The other class of cases in which natural arrest occurs is of quite a different aspect. The scoliosis is extreme, and it has ceased to increase simply because bony ankylosis has taken place, with ossification of the ligaments. {d) The Stage of Improvement.—This never occurs spontaneously, but is only the result of properly directed treatment. It is recognised by observing the gradual diminution of all the signs of the deformity, especially the projection of the ribs on the convex side, and the acquisi- tion of symmetry of the flanks. If, however, the patient has never been placed under treat- ment, and the deformity is progressive, then the final stage is reached of ankylosis of the spine, with ossification of the ligaments. Morbid Anatomy and Pathogenesis.—Scoliosis is not a disease, but is an alteration in the position, shape, and texture of the spinal struc- tures, dependent on long-continued pressure and twisting in abnormal directions. In extreme cases the bodies of the vertebrae become wedge- shaped towards the side of the convexity, and in this change of shape the intervertebral discs partake. The bodies also become more dense on the concave side, and osteophytes may be seen on the edges of the articulating surfaces. As the result of torsion the fronts of the bodies show oblique and spiral striations or ridges. The spinal canal is altered in shape, and is found to be irregularly oval. Considerable changes occur in the laminae and processes. The spinous processes are deviated and directed to the side of the concavity; while the laminae, pedicles, articular and transverse processes, all undergo some atrophy. The anterior spinal ligament becomes displaced, and appears to slip to the concave side of the curve. Ultimately it may undergo ossification. The spinal muscles under- go considerable degeneration from disuse, and fatty and fibroid changes occur in old-standing cases with convex curves only. There have been many explanations advanced as to the actual causation of lateral curvature, and these are all set forth in the various text-books, and therefore need not be repeated. Judson of New York, and Bradford and Lovett of Boston, have conducted sevei-al experiments on the cadaver, which throw a great light upon the origin of scoliosis; and to quote the last-men- tioned authors, " the effects of the weight of the thorax, head, and shoulders would, if applied in a vertical direction, be to bend the spinal column forward and backward." But in flexible spines the superincumbent weight rarely falls directly ; and their experiments show that when pressure falls obliquely, rotation of the vertebrae takes place, and is more marked than lateral flexion. But the greater the antero- posterior curvature of the spine the greater is the rotation, and the greater is the lateral flexion. Hence in flexible spines scoliosis or rotatory curvature follows. This is at first a physio- logical process, but it subsequently becomes, by the alteration in the shape of the bones and altered pressure, a pathological change. The order of events is weakening of the spinal liga- ments and muscles occurring in a patient whose equilibrium is not perfect, and this is followed by antero-posterior flexion, rotation of the spinal column, and lateral flexion. Prognosis.—A common idea prevails that the