SCAELET FEVER 46 central and spinal symptoms, which may arise from hypereemia, or blood-poisoning, or menin- gitis. (iii.) Diseases of the Digestive System. — 1. Ulcerative Stomatitis.—In all descriptions of scarlet fever, when complications appear, their tendency is to assume ulcerative and pustular forms. After an attack of the mildest type of scarlet fever I have seen ulcerative stomatitis supervene. From the condition of the throat in scarlatina anginosa the inflammation spreads to the mouth ; the gums become spongy, bleed easily, and ulcerate. In severe cases the in- flammation proceeds to Noma, with all its attendant symptoms of salivation, sloughing, and the shedding of the teeth; and confines itself to young children entirely. From the resulting exhaustion, and the pain in taking food, sufficient nourishment is impracticable, and great debility thus ensues. 2. Liver.—Changes in the condition of the liver are also present, consisting of an albu- minoid infiltration of its secreting cells, pro- duced simply by the severity of the fever. 3. The intestinal mucous membrane be- comes intensely congested, and occasions severe diarrhoea. (iv.) Diseases of the Cirndatory System.— Pericarditis and endocai'ditis are occasionally present, with or without rheumatism; and those changes in the cardiac muscle where the fibres assume a granular capacity, which form the usual result of high fever. Thrombosis is not unusual, and results from septicjemia. The blood is of a dark colour, watery in character, with an excess of white corpuscles. (v.) Diseases of the Respiratory System.— Bronchial catarrh and pneumonia are not un- commonly found on search, especially in cold weather. ffidema of the larynx, and acute pulmonary oedema, when the kidneys are in- volved, are especially to be dreaded. (iv.) Diseases of Serous and Synovial Mem- branes.—Effusion into the pericardium, pleura, and joints is very liable to occur. It super- venes insidiously, and tends to terminate in suppuration. (vii.) Diseases of the Urinary System. — 1. Albuminuria.—As shown in a daily examination of the urine in each case, simple albuminuria, usually without casts, may commence as a mere trace during the first few days, and generally speaking implies little importance—in fact it frequently means improper feeding in the early stage of scarlet fever, or unwise exposure. But it most frequently arises in the same character during the third week—about the nineteenth day—and, unless very marked in quantity, gradually disappears as convalescence proceeds. In some instances it is not mani- fested until the patient leaves his bed. Most generally it occurs when constipation exists, and, where it persists, a prolonged period in bed must be required before its final disappear- ance. 2. Acute nephritis is usually occasioned by the toxic effect of the scarlet-fever poison, though sometimes it is produced by chill. Its onset is sudden, and is accompanied by headache, vomiting, rigors, acute fever, drowsi- ness, diminished secretion of urine, frequent micturition in small quantities, hsematuria, and casts. After a day or two the skin becomes dry, anasarca appears, and the temperature varies. Increased arterial tension is found, with a quick pulse. Mahomed described a pre-albuminuric tension of the arteries. As the hiematuria lessens all the symptoms abate, and the flow of urine increases. There is another type of case with similar commencement, but with less marked symptoms, and without hsematuria. This type usually supervenes towards the end of the third week. It occurs as frequently, if indeed not more frequently, in mild as in severe attacks, in consequence of the former receiving insufiicient care. It either terminates in recovery, or leaves permanently damaged kidneys, or ends in death from ursemia or acute pulmonary oedema. (viii.) Diseases of the Organs of Special Sense. —1. The Ear.—Unless there be a family pre- disposition to otitis—which, in my experience, is very frequent even in those in affluent cir- cumstances, and very disastrous in its conse- quences—its occurrence is usually manifested in severe cases only. It generally presents itself during the first five years of life, decreases in each subsequent year, and forms the most frequent complication of scarlet fever. Otitis, in these instances, is commonly an extension of the faucial inflammation; varies from a simple earache to an acute otitis media, and may be followed by mastoid abscess, and even meningitis. Subsidence may take place within a few days or weeks; or its duration may be extended for months or even years. 2. The eye is rarely involved, and then only with a slight conjunctivitis in the early stage. But in the delicate and cachectic the eyes may be seriously implicated during the suppurative period in a general ophthalmia, with corneitis, where the home surroundings are those of des- titution and overcrowding; and with retinitis when the kidneys are involved. (ix.) Diseases of the Lymphatic Glands.—In addition to the state of the glands previously described as occurring during the height of scarlet fever, suppuration of the cervical glands may ensue during convalescence. (x.) Diseases of the Supporting Tissues.—1. Cellular Tissue.—Inflammation of the greater part of the areolar tissue of the neck and parotid region may occur, tending to suppuration which may burrow in all directions, and produce for- midable abscesses, or sloughing of tissues.