311 SPLEEN, SURGERY OF markable in that they are usually secondary or form part of other morbid processes : the con- dition which will be described under the term splenomegaly is probably the only form of per- sistent enlargement of the spleen which is not thus associated (see " Banti's Disease," p. 313). On studying splenectomy lists, here and there will be seen the term " splenic hypertrophy " ; a critical examination of these cases indicates that the term is employed when the enlarge- ment of the spleen cannot be ascribed to leukaemia, malaria, syphilis, amyloid disease, or tumours, or interference with the portal cir- culation. On microscopic examination all the normal elements of the organ are increased in corresponding proportion, and the trabeculse are particularly obvious, but there are no features in the splenic tissue which enable us to determine the cause of its increased size. The writer's experience is limited to two cases : a girl of five years and one of seventeen. In the last patient the spleen was removed because it dragged on the stomach and caused persistent jaundice. In the child the spleen was removed on account of its size : it was associated with ansemia. In both patients the operation was successful, and five years later they were in excellent health. EcHiNOCOCCUs Cysts.—Many cases have been recorded in which echinococcus cysts and colonies have formed in the spleen. Large cysts are not common; the majority of the cases have been observed in the post-mortem room. In a few instances they have been successfully drained when their nature has been detected in the course of a coeliotomy. In rare instances they have been diagnosed before operation. Abscess.—A primary abscess in the spleen is rare. The condition commonly called a splenic abscess is usually outside the spleen and associ- ated with an injury to this organ, and is in reality a localised suppurative peritonitis, and often complicated with fracture of tlie overlying ribs. The appropriate treatment is incision and free drainage. In some cases the surgeon may find it necessary to remove the spleen, and there are conditions in which the removal of this organ facilitates convalescence. Malarial Spleen. — Enlargement of the spleen is a common consequence of malaria, and it is accompanied by an abundant deposit of characteristic black pigment. Spleens of this kind sometimes become very movable, and this fact as well as the increase in size renders them very liable to injury, and also causes them to be mistaken for ovarian cysts and uterine fibroids. Many malarial spleens, especially when " wandering," have been excised, and the operation has been attended with great success. Obliteration of the Splenic Vein.—This is an extremely rare condition, but it is worth considering on account of the peculiar signs associated with it. The writer's experience is limited to one case. A nurse, twenty-six years of age, suffered for six years from recurring attacks of profuse hsematemesis associated with a big spleen. The bleeding was attributed to a gastric ulcer, and the amount of blood she lost in some of the attacks was so great as to reduce the red corpuscles of blood to 662,000 per c.mm. Gradually the corpuscular elements would increase until they reached the propor- tion of 3,200,000 per c.mm. This always indi- cated that hsematemesis was imminent and in- variably happened within a few days. The woman herself knew when to expect an attack, and eventually died after a profuse bleeding. At the post-mortem examination the splenic vein was large enough to admit the index finger; it contained pouched recesses, and at its junction with the superior mesenteric was blocked by an organised thrombus. Tuberculosis of the Spleen.—In exceptional circumstances a tuberculous spleen may become so enlarged as to be a source of inconvenience and even of danger. Spleens enlarged in this way have been successfully removed. Aneurysm of the Splenic Artery.—This is a very unusual condition. The aneurysm may burst into the stomach, the colon, or into the peri- toneal cavity. It is a rare cause of sudden death. Splenectomy.—The two great causes of death after removal of the spleen were haemorrhage and septic peritonitis. The former cause of death has been abolished now that surgeons are particularly careful to exclude from operation any case of leukaemia; and peritonitis is pre- vented by the strict employment of aseptic measures in the performance of coeliotomy. Some cases have been observed in which, after removal of the spleen, there has been noticed an enlargement of all the external lymph glands accompanied with angemia, a quick pulse, and elevated temperature. These changes have supervened within a few weeks of the operation. In most of the cases they have gradually sub- sided ; and it is worthy of note that in nearly all the instances in which these remarkable changes followed, the spleens were removed from healthy individuals on account of inj ury. Spleenless individuals enjoy good health. The writer has seven patients under his obser- vation from whom he removed the spleen for various conditions, and there is nothing to indi- cate that they have lost the spleen (vide Trails. Clinical Society, London, vol. xxxiv.). Medical Affections of the Spleen Physiology . 312 Pathology ..... . 312 Tumours ..... . 312 Primary Enlargements . 312 Splenomegaly without Anaemia . . 313 Splenomegaly with Anaemia . 313 Splenomegaly in Children . 314 Treatment .... . 314