35 SCABIES, OR THE ITCH by the distribution, mode of onset, and other facts. The scalp is also said to have been affected. In a dying, comatose, phthisical patient, Gudden observed larvae in enormous numbers, forming red areas on the skin. They had apparently been brought to the patient's bedside in bunches of flowers. M^gnin has pointed out that harvest bugs may be carried in wheat-sheaves and affect the men handling them at a distance from infected localities. In sensi- tive patients there may be some febrile disturb- ance. Diagnosis.—The distribution, itching, and the character of the lesions, together with the time of year, and the fact that the patient lived in the country, would point to the probability of a harvest-bug origin. The sex, too, would help. A search for the parasite, with a lens and a needle on holder, might be rewarded, but the diagnosis must be made apart from the clinch- ing capture of the acarus. The possibility of the conveyance of the parasite to towns in sheaves, perhaps in trusses of hay, etc., must be borne in mind. Scabies can be excluded by attention to the points alluded to above {vide p. 32). In dogs the harvest bug is found chiefly about the orbits and nose. Animals may be carriers of the parasite to man. Treatment and Prevention.—A number of remedies have been recommended: benzine, essential oils, paraffin, kerosene, phenate of soda, balsam of Peru, etc. No doubt all of them are effectual, but if a patient must continue to reside in an infected locality pre- vention must be aimed at. Women and children should wear thick stockings, the open-work kind being strictly discarded. Maude has found keeping the legs below the knees dressed with the following useful: 01. eucalypti, ol. amygdal, aa gj., ol. menth. pip. Ttlx. As the parasite appears to be active only in the late afternoon and evening, sitting out of doors should be avoided j and lawns near the house should be kept watered and well mown. The following will also be found useful: Naphthol, cret. prsep. aa §ss., adipis gj., ft. ung., or ung. hydrarg. ammon. dil. (gr. x. ad gj.). II. Dbmodex folliculorum (also Acarus, steatozoon, entozoon, Simonea folliculorum; die Haarsack—or Haarbalgmilbe).—Like the Acarus scabiei, this parasite is a non-tracheate acarus. It is a minute, worm-like, degenerate arachnidan, with an elongated abdomen distinctly marked off from the cephalo-thorax, which bears four pairs of stumpy legs. It was first described by Henle (1841) and more fully by G. Simon (1842). In length it varies from one-tenth to two- fifths of a millimetre, the abdominal portion measuring about two-thirds of the entire length. The rostrum is spade-like, and is supported by palpi made up of four joints, the terminal one being supplied with a hook, curved downwards. for locomotion and penetration. It infests the sebaceous glands and comedones, and usually several parasites are found together, but fifty, or even as many as two hundred, may be found in one follicle. They are of common occurrence, being found in about one person in five readily, but not in the new-born. The skin about the nose is a favourite situation, but Mibelli and Majocchi have found them in the Meibomian, and Henle originally in the ceruminous glands. In man they rarely give rise to any incon- venience or symptoms, but de Amicis and Majocchi have described pigmentation of the face as a complication. Dubreuilh has recently recorded a marked case of the kind in a lady of forty, in whom scrapings from the face revealed the parasite in all stages of development in enormous numbers; but there was no sign of Microsporon furfur, showing it was not Tinea versicolor, for which disease, though rare on the face, it might have been taken. Domestic animals (pigs, cats, sheep, etc.) also suffer from various kinds of demodex. Follicular mange in dogs caused by a demodex may prove fatal, but Megnin, in opposition to Delafond, Bourguignon, and Gruby, considers Demodex caninus is a different species, and not communicable to man. Demodex folliculorum can usually be readily found in individuals with a greasy skin, by expressing the sebaceous glands or comedones with the back of a knife and examining the teased debris in glycerine. Where there is pigmentation antiseptic applications should be tried, but Dubreuilh in his case found that a chrysarobin and salicylic acid ointment and ung. hydrarg. ammon. led to no change after three months. (Chrysarobin, be it said in passing, should not be applied to the face.) III. Dermanyssus avium {Die Vogelmilbe).— This tracheate acarus belongs to the family GaTTMsidce. It infests poultry, and may attack man. The parasite is nocturnal in its feeding habits, lying low during the day in the cracks and crevices of hen-honses and hen-coops. Persons tending fowls are liable to their attentions. The parasite is only a temporary guest, but may repeatedly visit its host, giving rise to recurrent pruritus. The proper treat- ment is therefore preventive, and to this end hen-houses, etc., should be thoroughly disin- fected with lime and hot water. The itching itself may be allayed by a lotion composed of liq. carbonis deterg. 3j--3ijv aq. ad gviij. IV. Ixodes (Wood-ticks, Poux de bois, der Holzbock).—This is a tracheal-breathing acarus, and, as its name indicates, it inhabits woods, etc. There are several species which tempor- arily fasten on man and various animals. They are not fastidious as to the host as long as they can get their meal. Wood-ticks are distin- guished by the great extensibility of their integuments, swelling up to a large size (a pea or so) after a meal.