POISONOUS FISHES 250 SNAKE-BITES AND Mussels or other shell-fish, though quite fresh, will sometimes produce severe symptoms, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, syncope, numbness of the limbs, and eruptions on the skin, with occasionally swelling of the tongue and mucous membrane of the throat. Those taken from the open sea are generally quite wholesome, the poisonous pi-operties being derived from the foul water from which they have been gathered. (2) Putrefaction of Fish.—This is the most common cause producing poisonous symptoms. It is generally due to the action of micro- organisms breaking up the proteid substances present into a number of chemical bodies, some of which are harmless, others being very toxic. The proteids are first split up into albumen- noses, and then finally into the animal alkaloids known as " Ptomains"; these latter were first studied in detail by Selmi, and since then by Breiger, Van Ermengen, Sidney Martin, and others. From decomposing fish Breiger isolated the following substances: Trimethylamine, Dimethyl- amine, Methylamine, Neuridine, Cadaverine, and PtLtrescine; some, as cadaverine and put- rescine, are but slightly toxic, others are ex- tremely so, rapidly causing death. All "Ptomain" poisons are characterised by the combination of marked nervous symptoms, with gastro-intestinal irritation, and a tendency to coma, in which the patient may die. There is also almost always a more or less prolonged period between the ingestion of the food and the onset of the symptoms, "the incubation period "; when this is present the cause of the poisoning, according to Van Ermengen, is due to the presence of a special organism. Bacillus botulinus, this condition being known as Botu- tism. David describes an interesting instance of poisoning by red herrings. There were five cases, all in one family. Gastric symptoms and obstinate constipation, commencing some days after taking the food, occurred in all, followed by local paralysis of parts, double vision, and diminished reflexes. In two the dysphagia was so complete that feeding by a tube had to be resorted to. The paraplegic symptoms lasted for months, but all finally recovered. Breiger isolated an alkaloid named Mytelo- toxin, which is not destroyed by cooking, from the liver of mussels taken from foul water; this produces acute symptoms like those of " curare " poisoning, affecting the motor nerves, being quite distinct from those toxins which induce the gastro-intestinal irritation symptoms. The treatment of all cases of Ptomain poison- hig is to clear the stomach and intestines of the irritating substances as soon as possible, to give stimulants with discretion to counteract the cardiac depression, and where there is pro- fuse diarrhoea and much pain opiates will be required ; for the subsequent paralysis, massage and nerve tonics. " Tinned fish" are very liable quickly to undergo putrefactive changes, especially in hot climates ; if then eaten, they produce severe symptoms, diarrhoea, vomiting, and collapse in a few hours, which may last for days or prove fatal. In tropical climates, where the intestine is so ready under slight provocation to increased secretion, congestion, or ulceration, one cannot be too careful in the scrutiny of all tinned fish to be used for food; it is from these that on board ship fish poisoning most commonly arises. (3) The conveyance of specific jjathogejiic micro- organisms to man, by means of oysters, mussels, etc., unquestionably takes place, perhaps more often than is generally believed. The spread of typhoid has been distinctly traced to infected shell-fish, and reported ac- cordingly by many medical oflEicers of health and others. It is not uncommon in certain well-known localities to find oyster-beds on the foreshore immediately below the outfall of a sewer, and I have had it stated to me by a " grower" that in these positions the oysters are fatter and better in quality than those from more open situations. Bacteriological examinations have been made demonstrating the presence of B. enteritidis and B. cole communis, etc. Legislative measures for removing this evil have been over and over again brought forward, but so far ineffectually, the interference with the oyster industry and restriction of the area for beds being strongly opposed by a certain section of interested persons. (4) Poison Wounds caused by Fish.—Perhaps the most widely feared fish producing cutaneous injuries are the "Sting Rays," belonging to the order Batoidea. These have one or more sharp barbed spines attached to some portion of the dorsal surface of the tail; these may cause severe lacerations when incautiously handling the fish, or when stepping on them while half hidden in the sand. In the first case I person- ally came across, the pain was so intense that the strong, healthy man almost fainted. There is no poison apparatus connected with the spines, bat they are like poison arrows, being coated with mucus from the surface of the fish, which has peculiar irritating properties. An- other class of fish, the Scorpcenidce, are pro- fusely provided with sharp spines on the opercular plates, fins, etc., which inflict ir- regular punctured wounds. Among the very dangerous fish are Synancea verrucosa and S. horrida, found in the Red Sea and on the coasts of Africa and India ; in these species the dorsal spines are grooved, having small poison-bags attached, the venom being injected into the wound by pressure. Injuries from this fish occasionally cause death (Day). The symptoms vary according to the amount of venom in- jected; they are local pain, increasing and spreading from the wound, with swelling of the