275 SPINAL CORD direct path is established from spinal segments to brain by the development of the long pro- cesses of the posterior root fibres which make up Goll's column of the spinal cord. It is of the greatest importance, in considering the effect of lesions of the spinal cord, that one should bear in mind that there are not one, but many paths conducting from brain to spinal cord, and vice versa. Let us consider for a space the condition present in some of the lower animals. In the bird, for example, there is no pyramidal system, but the descending fibres from the cortex end in the optic thalamus, which is connected by a well-marked tract of fibres with the spinal segments. In this case incitations travel from brain to cord via a junc- tion in the thalamus, that is, by a mediate path. Now, in the human foetus, and in the infant, movements of the limbs occur before any pyra- midal system has reached the spinal cord; the incitations for such movements must therefore reach the spinal cord by some other tracts, such as the rubro-spinal, ponto-spinal, and vestibulo- spinal tracts, which at that period of existence are well developed. The following mediate paths have been de- finitely followed in man :— (1) Descending— Cortex Optic thalamus ,, Red nucleus „ Quadringeminal region „ Pons Varolii „ Medulla (2) Ascending— Fibres of Goll's column Post, root and other less important tracts. By the term tract is meant a collection of fibres of like origin and destination, and not as a rule a definite area of the spinal cord as seen in transverse sections. In the spinal cord the tracts are not distinctly limited (with the ex- ception of the direct cerebellar tract and part of Goll's column), hwt fibres of several tracts are found together in a particular area of the spinal cord. For example, that region of the lateral column occupied by the lateral pyramidal tract also contains fibres of the rubro-spinal and ponto-spinal tracts both ascending and de- scending. Descending Tracts.—The pyramidal tracts. These fibres are the axons of large pyramidal cells situate in the grey matter of the central convolutions of the cerebral cortex. They ex- tend throughout the spinal cord ; their termina- tions have been traced to the region of the cells of Clarke's column, and to the anterior horn. At the decussation of the pyramids each pyra- midal tract divides into four parts. The greater number of the fibres cross over and occupy the dorsal part of the lateral column—the crossed lateral pyramidal tract. Some of the fibres enter the lateral column of the spinal cord upon the same side—the direct lateral pyramidal tract. A further set enter the ventral column of the cord, and the majority of these do not cross but lie along the lips of the ventral fissure —the direct ventral pyramidal tract. Others cross to occupy a similar position along the ventral fissure of the opposite side—crossed ventral pyramidal tract. The fibres of the ventral pyramidal tracts are distributed to the cells of the ventral horns only. The proportion in which the fibres are distributed in the four divisions of the pyramidal tract varies greatly in different individuals. The development of the pyramidal system takes place relatively late, and is not complete in the lower regions of the cord till the end of the second year of life (at the age at which a child learns to walk). When injured these fibres degenerate relatively late. The rubrospinal tract (Monakow's bundle) consists of large fibres having their origin in the hinder end of the red nucleus. They soon cross the middle line in Forel's decussation, and Tract. Thalamo-spinal Rubro-spinal Tecto-spinal Post. long, bundle Ponto-spinal Vestibulo-spinal Fillet—cortex Direct cerebellar tract Gower's tract, lying internal to the sensory root of the fifth nerve come to occupy the angle between the olivary and restiform bodies, and thence run into the lateral column of the cord, where they are at first situated ventral and external to the crossed pyramidal tract, subsequently mixing with the fibres of that tract. They are distri- buted to the ventral horn of the same side. The ponto-spinal tracts have their origin in the nuclei centralis and lateralis pontis. One set of these fibres cross the raphe, and, entering the posterior longitudinal bundle, are distri- buted to the ventral horns with the fibres of that bundle. Others do not cross, and, inclining outwards, join and are distributed with the fibres of the rubro-spinal tract. The tecto-spinal tract arises in the grey matter beneath the anterior quadrigeminal body, and at once crosses the middle line in Meynert's de- cussation. It passes down as a compact bundle lateral to the raphe of the medulla, and ventral to the posterior longitudinal bundle. From its Spmal cord )) 5) )) )» )) ») )) Gracile nucleus, etc. Clarke's column Middle cell column