SULPHURIC ETHER 423 often arrest hiccough and other local muscular spasms. It has also been recommended for spasmodic asthma. Good results have been claimed for large doses by the mouth or hypo- dermically in ursemia. SulphuriS lodidum. See Sulphur. Sulphurous Acid.—H2SO3. A colour- less liquid with a sulphurous odour. Dose— ^-1 3. It is antiseptic, disinfectant, deodorant, and parasiticide. Rooms are commonly dis- infected after infectious illness by burning sulphur so as to develop fumes of sulphurous acid. Foul sores may be washed with it; and such diseases as ringworm, pruritus, thrush, tonsillitis, and diphtheria have been success- fully treated by it in varying dilution. It has been given internally in fermentative dyspepsia, typhoid, cholera, etc., but there is no proof that it really possesses any efficient action as a gastro-intestinal antiseptic. Sumbul Radix. — Sumbul or musk root is the root of the Ferula sumbul, a plant of the Nat. Order of the UmbelliferBe, which grows in India and Russia; it contains sumbulic acid, angelic acid, valerianic acid, resins, and a volatile oil; and it has the general actions of volatile oils. The official preparation is the Tinctura Sumbul (dose, \-\ fl. dr.). Summer.—The hot season of the year, when certain maladies are common, such as summer catarrh (hay fever), summer cholera (epidemic cholera), summer complaint or diarrhoea (infantile diarrhoea), summer rash (lichen tropicus), summer spots (ephelides). Sun Baths. See Balneology {Histori- cal) ; Hydropathy {Hot Air). Sunlig^ht. See Retina and Optic Nerve {Retinitis from Exposure to Sunlight). iSunstroke. Definition and Nomenclature . . 423 Causation ...... 424 Symptoms— Of Heat Shock . . . .426 Of Heat Fever 426 Sequels ...... 426 Morbid Anatomy . . . 427 I Etiology 427 ft Diagnosis ...... 428 I Prognosis 428 I Prophylaxis ...... 428 Treatment ...... 429 See also Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Hyperaemia); Cholera Nostras {Stools); In- sanity, Etiology of {Direct Causes); Tempera- ture {High Temperature, Effects); Unconscious- ness {Sunstroke). Definition and Nomenclature.—Under this title will be included all the acute pathological effects of exposure to excessive heat, solar and artificial. The more chronic results of pro- longed residence in hot localities, or exposure to the influence of high temperature in STmdry occupations, belong to the domain of climato- logy and tropical diseases or to the hygiene and pathology of particular industries. These results are mostly of slow and complex causa- tion, and the operation of high temperature is generally associated with other concomitant and intermediary conditions which produce a wide and somewhat indefinite range of disturbed health, that may assume the form of general enfeeblement, or of some particular functional or organic disorder, most commonly of the heart. The moi-e sudden and severe eff'ects of exposure to great heat are of a striking and definite description, and present the phenomena either of shock or fever. Under these two categories all cases of sun or heatstroke are included. Cases of heatstroke may vary in intensity from simple exhaustion or slight transient fainting to profound unconsciousness aiad grave failure of respiration and cii'culation, rapidly established and quickly terminating in death. Cases of heat fever also vary in severity. The fever may supervene on shock, or originate de novo; may arise with or without prodro- mata; the actual invasion is usually sudden and the progress rapid ; the temperature of the body soon attains a high level, and in aggravated cases symptoms of extreme urgency, presenting an apoplectic or asphyxial type, supervene and usher in early dissolution. The nomenclature of the subject is rather confused. Such terms as sunstroke, heatstroke, insolation, calenture, ictus solis, coup de soleil, and coup de chaleur are applied to either shock or fever of thermic causation of any sort or degree. The term heat-traumatism has been used by Manson to indicate the worst cases of shock and cases of fever with meningitis. The milder forms of fever have also been designated ardent fever. The severer forms of heat fever have been named thermic fever, thermic hyperpyrexia, heat apoplexy, and heat asphyxia. Siriasis (from Sirius, the dog star) is an ancient appellation which has been revived recently by Sambon, adopted by Manson, and associated with a hypothesis of specific type, epidemic inci- dence, and microbic causation. The name is a fanciful one, suggestive of sidereal influence, implying a faulty chronology, and bound up with an unproved etiology. Its continued use does not appear, under these circumstances, to be desirable. Maclean, following Morehead, recognises three types of heatstroke—the cardiac, the cerebro-spinal, and the mixed; the first two terms indicating heat shock and heat fever, and the third a combination of the two. These pathological designations are perhaps more definite than the phenomena justify. In the present state of our knowledge the simple