91 SCROTUM AND TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE suffice for the relief of a large majority of cases, and "must be directed to the patient's mind as well as to his body." The surgeon must assure his patient that there is no risk of impairment of virility, and that no operation is required. Occupation for the mind and body should be found, attention paid to general health, constipation avoided, cold or chilled morning baths should be taken, with local bathing of the genitals night and morning in cold water. A well-fitting suspensory bandage should be worn regularly, and such patients should be allowed to marry. In certain cases, however, operation is justifiable; they are as follows :—steady in- crease in size in spite of treatment, and when accompanied by distress and pain ; exclusion from one of the public services; increasing atrophy of the testis, and where frequent seminal emissions are giving rise to much mental distress. Many operations for the radical cure of varicocele have been devised. The older methods by gradual obliteration, etc., and the various subcutaneous procedures, have been quite superseded by the safer, simpler, and more certain methods of excision. One of two operations is generally performed at the present time, which differ from each other only in the extent to which the structures of the cord are removed ; in one the varicose veins alone being taken away, and in the other the whole thick- ness of the cord, except the vas and its attendant artery and veins, is removed, and the cord thereby permanentlj^ shortened. The operation of excision is performed in the following manner:—The hair having been pre- viously shaved from the parts and the skin made clean, the surgeon stands on the side to be oper- ated on, and pinches up the cord at the uppermost part of the scrotum between his left thumb and forefinger in such manner as to stretch tightly the overlying skin. A longitudinal incision, half to three-quarters of an inch long, is made through the tense skin, and is deepened gradu- ally until a little pellet of fat or a loop of varicose vein pushes itself into the wound. No further cutting is required, as nearly the whole length of the cord can be pulled out in the form of a loop through this small opening ; its several parts may be easily recognised, and may be dealt with as required. If simple excision of the varicocele is to be performed, the veins are separately isolated, tied below and above with catgut ligature, and the intervening portions cut away; one or several vessels may be dealt with, and any length of them may be removed. Instead of taking away the veins only, the whole thickness of the cord—except the vas and its vessels, which can be both felt and seen posteriorly—may be isolated, tied first below, an inch or more above the testicle, and then above, at the highest level to which the cord can be pulled downwards, and all the intervening part—from two to five or six inches —cut across and removed. The end of each of the ligatures may be left long, that they may be tied together, so as to bring the divided ends of the cord into close proximity with each other, thus shortening the cord and raising the testis from its pendulous position nearer to its proper level. It is seldom any bleeding vessels have to be tied. The approximated ends of the cord are gently pushed back through the scrotal wound, which is closed with a single silk or horsehair suture. No drainage is required; the parts are dressed with dry aseptic wool, and are supported with a triangular bandage. The patient should lie in bed for two weeks, and should wear a suspensory bandage after- wards for two or three months. The operation is occasionally followed by some oedema of the scrotum, a little engorge- ment of the testis, and a moderate effusion into the tunica vaginalis; but true orchitis is rarely seen. Some thickening and tenderness is often left at the site of operation which is slow to disappear. Bennett insists on the importance of not only excising the dilated veins, but of effecting at the same time the immediate permanent shortening of the elongated cord, by leaving the sheath of fascia which immediately surrounds the vari- cocele intact, and including it with the veins in the ligatures, the precise extent of a varicocele which it is desirable to resect being determined by the amount of elongation of the cord. In the large majority of cases removal of the pampiniform plexus alone results in complete and permanent cure, and Bennett's operation, therefore, may well be preserved for the more severe cases. Epididymitis is the term applied to inflam- mation of the epididymis, and may be acute, subacute, or chronic. Acute and Subacute Epididymitis.—Acute or subacute epididymitis is almost always excited by some affection of the membranous or pro- static urethra, such as gonorrhoeal, gouty, or other forms of urethritis, the passage of urethral instruments, impacted urethral calculi, urethral injections, and urethral or meatal strictures ; by inflammatory and ulcerative conditions of the prostate and seminal vesicles, and by prostatic calculi. Injury rarely causes this aff'ection; the inflammation is probably the result of direct extension of a pre-existing inflammatory process, and is neither due to metastasis, sympathy, nor reflex congestion. The globus minor is the part chiefly first affected. The thickening of the globus minor is due to inflammatory exudation immediately beneath the tunica vaginalis into the cellular tissue between the convolutions of the duct. The tubes of the epididymis are in places dilated into small pouches filled with pus. The