40 SCARLET FEVER for the propagation of the germs, and in 1870 Dr. M. W. Taylor showed that the disease could be disseminated through milk which had become contaminated by those who were either infected with scarlet fever or were in attendance on scarlet-fever patients. Since that date many epidemics have been traced to this source. In 1882 Mr. W. H. Power and Dr. Klein proceeded a step farther, and clearly proved that human scarlet fever may be caused by milk which owed its infective property to a similar ailment in the cow itself. Thomas records cases, too, of persons who were inoculated successfully with the germs of scarlet fever, and were thus protected. We shall now discuss the nature of these germs. 4. Bacteriology.—The recent researches of Dr. Mervyn Gordon have confirmed the views of Hallier and Reiss in 1869, and those of Jamieson and Edington in 1887, that the blood of scarlet-fever patients contains micrococci in abundance. These investigations also support Dr. Klein's contention, based upon analyses made during the Hendon epidemic in 1885, that streptococcus scarlatinas, though closely re- sembling streptococcus pyogenes, is a distinct organism, and is causally related to scarlet fever. As a result of his most recent investiga- tions into the bacteriology of scarlet fever. Dr. Gordon summarises the evidence as follows :— (1) The streptococcus scarlatinas, or con- glomeratus, is a special pathogenic micro-organ- ism distinct from streptococcus pyogenes on the one hand, and from bacillus diphtheriae on the other. (2) It occurs constantly in the mucous secre- tion on the surface of the tonsil or fauces in scarlatina, and may persist there, in some in- stances, for a period considerably remote from the origin of the attack. (3) It was not discovered on inflamed, but non-scarlatinal throats, though other virulent streptococci were found. (4) It may be present in the nasal discharges of scarlatina ; but it has not yet been detected in the aural discharge. (5) It can penetrate the system, and be ob- tained in pure culture from a serous effusion occurring as a complication in the course of scarlet fever. (6) It may be present in the blood and tissues of the fatal cases of scai-let fever, and may not infrequently be obtained thence in pure culture. (7) The characters of streptococcus scarlatinae, as isolated from the tonsil of a mild but typical case of scarlet fever, are apt to undergo modifi- cation, when, for example, a mouse dies from infection with it; and a similar modification is found in the case of streptococcus obtained when a patient succumbs to scarlatinal infection. In each instance the modification generally com- prises increase of virulence accompanied by diminution of those morphological and cultural characteristics that distinguish streptococcus scarlatinas from the streptococcus pyogenes, though close examination shows that sufficient differences still survive to permit the differentia- tion of this streptococcus from streptococcus pyogenes. The conclusion is warranted that streptococcus scarlatinas, or conglomeratus, is the essential agent of the disease termed scarlet fever. These researches are confirmed by Bajinski and Sommerfeld, and to a certain extent by Class. 5. Fomites.—In calculating the incubation period of scarlet fever, and in predicting its cessation, the action of fomites in renewing the disease must be incessantly borne in mind. And it is undoubtedly the fact that it is the activity of these fomites, infected at the most infectious period of the disease, which accounts also for many cases where it has been assumed that the convalescent was still infectious, and constituted the cause. These facts are sometimes forgotten in the case of " return" attacks of scarlet fever, and are omitted in the views of those who assign long periods of incubation to the disease. Murchison cites Hildebrand as catching scarlet fever from his own cloak, which, after exposure to its infection, had been locked up for eighteen months ; and adds that if he had put on his cloak at the end of one month, instead of eighteen, after visiting the patient who infected it, and had then been attacked, the case would have been quoted in proof of the possibility of the incubation period extending over four weeks. 6. Independent Origin.—No known case exists of the disease arising de novo. It is always de- pendent upon a previous case. VI. Symptomatology.— (i.) Premonitory Symptoms. — Scarlet fever, even in its most classical form, is one of the most irregular of diseases. The most perplexing cases are those where the symptoms are too slight to render an accurate diagnosis possible without waiting for the course of events. But the position is not peculiar to medicine, that inadequate data mean suspension of judgment. The most vigilant watching at every stage of the disease is essen- tial to valid decision. One of the cases that caused me great trouble was that of a lad who never felt ill for an hour, went to school the whole time, and where the presence of the malady was only discovered by the peeling of his hands. There are usually, however, some symptoms of invasion even in slight cases, such as feeling tired, headache, chilliness, aching limbs, and loss of appetite. In more decided cases there occur, in addition, severe headache, thirst, vomiting, and sore throat; while in very young children the onset may be ushered in with convulsions. Occasionally diarrhoea occurs at the commencement. After a few hours of malaise the sore throat, with difficulty in de-