329 STATUS StCttUS.—A condition in which certain characters which it may have taken some time to develop are more or less continuously present; e.g. the status epilepticus (the condition in which there are rapidly recurring epileptic seizures), status typhosus (the typhoid state), and status vertiginosus (the condition of pro- longed vertigo). Status Lymphaticus. Synonyms Definition Historical Etiology Symptoms Morbid Anatomy Pathology Treatment 329 329 329 329 330 331 331 333 See also Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Status Lymphaticiis); Thymus Gland. Synonyms.—Lymphatism, Status Thymicus. Definition.—-A condition in which the thymus gland and lymphoid tissue generally are hyper- trophied, associated with diminished powers of resistance to infections and injuries, and a liability to sudden death. Historical.— For nearly a century medical literature has contained discussions as to the significance of an enlarged thymus. Its associa- tion with sudden death was noted as long ago as 1723 by Bichat, and the subject was brought into prominence by Kopp (1829). He believed that enlargement of the thymus caused a form of dyspnoea to which the name "thymic asthma" was given, and that this dyspnoea might prove fatal by direct pressure upon the trachea. Friedleben in his classical monograph of 1858 threw considerable doubt upon the relation of the thymus to dyspnoea or sudden death. He maintained that in many cases of so-called enlargement the gland was within normal limits, and that an enlarged thymus had no significance in cases of sudden death. These views prevailed in spite of the opposition of Virchow and Cohnheim, and the subject re- mained quiescent until 1888, when the work of Grawitz in Germany and Jacobi in America revived it. No doubt many of the patients supposed to suffer from thymic asthma in reality had laryngismus stridulus, and Jacobi pointed out that many cases of sudden death were due to laryngismus and had nothing to do with the thymus, but that there remained a residuum in which the thymus was the cause of the asphyxia. Rauchfuss, Baginsky, and others held similar views, and discussion became very active. Many theories based on clinical, anatomical, or experimental studies were ad- vanced to explain the thymic death. New light was thrown on the subject by Paltauf, who in 1889 showed that the enlarged thymus constituted but one manifestation of an ab- normal constitutional state, in which there was not only an enlarged thymus but also hyper- plasia of the whole of the lymphoid apparatus. He found enlargement of the lymph glands in various parts of the body, the tonsils, lymph follicles at the base of the tongue and in the pharynx, the Malpighian bodies of the spleen, and the lymph follicles of the intestines. In some cases he described a hypoplasia of the heart and aorta similar to that described by Virchow in chlorotic subjects, so that in these cases Paltauf spoke of the chlorolymphatic constitu- tion, and in older patients showing signs of this condition he found the blood picture of chlorosis. The views of Paltauf found acceptance but slowly; the evidence of late years, however, is strongly in their favovir, and to-day lymphatism must rank as a clinical entity. Etiology. — Little is known of the causes which predispose to this condition. We must remember that the lymphoid tissue in a child is in a state of unusual activity. There is much evidence that the lymphocytes play some part in nutrition, and it is a fact that any condition of ill-health in which nutrition is impaired tends to be accompanied by increased activity of the lymphoid tissue, showing itself in a hyperplasia of the organs in which such tissue is most abundant. This predominance of the lymphoid tissue usually declines at puberty but may persist afterwards, and such a case is marked by delicacy of health. Improper feeding and anything which induces malnutrition and dim- inishes the vitality of the tissues, such as infectious diseases in infancy, are possible factors in the causation of lymphatism. The frequent association with rickets also suggests that improper feeding has some influence. No difference is observable in its incidence on the two sexes, and while most frequently found in childhood and adolescence it has several times been described in adults. Blake published 7 cases, only one of which was under twenty-seven, the oldest being in a man of fifty- five. In 20 cases studied by myself one was aged fifty, 3 were between twenty and thirty, 6 under twenty, and 10 under ten, the average age being twelve and a half years. It may occur as a family disease. Thus Hedinger mentions a family of nine children, five of whom died suddenly in infancy with signs of lymph- atism ; and several observers have recorded deaths under similar circumstances of from two to nine children in single families. In children it is often, but not invariably, associated with rickets. In adults an enlarged thymus is common, if not constant, in exophthalmic goitre. Ord and Mackenzie found an enlarged thymus in all their fatal cases, and since attention has been drawn to it the other signs of lymphatism have been found by other