160 SILVER warts and exuberant granulations, and also as an application to bites. Continued bleeding from a leech-bite can be checked by touching with silver nitrate. It is recommended in erysipelas, a strong solution (about 160 grains to the ounce) being painted on the skin a little in advance of the spreading margin. Solutions of from 5 to 10 grains to the ounce are used with benefit in weak ulcers, in bed-sores, in pharyn- gitis, in laryngitis, and as an injection in gonor- rhoea, gleet, and endocervicitis. Weaker solu- tions have been employed for injection into the bladder in cases of cystitis. Solutions of about 4 grains to the ounce may be employed in the treatment of conjunctivitis, and in obstinate cases the conjunctiva may be painted with stronger solutions. Many physicians make a practice of putting a drop of a 2 per cent solu- tion into the eyes at birth so as to avoid the risks of purulent ophthalmia. Large quantities of a strength not greater than 1 grain to the ounce may be of service as a rectal injection in dysentery and obstinate diarrhoea. Silver salts ai'e not much used internally, and their con- tinuous administration is to be avoided on account of the discoloration of the skin pro- duced. Argyria may also result from long- continued external application, as to an ulcer- ating surface. In some cases of hsemorrhage from the stomach silver nitrate acts well, especially if the patient is well under the in- fluence of opium. In cases of severe diarrhoea its administration may be markedly beneficial. Its empirical vise in chronic nervous diseases, such as chorea, epilepsy, and locomotor ataxia has now been entirely abandoned. The acetate, citrate, cyanide, iodide, lactate, and other salts of silver have all been used and recommended for special purposes in preference to the nitrate, but there does not appear to be any striking advantage attached to the use of any of them. Argyrol, a combination of silver with a proteid obtained from wheat, is said to be less irritating than the official salts, and has been used for the eye, and in treatment of diseases of the genito- urinary tract, with excellent results. It is freely soluble, and should be used in somewhat stronger solutions than the nitrate. Protargol, another proteid compound, has also been widely employed, especially in the treatment of gonor- rhoea. Collargol, or colloid silver, has also been recommended strongly as an antiseptic in preference to the nitrate. Silvester's Method.—A method of artificial respiration, the asphyxiated person being in the dorsal posture and having the tongue drawn forward; alternate compression and expansion of the chest is produced by movements of the arms. See Asphyxia {Methods of Artificial Respiration). Simon's Operation.—An operation for complete rupture of the perineum. Simon's Position.—The exaggerated lithotomy position. Simon's Speculum. See Curettage {Teclmique). Simon's Symptom.—The condition of immobility (or retraction) of the umbilicus; it is sometimes present in tubercular meningitis {q.v.). Simonart'S Bands.— Amniotic ad- hesions and bands attached at one end to the foetus in utero and at the other to the amnion. See Pregnancy, Diseases and Death of the FcETUS {Congenital Ampittations). Simpson's Forceps.—The long for- ceps of Sir James Y. Simpson; also the axis- traction forceps of Sir Alex. R. Simpson, which is an application of the Tarnier principle of axis traction to Sir James Y. Simpson's long forceps. See Labour, Obstetric Operations {Forceps). Simpson's Version.—A method of turning the infant in utero, both hands being used in the process, the internal one being passed deeply into the uterus and doing the greater part of the version. See Labour, Ob- stetric Operations {Version). Sims' Position.—The semiprone pos- ture used in gyneecological examinations and operations, especially for the introduction of the Sims' speculum. See Gynecology, Diag- nosis IN (Vaginal Specula, Spatular Variety). Simulation. See Malingering. Sinai bin. See Mustard. Sinapis Albse Semina. See Mustard. Sinapis Nigfrae Semina. See Mustard. Sinciput.—The anterior and upper part of the head, or the calvarium, as distinguished from the occiput. See Labour, Physiology of {Passenger). Sing^er's Nodules. See Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammation {Nodular Laryngitis); Larynx, Benign Growths of {Singer's Nodule). Sing'ing'. See Physiology, Respiration (Voice, Singing). Sing'UltuS.—Hiccough (Lat. singultare, to sob). See Spasm (Varieties, Diaphragmatic). Sinigrin. — Potassium myronate. See Mustard. Sinistral.—On the left side; sinistrad means towards the left side.