588 THERAPEUTICS: SERUM THERAPY every effort should be made by spraying, irri- gation, and swabbing to remove exudation. The use of the serimi will not prevent the occurrence of post-diphtheritic paralysis. There is no evidence tliat the serum produces nephritis. A7Uistreptococcus Serum.—The first attempt to cure streptococcic infection by the use of serum was made by Marmoreck in 1895. The serum is now used in erysipelas, cellulitis, general suppurative peritonitis, suppurative dis- ease of the middle ear, thrombosis of the lateral sinus, and puerperal septicaemia. In malignant endocarditis it sometimes answers well, but not uncommonly fails. The organism associated with this disease may be a streptococcus or it may be a staphylococcus. If the disease is due to streptococci the antistreptococcus serum proves efficacious, but if it is due to staphylo- coccal infection it is useless. The nature of the infection is usually difficult to determine, so that the results are uncertain. Marnioreck's claim that his serum will cure all streptococcic puerperal infections appears not to be substanti- ated. The serum is of great value in certain cases, but in others apparently identical it has been found useless. This is attributable to their causation by different varieties of strepto- cocci. Should a particular serum fail, it would be well to try a serum from another source. It is now recognised that a serum obtained from a given streptococcus may protect an animal from that organism, but be absolutely inefficient against another streptococcus. It is clear that the number of serums which can be prepared is limited only by the varieties of streptococci which exist. The results obtained in erysipelas and other streptococcal infections are often so strikingly successful that the serum should be used in every case, especially as its administration does not preclude local treatment or even the ad- ministration of drugs such as perchloride of iron by mouth. Antistreptococcic serum is supplied by the Jenner Institute; Parke, Davis and Co., and other makers, but whether their products are identical it is impossible to say. It is best to inject three doses of 10 c.c. at intervals of six hours, with of course the usual antiseptic precautions. The case containing the three 10 c.c. vials costs from 7s. 6d. to 12s. Burroughs Wellcome supplies both an anti- streptococcus and an antistaphylococcus serum in 10 c.c. phials. These serums have no toxic action, and 30, 35, and even 75 c.c. have been given as a dose. In a severe case of erysipelas it would be justifiable to begin with 20 c.c. of the antistreptococcus serum, AntLtetanic Serum.—The treatment of tetanus by antitoxin was introduced by Behring and Kita.sato in 1890. Tetanus was the disease in which investigation led to results which paved the way for the more important serum treat- ment of diphtheria. It was selected for the purpose of experimentation from the certainty with which definite results could be obtained in animals submitted to observation, and yet, strangely enough, of all the serums in common use the antitetanic gives the most unsatisfactory results. The antitetanic serum commonly em- ployed is that of Tizzoni and Cattani. It is in the form of dry scales, and is supplied in vials containing 4| grammes, or sufficient for an ordinary adult case, at 45s. the vial. The best plan is to inject 2'25 grammes at the first dose, and 0'6 grammes for subsequent doses. The scales may be dissolved in distilled water, normal saline solution or blood serum. The Jenner Institute supplies the serum in cases holding three tubes of 10 c.c. each, at 12s. the case. They also supply a dried serum in tubes con- taining 3 grammes, at 12s. a tube. Burroughs Wellcome and Co. supply the serum in phials containing 10 c.c. at 3s. 4d. each. The dose employed should be large, to the extent even of 100 c.c. of the serum, so that the treatment must of necessity be expensive. The direct strength of a tetanus toxin is measured by the body weight in grammes of an animal which is killed with certainty by 1 gramme of the toxin. The indirect strength of a toxin is its antitoxin neutralising power. In some cases of tetanus in man very large doses have been given ; for example, Wilms records the case of a patient who within thirty hours received 4,000,000 Tizzoni units, followed on the second, third, fourth, and fifth days by 1,000,000 units each day. There seems to be no particular advantage in intracranial injections. The serum gives the best results in chronic cases. It not infrequently happens that the bacillus is localised and confined to the seat of infection, so that free excision with the applica- tion of pure carbolic acid should be resorted to in addition to the use of the antitoxin. Horses, as is well known, are especially liable to tetanus, and in them the antitetanic serum answers well. By systematic immunisation with the serum the death-rate amongst them from this disease has been materially reduced. A veterinary antitetanus serum is supplied by Parke, Davis and Co. at 4s. the oz. The immunity to tetanus in man conferred by the serum is temporary, and is pi'obably limited to six or eight weeks. The antitoxin is excreted by kidneys, mammary, and other glands. Antiveiiene.—For our knowledge of the treat- ment of snake-bite by this substance we are indebted chiefly to the researches of Sir Thomas Fraser of Edinburgh and Dr. A. Calmette of Lille. Venomous snakes may be divided into two categories:—(A) Poisonous colubrine snakes; (B) viperine snakes. In class (A) are included the cobras, the kraits, the coral snakes, the moccasins, the tiger snake, the black snake, and the deaf adder. In class (B) are the English viper, the rattlesnake, the Dahoid Russellii of