188 SKIN DISEASES OF THE TROPICS of the legs by putties or other coverings. Those attacked should be isolated. Where the ulcer is present, the constitutional condition should be treated by nourishing diet, fresh vegetables, lime juice, quinine, and tonics; and opium is generally necessary to relieve pain and give sleep. Locally vigorous treatment is best. The sloughing mass should be removed by the actual cautery, curetting, or by swabbing with pure carbolic (Manson); the surface is then dressed antiseptically, or better, irrigated or placed in a continuous antiseptic bath. Should sloughing again recur, the mass is again re- moved. When once checked, the treatment is that of ulcer, but splints, strapping, or skin- grafting are often needed to aid cicatrisation. (e) Pemphigus Contagiosus. — Tobi Hi.—A contagious skin affection characterised by the formation of vesicles and bullae and subsequent exfoliation of skin. Geographical Distribution.—It is met with during the hot season along the southern coast of China, and in Japan and the Straits Settle- ments, and has also been described in Madras, Queensland, Trinidad, and America. Very possibly it occurs in other hot, damp climates. Etiology.—Children, especially of European parentage, are chiefly attacked, and particularly favourable opportunities for its spread are pro- provided by schools and similar institutions. Among adults, Europeans occasionally suffer, but natives rarely do. The cause is probably of a bacterial nature, and a diplococcus has been found in the fluid of the blebs by Manson and Mimro. The latter obsei'ver cultivated it in various media, but failed to reproduce the disease in lower animals. Yokuma has, how- ever, successfully inoculated a patient already infected, and obtained pure cultures from the lesion. Symptoms.—Minute red hypersemic spots pre- cede the development of vesicles and bullae, which rapidly form on their site. Slight itching or burning usually heralds their appearance but then diminishes, although, when they collapse, it may return. The bullae and vesicles are hemispherical in shape, and in size vary from that of a split pea to that of half a large marble; there is sometimes a slightly marked area of congestion around. Within them is fluid containing leucocytes, the diplococci, and a few cells from the stratum granulosum. This fluid, at first clear, subsequently becomes opaque and the blister flaccid, at which period it usually ruptures, discharging its contents and leaving a weeping red surface under the cuticle, which at times continues to exfoliate round the margin. Rarely, the bullaj may coalesce, thus denuding a large surface. Later, all that is left is a pinkish spot, perhaps covered by a thin scale. The eruption in adults is commonly confined to the crutch and axillae, where it may occasion much irritation ; in children it is spread to any part of the body, from scratching or other methods of inoculation. Diagnosis.—To some extent the disease re- sembles impetigo contagiosum, but the lesions involve trunk and limbs rather than face, and the exfoliations around the periphery of the ruptured vesicle are composed of desquamated epithelium and not dried pus. The absence of constitutional disturbance, of ulceration and scarring, and the non-occurrence of the eruption on mucous membranes, with the occasional larger size of the bullae, distinguish it from varicella. In adults, the absence of itching festooned margin and of fungus help to dif- ferentiate it from tropical ringworm, for which it may be mistaken. Treatment.—A cure is readily obtained by thorough cleansing with antiseptic lotion such as perchloride of mercury, and subsequent ap- plication of soothing antiseptic ointments, com- presses, or dusting powders ; but its contagious nature must be remembered, and all necessary precautions taken with regard to isolation, cloth- ing, and so on. Tonics, particularly arsenic and quinine, are occasionally indicated. (/) Craw-Craw.—In West Africa this name is given to various itching cutaneous diseases— most commonly, in the writer's experience, tropical ringworm or scabies. O'Neil in 1875 first described as craw-craw a contagious disease resembling scabies, in which he found numerous filai'ia-like organisms on shaving off' the tops of the papules. Later, Nielly saw in an un- travelled French lad a similar papulo-vesicular itching eruption with nematode embryos in the blood, in addition to organisms in the papules, and called it Dermatose Parasitaire. Emily has likewise described under the name craw-craw a papulo-pustular affection common in tropical Africa and in India, China, and elsewhere (Manson). An itching papule forms, which as the result of scratching becomes inoculated with pyogenic organisms, and by auto-infection with discharge extends, producing a pustular eczema. Recently, Bennett has analysed 83 cases of so- called craw-craw, 58 of which he found to be tinea circinata. The disease in the remainder was extremely contagious, and after an incuba- tion period of two to four days began as papules, which developed in four or five days into vesicles and pustules ; the hands, arms, and thighs were principally affected. The discharge from the vesicles was peculiar, stiffening linen, and pro- ducing yellowish crusts, under which pustules formed, and gave rise to pain and irritation. Filaria perstans was present in the blood of 12 of these cases, filaria nocturna in 2. Doubtless they might have been seen in blood from the papules, thus proving the possibility of Manson's suggestion that O'Neil's organisms came from this source. Bennett looks upon the disease as a pustular eczema, and thinks the name craw- craw should be abandoned.