SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL CHILDREN, MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF 62 any special medical instructions, such as the remitting of instruction, gymnastics, etc.; (5) the number of written reports sent to the parents ; the number of school children remain- ing under medical control; a summary of the instructions given on the hygiene of the school. 3. Practice of Medical Inspection.—The extent of the examination to be undertaken at school depends on the purpose of medical inspection. This purpose is to prevent unfit children from entering on a course of instruc- tion ; to eliminate from the school such unfit children as are found there; to discover all such defects as interfere with the education of the child; to indicate what measures must be taken to have all defects remedied or ameli- orated. Incidentally, the examination may serve strictly scientific ends; but the primary end is not scientific statistics, but the practice of education. Accordingly, the devising of a practical schedule becomes a matter of serious consequence. The schedule should include only what is practicable within school conditions and necessary for the full education of the child. In the schedule devised by Professor Matthew Hay for the Physical Training Commission (Scotland) there were included a large number of items that had only a scientific interest. In the schedule devised by the present writer for routine medical inspection all the main clinical items of Professor Hay's schedule were retained ; some hygienic items were added, but the items of merely scientific interest were dropped. (See The Medical Inspection of School Children, Appendix.) It is not advisable to overload this article with a variety of schedules ; but the relation of the home to the school is of such primary im- portance that I transcribe the first section of the schedule that seems to me best. I. Address, Occupation of Parents, etc. Session began Date of Medical Inspection,.. Name of pupil, Date of birth, day, month, year. Place of birth, Age—years and months, Residence or address, Number of rooms in house, Number of family and lodgers in house,.... Father's occupation, Mother's occupation (if any), Does pupil work before school hours ? Does pupil work after school hours? If so, at what occupation ? All these items have a direct bearing on the capacity of the child for school work. Now that feeding of children has become a possible duty of the school authority, the above items are all the more important. In other respects practically all the same items, with detailed directions, have been in- cluded in the schedule issued by the English Board of Education. The home conditions may be recorded under " general observations," etc. This schedule is of such importance, both historically and practically, that we reprint it here. It has been issued in a card form, with a full circular of directions. Circular to Local Educcttion Authorities. Schedule of Medical Inspection. Circular 582. BOARD OF EDUCATION, Whitehall, London, S.W., '23rd January 1908. Education (Administrative Provisions) Act 1907, Section 13. 1. The accompanying Schedule has been drawn up in response to requests which the Board of Education have received for further and more definite guidance as regards the details of the work of medical inspection than was given in the Memorandum (Circular 576) which was issued by the Board on 22nd Nov- ember 1907. The Board have, indeed, been pressed by many Local Education Authorities to issue a complete set of Forms for use in carrying out the work directly or incidentally involved in the performance of these new duties. Any Forms which experience of the working of the Act may show to be necessary or desirable will be issued in due course, but for the present the Board think it expedient to leave consider- able latitude, subject to the considerations hereinafter set out, in regard to the particular Forms or Schedules to be used in diff"erent cases or circumstances. 2. The chief difficulties to be considered are administrative rather than educational or scientific. There is comparatively little dispute as to the end in view, or as to the means which, from the technical standpoint of medical science and practice, should be adopted for its complete attainment. But the existing resources of Local Education Authorities are (for practical purposes, at all events) not unlimited, the feelings and prejudices of parents have to be considered, and a new element has to be inti-oduced into school life and organisation with the least possible dis- turbance and inconvenience. Moreover, in this case two departments of local public adminis- tration are brought for the first time into organic connection—those of public health and of public education. 3. The Board are fully aware of these diffi- culties, and in preparing their Memorandum and Regulations it was necessary for them to consider what system would best reconcile the theoretical and practical considerations, and overcome the divergence between the ultimate end and the end immediately attainable, or between the methods which are scientifically desirable and those which can be applied in