414 STEICTURE Stenosis of Pylo7-us); Urethra, Diseases op (Str{ctu7-e). Stridor.—A harsh form of respiration, due to obstruction at some part of the respiratory tract (in the larynx, trachea, or bronchi). See Larynx, Congenital Laryngeal Stridor ; Larynx, Laryngismus Stridulus ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Status Lymphaticus); Measles {Symptoms, Aberrant Laryngeal Stridor); Status Lymphaticus ; etc. StridulOUS.—Making a harsh, creaking, or rasping sound, e.g. in laryngismus stridulus {see Larynx, Laryngismus Stridulus). Strigil.—A flesh-brush (Lat. strigilis, a scraper). See Balneology {Historical). Stripe. »S^ee Streak ; Stria; etc. Strobiia,.—An adult tapeworm (Lat. stro- bilus, a pine cone). See Parasites {Cestodes, Tapeivorms). Stronricl. — The sustentacular portion of an organ, usually consisting of fibrous connec- tive tissue. Stromuhr. — An instrument for deter- mining the velocity of the flow of blood in arteries or veins. See Physiology, Circulation {Floiv of Blood, Velocity). Strongly I US. See Vaukhw^s, {Nematodes, Strong ylidae). Strontium and its Salts.—This element and its salts are not officinal in the B.P., but the bromide has been used in epilepsy and the lactate in nephritis. StrophanthuS.—The dried ripe seeds of Strophanthus komhe, an African plant from which the natives make arrow poison. The seeds are oval in shape, fawn coloured, and covered with silky hairs. The chief constituent is strophanthin, a white soluble glucoside, which can be broken up by acids into glucose and strophanthidin. Strophanthin may be given hypodermically in doses of from ^-^-^^ gr. It is irritating at the seat of injection. Prepara- tions—1. ExtractumStrophanthi. Dose—|-lgr. 2. Tinctura Strophanthi. Dose~b-\5 m. This is half the strength of the tincture in the B.P. 1885. We owe our knowledge of the action and uses of strophanthus largely to the work of Sir Thomas R. Eraser; and in prescribing the drug the tincture made according to his directions is always to be preferred to the pharmacopoeial tincture. Its action on the circulatory system is similar to that of digitalis, with the im- portant exception that it only slightly constricts the peripheral vessels. Increased blood-pressure and diuresis following its administration are therefore due to the action on the heart itself. In further contrast to digitalis, it is not cumula- tive in its effect. In large doses it may cause vomiting and diarrhoea, but in moderate quan- tities it probably disturbs primary digestion less than does digitalis. In cases of cardiac disease it regulates and strengthens the heart's action, diminishes palpitation and dyspnoea, and, when venous stasis has been present, produces diuresis. It is usually stated that in prescrib- ing a cardiac tonic digitalis is the drug of choice and is to be given first, and that if it fails or proves unsuitable in any way stroph- anthus is to be substituted. Although it must be admitted that in a considerable number of cases strophanthus may only come into use for such reasons, and although it cannot be claimed that as a cardiac tonic for general pur- poses strophanthus is the equal of digitalis, still a consideration of its pharmacological action and a study of its clinical effects will in most instances afford more rational and scientific indications for its employment. Like digitalis, it gives the best results in cases of cardiac valvular disease in which the mitral valve is affected, and it is specially useful when there is present a heightened arterial tension, any in- crease of which would embarrass the heart's action and counteract the beneficial effects. Again, the action of strophanthus is much more immediate than that of digitalis, which may be taken for several days without any marked effect resulting; and it may therefore be of great service when it is expedient to get the patient rapidly under the influence of a cardiac tonic. Experience has shown that it is to be preferred in cardiac disease of children under twelve. In cases of heart strain with slight dilatation it is of great value in restoring the normal cardiac action. In fatty degeneration of the heart it often does good by increasing the activity of the muscular contraction and im- proving the nutrition of the heart wall. Lastly, it is probably the only remedy to be relied on in threatened heart failure in lobar pneumonia, and in the treatment of these cases it must be given in large and frequently repeated doses as recommended by Greenfield. It is also to be regarded as the sheet-anchor in those grave cases of cardiac debility complicating influenzal pneumonias. StrophO-.—In compound words stropho- (Gr. a-Tpoipo?, a twisted band or belt) means displaced or twisted; e.g. strqphocephaly, a teratological type in which there is marked displacement of various parts of the head and face, such as otocephaly. Strophulus.—A papular skin eruption or form of miliaria; red gum. See Miliaria {Miliaria Rubra). Struma.—Scrofula or tuberculosis (in a general sense) or goitre; the last-named mean- ing is rather a German usage of the term.