STRABISMUS 406 Detection of Strabismus . . ■ 407 Classification ..... 407 Measurement of Degree . . . 408 Etiology of . . . . ■ 409 Treatment . . . . • .411 See also Amblyopia {Congenital); Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Localisation of Lesion of Nerve Deafness); Brain, Tumours of {Diag- nosis, Tumours of Crura Cerebri); Brain, Sur- gery OF {Intracranial Infijammation, Lepto- meningitis) ; Gastro - Intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Chronic Diarrhoea, Complications); Hydrocephalus {Symptoms); Malingering {Ocular); Meningitis, Tuberculous; Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal {Symp- toms) ; Nose, Nasal Neuroses {Strabismus); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Paralysis); Syphilis {Tertiary, Eye Affections); Tetany {Motor Symptoms). The visual mechanism which controls a pair of normal human eyes is capable of directing the visual axis of each to the same point of an object simultaneously. This point is termed the "point of fixation." If the object be sufficiently remote {e.g. at the horizon), the infinitesimal convergence of the visual axes may practically be disregarded, and the eyes are said to be in their "primary position " with axes parallel. By exercising the function of convergence the point of common fixation can be brought to within a few inches of the face, and by conju- gate vertical, lateral, and torsional movements of the eyes a vast area of space is brought within the I'ange of simultaneous fixation. Definition. — Strabismus (squinting) is the term applied when the visual axes do not cross (or do not appear to cross) upon the point of fixation. Strabismus may be I. Apparent, or II. True Apparent Strabismus.—1. Epicanthus.—In children an appearance of convergent squint may be due to a fold of integument overlapping each inner canthus and obscuring the nasal side of each globe—Epicanthus. If the redundant skin be pinched into a vertical fold, the de- formity disappears. It commonly undergoes spontaneous cure by the forward growth of the bridge of the nose. 2. Angle Gamma.—The angle formed at the rotation point of the eyes between the optical axis and the line of fixation is termed the " angle gamma" (y). Its average size is 5°. The centre of the cornea lying to the outer side of the line of fixation, it is evident that the ana- tomical relation of the cornea to the sclerotic may have an appreciable effect on this angle and on the apparent direction of the eyes. The farther the centre of the cornea lies to the outer side of the line of fixation {i.e. the larger the angle gamma), the more an appear- ance of divergence will be given to the eyes, whereas the nearer it lies to that line, or still more when it lies to the inner side of it, an appearance of convergence will be imparted. It is worthy of note that a large angle is usually associated with hypermetropia, and a small or negative angle with myopia. We shall see later that the apparent squint induced is just the reverse of what is commonly found associated with refractive errors in true squint. Cases of apparent strabismus can be easily eliminated by any one of the methods men- tioned later for the detection of true strabismus. For very young children the observation of the symmetrical position of the corneal images of an ophthalmoscopic mirror may be specially commended. 11. True Strabismus may be paralytic or non-paralytic. The former is due to paralysis of one or several of the external ocular muscles, and is usually recognised by observing— (1) That the excursion of the eye being limited in the direction of action of the paralysed muscles, the primary deviation of the eye varies according as the eyes are turned more or less towards the affected muscle, and the secondary deviation is greater than the primary {see " Ocular Muscles," vol. vii.). (2) That diplopia is complained of or can be soon elicited (by examination in the usual way with a red glass before one eye and a candle- flame as the test-object); that the distance between the images increases as the eyes turn towards the paralysed muscle, and if the sound eye be closed the affected eye exhibits false projection, mistaking the actual position of objects {see "Ocular Muscles," vol. vii.). When we speak of strabismus ordinarily we mean the non-paralytic or concomitant variety in which— (1) The angle of squint remains constant in whatever direction the eyes are turned, except during the act of accommodation with associated convergence, and in general convergence is less mai'ked because less easily performed in looking up than in looking down. Further, for any one point of fixation the angle of secondary deviation is equal to the angle of primary deviation. (2) Diplopia is not complained of. It can be elicited in most cases with considerable difficulty by special methods, but the distance between the images remains the same whichever way the eyes are turned. The presence of a squint in pronounced cases is so obvious that it can scarcely escape the attention of any ordinary observer, but without thoroughly understanding what really consti- tutes squinting, a false diagnosis may be made where no squint exists, or a minor devi- ation, say of 5° or less, may be overlooked even