499 TABES DORSALIS and occasionally there is a condition of allochiria, that is, referring sensation to the wrong side of the body {see Figs. 1, 2, 3). Loss of cutaneous sensibility, and its exten- sion over the surface of the trunk and limbs, progresses with the disease, hut there may be pi-o- nounced ataxy without any loss of cutaneous sen- sibility. The bone sensibility may be lost; this can be ascertained by placing a vi- brating tuning- fork on the tibia, when it will be found that the patient is uncon- scious of its pres- ence. The ulnar symptom of Bier- nacki is another sensory test. Compressing the ulnar nerve at the elbow does not cause the well- known tingling in the fingers. Superficial Re- Fie.2.—Sensory cutaneous disturbances flexe S. — These of a case of tabes in the first stage ' ■■' of ataxy. The chart shows that on niay be present the left side the anaesthesia to light ^nd active in the tactile impressions has spread down the inner side of the arm and hand early stages of the (ulnar distribution) and would indi- A t ^ a c a a ■ fV.c cate that the posterior roots of the uisease, tne seventh and eighth cervical, and plantar reflexes first to seventh dorsal were in- ■, , , volved ; whereas, on the right only are absent When the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth fhprp ic Inao rvf dorsal are affected. Owing to the ^ . . ^T*' overlapping of the sensory nerves Sensibility in the to the skin corresponding to root segments, an area of cutaneous anaesthesia corresponding to two roots really means involvement of a root above and below. Above the second space the skin is supplied by the cervical plexus, consequently there is no anfesthesia. The black band indicates complete anaesthesia ^irpeprif cnron and analgesia. The crosses indi- presenii, even ex- cate some hyperaesthetic spots, aggerated. A There is also hypaesthesia and hyp- i '■. algesia of the feet and peroneal UyperaesthetlC side of legs. This indicates affec- oVin qvoq ie nc-n tionofthelumbo-sacral roots,third, . "'^'^l" fourth, and fifth lumbar, first and ally associated second sacral, and accords with the ,„: <. i, • i lightning pain in the legs, the With increased bladder troubles, the absent knee- superficial re- jerks, loss of joint sensation in toes, n tr f. and ataxy. iiexes. Very fre- quently after an attack of pains, during which the skin is hyper- sesthetic, it is subsequently left anaesthetic, the ex- planation being that the root fibres which convey sensations from this skin area were in a process of increased excitability prior to death, and I have several times noticed a belt of anaesthesia follow a severe attack of pain associated with gastric crises. soles of the feet; and it is common to find these ab- sent while the epigastric are Joint Sensibility.—A very early symptom is the loss of sense of position of the joints, and in the great majority of my cases, where there was any recognisable ataxy in the legs, there was at the same time a loss of sense of position in the toe-joints. If the toe be bent with the patient's eyes shut, he is unconscious of its change of position; as the disease progresses and the incoordination be- comes more mark- ed, the other joints of the lower limb, —ankle, knee, and hip—are succes- sively affected. Likewise the finger-joints, then the wrist and elbow, when the upper limb is af- fected. Sense of Position of the Limbs.— With the eyes shut, the patient is unable to place the heel of one foot on the toes of the other: his knowledge of the position of his limbs is lost through the loss of the muscular sense impressions. Likewise he is un- s.-Sensory cutaneous disturb- able to touch the anees of a case of tabes in an J.; f 1 ■ advanced stage of ataxy. The up OI nis nose, or patient was unable to walk wlth- tO make his fingers support. Deep reflexes of upper and lower limbs lost, super- meet, flcial reflexes absent except over Mu<<riihir Tmii/v "S*'* epigastric region, where iviusmuar l onus. ^j^^^g ^^^^ ^^^^ hyperesthesia and —Owing to the pain as to simulate pleurisy. She ln«« r>f tVio «onar> suffered with very severe gastric loss 01 ine sensory crises for some years; now that impressions from there is complete analgesia and " , , anaesthesia over the area of the the hmbS the re- thorax indicated black, this symp- flo-5- cninol fnnnc! icj t"™ ^as ceased. The chart indi- nex spinal tonus is ^^^^^ complete destruction of the greatly lowered, lumbo-sacral roots, and also of all J If t the dorsal roots except the lower anu as a resuiC Ol four or five, which together with this loss of tonus upper one or two lumbar are , J „ only partially destroyed. The the deep reflexes, light shading indicates cutaneous tVio Vnoo iovV fViQ anaesthesia, the dots liypalgesia, me KUee-jerK, tne ^^j^j^^ yery extensive in its dis- Achilles tendon- tribution, affecting the upper cer- 1 1 ii, i • vical roots and a portion of the jerK, ana the tri- distribution of the fifth. ceps-jerk are abolished. The absence of the knee-jerks is one of the cardinal symptoms of the disease, but it must be borne in mind that in other diseases the knee-jerks may be absent, and in not every case of tabes are the knee-jerks absent. In cases of arm tabes, in cases of tabo- paralysis, and in very early cases of tabes the knee-jerks may be present on one or on both sides. To elicit the knee-jerk one knee should