225 SMALLPOX third day, and it is on the third day of illness that the first signs of the characteristic eruption appear. Eruptive Stage.—The earliest indications of the eruption appear almost invariably as small pinkish maculae upon the face—the forehead, eyelids, nose, and lips becoming more or less thickly studded. Almost at the same time, perhaps a few hours later, similar small red spots appear upon the wrists, and in succession in varying numbers upon the arms, trunk, and legs. These small spots eventually develop into pustules. By the end of the second day after their appearance, i.e. the fifth day of the disease, they have increased in size into red elevated papules; on the sixth day of the disease they have become vesicular, and the vesicles continue to enlarge until the seventh or eighth day, when they have reached the size of a pea, and usually present a central depression or umbilication; the vesicle is loculated, and conse- quently if punctured does not dis- charge its entire contents. Signs of suppuration may be evident on the eighth day by the increasing turbidity of the contents of the vesicles, which by the ninth day are completely converted into pus- tules. The adjacent skin becomes inflamed and swollen, more especi- ally the head and face, where the lax connective tissue opposes less obstruction to the swelling. The eyelids are completely closed, and the eruption and tumefaction render the patient wholly un- recognisable. The condition is attended with great pain and discomfort, most complained of where the skin is least yielding, for example the fingers and toes. The mucous membranes of the nose, mouth, and pharynx are simultaneously attacked by the eruption, also the tongue and larynx and trachea, giving rise to respiratory troubles. The pocks on the tongue and mucous membrane of the mouth are altered in appearance by the fluids with which they are macerated. The general condition of the patient during the development and progress of the eruption is important, and the earlier phases of this stage derive additional interest from their value in differential diagnosis. As already stated, the first indication of the eruption is upon the third day, at a time when the febrile and general constitutional disturb- ances are at their maximum. But with the VOL. IX appearance of the eruption a most important change occurs. In all forms of the disease the temperature falls, and the general condition of the patient markedly improves. In the case of smallpox modified by vaccination—and these constitute the majority of cases met with in these days—the fall in the temperature is rapid, the subsequent development of the rasli is abortive, and the patient usually proceeds to an uninterrupted convalescence. In unmodified Fig. 4.—Elizabeth M., aged 32 ; tlie liad three gond vacchiation scars from vaccina- tion in infancy. The disease is exceedingly mild, eruption sparse. Photograph taken on ninth day of illness. smallpox, however, the decline in temperature is slower, the general relief less marked, and with the progress of the inflammation of the skin the high fever and suflFering return, the tempera- ture never perhaps having reached the normal [see Charts), sleeplessness and delirium adding to the gravity of the case. About the eleventh or twelfth day of the disease, the pustules begin to dry and scab, the process usually following the sequence of their appearance. A yellowish exudation takes place, first upon the face, followed by desiccation, and accompanied by a characteristic offensive odour. 15