506 TABES DORSALIS algia, the gastric crises for functional disturbance or organic disease in the stomach ; the true nature of spontaneous dislocations and fractures may be overlooked; bladder troubles may be attributed to organic disease, with which, of course, sometimes the tabic condition is associ- ated. The doctor, when called to a case of tabes suffering with severe pains, will notice that the pupils are not dilated; and I have already alluded to a case of gastric crises with distended bladder and suppression of urine admitted to the hospital, and the surgeon sent for with a view to operation. It was noticed in the paroxysms of pain that the pupils still re- mained contracted; other signs of tabes were then found, and the patient recovered without any surgical interference. Another case came under my observation in which abdominal section had actually been performed. In the case of visceral crises, the differential diagnosis can be made by attending to the mode of onset, the duration and mode of subsidence of the attack, the normal condition of the affected organ between the paroxysms, and the presence of other symptoms and signs which are charac- teristic of the disease. It must be remembered that all these conditions for which a patient may seek advice can and do occur in the pre- ataxic stage, and that the knee-jerks are not necessarily absent, although usually so. Another very early symptom, as already pointed out in the symptomatology, is a transi- tory ocular paralysis ; this, in conjunction with Argyll-Robertson pupils and one of the other signs or symptoms, is sufficient to warrant a diagnosis of tabes. Again, the first symptom of tabes may be defective vision, and ophthalmo- scopic examination may discover commencing optic atrophy; if this is combined with one or more symptoms or signs, tabes may be diag- nosed ; and even with only primary optic atrophy, and no other symptom or sign, tabes or the closely allied, if not identical morbid process, general paralysis, may be anticipated. Certain cases of multiple neuritis which are termed the pseudo-tabic form, arising from alcoholic, arsenical, diphtheritic, and even typhoid poisons, may be mistaken for true tabes. Some of these cases of pseudo-tabic neuritis have been reported as locomotor ataxy which have got well; in none of these, howevei-, was the Argyll-Robertson pupil present, and a careful investigation of the signs and symptoms will show that they do not correspond entirely with those of tabes. The ataxy occasioned by a cerebellar tumour might be mistaken for tabes ; there is, however, in such a disease occipital headache, optic neuritis, absence of lightning pains, and usually the presence of knee-jerks. There may be post-neuritic atrophy in cerebellar tumour, but the small size of the vessels will distinguish it from the primary optic atrophy of tabes. Hysterical ataxy can be differentiated by at- tention to the fundamental signs and symptoms of tabes. Hereditary ataxy (Friedreich's disease) affects several members of a family ; the characteristic pupil phenomena of tabes are absent, and although there may be marked ataxy, there is no disturbance of cutaneous sensibility. Syringomyelia may in some cases present symptoms like those of tabes, but there is usually wanting the characteristic signs of the pupils, the lightning pains, the absent knee- jerks ; moreover, the sensory disturbances are unlike those of tabes, touch being appreciated, but pain and heat and cold not, and there are frequently degenerative muscular atrophies. The disease which is most likely to be mis- taken for tabes is the tabetic form of general paralysis; in fact, a number of cases of tabes be- come general paralytics, and a certain number of general paralytics may develop tabic symptoms : in the writer's opinion, the two diseases are one and the same morbid process affecting different parts of the nervous system. The question as to whether mental symptoms are present in a case of tabes is one of great importance in diagnosis, because of the serious consequences that may arise, and the necessary steps to be taken in the interests of wife, friends, and relations to prevent social difficulties arising. A tabetic patient may become irritable and addicted to alcoholism on account of his in- firmity, and the symptoms may suggest the onset of the more serious brain disease. A family history of insanity will make that more probable; but even then, not necessarily does it warrant a diagnosis of general paralysis, although such a condition must be anticipated and the friends warned of the danger. Again, in locomotor ataxy excessive sexual passion may arise in the early stage of the disease, and involve social difficulties and even criminal charges. A man suffering with ataxy, especially with a psychopathic history, may develop mania, melancholia, or paranoia, and usually puts an insane interpretation upon the symptoms from which he suffers. It does not necessarily follow, therefore, that he is a general paralytic. The feature of this disease—general paralysis— is not necessarily grandiose delusions, although such is very frequently the case ; there may be extreme mental depression with delusions of persecution. The speech is not necessarily affected, nor the handwriting in the earhest stages of the disease, although sooner or later it will be. The one characteristic symptom is progressive dementia with some change of character. Prognosis and Course.—Tabes rarely ends fatally in a few years, unless as a result of some intercurrent disease or the onset of general paralysis. Patients may live thirty years or