SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL CHILDREN, MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF 60 andum, which extends to twelve pages, is an admirable discussion of the general problem as it affects England. It shows the relation of the school to the home ; the necessity for maintain- ing this relationship; the importance of the many public health problems issuing from the schools; the need for co-operation between teachers and doctors; the organisation of in- spection ; the character and degree of medical inspection, and a large number of other details. The general scheme thus outlined was, later, made more definite by the issue of a schedule, which, on the whole, fulfils the original promise of the Circular, but does not give the expected prominence to the investigation of the home conditions. The Circular had been discussed by the British Medical Association, whose Com- mittee also produced an elaborate schedule. The medical profession, in every branch, both general and special, has taken up the move- ment warmly, and already (1908) the organisa- tion of it has proceeded with lightning-like rapidity. (For schedule, see below.) In Scotland, the statutory organisation of the movement has proceeded less rapidly, but meanwhile much actual work has been done. The School Board of Edinburgh has appointed a whole-time Medical Officer of Schools (see regulations below). The Burgh of Kirkcaldy, in concert with the School Board, has made the Medical Officer of Health also Medical Inspector of Schools. The School Board of Govan have appointed ten private practitioners as part- time Medical Officers of Schools. The Medical Officer of the Dunfermline Carnegie Trust also acts as Medical Inspector of School Children, and has already issued two annual reports. The School Boards of Inverness and of one or two other localities have appointed Medical Officers. In the counties, the County Medical Officers of Health have, within the last two or three years, given special attention to the medical and sanitary supervision of schools, and several of them have issued elaborate statements in their annual reports. The School Board of Glasgow, in 1906, issued a report of the examination of the eyes of fifty thousand school children, and in 1907 the Scotch Education Department tabulated the results of the examination of the heights, weights, and housing of seventy-two thousand Glasgow school children {see below). Mean- while, at the Training Centres for teachers— Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dundee (St Andrews), and Aberdeen — Medical Lecturers have been ap- pointed by the Provincial Committees to give to the " students in training" instruction in School and Personal Hygiene, with special reference to the ultimate establishing of a complete system of medical inspection. The Training Centres are now, with the exception of the Episcopal Training College, Edinburgh, and the Roman Catholic Training College, Glasgow, under the sole management of the Provincial Committees, and the four Medical Lecturers devote their whole time to the work, receiving such medical and lay assistance as may be rendered necessary by the large classes. The two Denominational Colleges have also Lecturers, but they give only part of their time to the work. In all, there are some nine medical men or women devoting, with two exceptions, practically their whole time to the work of teaching Personal and School Hygiene. When, therefore, medical inspection comes to be organised in Scotland, the younger generation of teachers will be fully prepared for it. Further, in the end of 1907, the Scotch Education Department issued directions for the Cleansing and Disinfecting of Schools. Under the conjoint authority of the Scotch Education Department and the Local Government Board for Scotland, these directions have been circulated among all the School Boards and Public Health Local Authorities and Officials of Scotland. By these various methods the way has been prepared for the medical inspec- tion of school children in Scotland. In the Bill now before Parliament a clause has been inserted to do for Scotland what the Act of 1907 did for England, namely, to establish a full system of Medical Examination and Supervision of School Children. So far Great Britain. But in Germany, Switzerland, France, Austria, America, Japan, and some other countries, medical inspection has been established for several years. For example, in Wiesbaden the school children have been medically inspected on admission and periodically thereafter since the year 1898. In Nuremberg, a similar system has been in force for about the same period. In Berlin, Charlot- tenberg, Vienna, and many other towns the same is true. In a considerable number of towns, in Germany and elsewhere, elaborate investigations have been made into the eyes of school children. In fact, it may now be said that medical inspection is practically estab- lished, in greater or less degree, in all civilised countries. Medical inspection and the reports following upon it formed a leading part of the First International Congress on School Hygiene, which was held in Nuremberg from the 4th to the 9th of April 1904. At that Congress there were some fifteen hundred delegates of all nations. The report of the Congress forms four volumes of over five hundred pages each. These volumes are repertories of facts and investigations into the whole hygiene of school life. The Second International Congress was held in London in August 1907. Medical Inspection of School Children was specially discussed, and no doubt this discussion had much to do in determining the lines of the Circular issued