572 TETANY meningitis. In this affection there is usually fever, mental symptoms are a prominent feature, and the pain radiates along the nerves instead of being a cramp-like pain in the muscles. Ex- amination of the cerebro-spinal fluid would aid in diagnosis by indicating the existence of inflammation. Tubei'cular meningitis is to be distinguished by its insidious onset, the headache, the vomit- ing, the constipation, the irregularity of the pupils, the altered rhythm of the respiration, and the slowness and irregularity of the pulse. In children tetany is most common in the second year; tubercular meningitis between the ages of three and five years. Hysteria may simulate tetany very closely. If a study of the antecedents of the patient and careful scrutiny of the symptoms do not clear up the diagnosis, the electrical irritability of the nerves should be examined. In hysteria this is unaltered. Epilepsy, Jacksonian epilepsy, and cerebral congestion give rise to spasms, but can rarely be mistaken for tetany. Tetanus neonatortmi begins in the early days of life, and trismus is a prominent symptom and usually the first to be noticed. It results from infection through the umbilical wound. Perhaps no disease is so fatal. The occurrence of tetany in newly born children is denied by some writers, while others describe it as pre- senting all the symptoms of tetanus neonatorum, from which it difi^ers in that trismiis is slighter and appears later, and that recovery takes place usually in from ten to twenty days. Prognosis.—Tetany ^er se is not a dangerous disease, and a fatal issue is rare in uncompli- cated cases. When tetany occurs in the course of an exhausting illness death may result from the original disease, and may even be accelerated by the fatigue produced by the spasms. When the spasm is generalised, death may result from asphyxia. In two forms of tetany only is the prognosis grave, namely, in that due to thyroidectomy and that due to dilatation of the stomach. In the former, however, the fatal issue may be averted by the administration of thyroid. In the latter, in which the mortality is estimated at from 70 to 75 per cent, treatment is un- satisfactory. Frankl-Hochwart has been quoted as giving a much higher mortality in these cases, but his figures suggest a tendency to regard the fatal issiie as a test of whether a given case should be included in this group or not. Treatment.—Symptomatic.—In order to re- duce the number and severity of the attacks of painful spasm the patient should be kept at rest in a warm room. All unnecessary movement should be avoided. The diet should be nutri- tious and easily assimilated, the details being suited to the age and general condition of the patient. Warm baths are useful, especially in acute paroxysmal cases, and may be repeated several times in the day. The local application of cold may also give temporary relief to the spasm. Trousseau says the painful cramps in the legs are instantly relieved if the patient stands upon a cold stone or tiled floor. Of drugs administered for the relief of spasm the bromides and chloral are generally useful. Calabar bean was recommended by Cheadle. For nocturnal tetany Gowers advocates a dose of digitalis at bedtime. When the paroxysms are very severe the inhalation of chloroform is indicated. The antesthetic should be ad- ministered cautiously and with plenty of air, as there is some danger of spasm of the glottis occurring. General.—The general line of treatment should be of a tonic character as is indicated by the usual underlying conditions. According to the special indications of the case, such drugs may be oi-dered as quinine, arsenic, iron, phosphorus, the hypophosphites. Special attention should be paid to the con- dition of the gastro-intestinal canal. Astrin- gents may be used for the purpose of checking diarrhoea, or, in view of the possibility of the symptoms being due to a toxin of intestinal origin, calomel in small repeated doses, B. naphthol, salol, or salicylate of bismuth might be tried. The urine should be examined, as it may furnish indications for treatment. Means should be adopted to favour elimination by the kidneys, skin, etc. Eussell states that the hypodermic administration of pilocarpine brings about rapid relaxation of the spasm as soon as diaphoresis is induced. Trousseau advocated bleeding from the arm in the case of patients of a vigorous constitution. Any benefit derived in this way may possibly have been due to elimination of a portion of the toxin. Dilatation of the Stomach.—In cases associ- ated with dilatation of the stomach lavage is now generally recommended, but it must be carried out cautiously, as the passage of the tube may excite a paroxysm. The diet must be attended to, and hyperacidity corrected if present. Mayo Robson recommends surgical treatment, and reports cases in which the " cramps " ceased after pyloroplasty. Excision of Thyroid.—In tetany following excision of the thyroid the appropriate treat- ment is obvious. In a few cases of tetany due to other causes thyroid treatment has been beneficial, but it is not generally useful. Tetany in Children.—The chief indication is to attend to the underlying cause. Diarrhoea is very commonly present, and may be treated with grey powder, calomel, bismuth, etc. If it has lasted for some time, as it usually has, small doses of laudanum with dilute nitric acid are often useful. In some cases irrigation of