STOMACH AND DUODENUM, DISEASES OF 380 disease of the omentum. The occurrence of nodules around the navel has been already re- ferred to. Diagnosis.—In a large number of cases the diagnosis, certainly at first, is conjectural, in the absence, that is, of an epigastric tumour being detected. In a person over middle life in whom dyspeptic symptoms such as anorexia, nausea, constipation, with discomfort at the pit of the stomach, and a growing weakness and anaemia, are developing, the suspicion of gastric cancer should arise ; and the significance of such symp- toms would be greater if the patient have previously enjoyed good health. Should there be actual pain and vomiting, the diagnosis will be still more probable, and the presence of blood with the absence of hydrochloric acid in the vomit will make it all but certain, the recog- nition of an epigastric tumour affording con- clusive evidence. In the absence of the last, it is an accumulation of the symptoms that must furnish the grounds for diagnosis, rather than any one, which may occur in other morbid states. Enlarged supraclavicular glands and nodules around the umbilicus are strongly suggestive. The conditions from which cancer of the stomach have more particularly to be differ- entiated are gastric ulcer, non-malignant pyloric growth or stricture, and pernicious anaemia. As a rule, the pain of ulcer is more localised, more severe, directly follows the taking of food, and is relieved by vomiting, although excep- tions occur to each of these statements. In cancer the pain is diffuse, more constant, and is less influenced by the ingestion of food or its ejection. The emaciation in the former con- dition is also far less marked, and gastric ulcer may even coexist with a very fair bodily con- dition. The presence or absence of hydrochloric acid from the stomach contents is generally reliable to discriminate between these two con- ditions, though this may not be so in the early stage of cancer, when the other symptoms are also uncertain. The age of the patient is an important element, and also the duration of the symptoms, especially the hsematemesis ; and it should not be forgotten that a chronic ulcer may be associated with sufficient inflam- matory thickening to give rise to a very distinct tumour. In distinguishing between a malignant and non-malignant growth of the pylorus, attention should be paid to the extent of gastric dilata- tion, to the degree of wasting, the chemical character of the vomit, and the presence of cachexia. Important as the diagnosis in this case is with a view to operative treatment, it is often most difficult, and it is on the observer's unformulated experience that the final judg- ment often comes to be based. The general similarity of the characters of the blood to those of pernicious anaemia renders the diagnosis of this malady almost excusable in those cases where the gastric symptoms, such as vomiting and pain, are in abeyance. Several cases have been recorded where the mistake has been made, and with some justification. The degree of leucocytosis in gastric cancer being but slight, should serve to distinguish it from leucocythaemia, even though the con- tracted, thickened stomach should simulate a splenic tumour. Some cases of chronic gastritis in persons in middle life closely resemble malignant disease of the stomach, and the not infrequent develop- ment of cancer in an organ that has been the seat of long-standing catarrh makes the diag- nosis more difficult, especially when no tumour is to be recognised. A similar difficulty also sometimes occurs in distinguishing between cancer of the stomach or duodenum and lead poisoning, remembering also that the two condi- tions may coexist. In all these cases, attention should be directed to the previous history and duration of the malady, the nature and seat of the pain and its relation to food, the occurrence of vomiting and characters of the vomited material, the examination of the blood, and the existence of a cachexia. The signs and symptoms of primary duodenal cancer closely resemble those of the similar gastric affection, and a differential diagnosis is often impossible. The situation of the pain and tenderness, and of the epigastric tumour when palpable, are perhaps rather more dis- tinctly to the right of the middle line than when the growth is strictly pyloric, but this is not always reliable. Inasmuch as the obstruc- tion caused by the neoplasm tends to cause gastroectasis, symptoms indicative of stomach mischief soon occur, and the character of the vomit comes to have no diagnostic value, expect that the presence of bile or trypsin therein will show that the growth is below the biliary papilla, whilst the general symptoms of the malignant cachexia are indistinguishable in the lesions of the two organs. Jaundice from ob- struction of the orifice of the bile duct is likely to supervene according to the exact situation of the growth. Treatment.—Although so far operative pro- cedure can only claim success in exceptional cases, it gives promise of improved results ; but this very much depends on the earlier recogni- tion of the disease than at present is usually the case, and an exploratory laparotomy now com- paratively free from risk is to be reckoned as one of the means of ascertainment. Complete resection of the stomach, and excision of the pylorus, have each been performed with success and considerable pi-olongation of life, and even complete freedom from suffering, but the cases have been extremely few. Somewhat more promising are the records of gastro-enterostomy when the disease has been confined to the