STATUS LYMPHATICUS 332 thymus is competent to produce, though rarely does produce, a dangerous and even fatal dysp- noea. Siegel's case illustrates this. A boy aged two and a half years had suffered from dyspnoea for four or five weeks. There was considerable stridor, with paroxysmal exacerbations in which the child seemed moribund from asphyxia. No laryngeal obstruction was found, and trache- otomy failed to give relief until a tube long enough to reach the bifurcation of the trachea was inserted. In a fortnight this was removed on account of pressure ulcers, and the symptoms returned as badly as before. A small area of dulness was detected over the upper part of the sternum, and enlarged thymus was diagnosed. Operation was determined upon. The anterior mediastinum was opened, and the thymus bulged into the wound ; it was drawn up and sutured to the fascia over the sternum. This operation gave complete and permanent relief. Koenig, in a child of three months old who had suffered from dyspnoea fi'om the second week after birth, extirpated part of the gland and sutured the rest to the sternum ; while Panucker in a similar case extirpated the whole gland. Both opera- tions gave complete relief. One difficulty in connection with this theory has been that in most cases direct evidence of compression of the trachea has been absent; but, as Paltauf points out, such pressure cannot be deter- mined after death unless special precautions be taken. The upper part of the trachea must be dissected out and its anterior examined from above while the sternum and thymus are in situ. Beneke adopted this in two cases and found the trachea somewhat flattened, while if the head was bent backwards its lumen was entirely occluded. He thovight that weakness of the neck muscles allowing the head to fall suddenly backwards was a fact—or to be con- sidered. Lenbuscher also suggested that a sudden throwing back of the head might, by causing vascular congestion, so increase the degree of pressure as to produce asphyxia. Jacobi states that in an infant of eight months the distance between the sternum and vertebral column is 22 cm.—a space which might be completely filled by an enlarged and congested thymus. Jackson has placed the question be- yond doubt by demonstrating with the broncho- scope the purely mechanical nature of thymic asthma. His patient, aged four, was wakened in the night with an attack of dyspnoea. The difficulty grew worse, and stridor came on. A radiograph showed an enlarged thymus. The trachea was opened under local anfesthesia, the thymus being seen to extend abnormally high in the neck. With the bronchoscope the trachea was seen to be compressed so that it measured not more than 2 mm. across on inspiration and 1 mm. on expiration. The mucosa was collapsed and came almost in contact across the lumen. A specially long cannula was inserted and worn for 4 weeks, giving complete relief. At the end of this time a second operation was performed. A curved incision was made just below the upper border of the sternum, the skin retracted upwards, and the incision carried down to the thymus, the sternal attachments of the sterno- mastoids being cut. The thymus bulged in the wound. Its attachments were broken down or ligatured and the gland removed. These man- ipulations were rendered possible by the use of a long tracheal cannula which prevented com- pression. It is not difficult to understand sudden death in these cases, for we know how suddenly death comes in any form of tracheal stenosis with the lumen diminished to a mere chink. Slight engorgement from coughing or gagging during examination would be sufficient to cause tem- porary swelling and momentarily to shut off the passage of air. Once air is shut off the usual phenomena of asphyxia would occur and so engorge the thymus and vessels passing through the thoracic opening as to prolong the oblitera- tion of the lumen until death ensued. Then recession of the blood and sagging of the viscera would allow the trachea to assume its normal shape post-mortem. Other theories assume pressure on the large vessels causing death by fatal ansemia of the brain, or pressure upon the nerves (vagi or phrenics) or nerve plexuses and death reflexly or by direct paralysis of the heart. These theories at present have no anatomical support. Those cases in which death is caused by direct pressure are few in mimber, and signs of the pressure are usually present in the form of chronic progressive dyspnoea before death occurs. Some authors regard these cases as distinct from cases of true lymphatism, but it is more reason- able to regard them as cases of lymphatism in which the hypertrophy of the thymus is un- usually marked. The typical mode of death in lymphatism is by syncope. Paltauf's views are rather in- definite ; he believed that there is some under- lying constitutional defect which lowers the resistance of the heart to disease or shock. Several attempts have been made to give this theory a definite basis, and Escherich voiced the view that the cause of death was a toxaemia resulting from abnormal function of the thymus. Many authors have assumed the existence of a true internal secretion of the thymus, but of this there is no proof. The thymus is not a ductless gland, but a localised mass of lymphoid tissue varying in size with other collections of similar tissue, and it is impossible to define cells which may be considered to act as secreting cells in the same sense as those of the thyroid or suprarenal. Swale Vincent has shown that extracts of thymus injected subcutaneously or intravenously have no specific effect. The same depressor effect occurs as with extracts of other