37 SCALP itis, Scalp); Tumours of the Skin {Mollusciim, of Scalp).—Among the important anatomical and physiological points to be borne in mind in connection with the scalp are—(i.) the great vascularity of the tissue, in virtue of which the healing power of wounds is promoted; (ii.) the richness in vessels and lymphatics is a source of danger in the absorption of toxines generated locally—this holds true very especi- ally of such conditions as erysipelas; (iii.) the relationship of the scalp to the hair and hair bulbs — of special importance in relation to conditions of seborrhoea and allied disorders. The injuries of the scalp do not call for special notice. They are to be treated on general surgical principles, i.e. asepsis. The rare foi-m of injury to the scalp associated with child-birth (Cephalhgematoma neonatorum) is described in vol. vii. p. 61. The scalp is liable to injury in cases of severe head injuries, but in these instances the lesion of the scalp is of little moment in comparison with the more severe injury to the intra-cranial contents {see "Brain, Surgery of," vol. i.). The only disease of the scalp calling for special notice is erysipelas. Erysipelas of the scalp is an important disease from two points of view. In the first place, the disease is, even in apparently slight cases, always one of con- siderable gravity, as a very acute general systemic infection may develop and terminate fatally. And secondly, the sequelae of the disease are of great importance, and merit more attention than they generally receive. The writer lately saw a patient, a young woman, set. 26, whose history was as follows : Erysipelas of the scalp (severe) in October 1901, acute mania at end of November, followed by recovery and two relapses, gradually developing asthenia and emaciation, death occurring in February 1902. At the post-mortem examination there were found gross intestinal changes, evidently of a few months' duration, which were probably the focus of absorption of toxines inducing the severe mental changes. The original attack of erysipelas had apparently so lowered the general immunity as to allow acute bacterial infection of the alimentary canal, with all its attendant results, in this particular case. Such a record emphasises the importance of due con- sideration being paid to erysipelas of the scalp, from the point of view of its remote effects in diminishing the general and local powers of resistance in the individual. Scammony.—ScAMMONiuM is a gum resin obtained from the living root of Convol- vulus Scammonia, grown in Syria and Asia Minor. It occurs as flat, greenish, or blackish cakes, soluble in alcohol and ether. Z)ose—5-10 grs. SCAMMONI.E Resina is obtained from the dried root by percolation with alcohol and precipitation with water. Dose—3-8 grs. Preparations—1. Pilula Scammonii Composita. Dose—4-8 grs. 2. Pulvis Scammonii Compositus. Dose— 10-20 grs. Both contain Jalap. Scammony is a drastic, irritating, hydragogue cathartic, which causes a good deal of griping. It must not be used if any inflammatory condition of the bowel is present. It has an anthelmintic action on both round-worms and tape-worms. ScSiphO-a—In compound words scapho- (Gr. (TKd<l>7], a tub or small boat) means like a boat (projecting like the keel or hollowed out like the anterior) ; e.g. scaphocephaly (the malformation of the skull on which a projecting ridge is produced by premature ossification of the sagittal suture). See Mental Deficiency {Hydrocephalic Cases). SCctphoid.—Boat-shaped; e.g. the scaph- oid bone of the carpus and tarsus (the latter is also called navicular), the scaphoid fossa of the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone, and the scaphoid abdomen (a sign of meningitis). Scapula.. See Fractures {Scapula); Muscles, Diseases of {Idiopathic Muscular Atrophy, Facio-Scapulo-Hunieral Type); Osteo- malacia {Changes in Scapula); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of {Various Morbid States of Scapula). Scapulectomy. — Excision of the scapula. Scap UI Od y n i a. — Pain, rheumatic or neuralgic, in the scapula; omodynia. See Rheumatism, Chronic. Scarification.—The making of numer- ous small punctures in the skin or in an in- ternal organ {e.g. the cervix uteri or the tonsils). Scarlatina. See Scarlet Fever. Scarlatiniform Rash.—Askin erup- tion resembling that of scarlet fever and met with in sepsis, after the use of antidiphtheritic serum, etc. Scarlet Fever. I. Nomenclature .... 38 II. Definition ..... 38 III. History 38 IV. Geographical Range ... 39 V. Etiology—• (i.) Predisposing Causes . . 39 (ii.) Exciting Causes ... 39 VI. Symptomatology .... 40 VII. Varieties— (i.) S. Simplex .... 44 (ii.) S. Anginosa .... 44 (iii.) S. Maligna .... 44 (iv.) S. sine Eruptione ... 44 (v.) S. sine Anginosa ... 44 (vi.) Surgical Scarlatina . 44 (vii.) Puerperal Scarlatina . . 44