517 TEETH Genesis of the Teeth At about the seventh month of intra-uterine existence there is observed, on making trans- verse sections, in the neighbourhood of the future alveolar borders, a dipping down and proliferation of the oval epithelium. Later on little processes begin to dip down into the submucous tissue. These processes at their extremity assume a rounded appearance, in- creasing gradually in size and breadth ; at the same time the bulbous portion at its deepest part becomes concave, the inner surface of which is lined with columnar cells, from which the enamel of the future tooth originates (Fig. 1). In the submucous layer there is now noticed an uprising of this tissue, which pressing upwards moulds itself to and is surrounded by the con- enamel organs of the central, lateral, canine, first and second molars appear in succession during the seventh week of foetal life, their respective dentine germs during the ninth week. The calcification of the central lateral incisors and canines commences at the seven- teenth week of embryonic life, that of the first and second molars a week later. Eruption of Teeth. 7th month 7 th to 10th 12th to 14th 14th to 20th 18th to 36th Primary. Central incisors. Lateral incisors. First molar. Canine. Second molars. At five years of age the deciduous teeth at several parts of the roots are attacked by ab- sorption and gradually destroyed, to make way Surface of oral cavity. Epitlielial ribbon for develop- ment of permanent tooth. Enamel organ. Epithelial cells. Developing tooth. Bone. cave surface of enamel germ. This is the den- tinal germ. From tlie base of this dentinal germ there originates a capsule of fibrous tissue, the sacculus, which gradually surrounds the developing tooth, and eventually cuts off the neck of the enamel organ from the mass of epithelial cells. The iinier layer of the sacculus at a later period forms the cementum and peri- dental membrane of root. Each enamel organ is thus composed of a sort of cap surmounting the dentine germ. The former is connected by a narrow epithelial band (the neck of the enamel organ) with the oral epithelium ; part of this band eventually forms the enamel germ of permanent tooth. The dentine germ consists of fine connective tissue nucleated cells and blood-vessels, which anastomose freely; later on nerve fibrils are also formed. The external layer of cells and odontoblasts which form the dentine are nucleated or columnar in form, and collectively are called membrana eboris. The for their successors. This is brought about by the osteoclasts, multinucleated cells, which attack the root, producing irregular excavations —-lacunse of Howship. Permanent.—Teeth of the mandible usually precede those of the maxilla by a short interval. The enamel germs of the permanent teeth are budded off from the necks of the enamel organ of corresponding primary teeth. The first molar has its origin from the oral epithelium, the second from the first, and the third from the second. years 7" 9 10 11- 12 12- 13 17-25 First molar. Central incisors. Lateral incisors. First premolar. Second premolar. Canine. Second molar. Third molar. These dates are only approximately correct,