518 TEETH as any taint—such as rachitis, struma, or syphilis—hinders the eruption of the teeth. The greater mass of a tooth is composed of dentine, the root being coated with cementum ; the crown has a cap of hard enamel, which at the neck is somewhat overlapped by the cementum. Enamel contains from 1 to 3 per cent of animal matter in the adult, but a larger proportion is present in the teeth of the young. It is composed of striated fibres or prisms running parallel with each other, and at right angles to the surface of the dentine its inner surface unites with the dentine. Enamel is the hardest tissue of the body, but does not attain its full hardness till some time after the eruption Granular enamel. Interglobu- lar spaces. Normal dentine Faulty enamel and dentine. Fig. 2. of the tooth. Defects in this tissue are fissures and a granular condition of the prisms (Fig. 2). Dentine.—Human dentine is yellowish white, hard, and unvascular, and in structure consists of an organic matrix permeated with parallel tubes, which radiate from the pulp chamber to the periphery of the dentine, gradually decreas- ing in size, and giving oft' small intercommuni- cating" branches as they pass outward. The size of a dental tube is j^nnr ^'^ to^oo Dentine consists of 28 parts animal and 72 parts eai'thy matter. The walls of the tubes are composed of calco-globulin, and are very resistent to the action of acids, etc. The con- tents of the tubules, according to Beale Tomes, are processes of odontoblast cells, or of the cell beneath (Klein); they seem to have the property of transmitting sensation to and from the pulp. Faults in dentine are interglobular areas and contour markings which are due to faulty calci- fication of the tissue, or want of coalescence of the calco-spherites, leaving their contours still visible, and is a condition which favours the spread of dental caries (Fig. 2). Cementum.— In human teeth the roots only have a thin coating of cementum, but in many animals the crown also is covered with this tissue. In newly erupted human teeth the membrane called Nasmyth's covering them is said to be composed of a thin layer of cementum. Cementum consists of a calcified, laminated basis substance, containing lacunae and canal- iculi. The lacunse are more irregular in size, shape, and distribution than those of bone, and their canaliculi are most numerous next the peridental mem- brane. Sharpey's fibres, calcified bundles of fibrous tissue, are also found in the cementum. When from any cause the peridental membrane covering the root is ii'ritated, layer after layer of cemen- tum is deposited on the root, constitut- ing the disease called exostosis. As a rule, there are no Haversian canals in cementum. The peridental membrane covering tlie root of a tooth is composed of a highly vascular connective tissue membrane, abundantly supplied with nerves, which are derived from the pulps, submucous tissue, and from those of contiguous alveolar wall. Dental Caries Dental caries, so prevalent in the present day, is not by any means a dis- ease of modern times, but evidently pre- vailed to a considerable extent among ancient nations, Romans, (irecians, etc. Some of the lower animals also suffer from this affection, especially domesti- cated animals. Curiously enough, mon- keys seem to be immune from dental caries, though their teeth are so much alike, both in shape and structure, to those of man. Dental caries may be defined as a gradual disintegration of the tooth substance, the lime salts being dissolved and broken up by the numerous micro-organisms which live on and assimilate the organic matrix of the tooth after the tissues are softened. The older writers considered caries to be an inflammatory process; others, that it was clearly a chemical process, etc. The first indication of caries is exhibited by the enamel, which assumes a whitisii, opaque, or chalky appearance ; the dentine, on the other hand, when softened be- comes translucent, and frequently is pigmented of a brownish colour due to bacteria ; the lighter the colour of the softened dentine the more acute and rapid the caries, the darker the carious tissue the slower it advances, and it is in such