565 TETANUS tonic spasms then involve the facial muscles; the eyebrows are elevated, the angles of the mouth are drawn outwards, giving the char- acteristic tetanic facies or risus sardonicus. The spasm of the muscles of mastication becom- ing more intense, the mouth can be opened very slightly if at all. The tonic spasms now involve the muscles of the trunk and limbs, and the patient's body becomes rigid throughout. Exacerbations of the spasms, associated with great pain, ai-e brought on by slight stimuli such as a sound, touch, draught of air, or attempt to swallow. In a paroxysm the jaws are firmly clenched, and the patient's body, perfectly rigid (orthotonos), becomes arched backwards (opisthotonos), forwards (emprostho- tonos), or to one side (pleurosthotonos). During the paroxysms the pain is intense, perspiration is profuse, the respirations are rapid or ir- regular ; consciousness is maintained through- out. The temperature is either normal or elevated to a varying degree, but before death often rises to 105° F., and after death to 109° or 110° F. In fatal cases death is due to asphyxia from spasm of the respiratory muscles, to cardiac failure or exhaustion; or in rarer instances to cerebral haemorrhage or aspiration pneumonia. Cephalic {facial) tetanus is a special form of traumatic tetanus, there being a wound in the area of distribution of the facial nerve with paralysis of this nerve on the injured side, in addition to the ordinary signs of tetanus. In puerperal tetanus infection is usually con- sequent upon abortion or abnormal labour, and is often due to the ignorance of midwives re- garding asepsis. Tetanus Neonatorum.—Difficulty in sucking is the earliest sign of importance, and is followed by tetanic spasms as in the adult. The prog- nosis is bad, death not infrequently occurring within one to four days. Diagnosis.—The patient should be examined in order to determine the presence or absence of a recent wound, and if possible a bacterio- logical examination of the pus or tissue of the wound should be made. In nearly all cases there is mixed infection, but in not a few cases it will be found that tetanus bacilli cannot be cultivated owing to the fact that they have been already destroyed by the leucocytes and tissue cells. The presence of the toxin may, however, be proved by injection into animals of the discharge from the wound or possibly of the patient's urine. In the early stages of the disease, tetanus might be mistaken for rheuma- tism of the temporo-maxillary joint, or an in- flammatory affection of the parotid or tonsils. In tetanus there is no local swelling or tender- ness, but there is a tonic spasm of both masseter muscles, a fact which is elicited most definitely by the introduction of a finger into the patient's mouth. A more advanced case may be mistaken for one of strychnine poisoning. There is, how- ever, no rigidity in the intervals between the par- oxysmal spasms caused by strychnine, involve- ment of the muscles of mastication is a late phenomenon, and in an acute case death often occurs within twenty mioutes after the onset of symptoms. Other conditions with which tet- anus might be confounded are tetany, cerebro- spinal meningitis, hydrophobia, and hysteria. Prognosis.—The shorter the incubation period the more severe will the disease be. The rapid involvement of different groups of muscles, severe and frequently occurring paroxysms, elevation of the temperature, and persistence of symptoms in spite of treatment, are unfavour- able signs. Prophylaxis.—-When there is a wound con- taminated by soil, manure, or other material likely to contain tetanus spores, it should be thoroughly cleansed, splinters, nails, or other foreign bodies being removed. It may be advisable to open up and drain a pre-existing wound, and if there be reason to suspect tetanus infection, a prophylactic injection of tetanus antitoxin should be given (5-10 c.c, which may be repeated). The prophylactic value of anti- toxic serum has been amply demonstrated in the horse (Nocard, 1897). Treatment.—The first and most important point is the neutralisation of any toxin still circulating in the blood and not yet fixed in the nerve cells. This can be effected with certainty by injection of tetanus antitoxin, which was first obtained by Behring and Kitasato in 1890. The methods of obtaining the antitoxic serum from actively immunised animals and of stand- ardising the serum have been already con- sidered {vide "Immunity," vol. iv.). Injection of tetanus antitoxin into animals protects them not only against the subsequent injection of tetanus toxin, but when injected after tetanic symptoms have appeared may even then effect a cure. When in men the first signs of tetanus appear, much of the toxin is already fixed in the nerve cells; but there is still toxin circu- lating through the body, and in many instances fresh toxin is still being elaborated by the bacilli in the wound. It is usually admitted that injection of tetanus antitoxin does not withdraw from the nerve cells the toxin already fixed in them; but it has been proved that antitoxin when injected does combine with, and thus render innocuous, the toxin which is still in the circulating fluids, or which the bacilli may yet elaborate. As the antitoxin does not influence the nerve cells already damaged by the toxin, it has consequently no directly curative action ; but injection of antitoxin will effectually prevent any further fixation of toxin in the nerve cells, may therefore prevent a mild case from becoming severe, and as Ullrich (1902) remarks, obviates the necessity for amputation of the wounded part. Prior to the introduction