280 SPINAL CORD thesia above the lesion, and anaesthesia to all forms with preserved muscle sense on the opposite side below the lesion. It appears, however, that such a distribution of antesthesia does not result from hemi-section of the spinal cord in monkeys, and although Brown-Sequard's type is undoubtedly met with clinically, yet it has not yet been proved in any such case that the lesion amounted to a hemi-section. (More com- monly unilateral lesions of the spinal cord give rise to anaesthesia upon the paralysed side.) The Nature of the Sensory Change.—It may be generally stated that a progressive local lesion of the spinal coi-d aifecting all parts of a trans- verse area of the cord equally (for example, a new growth or tubercular deposit pressing upon the cord) produces subsequently to the onset of a motor paralysis, firstly, loss of temperature sense a short time after loss to pain, and then relatively a long time after loss of tactile sensi- bility. In other words, the tactile paths seem more resistent to injury than are those of pain and temperature. (The reverse is true of or- ganic cerebral anaesthesia, while in functional anaesthesia neither statement applies.) It cannot be too strongly insisted that only the most carefully worked-out charts of anaes- thesia are of value in diagnosis. The slightest ■changes in sensibility must be made the limit of the anaesthesia, and minimal stimuli as far as possible should be used. A chart of anaes- thesia so prepared may be said invariably to indicate correctly the situation of a focal lesion. The common spinal type of anaesthesia is that above mentioned—earlier, greater, and more highly distributed anaesthesia to pain and tem- perature than to touch. This condition must not be confused with dissociated anaesthesia : in the former there is always loss to all forms when anaesthesia is marked, whereas in the latter there is never any loss to touch, though touches may " feel different" over the affected area. Dissociated antesthesia with loss to pain and temperature is met with in syringomyelia, haematomyelia, and other lesions of the central parts of the marrow, and sometimes in tabes doi'salis. Rarely there is relative loss to touch and cold only, or to pain and heat only in association with small focal lesions. In tabes dorsalis the nature of the sensory loss is most varied. There are usually analgesia and thermana^sthesia pari passu. Marked tactile anaesthesia is relatively uncommon. In functional anaesthesia there is generally greater loss to pain than to touch. In peripheral anassthesia the loss is usually relative, and sometimes the tactual loss is greater than that to pain, and there may be spontaneous severe pain associated with the tactual loss (anaesthesia dolorosa). Motor Symptoms—Paralysis.—The slighter forms of loss of power are liable to be overlooked by the physician unless the performance of a somewhat complicated act is taken as a test. It must be remembered that although there may be no direct involvement of the motor elements, there is always loss of power associ- ated with marked anaesthesia, with ataxy, with arthritic affection, and with local pain. Spasticity, Rigidity, Contracture. See " Par- alysis," vol. vii. Hypotonia flaccidity of both muscles and ligaments is a characteristic feature in tabes dorsalis ; in the late stages of acute combined degeneration; in the early stages of acute myelitis, and in total transverse lesions of the spinal cord. Strangely it is not a feature in Friedreich's disease nor in those diseases associ- ated with gradual wasting of muscles. Muscular wasting may be general or local; when general, there is, as a rule, some tonic cause, recent or remote. It is the rule in total transverse lesion of the cord to find marked general muscular wasting below the lesion. The same is true of long-standing spastic paraplegia. In the last stages of combined degeneration, Friedreich's disease, and disseminate sclerosis, intense general muscular wasting is the rule. Local muscular wasting may be the result of disease of the muscle or of any part of the lower motor neuron. It is invariably a constant as- sociate of arthritis, the abnormal afferent im- pulse from the joint apparently causing de- terioration of the spinal segment supplying it and alteration of the functional capacity of the ventral horn cells. (Doubtless many cases of arthritis, for example, osteo-arthritis, are associ- ated with actual neuritis, but wasting above mentioned occurs with every traumatic lesion of a joint.) Muscular wasting most often succeeds para- lysis, but in progressive muscular atrophy the two run with level steps. In this disease the lesion involves cell by cell, and so long as there is a normal fibre in a muscle that fibre will contract voluntarily. This point offers a valu- able distinction between progressive muscular atrophy and the atrophy of somewhat similar type which occurs in syringomyelia, for in the latter a completely paralysed muscle is fre- quently met with. Electrical Reactions {quo vide).—Many erron- eous impressions exist as to the value of electri- cal reactions in diagnosis and treatment. The reaction of degeneration is rarely seen except in Bell's palsy, and polar change is of hardly any importance in diagnosis and prognosis. The presence or absence of faradic excitability is, on the other hand, of great importance; for example, in infantile palsy a muscle which re- sponds even in the feeblest degree to faradism within a fortnight of the attack may safely be predicted to recover. The great variability of the thickness and