POISONOUS FISHES 244 SNAKE-BITES AND possible amount to be injected down the fang. Then there is the inoculation of minute quantities of venom from repeated, but ineftectual, scratch- bites. In these ways a partial immunity, which is hereditary, is established, becoming lost in time if the animals be removed to countries where cobras do not exist. Other creatures are slightly immune, as pigs and guinea-fowl; the latter, according to Cal- mette, being to a slight degree protected by having large air sacs. It has lately been shown by Calmette and others, that the resisting power to venom becomes greater the larger the animal; thus it takes a much smaller dose of venom proportionally, volume for volume, to kill a rabbit than a dog, man being even more resisting. Venom is obtained pure from the different poisonous snakes by either making them dis- charge the fluid direct into a watch-glass, this being assisted out by gentle pressure applied to the poison glands, the snake being held in the hand with its head directed away from the operator as described by Calmette; or the venom may be obtained by causing the snake to bite at a watch-glass covered with gutta- percha, the fluid collecting on the under side. The venom should be taken from a fasting snake every two weeks or so. From a good- sized cobra about 2-3 c.cm. is the average quantity obtained by Calmette, after which he generally artificially feeds the snake. The venom thus collected has much the same appearance in all snakes—a limpid fluid of yellowish colour; from the cobra it is a faint yellow, that of the hamadryad being a golden yellow ; it has a slightly acid reaction and an average specific gravity of 10-50 ; a bitter taste is said to be present in the venom of the cobra, but not in that of the Daboia. When the venom is placed under the microscope nothing should be seen except a few epithelial cells and perhaps some contaminating bacteria. When kept moist it gradually becomes more acid and decomposes, forming a coagulum, the fluid part remaining poisonous. Venom, when dried at a moderate tempera- ture, 20° C, forms reddish-yellow or brownish- yellow crystalline scales, or it becomes agglutin- ated into little masses like gum-arabic. When thus dried and kept in the dark it retains its toxic powers indefinitely. The dried residue equals in weight about 20-30 per cent that of the moist venom. If the venom be heated at once after collecting, to a temperature of 100° C, its toxic effect becomes impaired, and also if it be exposed to light. The poisonous properties of all venoms depend upon the presence of at least two distinct toxic proteids. These proteids are similar to other albumoses produced from albumens, which may have been obtained by (1) Boiling \mder high pressure. (2) Gastric and pancreatic digestion through the agency of a ferment. (3) The direct vital activity of cells. (4) By certain micro-organisms, as Bacillus diphtherice, B. tuberculosis, and B. anthracis; by means of a ferment in the case of diphtheria, but by the direct action of the other two. The proteids of venom are elaborated by a process of dehydration of albumen, without the action of any ferment by the epithelial cells of the poison glands, the ultimate product stop- ping short at the albumenose stage, not pro- ceeding to the production of peptones, as occurs in all the before-mentioned, except the toxin pro- duced by diphtheria (Sidney Martin). In all cases, however, these albumoses, though differ- ing greatly in intensity of action, yet when gaining access to the blood produce certain toxic effects, hence the antitoxic principle which now underlies the treatment of snake-bite, etc. The poisonous properties of peptone are becoming much more recognised through the work of Prof. Wright and others; it is an important fact to deal with in the preparation of antitoxic and prophylactic serums. It has been shown by Martin and Gavan Smith that when dried venom is heated, it separates out into an albumen coagulated by heat, 70°-80° C, and a filtrate non-coagulable at any temperature, its action being, however, destroyed by boiling. It has been further shown by Calmette that the albumen thus coagulated out has little toxic power, but that the filtrate, when dialysed out in a current of sterile water for twenty-four hours, gives a solution which, on being dried in vacuo, forms a brownish amorphous powder forty times more toxic than ordinary venom. The amount of coagulable and non-coagulable proteids varies in amount and proportion in diff'erent classes of snakes ; thus in the Colubrine there is a large amount of non-coagulable poison, in the Viperine there is a very considerable quantity of the coagulable; on this difference depends to a large extent the variation of the symptoms produced by individual snakes. This is nevertheless only one of degree, as the toxic effects of the non-coagidable poison are very much the same in all, acting principally on the nerve centres, producing death by paralysing the respiratory centre in the medulla. The coagul- able proteid acts chiefly on the blood-vessels and heart, being a powerful local irritant. Cobra poison, which, as before stated, is rich in the non-coagulable proteid, kills by producing asphyxia, the heart beating after respiration has stopped ; hence the use of artificial respira- tion in the treatment. Rattlesnake venom is rich in the coagulable proteid, producing disastrous effects on the blood- vessels and heart. Australian snakes show a good deal of both, and have an intermediate action.