STATUS LYMPHATICUS 331 True laryngismus stridulus may be fatal in these children. Relation to Anaesthesia.—A certain number of the deaths under anaesthesia are due to lympha- tism. They may occur at any stage of the administration, or after some hours have elapsed. When death occurs during anaesthesia the heart suddenly ceases to beat, the face becomes ashy pale, the pupils dilate, and after making a few noiseless, shallow inspiratory movements the child within one or two minutes is dead. Most observers agree that the heart fails before the respiration, and that death is from syncope. It is impossible to state how many of these patients pass through an anaesthesia without accident. It is known, however, that they may pass through one or two anaesthesias and succumb to a second or third. Chloroform is generally considered to be the most dangerous anaesthetic for these cases, and most deaths reported have been with this drug; but deaths have also occurred with the use of ether, A.C.E. mixtures, and ethyl chloride. Kundrat reported 10 deaths from chloroform in all of which lympha- tism was present. Out of 3 cases reported by Blake, 2 were with nitrous oxide and ether and 1 with chloroform. In 8 cases investigated by myself the anaesthetic in each case was chloro- form. When we consider what cases are par- ticularly liable to death under anaesthetics it would seem that patients with goitre, either simple or exophthalmic, and patients with adenoids have given the most fatalities. When a child is suspected of suffering from lymphatism, and a general anaesthetic must be administered, ether or nitrous oxide should be preferred to chloroform or ethyl chloride. When difficulty occurs in the course of administration, the most rational treatment would seem to be direct stimulation of the heart by massage or elec- tricity, and the injection of adrenalin solution or strychnine. Artificial respiration is probably of little value. Medico-Legal.—In cases of sudden death in infants and young people, an enlarged thymus and the other signs of lymphatism found post- mortem are prima facie evidence of death from natural causes. A number of cases are on record where nursemaids or relatives have been charged with suffocating or fatally maltreating children, the true cause of death found at autopsy being lymphatism. Its importance in cases of death from injury, overlaying, and immersion in water will also be evident. Morbid Anatomy.—The post-mortem appear- ances, broadly speaking, consist of a hyperplasia of the lymphoid tissue of the body. The degree and extent of this hyperplasia vary considerably. In all cases the thymus is enlarged. Dudgeon found the average weight in 16 cases to be 25 grammes ; the largest, in a child of five months, being 47 grammes, the smallest 17 grammes. Of my twenty cases the largest gland weighed 35J grammes, the smallest 17 grammes, the average being 24^ grammes. It may extend upwards to the lower border of the thyroid and downwards to the apex of the heart, completely covering the anterior surface of the pericardium like an apron. In appearance it is pale and swollen, and often contains a cavity in the centre from post-mortem degeneration. The cavity contains a milky fluid consisting entirely of leucocytes. Bacteriological examination is negative. Microscopical examination shows simply hyperplasia with an unusual number of eosinophile cells, particularly in the neighbour- hood of the septa. In some cases only one or two groups of lymph glands may be enlarged, the most constant being those in the neighbour- hood of the thymus and thyroid glands. In others the pharyngeal, thoracic, and abdominal glands are affected, with the axillary and inguinal glands to a less extent. Their minute structure shows nothing abnormal. The spleen is enlarged, firm, and dark red, with the Malpighian bodies standing out with unusual prominence. The intestines show enlarged Peyer's patches and solitary follicles, which may stand out like peas. The bone marrow is in a state of hyperplasia, and the yellow marrow of the long bones in young adults is replaced by red. The tonsils, with the pharyngeal and post-lingual follicles, are hypertrophied. The liver and kidneys frequently show fatty changes, and the heart is dilated and also often shows fatty changes. The hypoplasia of the heart and aorta described by Paltauf was not present in any of my cases, nor has it been found by other observers. The thyroid has frequently been reported as enlarged; but no special attention seems to have been paid to it, in spite of the frequent association of lymphatism with exophthalmic goitre. In all my 20 cases the thyroid was abnormal. In 10 it was markedly enlarged, 5 being operated on for goitre. In the remainder the gland was normal in size or only slightly enlarged, but in all mici'oscopical examination showed marked changes. These changes consisted in a reduction or even absence of the colloid substance with hyperplasia of the cells, which grew into the alveoli in irregular masses, sometimes completely filling them. Some sections of these glands cannot be dis- tinguished from sections of the thyroid from cases of exophthalmic goitre, although no symptoms of this disease were present during life. Pathology.—Many theories have been ad- vanced from time to time to account for the sudden death in these cases. They fall under two headings: (1) those which assume death to be due to direct pressure of the enlarged thymus upon the trachea or other vital struc- tures, and (2) those which assume death to be due to toxaemia causing syncope. It may be taken as proved that an enlarged