449 SWEET SPIRIT OF NITRE Sweet Spirit of fVitre. See Nitrites {Spiritus jEtheris Nitrosi). Sweetbreads. See Invalid Feeding {Meats). Swine Erysipelas. See Immunity (Protective Inoculation in Swine Erysipelas). Swine Fever.—Hog cholera. See Food [Unsound Food from Swine Fever Animals). Switzerland. See Balneology {Swit- zerland) ; Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Swit- zerland). Sycosis. See also Eyelids, Affections of {Sycosis Tarsi); X-Rays {Therapeutics).— A pustular affection of the hair follicles in the region of the beard. The most frequent sites are on the chin and upper lip, but a similar inflammation may involve the whiskers and eyebrows. The earlier stages of the disease are characterised by the presence of raised shotty nodules of an acne-like character in close relation to the hair follicles, and in the later stages these appear as typical pustules with a hair passing through the centre of each. These nodules may become confluent, rendering the skin much indurated. The degree of infiltration and thickening is proportionate to the chronicity of the case. The disease is essentially chronic, and if not successfully treated tends to complete destruction of the hair sac and scar formation. The cause of the disease is bacterial influence, probably the staphylococcus pyogenes albus and other bacteria which exist as saprophytes in the skin. The diagnosis is as a rule easy. Impetigo contagiosa is an allied aff'ection, which, however, is characterised by a more acute onset, more rapid development, and greater tendency to discharge and crust formation. Further, this disease is more commonly met with in early life, while sycosis is chiefly met with in adult life. Tinea tonsurans may be mistaken for sycosis, but can readily be differentiated by a micro- scopical examination of the hair, which will reveal the presence of the ringworm fungus. Impetiginous Eczema.—It is doubtful if it is wise to differentiate too closely between a sycosis and an eczema associated with reddening of the skin, and pustule formation. These conditions are probably identical in origin, and nothing is gained by attempting to differentiate them. Treatment. —The hair should be clipped short, and the part bathed several times a day with an antiseptic lotion. Preference may be given to weak Condy's fluid, a weak corrosive subli- mate, or a spray of peroxide of hydrogen. The case should then be treated by an antiseptic ointment, e.g. ammoniate of mercury, or sulphur. The exact composition of the ointment is of less VOL IX. importance than the manner in which it is applied. The inunction must be thorough, and treatment should be continued in a modified degree for months after the bulk of the disease is apparently cured. Great benefit may also be attained in not a few cases by strict attention to the general health, more especially the ad- ministration of a daily saline draught and stimulation of the function of the skin by baths. It is well to recommend the patient not to allow the beard to grow for at least six months after the disease has been apparently cured. Sydenham's Chorea or Dis- ease. See Chorea {Common or Sydenham's Chorea). Sydenham's Laudanum.—Tinc- tura opii crocata, or tincture of opium flavoured with saffron. See Opium. Sydenham's Teaching. >S'ee Medi- cine, History of {Rational Empiricism). Sylvester's Method.—A method of carrying on artificial respiration by using the arms of the patient to compress the chest, and allowing it to expand by elastic recoil. See Asphyxia {Resuscitation). Sylvian. — Named after the anatomist Jacobus Sylvius (Jacques Du Bois), who lived between 1478 and 1555 ; e.g. the Sylvian aque- duct (communication between the third and fourth ventricles), the Sylvian fissure (the fissure on the outer surface of the cerebrum, separating the parietal and frontal lobes from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe), and the Sylvian ventricle (in the septum lucidum). See Brain, Physiology of {Cerebral Cortex); Brain, Sur- gery of {Cerebro-cranial Topography); Hydro- cephalus {Etiology, Blockage of Aqueduct of Sylvius). Symbiosis.—The constant association of organisms not depending on each other for life or nourishment (Gr. crvv, with, and /3tos, life); commensalism ; in Bacteriology two types of microbes may attack the body at the same time and may intensify each other's attack and fail unless acting in association {obligatory symbiosis), or they may intensify each other's action without their alliance being essential for success {facul- tative symbiosis). Symblepharon.—Adhesion of the eye- lids to the eyeball, which may be anterior, posterior, or total. See Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Symblepharon); Eyelids, Affections of {Symblepharon). Symbol. See Prescribing {Weights and Measures). Symelus or Symmelus.—A terato- logical type in which more or less complete 29