TEETH 519 oases, on the masticating surface of a tooth for instance, where caries is sometimes arrested and the surface gets smooth and polished. Such Tubules packed with organisms. reral ubes okeii lowii one. Non-iiifected tubules. Fia. 3.—Section of carious dentine. terms as spreading, peeling, and penetrating are applied to the diiferent varieties of caries, but they are all the result of the structural peculi- arities of the tooth when infected. Caries usually originates in some fault or fissure in the enamel, in which micro-organisms find lodg- ment, and once the dentine is reached they rapidly penetrate the dentinal tubules, softening and breaking them vip till the pulp is reached. Microscopic ex- amination of a stained section from a carious tooth exhibits the tubules packed with micro-organ- isms, micrococci, bacilli, or bundles of leptothrix filaments (Figs. 3, 4, 5). The latter organism is always present in all carious cavities, growing like a fringe from the walls, but less fre- quently penetrating and pro- liferating in the tubules. Some- times uninfected tubules may be found in the midst of infected ones. Professor Miller of Berlin, in 1882, by a series of elaborate experiments, was the first to demonstrate the true pathology of dental caries, and succeeded in producing artificial dental caries in sound teeth, by subjecting them to a mixture of saliva and bread kept at a constant temperature, changing the fluid whenever it became alkaline. Other investigators, Leber and Rottenstein, Coleman Miles and Underwood, and Magitot later on, were able to show some- what similar results. Causes of Dental Caries.—These might be divided into local and predisposing. The local are anatomical defects: interglobular spaces, fissures, accessory cusps, etc., all favour the production of caries, while a vicious arrange- ment of the teeth in the arches, hindering their proper cleansing, is an all-important factor in the predisposition to caries of the teeth. Vicin- tini and Leon Williams have both within recent years demonstrated and described the presence on and adherent to the teeth of gelatinous plaques of organisms called Leptothrix racemosa, which generate lactic acid, and attack any weak spot in the enamel, opening up a way for in- vasion of the dentine. Deficiency of lime salts in a tooth was supposed to be a potent pre- disposing cause in the production of caries, but from recent chemical i-esearches by Black, con- firmed by Tomes, it has been found that carious teeth frequently contain a larger proportion of lime salts than sound teeth, which seems to disprove this. This point, however, has not been proved, for, as Dr. N. Bennett says, the physical and molecular constitution require to be taken into consideration as well as the chemical ere this could be settled decisively. Predisposing Causes.—-Pregnancy, as is well known, has an injurious influence on the teeth, due to acid conditions produced by alteration of Bacilli. FlQ. 4.—Section of carious dentine. Tubules fllleil with sarcinacoccus which has distended and broken them up the oral secretions, as a result of dyspepsia, etc., occurring at this time. It is well recognised that acid conditions usually prevail, especially in first pregnancies, and these, aided by impaired nutrition, have a decided eftect on the teeth,