TEETH 535 as a consequence of infection from a diseased tooth, or an abrasion or wound on the mucous surface—a carious tooth with an exposed and inflamed pulp forming a good nidus for the development of tubercle bacillus, which, being taken up by the blood-vessels of the pulp and deposited in the nearest lymphatic gland, originates the tuberculous condition. This is generally accepted as a fact in the present day. Tubercle bacilli, pyogenic and other bacteria, are frequently found in the tonsils, experiment having proved that tonsillar tissue when in- jected into animals gives rise to tuberculosis in about 13 per cent of cases (Dieulafoy). The organism associated with thrush, oidium albicans, is often found in the throat or tonsils of tuber- culous patients. The disease called pyorrhoea alveolaris, in which septic conditions are fre- quently present, is a fertile source of infection in many patients. Other organisms frequently found in the oral cavity are pneumococci, which may under favour- able conditions produce various lesions of the lungs, such as croupous pneumonia, etc. The occurrence of diphtheria bacilli in the healthy human mouth is quite conmion (Loffler). Eecent investigators state that diphtheria bacilli persist in the mouths and noses of patients long after convalescence from the disease. Syphilis : the majority of the cases of infection from this disease have their origin in the oral cavity, being transmitted by the saliva; wounds, dirty instruments in transplantation of teeth, or the use of other people's infected tooth-brushes or pipes, are all frequent sources of convey- ance. Actinomycosis very frequently attacks the human subject, infection being conveyed through wounds or abrasions of the mucous membrane, or proliferation takes place in the exposed canals of some diseased tooth. The usual symptoms are numerous abscesses appear- ing in the neighbourhood of the infected part, discharging profuse stinking pus of a yellowish colour, containing small granules—portions of the ray fungus. 113 cases of actinomycosis in the human subject have been recorded by various authors. In 53 cases out of this number the disease originated in the oral cavity, on the cheek, tongue, jaws, or neck. Treatment.—In the treatment of oral sepsis all diseased roots and teeth should be removed (the reprehensible practice of some practitioners of cutting over the six front teeth, and without filling and treating the roots, cannot be too strongly condemned), and the patient's health built up with tonics, and light and easily digested food given, while an antiseptic mouth- wash should be frequently used. A teaspoonful of alcoholic solution of hydronaphthol in water or phenate of soda may be employed, previous to the use of which, however, a 3 per cent solution of HgOj in water should be employed, the frothing of which helps to remove the debris of food on and between the teeth, and enables the stronger antiseptic to have more effect. An astringent mouth-wash can be used later on : Tannin 3j., tinct. iodine 3ss., tinct. pyrethri oj., spirit, vin. rect. 5iss., aqua rosse 3vij. Of course, if the teeth are too few to properly masticate with, artificial substitutes should be provided. Mills and Underwood, at the International Medical Congress, London, 1881, presented a communication on dental caries, stating that micro-organisms were always present in dental caries, and were the cause of distension of the tubules, and that two factors were always in operation—(1) the action of acid ; (2) the action of germs,—which views were a great advance in the right direction. Shortly after this date Professor Miller, Berlin, began his investigations in regard to the microbes of dental caries and of the mouth generally, and great credit is due him as being the first to demonstrate the true pathology of dental caries. He also succeeded in producing artificial caries in sound teeth by placing them in a mixture of starch and saliva, the starch having been previously sterilised. This mixture was kept at a constant tempera- ture in the incubator, and became acid in from four to five hours. In the course of two or three weeks the teeth were found softened, and presented all the appearances of natural caries —the tubules broken up and distended with micro-organisms. Cultures made from the artificially produced carious tissue developed organisms which Miller thought identical in form with those of bacillus acidi lactici, and by an elaborate chemical experiment demonstrated the correctness of this view. He also produced artificial dental caries by means of a pure culture of a pleomorphous organism obtained from the mouth. The exposed portion of the crown of a tooth is covered by enamel, principally made up of lime salts ] any defect in its structure is liable to be attacked by the acids generated by the numerous bacteria which find lodgment on and between the teeth, and which, on reaching the dentine, penetrate the tubules rapidly in the direction of the pulp, softening and breaking up the tissues in their progress. Briefly, then, in the process of dental caries there is (1) decalcifi- cation of the hard tissues of the tooth by lactic acid generated by microbes ; (2) peptonisation and assimilation of the animal matter of the dentine, accompanied by alkaline products. Dr. Miller pointed out that micro-organisms grown in different culture materials had a modifying effect on their products ; thus proteids caused decomposition, with alkaline products, hydro- carbons had little or no effect, carbohydrates developed acid. Structural defects both of enamel and dentine predispose to attacks of caries, although, according to Black, etc., the hardness or softness of a tooth has nothing to