SCARLET FEVER 41 glutition, becomes a marked symptom. The type of the invasion indicates the nature of the supervening illness. In minor cases the coun- tenance reveals nothing at the beginning of the attack ; and in severe instances only the bright eye and sharp expression, incidental to the onset of all diseases, attended with an increase in temperature. (ii.) Predisposition.—The predisposition to scarlet fever is not confirmed as in the case of measles, chicken-pox, and whooping-cough, from which few children escape. In scarlet fever many may never be attacked, however freely exposed; others may avoid it for years and then succumb. For instance, I lived for two years in the midst of the infection and escaped ; but a year afterwards I suffered without being able to trace the source. In a community which has been free from measles for some years the malady, once origi- nated, spreads rapidly, and few escape, notwith- standing every precaution in isolation. The action of scarlet fever is different, and even in a very susceptible community, if care be exercised, one or two cases only may arise. Poverty and exposure intensify the virulence of the disease, and tend to produce severe sequelae; while afHuence, efficient nursing, and fresh air mitigate the severity and prevent sequelse in many instances. These conditions, however, have no effect on those who, in conse- quence of idiosyncrasy, are liable to speedy death from an attack. (iii.) Sensations of Illness.—In slight attacks no apparent illness is discoverable. But I have never seen a case with an intense eruption where the patient was not really, and also felt ill. This symptom is of importance in dis- tinguishing scarlet fever from what I have termed the " Fourth disease," when, however copious the eruption, no appearance or sensation of illness may be preceptible. (iv.) Temperature.—In the mildest type of this illness there is practically no fever, the thermometer rarely reaching 100' F. The average, and the severe type, similarly with the other symptoms of onset, commences with a sudden rise, which continues increasing until the eruption has fully appeared on the third or fourth day, when, if the illness is of a favour- able type without complication, the temperature gradually falls. On the other hand, if the more severe type (scarlatina anginosa) is presented, or complications are imminent, the fever con- tinues a longer period. The evening tempera- ture in the benign type varies from 102° to 104° F., or about two degrees higher than that of the morning, and by the end of the week the normal temperature is reached. But in the latter type the temperature gradually assumes the suppurative form with a very high range in the evening and a very low one in the morning, exhibiting a variation of six or seven degrees. This continues until the second week, when, if a favourable turn be taken, the variations gradually diminish down to normal towards the end of the third week. If, however, an unfavourable course occurs from prostra- tion or complications, the excessive temperature is maintained until death. The temperature rises in some cases of scarlet fever to a higher point than in any other eruptive fever. The skin presents the sensation, too, of the most pungent heat. The temperature in ordinary cases of scarlet fever never increases in the usual ratio with the pulse; that is to say, in scarlet fever there is always a markedly accelerated pulse from the beginning, even where the temperature ascends only to 100° F. And a full rash in scarlet fever always implies a high temperature. (v.) Pulse.—The typical characteristic pulse in every form of scarlet fever, quite from the commencement, is an accelerated one, out of all proportion to the customary ratio with the temperature, and presents considerable tension. This distinguishing feature in mild cases speedily terminates; while in all instances of a severe type it remains. In the ulcerative form we find the suppurative pulse quick, soft, feeble, and attaining 160 to 180. In the malignant type the adynamic pulse full, soft, irregular, uncountable, and becoming gradually imper- ceptible as the acceleration proceeds. As convalescence is established the pulse be- comes slow, in variation with the previous depressing effect of the scarlet-fever toxin upon the heart muscle. (vi.) Tongue.—If the illness has been of the perambulating variety no indications may be present on the tongue, or, at all events, they may persist for so short a period — which appears to me to be the true doctrine—as to be imperceptible to the medical observer, who may only see the case once, or at most twice, in the twenty-four hours. But in the ordinary, average, well-marked case the tongue is covered at an early stage with an extensive white coating of epithelium, through which the normal red papillse protrude, which, peeling off from the tip and edges, has entirely disappeared by the fourth day, leav- ing a raw-looking, red, fleshy, smooth, swollen condition, commonly termed the strawberry tongue, and absolutely pathognomonic of scarlet fever. As the epithelium is re-formed the tongue assumes its normal appearance, though the papillse, becoming oedematous, sometimes present a miliary aspect. If, however, the fever is high and delirium present, the tongue may grow dry and fissured, though still abnormally red, glazed, and bare of epithelium. In the malignant variety death usually occurs before the tongue peels; and if death takes place prior to the appearance of the eruption, the diagnosis may involve grave difficulty.