63 SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL CHILDEEN, MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF existing circumstances at the initiation of the work under the Act. 4. In the accompanying Schedule the Board indicate the particulars, attention to which they regard as constituting the minimum of efficient medical inspection, and they consider that at least these particulars should be included in any other Schedule which the Local Education Authority may authorise for use in their Schools. It deliberately excludes many points of anthro- pometric or statistical interest which are worthy of attention, and which it is hoped may receive attention in suitable districts. Nor does it profess to lay down the lines of a clinical study or of a scientifically complete medical examina- tion. It is intended to indicate the methods which, in the Board's opinion, should be followed and the particulars which should be attended to for the purpose of determining the fitness of the individual child for school life, to guide the Authority in adapting education to the peculi- arities or abnormalities of the child, and to prepare the way for measures for the ameliora- tion of defects in the child or its environment. A more elaborate and complete form could readily be devised, but the Board's knowledge of the circumstances in which the work is to be done leads them to believe that greater elabora- tion would in the majority of cases defeat its own end. 5. If this Schedule is properly used, few cases of serious physical weakness or defect will escape detection. Where the ordinary inspection shows the need of farther and more searching medical examination a supplementary blank form should be used in which particular defects or diseases should be fully recorded. It may facilitate inspection if the Schedule is printed on cards 1 (8" by 5" or 10" by 6"). The notes are included in the attached form for the con- venience of the School Medical Officer, and should not be reprinted on the cards. Of course it is not necessary that negative findings on all the points mentioned in the notes should be recorded. It will be noticed that a space is reserved in the Schedule for " General Observations "; this may conveniently be used to record a general summary of the condition of the child, and any information which may be available as to the home environment, or other conditions affecting its health. It is considered that the inspection of each child should not occupy on the average more than a few minutes, and that the child need only, as a rule, have its clothes loosened or be partially undressed. Time may be saved in the actual inspection by the Medical Officer if the entries in some of the spaces are filled in by the school authorities before his visit. The four 1 Specimen cards are enclosed, but cards will not be supplied with the copies of this Circular which are placed on sale. columns in the Schedule are designed for the four inspections required during school life. With regard to items 17 to 24 of the Schedule, while it is necessary that all indications of diseased or unsound conditions should be thor- oughly investigated, needless medical examina- tion of healthy children should, for obvious reasons, be avoided. 6. Where children are found to belong to that class of " defectives " for whose education special provision is or ought to be made under the Statutes relating to such children, such cases should be made the subject of a special report to the Local Education Authority. 7, All entries of the remits of inspection in each individual case must be regarded as con- fidential. SCHEDULE OF MEDICAL INSPECTION (Accompanying Circular 582) Notes for Inspecting Officer Reference Number ot Note. 1. Date of birth to be stated exactly, date of month and year. 2. " Other illnesses " should include any other serious disorder which must be taken into account as affecting, directly or in- directly, the health of the child in after- life, e.g., rheumatism, tuberculosis, con- genital syphilis, small-pox, enteric fever, meningitis, fits, mumps, etc. The effects of these, if still traceable, should be recorded. 3. State of any cases of, or death from, phthisis, etc., in family. 4. Note backwardness. 5. Age to be stated in years and months, thus, 6. Insufficiency, need of repair, and uncleanli- ness should be recorded (good, average, bad). 7. Without boots, standing erect with feet together, and the weight thrown on heels and not on toes or outside of feet. 8. Without boots, otherwise ordinary indoor clothes. Height and weight may be recorded in English measures if preferred. In annual report, however, the final averages should be recorded in both English and metric measures. 9. General nutrition as distinct from muscular development or physique as such. State whether good, normal, below normal, or bad. Under-nourishment is the point to determine. Appearance of skin and hair, expression, and redness or pallor of mucous membrane are among the indications.