581 THERAPEUTICS: HEALTH RESORTS tions Hyeres, with its suburb Costabelle, has many attractions; it is also one of the oldest of the health resorts on the Riviera. St. Raphael, midway between Hyeres and Cannes, and Valescur have been recently much sought after by English visitors ; those who wish for absolute quiet and repose will find the latter unequalled, with lovely scenery and beautiful walking ex- cursions on the slopes of the Esterelles. Smaller places, all with good hotels but with no other accommodation, are Antibes, Villefranche, and Beaulieu on the French side, and Alassio on the Italian coast. Bordighera is rather larger and has many attractions; it is more bracing but also more exposed than San Remo. The Riviera di Lavante, which stretches from Genoa to Pisa, is not so well suited to invalids, though very picturesque. Nervi, Rapallo, Santa Margherita, and Spezzia are, however, all frequented by invalids, or at least visitors whose object in travelling is chiefly their health, but the accom- modation is not first-class, except at Nervi, and the climate is moister and less sheltered. Other Mediterranean Resorts After the Riviera there are a considerable number of health resorts situated on the Medi- terranean, of which those in Southern Italy and Sicily have already been briefly mentioned. Valencia, Barcelona, and Malaga on the Spanish coast have all been recommended, particularly the latter, which has a specially mild climate, approximating to those on the southern shores of the Mediterranean; in none of these towns, however, is there as yet any real provision made for invalids. Algiers has of late years been largely visited by English people, and in winter usually has a considerable English colony; it has a warm but very uncertain climate, a considerable quantity of rain falling in winter, and occasionally even snow. Biskra, two days' journey inland from Algiers (one from Constantine), is on the edge of the Sahara, at a height of 360 feet, and is much drier than Algiers, but, like most places near the desert, it is liable to very violent winds, which confine invalids to the house sometimes for several days consecutively. Tangiers, which is situated in Morocco, be- tween the Atlantic and Mediterranean, has a warm but moist climate, owing to the Atlantic storms touching it. Its civilisation has hardly reached the point at which it can be considered a health resort. Besides Sicily, some of the smaller islands of the Mediterranean deserve to be considered. Not a few English go to Malta, largely owing to its being a garrison town, but it is too windy and devoid of shelter to be considei-ed as a suit- able place for invalids. Ajaccio, in Corsica, is a very attractive place, but the sea voyage from Marseilles in poor steamers is a great bar to many travellers. It is warmer and moister than the Riviera, with a large number of bright, sunny days. The climate is more sedative than that of the Riviera, and therefore suits some invalids better. Those who go there must make their own amusements. Egypt Turning to the eastern end of the Mediter- ranean we come to Egypt, which has since the English occupation become one of the most important places for English invalids, displacing the Riviera to a considerable extent. Alexandria, on the north coast, has no pre- tensions to be a health resort, and is a very unattractive town. Cairo, too, is quite unsuitable for the serious invalid, and should be regarded merely as a halting-place. The town itself is unsanitary, though the hotels are good, and the amount of social life which goes on in winter is far too strong a temptation for invalids. Mena House, eight miles from Cairo, on the edge of the desert, close to the Pyramids, and Helouan, about fifteen miles distant on an oasis, both have excellent hotels and every accommoda- tion for invalids. The latter is more suitable in the early winter owing to its being raised above the inundated delta; it is therefore much drier during November and December than Mena House. Luxor, on the Nile, 450 miles south of Cairo, has a milder climate and less wind ; it is delightful from December to the end of February. It has the drawback of an Arab village, and a large area of irrigated land in the immediate vicinity of the hotel, and more suitable sites could be found in the desert at no great distance. Assouan is at the first cataract and practically on the desert, hence it is drier than Luxor, though both are rainless, rain being unknown in Upper Egypt. It is, owing to the same cause, probably more bracing than Luxor, though distinctly warmer: un- comfortably so after the beginning of March. What effect, if any, the new barrage will have on the climate of Assouan remains to be seen. The question of the journey up the Nile is one of no little importance : the steamers are dis- tinctly dangerous for invalids, especially in returning against the strong north wind, while dahabiehs are costly and slow. Moreover, unless a physician be taken, the invalid on a dahabieh may be far removed from medical aid in the time of need. The question will probably soon be solved by the extension of the train service as far as Assouan, but the river will always retain very great attractions for those whose sole care should be their health. Besides the danger of chill on the river itself, the risks are considerably increased by the temptation to visit numerous places of interest on the voyage : few of them without their dangers for invalids. In truth, this constitutes one of the great draw-