TEICHMANN'S TEST 541 Teichmann'S Test.—The hsemin test for the presence of blood. Teichopsia,. — Transitory amblyopia, characterised by the sensation of zigzag flashes of light, arranged in rampart fashion (Gr. Tet^os, a wall or rampart, and oi/fts, vision). See Am- blyopia (Functional, Transitory). Telcl.—A web, or a tissue; e.g. tela celliilosa (areolar tissue), tela choroidea superior (the velum interpositum or roof of the third ventricle of the brain), and tela choroidea inferior (the pia mater, covering the lower part of the roof of the fourth ventricle). Tela.ng'iectSlSiS.—A vascular tumour (congenital in origin) consisting of dilated capillaries and small vessels. See Capillaries, Diseases of {Congenital Angioma). Tela.ng^iect£ltiC.—Resembling a telan- giectasis or congenital angioma, e.g. telangiec- tatic lupus. See Lupus Erythematosus {De- scription). Tela.ng^iOlina,.—A tumour composed of dilated capillaries. See Telangiectasis. Telegony.—The alleged influence of a previous husband or sire upon the progeny produced by a second one from the same mother (Gr. T^A.€, far off", 70V77, offspring); it is the name given to those doubtful cases in which the offspring is said to resemble not the father but an early mate of the mother either in physio- logical or in pathological peculiarities. See Heredity (Telegony); Maternal Impressions {Telegony). Telegraphist's Cramp. See Neur- oses, Occupation {Etiology). Telencephalon.—The anterior part of the fore-brain or prosencephalon, consisting of the cerebral hemispheres, olfactory lobes, lateral ventricles, foramina of Monro, and the anterior portion of the third ventricle. Teleology.—The science or doctrine of final causes. Telepathy.—The alleged action of one mind upon another at a distance such as to exclude the usual modes of influence through sight, hearing, etc.; thought transference. Telephone Tinnitus.—Tinnitus aurium ascribed to the frequent use of the telephone. Telescopic Vision. See Colour Vision {Acquired Restriction of Form Vision). TelO-. —In compound words telo- (Gr. tAos, end) means relating to the end or terminal; e.g. telodendron (one of the bulbous expansions ter- minating the arborisation of an axon), telolecithal (the term applied to an ovum having much food- yolk eccentric in position), etc. Telosporidla. See Parasites {Sporozoa, Telosporidia). Temperament.—A special constitu- tion or complexion or diathesis ; e.g. the nervous, lymphatic, bilious, sanguine, or melancholic temperaments, which predispose the individual to certain diseases or to certain ways of exhibit- ing diseases. Temperature. Introductory ..... 541 The Normal Temperature . 541 The Temperature in relation to Age . 542 Diurnal Variations .... 542 Localised Abnormal Temperature 542 Alterations of General Temperature . 542 A. Depression ..... 542 B. Elevation ..... 543 Fever ....... 544 Stages ...... 544 Tissue changes ..... 545 Treatment . . . . . 547 See also Alcohol {Physiology, Temperature); Anaesthesia, General Physiology of {Remote Effects, Temperature); Aorta, Aneurysm and Dilatation of {Symptoms, Rises of Temperature) ; Appendix Vermiformis {Abscess Fever); Brain, Tumours of {Localising Sym2)toms, Temperature); Brain, Surgery of {Compression, Tempe7-atu7-e); Brain, Surgery of {Cerebral Abscess); Children, Development of (Sensibility to Temperature); Children, Clinical Examination of {Tempera- ture) ; Cholera, Epidemic {Symptoms); Liver, Tropical Abscess {Symptoms); Measles {Symp- toms, Temperature); Medicine, Forensic (Signs of Death); Meteorology (Temperatiire); Peri- toneum, Acute Peritonitis, General (Symp- toms, Temperature); Puerperium, Physiology (Changes in Maternal System, Temperature); Puerperium, Pathology (Infection, Vulvitis, etc.); Pulse {Frequency); Typhoid Fever (Symptoms); Typhus Fever (Period of Advance, etc.); Uraemia (Symptoms). The temperature of the body is the degree of bodily heat registered by the thermometer. The temperature of the internal parts of the body is higher than that of the more superficial or peripheral parts. In man the normal temperature taken in the mouth or axilla is 98-4° to 98-6° F. (37° C.); the average tempera- ture taken in the rectum is 99-3° F. (37"4° C), whereas the skin temperature varies from 81° to 89-6° F. As there is constant production of heat within the body, the result of tissue metabolism, it is evident that there must likewise be constant loss of heat. The temperature of any part of the body is largely dependent on the amount of blood circulating through the part, and