496 TABES DORSALIS body when the eyes were shut, which last-named symptom bears his name. The Germans natur- ally claim Romberg as the discoverer of the disease; the French, on the other hand, claim Duchenne as the discoverer of the disease, and have even gone so far as to name it after him: they might with greater justice claim the discovery for Cruveilhier, for he in 1845 described a case and noted the grey de- generation of the posterior columns of the spinal cord. Although it was ten years after Romberg that Duchenne gave his masterly description, to which there is not much to be added and very little to be taken away, yet it was the graphic description by this clinical genius, and especially his demonstration that the ataxy was due to a failure of the correlative antagonism of synergic groups of muscles, that the disease became luiiversally recognised, and for a long time bore the name which Duchenne gave it of locomotor ataxy. Sir William Gowers claims that Todd dis- covered the disease, not I think quite justly, although he, later than Cruveilhier, made the independent observation of sclerosis of the posterior columns. The term tabes is more applicable to this disease than locomotor ataxy, for the latter is one symptom and may not be a prominent feature, or even present during the whole course of the disease. Since Duchenne's description of the disease, an enormous number of clinical observations by different observers have been made, showing the polymorphic character of the affection. Etiology.—It is becoming more and more an accepted fact that, of all the causes of tabes, syphilis is by far the most important; in fact it is the opinion of many authorities that if there were no syphilis there would be no tabes; and Fournier, who first pointed out the frequency of syphilitic infection in tabetic cases, calls it a parasyphilitic affection, and Mbbius meta- syphilis. Another disease with which tabes is intimately associated, and so closely allied as to be thought by many authorities to be one and the same disease, affecting different parts of the nervous system, is general paralysis. The pathogenesis of the two diseases is almost identical, and I have found all grades of the disease, from tabes without mental symptoms, tabes with slight mental symptoms, and tabes with severe mental symptoms, to pronounced general paralysis. According to my observa- tions, by far the most important if not the essential factor is syphilis. The work of Erb has probably done more than anything else to support the doctrine of Fournier. In 1897 he had collected 900 cases of tabes, of which 90 per cent had suffered from syphilis ; he found in 6000 other nervous cases, on the same basis of evidence, only 20 per cent. Westphal, Charcot and Virchow were always opponents of the syphilitic doctrine, but the greatest opponent has been Leyden; various authors have given different results, and very much depends upon what each considers sufficient evidence to warrant the assumption of syphilitic antecedents. Max Norme points out that as the interest in the subject has increased, the authorities, who had previously only found a small percentage of tabetic patients suflPering with syphilis, were led, as the inquiry progressed, to increase their percentages. It is argued that in countries where syphilis is prevalent tabes may be very rare, as in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Another factor is undoubtedly necessary for the production of this disease, as well as for general paralysis, and that is nervous instability, the product of civilisation; and Kraft-Ebbing sums up the causes of general paralysis as civilisation and syphilisation. Sex.—The facts with regard to sex, age, and incidence of the disease all support the syphilitic doctrine—males are much more frequently affected than females, tabes is uncommon in women of the better classes, and when it occurs there is usually history of syphilitic infection. The disease commences in adult life, generally in the fourth or fifth decade, and about ten to fifteen years, I have found, after the primary infection; although the interval may vary from four to twenty-five years. When it affects juveniles it is invariably in the subjects of congenital syphilis. Heredity.-—Charcot laid great stress upon the neuropathic temperament as a cause of the disease ; there can be little doubt that it is the quick-brained, active, and sexually excitable individual who is more prone to the disease; but one does not find a large percentage of cases giving a hereditary neuropathic taint. Stress.—Edinger has pointed out the import- ance of stress as a determining factor in the production of tabes : most of my cases certainly were engaged in occupations which involved physical stress, and several of those in which the symptoms began in the arms were individ- uals who used their arms in their respective occupations. Thus among my own cases of cervical tabes, in a mounted policeman it began in the arm with which he held the reins ; it began in the arms in a parcel-post sorter and in two packing-case makers. Edinger has demonstrated the fact that degeneration of the posterior columns can be induced in animals by excessive stress on the limbs, especially in con- junction with an artificially produced toxsemic condition. The importance of stress as a factor has also been emphasised by Byrom Bramwell. Exposure to Cold and Wet and Uneqwil Tem- perature.—The frequency with which, in my experience, engine-drivers, policemen, postmen, workers at forges, and others subject to such conditions are liable to the disease supports this