300 ' SPINE, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF met with at the onset of the disease. Dilatation or constriction of the pupil has been observed both by Charcot and Gowers in cervical caries. The Signs of Spinal Caries.—The earliest and the most important of all is rigidity, in the first place, of the muscles on either side of the affected area, and later of the vertebrse affected. Muscular rigidity can be determined by palpa- tion, and rigidity of the affected vertebrse can be detected by directing the patient to flex and extend the spine. The affected vertebrfe will then be felt to move en bloc, and not in succes- FlQ. 2.—Caries of the spine. Compression of the cord partly by displaced Ijone and partly by granulation tissue. (Guy's Hospital Museum.) sion. In more advanced cases the rigidity is demonstrated by inviting the child to pick up a small article from the floor. In disease of the lower cervical or upper dorsal region there is short, grunting, spasmodic respiration due to the attempt to keep the chest and spine as rigid as possible and so to avoid pain. In early cases, in suspected disease of the dorsal and lumbar region, the extensi- bility of the spine may be tested by laying the patient on his face, and then gently lifting the feet from the couch and noting the amount of extension in the lumbar part of the column. The attitude and walk of a child afflicted with caries—whether it be in the cervical, dorsal, or lumbar region—is perfectly characteristic. The attitude may be summed up as a military attitude, or, as Professor Say re says, "the child places himself in a muscular splint." As the disease progresses there will be irregu- larity of the spinous processes or projection of one or more of them, with alteration of the normal curvature. Thus the cervical curve will become flat or convex posteriorly, the dorsal region will very early show posterior pro- jection, and the lumbar region will first become flat and then somewhat convex. Thickening will be felt around the affected vertebrfe when the disease has been well established; and in the grave stages of caries, if the palm of the surgeon's hand be gently and firmly pressed over the posterior projection, the bones will be felt to yield unduly. But as repair and healing takes place, yielding is replaced by a distinct resistance. To sum up the symptoms, rigidity must be regarded as the first and most im- portant symptom—the patrol of disease. Note the patient's aspect and walk on entering the room, observe the attitude he assumes at rest, trace pains to their sources, search for any irregularity of the vertebrae, place little reliance on the history, and be on the look-out for abscess and paralysis. Diagnosis.—There is probably no disease in which so many mistakes are made as in early spinal caries, and errors can only be avoided by very careful examination. Thus any child who complains of pain in the stomach should have his back looked at, and the examination be repeated from time to time. In infancy and early child- hood rickety kyphosis is not uncommon, but the presence of other signs of rickets, the general yielding of every part of the back, the distribution of the curve over the whole back, its disappearance on suspension or lying down, the extreme extensibility of the spine, and the absence of localised pain are sufficient points of distinction. In young adult life, especially in girls and young women, in neurotic boys, and in men after railway accidents we find the hysterical or neuromimetic spine. In such cases the pain is patchy, it does not follow the course of nerves, but it is limited to certain local areas with more than one point of special intensity, and it may also frequently change its seat. Unsuspected watching of the case and carefully repeated examination of the back are necessary. Yet there is great danger that caries of the spine in a young woman may be put down as hysterical. Still more if the subjects of caries present distinct signs of hysteria there is a risk that unequivocal signs of caries may be overlooked. The diagnosis between angular deformity and lateral curvature is quite easy as a rule: the only confusion arising in those cases in which caries is associated with lateral deviation of the