561 TERTIAN which recurs every other day (Lat. tertius, third); e.g. tertian ague, or one in which the intervals last about 48 hours. See Malaria {Clinical Manifestations, Benign Tertian). Tertiary.—A term used specially for those manifestations of syphilis which appear third in order of time. See Syphilis (Tertiary). Tertipara.—A woman who is being con- fined for the third child; one who has had two previous labours. Tesia Currents.—Rapidly alternating high tension currents of electricity ; d'Arsonval currents. See X-Rays {High Frequency Cur- rents). Test. See Alcohol {Tests); Aseptic Treat- ment OP Wounds (Evidences of Asepticity); Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Physiology, Weber's and Rinne's Tests); Digestion and Metabolism {Examination of Gastric Contents, Test Meals); Eye, Clinical Examination of (Visual Acuity, Test Types); Glycosuria {De- tection); ToxiGOWGY {Testsfor Poisons); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Tests for Sugar, Albumen, etc.). Testalg-ia.—Neuralgia of the testis. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of the {Test- algia). Testamentary Capacity. See Lunacy {Duties of Medical Men, Will-Making). ^ Testectomy.—Removal of the testicle. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of the {Tumours, Castration). Testes.—The plural of testis. See Scro- tum and Testicle, Diseases op the. Testicle. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of. See also Abdominal Aneurysm {Symptoms, Pain in the Testicle); Hysteria {Hyperaesthesia, Testicular Area); Leprosy {Lepra Tubercles); Syphilis {In Children, Later Symptoms, Testes); Tabes Dorsalis {Symp- tomatology, Genital Organs); Tuberculosis {Epididymis and Testis) ; Visceral Pain {Sen- sory Supply of the Testicle). Testicular.—Belonging to the testicle; e.g. testicular artery (spermatic artery), testicular cord (spermatic cord), and testicular duct (vas deferens). Testis. See Testicle. TestitiS.—Inflammation of the testicle ; the more common form is orchitis. Tetanic or Tetaniform.—Of the nature of tetanus {q.v.) ; resembling tetanus. Tetan i I la.—Tetany; paramyoclonus mul- tiplex. See Tetany, vol. IX Tetanus. General Etiology . . . . .561 The Tetanus Bacillus .... 562 Tetanus Toxin ..... 563 Incubation Period . . . . .564 Action of the Toxin .... 564 Symptomatology ..... 564 Diagnosis ...... 565 Prognosis ...... 565 Prophylaxis ...... 565 Treatment . . . . . .565 y^eeai^so Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Sources of WouTidInfection); Asphyxia (Cawse.s); Brain, Inflammations {Acute Encephalitis, Causes); Burns and Scalds {Clinical Features, Sequelce); Immunity {Serum, Tetanus); Ovaries, Diseases OF {Cysts, Ovariototny, Complications); Post- mortem Methods {Bacteriological, Teta')ius) ; Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Nervous, Tetanus); Tetany {Diagnosis); Therapeutics, Serum Therapy {Antitetanic Serum). Tetanus (lockjaw ; tetanos, Starrkrampf) is an acute specific infective disease, characterised by involuntary tonic muscular spasms, tending to become generalised, and with paroxysmal exacerbations from time to time. The specific micro-organism, the tetanus bacillus, laaving gained entrance to the body, elaborates a toxin of great potency, which, acting on the motor cells of the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, increases their irritability, and thereby induces the spasms. The disease is exceedingly danger- ous, and not infrequently fatal. The disease had been recognised by Hippo- crates, Galen, and Celsus. Its infective char- acter had long been recognised, and many observers, noticing the manner in which the symptoms resembled those of strychnine poisoning, had suspected that the disease was caused by a poison. But the infective nature of the disease was first definitely established by Carle and Rattone in 1884. In the same year Nicolaier discovered the tetanus bacillus in garden soil. Roseubach in 1886 found the bacillus in the wound in a case of tetanus of the human subject. Nocard, in the following year, demonstrated the bacillus in the pus from a horse aff'ected with the disease; and Kitasato, in 1889, was the first to obtain a pure culture of the bacillus, and to prove that the subcutaneous inoculation of animals therewith causes tetanus. Tetanus bacilli, or their spores, are commonly present in garden soil and in the dust and sweepings of town streets, have been detected in splinters from the woodwork of houses, in stable manure, in the fseces of the horse, ox, calf, and other herbivorous animals, and occa- sionally in the faeces of man. In nearly all cases of tetanus the virus can be shown to have entered the body through a 36