545 TEMPERATURE there is a paroxysmal elevation of temperature persisting for a few days to a week, then a rapid fall of temperature, succeeded by an interval during which the temperature remains normal, and subsequent to this interval there is again a paroxysmal rise. (3) Defervescence, or stadium decrementi, the stage during which the temperature falls to normal. Defervescence occurs when the excit- ing cause of the fever ceases to act—when, for example, the causal toxin becomes completely united with the specific antitoxin. The fall of temperature is sometimes associated with marked dilatation of the cutaneous blood-vessels and with considerable sweating, and there is, in this instance, a rapid fall of temperature constituting a crisis. During a crisis there are often signs of collapse. There is not infrequently a pseudo- crisis preceding the actual crisis. In other in- stances defervescence takes place slowly, or, as it is termed, by lysis, and some days or even a week may elapse before the temperature has actually fallen to the normal level. The preagonic temperature may rise to a very high level, 105° to 107° F. or more, as in cases of cerebral lesions, haemorrhage, meningitis, etc., and in tetanus. Preagonic hyperpyrexia is possibly due to a nervous hyperthermia, con- sequent on cerebral disturbance, being super- added to the pre-existing pyrexia, or may be due to a terminal infection. It is more usual, however, for a temperature, which was previously high, to fall, it may be to below the normal level in the period preceding death. After death the temperature of the body gradually falls to that of the surrounding atmosphere. In some instances, however, there is an initial post- mortem rise of temperature which may be very pronounced (104° to 111° F.). Such a rise is, for example, seen in some cases of cerebral haemorrhage, cerebro-spinal or tuberculous meningitis, tetanus, acute rheumatism, and other infective diseases in which there has been marked pyrexia or hyperpyrexia. Causes of Fever.—The most frequent and important causes are bacterial toxins. Berg- mann and Brieger both prepared toxic bacterial products capable of inducing febrile elevation of temperature. Donath found that a substance (pyrotoxin) of a pyrogenetic nature could be obtained from a number of bacteria such as staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, streptococcus pyogenes, and bacillus pyocyaneus; and Krehl obtained similar results in the case of bacterium coli commune, diphtheria bacillus, proteus vulgaris, and other pathogenetic and sapro- phytic bacteria. Tuberculin and tetanus toxin likewise induce elevation of the temperature. In contradistinction to Centanni, who considers that the pyrotoxin obtained from different bacteria is in all cases identical, Krehl holds that the pyrogenetic substances of the various bacteria are not identical in all respects. The VOL. IX latter view is certainly the more correct if one considers how different is the character and course of the temperature in the various febrile diseases, such as acute lobar pneumonia, acute rheumatism, diphtheria, typhoid fever, etc. Bacterial toxins are, however, not the only cause. Pyrexia may be due to a process of autointoxication, to an abnormal absorption of products of metabolism. The pyrexia of in- testinal catarrh and constipation is sometimes ascribed to autointoxication, but is more prob- ably due to absorption of bacterial toxins from the alimentary canal. Subcutaneous injection of albumin, albumose, and peptone, and of normal urine, causes a rise of temperature in some animals; and various other substances, urea, nuclein, fibrin ferment, pepsin, trypsin, diastase, and other ferments, have a similar action. Ughetti having found that urea induces hyperthermia, concluded that the rise of tem- peratiire in fever was due to the fact that various substances bring about an increased production of urea within the body. Elevation of temperature is often observed in association with aseptic injuries and lesions of the tissues, with internal haemorrhage, or with anaemia, con- stituting the form of pyrexia designated "asep- tic fever," examples being the so-called urethral fever, and the fever associated with teething, simple fracture of bone, aseptic haemothorax, hsemarthrosis, etc. In these instances we may either assume that the rise of temperature, which is by some writers interpreted as a simple hyperthermia, by others as a sign of fever, is due to the absorption of albumose, or other tissue product, from the site of injury or from the degenerating tissue cells, although the possibility of the elevation of temperature being in some instances due to reflex nervous stimula- tion cannot be entirely excluded. There is very little evidence, if indeed any at all, to prove that pyrexia is harmful. On the contrary, pyrexia of moderate degree is bene- ficial to the patient; it is only harmful if it be severe or hyperpyrexial. Animals exposed to a high temperature after experimental inocula- tion with bacteria are enabled to withstand in- fection better than when they are kept at the room temperature (Wolther, Filehne, Rovighi, Kast, Loewy and Richter). We cannot, how- ever, conclude that elevation of the temperature retards or inhibits the growth of pathogenetic bacteria within the body, nor that it tends to lessen or destroy the toxicity of the bacterial products; and although it has been shown that the antibody present in the blood serum of persons convalescent from typhoid fever, or of goats immunised to the bacillus typhosus, is more potent at a high temperature, it is not clear how the beneficial effect of a febrile eleva- tion of temperature on the course of an infec- tive disease is brought about. Other Changes in the Course of Fever.—Eleva- 35