540 TEETH with boiling water, and vulcanite rubber is cut in suitable pieces and packed into every part of it till full; the flask is now heated and com- pressed, and is ready for vulcanisation, which consists in subjecting the flask and contents to a temperature of 315° to 320° F. for an hour and a quarter in a steam boiler, which converts it into hard vulcanite. After cooling and re- moval from the flask it is scraped, filed, and polished. In the case of full-suction sets the models should always be taken with plaster, as it causes less distiu'bance of the soft parts, and great care requires to be taken in getting the coi'rectbite and proper articulation of the teeth. Gold springs and swivels are sometimes em- ployed for attaching the two dentures to each other, but in the majority of cases springs are not required, except perhaps with very old people, because, if the adaptation and model be correct, suction-plates ought to keep in place perfectly. Suction-cells for retention of the upper plate are used by many, but are of little value, and have been known, by their irritation, to originate malignant disease. Badly adapted plates cutting into the soft tissues are a source of danger, as they are sometimes neglected, and produce troublesome ulcerations which are prone to become malignant. Bridge and Bar Work This method of inserting artificial teeth has, during recent years, been much exploited by the more unscrupulous class of practitioners, who insert bridge work in all and sundry, whether the case is adapted for it or not, and without proper treatment of the roots and teeth of attachment (Fig. 21). The method is this: In a mouth, say, with a molar on either side left, and two canine roots, the two sound molars are cut down and caps of gold are fitted over them, the two roots are treated and cut level with the gum, and their root canals enlarged; platinum caps are now fitted to each root, and a tube running up each canal is soldered to them, and the two cemented into position. A stout platinum bar is fitted to go from molar to molar, soldered to each cap and to the two metal posts fitted to each tube in roots. Backed teeth are now adjusted, fixed in position, and soldered to the bar, and when finished and polished it is cemented into place. The ob- jections to this class of work are : the difficulties of repairing and keeping it properly clean, the maiming of sound teeth is a decidedly objection- able feature, and if badly adjusted the strain on the teeth to which the bridge is fixed gradually loosens them. Movable bridge work, when it can be applied, is not quite so objectionable (Fig. 21). Pivots are used extensively for the six front teeth, the pulp is destroyed and re- FlQ. 21.—Small bridse- work plate attached to roots of central and lateral incisor. moved, the root canal enlarged, and the apex sealed up with guttapercha; a post of gold or platinum is adapted to the root canal, and soldered to a platinum cap made to fit the root surface, which has previously been filed down a little below the gum level in front, but not so much behind, then a backed half tooth is fitted over the cap and to the gum, and soldered to it, building the back up with gold to a contour ; after being filed up and polished it is made fast in the root with cement or guttapercha. All porcelain crowns are extensively used also, especially premolars and molars. A square post is fitted and cemented into the root, and a tube tooth is adjusted over the root and cemented to the root and outer part of post, or the tooth may be fixed with amalgam. Other porcelain crowns have platinum posts embedded in the tooth, which, along with the tooth, are fitted to the root, and then fixed into place with cement, etc. All-gold crowns are principally used for the posterior teeth, and are best adapted for roots which have a portion of the tooth remaining above the level of the gum. A ferule of 22-carat gold is fitted to go below the edge of the gum and fit tightly to the root, and with crown punches a top is struck up, strengthened, and soldered to the ferule, which, on being filed, polished, and fixed, makes a very good and serviceable crown. Gold and porcelain crowns are sometimes made from all-gold crowns by cutting out the outer metal wall, and fitting into it and solder- ing a half tooth which has been backed with gold. They are very much more presentable than all-gold crowns, and should be used near the front of the mouth in preference to the all- gold crown. Teething*. See Children, Development OP [Dentition, Symptoms, Treatment); Gastro- intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Ailments of Dentition); Rickets {Clinical Features) : Syphilis {In Children, Later Signs); Teeth {Genesis of the I'eeth, Eruption). Tegrnen.—A covering, e.g. the tegmen tympani or thin plate of bone roofing in the cavity of the tympanum. Tegfmentum.—A covering (Lat. tegere, to cover); e.g. the tegmenta of the crura cerebri, which are separated from the crusta by the substantia nigra. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Nerve Deafness, Seat of Lesion); Physiology, Central Nervous System {Crura Cerebri). Tegumentary.—Relating to the skin {q.V.). Teichmann's Crystals. — Hsemin, a crystalline hydrochloride of hsematin. See Faeces {Abnormalities, Foreign Bodies, Blood).