459 SYPHILIS disease in Glasgow occurs in the accounts of the Lord High Treasurer of Scotland (1497-98), where the following payment was made by the King (James IV.): '•'■Item, the xxii day of Februar gilFen to the seke folk in the grangore at the toun end of Glasgo . . . ii sol." The now familiar name of Syphilis was given to the disease, or at any rate was rendered familiar, by the widely read poem Syphilis, sive Morbus Gallicus, written by Jerome Fracastoro, who was born at Verona about 1483.^ It is remarkable that partly owing to the existence of a different canon of morality, and partly to the fact that at first syphilis was contracted extra-genitally in many cases, no great moral turpitude attached to the disease; thus Ben- venuto Cellini, the Blorentine goldsmith (1500- 1570), says that "in Rome this kind of illness is very partial to the priests, and especially the richest of them." He tells us that it was treated in the native American manner with guaiacum, and that the methods of fumigation and inunction with mercury were originally employed at Rome by Giacomo Berengario da Carpi. The first outbreak was very severe, as is usual when a disease attacks an unprotected population, but the symptoms became milder when it had lasted a few years, though there were occasional outbreaks of a more severe type. Distribution.—No country and no people are exempt from syphilis. It is most common where opportunities for promiscuous intercourse are most abundant or are most readily tolerated, as in large towns and where the pioneers of a more highly civilised race are Isrought into contact with people in a lower state of culture. It is rarely seen in the country districts of Europe, where each knows his neighbour, for, with ordinary precautions, infection is always due to direct contact, so that any syphilitic individual has only a limited power of spread- ing the disease. The more benign forms of syphilis are seen in those leading healthy lives, whilst its worst ravages occur in those whose health is under- mined by alcoholic excess, sexual debauchery, or unhealthy surroundings. And yet, though this is the rule, there is no question that certain people are much more severely aff"ected by syphilis than others, for in this as in every other disease the susceptibility of the individual patient must be taken into account. General Pathology.—The general character of syphilitic manifestations is that of a chronic inflammation, which in its more pure forms ^ The first mention of the word occurs in the following lines:— Syphilus (ut fama est) ipsa hfec ad flumina pastor Mille boves, niveas mille hrec per pabula regi Alcithoo pascebat oves. (The story runs that Syphilus, a herdsman, tended by these streams a thousand oxen, and in these meads fed a thousand snow-white sheep, all belonging to King Alcithous.) shows but little tendency to suppurate. The cause of the disease is still unknown.^ Many observers have described various micro-organ- isms which they have believed to be specific, but it has not yet been found possible to pro- duce the disease either by inoculation with these organisms or by the toxins which they manufacture. It is remarkable, too, that syphilis cannot be inoculated upon animals, even the higher primates, yet no human being appears to be immune, from earliest infancy to extreme old age, unless he has been protected by a previous attack. Syphilis consists microscopically of numbers of small, round cells, some of which are derived from the connective tissue, whilst others are immigrant leucocytes. These cellular infiltra- tions show a singular tendency to undergo resolution in the earlier stages of the disease ; whilst in the secondary and tertiary stages they develop into a low form of fibrous tissue-scar or fibroid tissue—or the individual cells may coalesce to form giant cells, whilst others undergo fatty and hyaline change. This infiltration of round cells is especially liable to occur in the perivascular lymphatics and in the neuroglia of the central nervous system. The syphilitic poison bears a direct relation to these cells in some way which is not yet known, though it is probable that they manufacture it when an in- finitesimal amount has once been introduced into an unprotected body. The characteristic inflammation of the later stages of syphilis is known as a gumma, the word being derived apparently from a simile adopted by Fracastoro in his poem on Syphilis when he wrote mox in lentum dwrescere gumnii. The gumma in its typical form is a whitish or yellowish-white globular mass, which varies in size from a small pea to a walnut as it is seen with the naked eye. It is often circumscribed, but never encapsuled ; it may invade the neigh- bouring tissues, and is surrounded by an in- flamed zone, though no vessels penetrate the gumma itself. The tissue is sometimes tough and leathery in consistence, at other times it is soft and pulpy. It grows with varying rapidity, and with all the symptoms of an inflammatory swelling. Like all other syphilitic lesions, a gumma may disappear completely, but when it suppurates and can discharge on the surface of the body, it leaves a perfectly circular, crater- like ulcer with a sloughy base and an under- mined edge. In these cases repair is slow,— unless anti-syphilitic remedies are given,—and a depressed scar is produced. Modes of Infection.—The primary syphilitic lesion, whether it be a hard sore or merely an erosion, is acutely contagious; in the secondary stage syphilitic lesions of the skin and mucous membranes are very infectious, the mucous patches and condylomata seeming to be more ' See page 486.