RICKETS 9 and bent, while the bones forming the vault of the skull and also the chest are fairly well developed (see " Achondroplasia "). Stceltzner has recently reported a case of "foetal myxoe- dema," in which the limbs were bent and stunted, while there was some enlargement of the epi- physes, but in general the case far more closely resembled achondroplasia than rickets. After excluding the above conditions there remain a large number of observations on congenital bone disease which vary considerably, and probably own a variety of causes. Most will be inclined to agree with Ballantyne when he says of this class, "We have not yet reached a time when a scientific classification founded on pathological lines is possible." The class of cases which most resemble rickets are those in which fractures occur during birth or shortly afterwards, and in which there is cranio-tabes, misshapen chest walls, and less often curvatures and enlarged epiphyses. Such cases have been published by Osgood Mason, Townsend, H. Ashby, and others. They all agree in that the infants were born with im- perfectly calcified bones, especially of the skull, ribs, and bones of the limbs, fractures readily took place, and in some reported cases the bones were bent and the epiphyses were en- larged. Were they cases of true intra-utei-ine rickets? Certainly they have a close i-esem- blance clinically, but, on the other hand, it seems not unlikely they more closely resemble the osteo-porosis or osteo-genesis imperfecta produced by feeding puppies and other young animals on food deficient in lime rather than true rickets. More observations are needed in examining the bones of fatal cases by modern methods before their true nature can be definitely stated. Late Rickets.—While rickets in its typical form only occurs during the first two or three years of life, yet during the whole time growth and development are in progress some of the signs and symptoms of rickets may make their appearance. After the epiphyses have become ossified and joined to the shafts it is hardly possible for rickety deformities to occur. The symptoms of "late rickets," which usually supervene before puberty, consist in perspira- tions, fatigue on slight exertion, gradual enlarge- ment of the epiphyses of the long bones, especi- ally marked at the knees and ankles, weakness of muscles, laxity of ligaments, producing various deformities, such as lateral curvature of the spine, knock-knees, and flat feet. En- largement of the head, curvatures of the long bones, deformity of chest belong rather to the period of early than late rickets, yet in ex- ceptional cases they may occur. Many of these cases are probably relapsed rickets. In severe cases the child or young adult is reduced to a complete invalid, and often more or less of a hypochondriac. He is tired at the least exer- tion, complains of pains in the bones, is very nervous and irritable, and has to lie up nearly the whole of the day. Such cases may remain for years in the same condition. If the patient is a boy he is unfit for school, and probably loses many years of his school life. The subjects of late rickets are frequently lanky, overgrown boys or girls. While the above description applies to a fairly common type of case met with during late childhood or early adult life, in rare cases the disease which thus commences late is much more severe, and the deformities of the bones much more resemble the type of rickets seen during the second year. In some of these patients there is a history of having suffered more or less from rickets at the usual period ; they have apparently got well and remained so, perhaps, for some years, and then there has been a relapse. In other cases there is no such history, there has never been any bone deformity till at or after puberty ; it is noticed that they begin to have a waddling gait, the legs begin to bend, there is a very marked enlargement of the epiphyses of the bones forming the ankles, knees, wrists, and perhaps the elbows and shoulders. These deformities may be accom- panied by pains and achings in the bones. Beading of the ribs may occur. In some cases deformities of the chest have been observed, and in one rare and remarkable case published by James, in which the disease began in a youth of seventeen years, the skull enlarged in addition to the other deformities described. In one case recorded by Glutton, a post-mortem examination confirmed the diagnosis of late rickets made during life. Diagnosis.—There cannot be any difficulty in recognising a case of rickets in a child under two years of age if the usual symptoms and signs, such as sweating, deformities of bones, muscular weakness, etc., are present. There may be uncertainty in the early months when there is only sweating, or indigestion, or con- vulsions ; and later on, when rickets is present, the difficulty may arise in deciding how far some of the symptoms present are due to rickets or to some other cause. Thus a rickety child of three or four years old may suffer from fits. Are these fits epileptic, or are they the result of the rickets 1 In some cases the muscular weakness is so great in rickets that it is apt to be mistaken for paraplegia. When the rickety child is just able to walk, his waddling gait and difficulty in rising from the floor will perhaps suggest pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis. As already pointed out, the diflSculty of de- termining whether in a given case the infant is suffering from hereditary syphilis and has become rickety, or whether the signs and symptoms present are due to rickets alone, is very great. Thus an infant of five months old suffers from eclampsia, coryza, anaemia, has a