HYDROPHOBIA. 197 These wounds require much care, not only in the earlier stages, but also in the after treatment. The malignant pustule of butchers is very troublesome, and even dangerous ; but it gives rise to more localised symptoms. The pustule is first of a dark-brown colour and spreading : it is often attended with symptoms of typhoid fever. The pustule must be destroyed by a caustic, and then fomentations applied. The constitutional symptoms must be met, like ordinary typhoid symptoms, by active stimulation, and attention to the state of the bowels and skin. Another form of poisoned wound met with is that resulting from the bite of a rabid animal, producing what is called Hydro- phobia. The wound may be inflicted some time before the symptoms of hydrophobia appear ; though the length of time that may elapse between the two is stated very differently, and is still an undecided question. The late Professor Dick of the Edin- burgh Veterinary College, held that there was no such disease as hydrophobia, and that, in all the cases he had seen, the symptoms were the result of excessive fear and apprehension, giving rise to extreme hysteria, and indirectly leading to fatal consequences. But most surgeons recognise it as a distinct disease, which, unfortunately, proves fatal in almost every case. The wound caused by the bite may heal kindly, and give rise to no troublesome symptoms ; but some weeks afterwards, the cicatrix is seen to be red and feels irritable, with pain extend- ing up the limb, and a peculiar feeling of depression. There is headache and intolerance of light, but there is no dread of the sight of water at first, though, when the patient tries to drink, it produces a tremor all over the body. There seems to be a sort of choking or contraction in the throat : but it is not merely swallowing that causes this, because a draught of cold air reaching the patient will produce the same tremor. These symptoms proceed until they become almost identical with tetanic convulsions. The saliva flows copio\isly from the mouth. Another symptom is a pecuKar irritation of the diaphragm and pharynx ; the latter is evidently excited, and, on examination