MALIGNANT TUMOURS. 134 diagnosis is increased. A correct diagnosis in cases of soft cancer is most important, because if one of these tumours be opened by mistake for a chronic abscess, a fungus will protrude, and the disease will spread much more rapidly. In all cases whilst the tumour affects both the lymphatics and the surround- ing textures, yet it spreads more rapidly by directly involving contiguous structure than by the mere poisoning of the lympha- tics. And even where it does not do so, being anatomically limited—as in the testicle, where it seldom affects the scrotum or the envelopes of the testicle proper for some time—it rather spreads along the cord, because it meets with less resistance. Yet when the tunica albuginea gives way, and the growth comes in contact with the tunica vaginalis, the other textures also very soon become involved. One point is to be especially noticed—namely, that the muscles in the neighbourliood of a cerebriform tumour, though not adhering to it, contain in their structure a large num- ber of proliferous cells, some of which are identical with the cells of the growth. Even when the tumour has not burst through its resistent envelope or cyst, and where it is apparently circimiscribed from the surrounding muscles, as in the arm, we find the muscles in the neighbourhood affected by the disease ; and this is important in regard to operations. In other cases, where there is no such limitation, the morbid growth rapidly involves every tissue, especially the muscles, and spreads by contiguity of texture. When the tumour bursts it fungates, and from that fungus we sometimes find projecting dark-coloured bleeding masses as in medullary sarcoma of the orbit. Here we have a fungoid mass projecting from the eyeball, from which blood is constantly trickling, and which bleeds profusely on the slightest touch. This has been described as a special tumour under the name of fungus hfematodes. As regards the history of the tumour, we often find that it is attributed to very slight causes, and that it super- venes on accident or some comparatively trivial disease, and in many instances the tumour closely resembles diseases of a much