xii EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. Fig. 4. Large chronic or cold abscess of upper part of tliigh. From a case in the Royal Infirmary. (Sketched by Mr. Coughtrey.) MORTIFICATION.—Plate III.—Page 74. Traumatic gangrene of hand, caused by great violence ; mortifica- tion followed rapidly on the injury, and amputation was success- fully performed at about the ndddle of the fore-arm, before the constitutional symptons became severe. Case alluded to at page 77. Dry senile gangrene of hand and fore-arm. The parts are seen dry and withered, whilst there is but little action above the line of demarcation. (Sketched by Dr. Richard Caton.) Chronic gangrene arising from cold. The natural process of separa- tion between the dead and the living parts is well shown. All the textures except the bone being divided at the upper line of demarcation. On the dorsal aspect of the foot in the tarsal region there is a deep line of demarcation, where nature had first attempted separation. The leg was amputated at some distance above the upper line of separation, so as to afford material for the formation of an efftcient stump. See page 84. Irritable senile gangrene of toes (Pott's gangrene). The mortified parts are more humid than in the dry senile gangrene. The neighbouring parts are swollen, red, and irritable. ERYSIPELAS.—Plate IV.—Page 90. Fig. 1. Appearances characteristic of erysipelas of the head and face. The features and expression altered by the inflammatory swelling and effusion in the loose tissues, and by interference with the action of the muscles of expression. Small abscesses have formed in the eyelids, and vesications on the cheeks. Fig. 2. Erysipelas of leg and foot. Showing the diffuse character of the inflammatory redness. On the leg are seen vesications caused by the vessels of the skin relieving themselves by efi'usion between it and the cuticle. In the foot there is acute oedema owing to the efi'usion taking place most easily into the loose connective tissue of that region. (Sketched by Dr. John Smith.) TUMOURS.—Plate V.—Page 112. Exhibits contrasts between simple and malignant tumours. The contrast in the physiognomy is the most obvious as shown in the painfully anxious and worn-out expression of the features in Fig. 2, as compared with the perfectly placid expression in the case of simple growth No. 1. Another point of contrast is the comparative want of definition in the malignant tumour, Fig. 2. Fig. 1 is from a photograph of Mrs. Jepson, whose case is alluded to at p. Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Fig. 3. Fig. 4.