MALIGNANT TUMOURS. 130 unfrequently affected by it. In the liver it assumes a peculiar tubercular appearance. The hard cancer is somewhat slower in growth than other malignant tumours ; it may go on for three or four years without being noticed. It seldom commences before middle life—very rarely before 35, generally later ; from 38 to 40 is a very common age, though I have known cases occur much earlier, but these are exceptions : it thus differs from soft cancer in this respect. When the carcinoma ulcerates, the ulceration proceeds very rapidly ; the edges of the cancerous ulcer involve the'neighbour- ing parts and destroy them. A fungus is thrown out, bleeding talves place, and the patient sinks from the irritation and ex- haustion caused by the ulceration. The best Treatment of the hard cancer is early removal by excision. When it attacks the breast, the sooner we remove the entire organ the better, before the lymphatics have become affected. This may not ensure absolute immunity from return of the cancer, as it is a constitutional disease, but it gives the only chance of that, and will afford the patient relief for many years. Cancer often recurs in from four to eight years, but I know of one well-marked case of scirrhus of the breast which I removed twenty years ago, in which tlie disease has never returned. Excision is the least painful remedy, and causes least disturb- ance of the general health, and, if done early, gives the patient the best chance. But if the glands have become affected, and the disease be more widely spread, some say we should not interfere at all ; but this is too exclusive. If the glands be much affected, and if the skin be tubercular, then on, no account should we operate, as there would be no definition ; but if the lymphatics be not much affected, and the skin not tubercular or brawny, then the only chance is to operate, though the case is not so favourable as one in which the glands have not become affected. It is said we should not operate, biit desist from all treatment; but the patient, getting no relief, is led to try any remedy, and this often hastens the fatal termina- tion. Excision, even as a palliative, is, I believe, the best