211 TREA TMENT—COMPLICA TIONS. ing. These local measures, with the use of antiphlogistic diet and medicines, along with opiates to allay irritation, are the chief points in the treatment. When inflammation is set up, with redness extending from the wound, and some swelling along the margins, then we apply warm water dressings or poul- tices. When there is much tension dilate freely ; and if there be much sloughing, use charcoal poultices or some Condy's lotion to get rid of the fjstor. In gunshot injuries of the fore-arm and leg, the tepid bath, as in lacerated wounds, answers admirably. When the sloughs are separating, and granulations beginning to appear, the patient's strength must be supported. The diet should be more nourishing and stimulating than before. The limb may then be supported by a bandage from below upwards, and the solution of chlorinated soda, or other stimulating lotions, applied to the wound. The question of amputation, either primary or secondary, often arises in gunshot injuries of the soft parts from the extent of destruction of tissues. Where a considerable amount of the deep textures is destroyed, or carried away, whilst the shin is not much injured, nor the great vessels or nerves divided, the wound will heal up readily, just as in lacerated wounds of a similar description, and therefore amputation is not required. Secondary hemorrhage follows after wounds from bullets and from small shot. If a large vessel have given way, we must enlarge the wound and tie the vessel at a little distance above and below the bleeding point. We may use the ordinary liga- ture, or acupressure. The rest of the vessel is healthy, and the collateral circulation is likely to be sufficient for nutrition. Where the circulation is not re-established, then amputation is, of course, necessary. Second ary hemorrhage occasionally takes place in another form in flesh wounds. It is described by Mr. Guthrie, but is not common. It consists in a persistent oozing from the surface of the wound, and depends apparently on constitutional causes entirely. It is generally preceded by great febrile excite- ment. The parts get a glazed and swollen appearance, and from part of the injured surface smart oozing comes on, which may