106 ANTHRAX. from previous disease, with violent local action. Therefore the regimen should be of a nutritious but non-stunulating kind. The use of opiates is very beneficial, except in cases where the patient is labouring under Bright's disease. There opiates are contra-indicated, as, under such circumstances, their use is apt to be followed by a particular form of coma. Sometimes, in such cases, chlorodyne may be sparingly given. But under any circumstances, vpe must always watch carefully the effects of any opiate we may give. Along with the opium, small doses of antimony may be given at first, and in the latter stages tincture of muriate of iron should be substituted. The bowels should be kept regular, and the urine examined from time to time. The diet should be nutrient, but non-stimulating, such as farinaceous food, milk, and white of eggs ; but if the patient has been used to very free living, this diet would be insufficient to sustain him long, and the exhaustion so produced would prevent the wound from healing. In such cases, therefore, when the local action is somewhat abated, a more stimulating diet is necessary, and some animal food may be given with advantage. When the patient is very vs^eak, and also during con- valescence, stimulants may be allowed, and light wines, such as claret or hock, are tlie best—not burgundy, for it produces as much febrile action as port does. Port is not to be given unless the patient has been in the habit of taking much of it previously. Champagne, with a little brandy, is useful when the patient is very low, or where diffusible stimuli are needed ; also brandy or other spirits, either alone or mixed, with tincture of cardamoms or other aromatic tincture. Alkalies are to be avoided as a rule, but they may be administered under special circumstances. Where there is heartburn or acidity of the stomach, with flatulence, give oxide of bismuth with aromatic powder. In some cases of flatulence, dilute nitric acid, in small dozes, answers better than any other remedy. In all cases where there is great constitutional irritation, we must give opiates to procure rest, but their effects should be very carefully watched.