113 SIMPLE AND MALIGNANT. tated. Ulceration may take place in a fibrous tumour, wliich grows very rapidly towards the later stages on account of its increased vascular supply, and where pressure of the mass leads to ulceration of the skin. The part which does ulcerate possesses very little vitality in itself—it bleeds by opening into the vessels supplying the tumour, and there is all the appearance of fungus heematodes. From the loss of blood the patient becomes ex- hausted, and looks yellow and ansemic, with quick pulse. The symptoms here might be mistaken for those of a malignant tumour, but the previous history of the growth will decide its true character. Cases do occur, however, in which simple tumours may, either from irritation or improper interference, degenerate locally, become adherent to neighbouring parts, and even assume some of the vital characteristics of malignant growths, but this degeneration I believe to be merely local. And when such a tumour is removed by operation the constitutional symp- toms disappear, and there remains no tendency to recurrence of the growth, either in its former site or in any other part of the body. Malignant Growths are very different in character, both as regards structure and vital manifestation. Generally speak- ing, they grow rapidly, and are accompanied by marked con- stitutional symptoms of a cachectic character. They are painful, and apt to degenerate, having a peculiar tendency to softening and ulceration even in the earlier stages. In structure they are irregular, and in form luidefined. On manipulation they feel soft and elastic, with here and there hard resistent por- tions ; although in some parts of such a tumour the elasticity may amount to a feeling of fluctuation, or actual fluctuation may be present, yet in no case is it equal throughout. In this they present a contrast to the simple fatty tumour and the chronic abscess, the former of which presents a feeling of elasti- city, and the latter of fluctuation, but in each the feeling is uniform in every part. Their tendencies are very aggressive, involving the neighbouring textures directly, or, through the medium of the lymphatics, affecting the neighbouring glands. I