MORTIFICA TION. 82 avoided; it should therefore be placed on a water-pillow. This form of chronic gangrene often arises in old persons of a gouty or rheumatic diathesis, and is usually called Dry Senile Gangrene. The Senile Gangrene of Pott is an irritable form of chronic gangrene, in which there is violent local action, with diminished vital power in the system. The patient may be rather plethoric, and used to free living, and then a very slight exciting cause may lead to the gangrene. This form of gangrene generally attacks the foot. It commences not unlike the dry senile gangrene, but it is always attended with a considerable amount of local excited action in the vicinity of the gangrene. There is redness, swelling and pufiBness from, the exudation, and on the dorsum of the foot there is a great deal of weak inflammation—inflammatio dcbilis, as it is called. The general constitution may sympathise; the pulse becomes quick, the skin hot and diy, tongue foul, and urine scanty, intense pain in the part affected and want of sleep at night, and also a throbbing feeling in the whole limb, and all the symptoms of irritative fever. There is, in fact, as I have already said, violent local action, with diminished vital power, and an irritable state of the constitution. The Treatment was formerly based on the idea that the disease was due to debility, and that therefore the patient required great stimulation ; so strong soups were given with much animal food, brandy and strong wines, and large quantities of powdered Peruvian bark as an antiseptic. The effect of all this was to over-stimulate the patient, impair the digestive organs, and thereby cause the local disease to extend with great rapidity— almost as rapidly as acute traumatic gangrene. All this arose from the treatment. Mr. Pott was the first to point out that the disease was one of irritability, and not altogether of debility, and that therefore the use of stimulants was wrong, as leading to over-stinmlation of the weak part, and to greater rapidity in the jirogress of the gangrene after it had set in. He showed that nothing should be given to stimulate the part or the constitution. The proper course is to allay the irritability by