227 TREA TMENT. numbness from the very severity of the injury. But though the expression of pain is not so great as might have been expected, the pain must be intense. The Treatment of these injuries must be conducted with care, tenderness, and promptitude. The state of collapse resulting from the intense irritation and suffering must be met very ener- getically, for during this stage death often ensues. In scalds this danger is sometimes very great, but it must be met with somewhat more caution than in burns, where the risk of death during collapse is also great. In scalds, the patient very frequently gets over the first shock, but if there has been any over-stimulation then there is a great risk of secondary dangers coming on. In these injuries, therefore, the stimulation must be carried on more cautiously than in burns. Opiates in large doses, to relieve the pain, should be given rather than stimulants. A small quantity of the latter may be given from time to time. And of these the best is champagne, with a little brandy. But the effect of these must be carefully watched. The use of opiates is absolutely indicated to procure rest, and relieve the pain and suffering. And they also—especially with antimony or ipecacuan—act as diaphor- etics, and determine towards the skin, and so relieve the risk from the arrested cutaneous transpiration. When the burn is very severe—so much so as to be almost a hopeless case— while we give stimulants from the first, we must also do more than give opiates to relieve the pain. And here the use of chloroform is indicated. It should be given only in sufficient quantities to soothe the patient; and in this w-ay he can be rendered insensible to the pain for a long time. As regards the constitutional effects of burns. We must keep in mind the liability of certain organs to become congested from their proximity to the burned part, or from other causes, as when the chest is burned. AVe must watch for the symptoms of con- gestion coming on, and meet them on the general principles of treating such disorders ; but these are not cases in which active depletion may be resorted to to relieve the congestion. When