GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 208 so mucli real injury as some other forms of wounds. It will depend in a great measure on what part of the gun inflicts the wound. If the breech be driven out and strike a person, then a very formidable injury is the result; the heavy mass of metal projected with great force producing all the worst effects of a ball wound. If, however, a portion of thinner metal of the barrel strike, it cuts the parts rather than tears or contuses them ; and, when projected with great force, sometimes cuts as evenly as in an incised wound. And when in such cases am- putation is requisite, the cut so made may form part of the line of incision for the operation—as in this thumb, where the lines of the incision were made by the fragments of the gun barrel. The sharp edge of the metal cuts the skin evenly, though the muscular textures are, of course, torn and twisted to a certain extent. Some wounds of this kind look much more formidable than they really are, while in contused and lace- rated wounds we cannot always calculate the amount of danger, because the injuries often look less serious than they really are. A wound caused by the bursting of a gun usually at first looks very serious : the parts all blackened ; the muscles and tendons seem torn ; perhaps some of the bones are broken ; the smaller joints of the fingers opened into, and the parts so far lacerated. Yet, when we wash away, as far as possible, the gunpowder, and remove any wadding that may have entered; the textures, and especially the skin, ate found to be more cut than twisted or contused. Their vitality is therefore less affected, and often, by merely removing a part, we can save a very useful hand, though at first the injury may have appeared to require amputa- tion of the whole. If the wound opens into the wrist-joint, and divides tendons, vessels, and nerves, complete amputation of the hand will be necessary. In other cases, the laceration caused by the bursting of a gun is so great as completely to shatter the arm, and then amputation must be performed higher xip. When a shell bursts, the amount of force with which it strikes is very much greater, and, as a general rule, requires amputation;