CONTRASTED WITH HYPERTROPHIES. 109 almost identical with the mucous memhrane of the nose, from which it springs; but as the tumour advances in size, there is a marked deviation in form and mode of growth. In a fatty tumour we find simple fat, but it assumes a form which fat in its normal state never presents. In lipoma of the nose there is hypertrophy of the skin at first, but this at length gives rise to deformity by outgrowth. In addition to these points of contrast, it has been suggested that hypertrophies are usually adaptations of structure to meet some emergency of the system, as if nature had provided them for a special purpose ; and examples are given of hypertrophy of the heart in impeded circulation, of the uterus in pregnancy, and of the bladder in stricture. In each of these cases there exists a necessity for increased muscular force, in order to overcome manifest obstructions, whereas, in cases of tumour- growth, there is the absence of all adaptation or apparent neces- sity. It is difficult, however, to prove the argument good in every case. In enlargement of the prostate, for example, we can trace no adaptation or purpose; it seems to meet no emergency in the urinary system, but rather to interfere with its functions. In hypertrophy of the tongue, also, we find a condition which, instead of being a response to any physiological call from the economy, is, in fact, an actiial impediment to the healthy action of the organ, and is hazardous even to life itself. Eemember, therefore, that in hypertrophy we have simple enlargement of the organ by the additional growth of matter like that already existing, while in tumours the new material is essentially dif- ferent in form and vital tendencies. We shall now consider the points of contrast between in- flammatory swelling and tumour-growth, which have been well pointed out by Mr. Paget. First. The accumulation of lymph, which causes the swel- ling in inflammation, is, as we have seen, due to the excited action of the capillaries of the parts at or adjacent to the seat of exudation. There is no evidence that the swelling