118 TUMOURS. when removal by operation can be readily and safely performed, it is better to have recourse to it than to use a long and debilitat- ing course of medicines. The Adipose or Fatty Tumour is another very simple form of tumour, and in structure is hardly distinguishable from a mass of fat, though it may sometimes be a little firmer. It consists simply of adipose tissue, in the neighbour- hood of which it is generally developed; but it grows apart from it, and separated at first by a layer of condensed cellular tissue. Felt from the surface it may appear perfectly equal; if it be in loose tissue it often hangs pendulous. All fatty tumours are more or less lobulated, even though they seem to be smooth and rounded. Sometimes they are quite flat, and these, under the skin, often give a feeling of fluctuation or elasticity, and may therefore be mistaken for a chronic abscess. A fatty tumour can hardly be mistaken for a malignant growth, because there is no cachexia present nor quick pulse, and besides it is of very much slower growth. The latter character will also help to dis- tinguish between it and an abscess. This kind of tumour gene- rally lies qu.ite loose, but occasionally it may insert some of its lobules below muscles, and so be closely related to large vessels, or the tumour may adhere to the under surface of the skin, and the layer of condensed cellular tissue be obliterated. In such cases the removal of the tumour becomes much more difficult than when it is loose. We must therefore take care not to use improper means of getting rid of such a tumour, as they may cause adhesions, and so render a simple operation tedious, or even dangerous. The fatty tumour sometimes undergoes de- generation, which is, however, of a purely local kind, and, in such cases, it may be mistaken for a malignant growth. Sometimes an abscess forms in a fatty tumour, giving rise to malignant symptoms, with great pain and a bloody dischai'ge ; but if the original history be that of a simple fatty tumour we may proceed to operate without hesitation, for its deep connections will be loose and easily separated. The simplest and safest method of treating the fatty tumour is ex-