INFLAMMA TION. 12 tion, we have recourse to what are termed deobstruent remedies. Among the more valuable of these are mercurials and iodine given internally, and tincture of iodine, blisters, and pressure applied locally. The modus operandi of these remedies is obscure ; but though we do not certainly know how they act, we use them because experience has shown their good effects; they seem to stimulate the part to action, and cause the exudation to be dis- integrated, to re-enter the venous capillaries and be excreted. In cases of swelled testicle, for example, when acute action has entirely ceased, and where some induration exists, the application of iodine, or some stimulating preparation of ammonia, causes the swelling to disappear rapidly ; this was formerly supposed to be due to increased activity of the absorbents, but it is now believed that the remedy causes disintegration and elimination of the exuda- tion. The application of a bandage in certain cases to a swelled part, and the introduction of a bougie, in cases of stricture, act as deobstruents by the pressure and consequent stimulation they produce. The action of internal remedies as deobstruents is still more difficult to explain, but the efl'ect produced is often quite evident; for instance in iritis, where there is effusion of lymph on the edges of the iris, when mercurials are given internally the lymph speedily disappears. Another remedy em- ployed is artificial metastasis or counter-irritation ; the principle of which is to determine the diseased action to a less important part, and thereby relieve the organ originally affected. Thus, in inflammation of deep-seated bones and joints, the use of counter- irritation is followed by marked relief This mode of treatment is most beneficial in subacute or chronic inflammation. The principal counter-irritants used in surgery are blisters, rube- facients, setons, and the cautery. In order to bring the treatment before you as a whole, let us take the example of inflammation of the eye, since we have already used it to illustrate the pathology. In the first stage of conjunctivitis we make use of cold ajjplications, such as lint or rag soaked in cold water laid over the eye. When the active congestion is well marked with passive congestion