187 DILA TA TION. applying cold by ice-bags to the part from the first, and a mode- rate amount of compression, by a many-tailed bandage, so as to keep the parts in contact. AVe may thus prevent any bad conse- quences from taking place, and arrest the effusion of blood very much, so that little of it escapes into the cavity of the wound, and there is also less tendency to the accumulation of discharges. If this treatment be adopted, and the patient kept on antiphlo- gistic regimen, with opiates to procixre rest, a punctured wound will often heal as kindly as an incised one. It is not therefore necessary to dilate every punctured wound at first, but if any ten-, sion conies on, or pain with erysipelatous redness around the part, tlien we must dilate, and that freely; but only after using prophy-^ lactic means to favour union by the first intention. The skin and fascial textures are to be divided freely and to the same extent. Then divide the fascia transversely as well as longitudinally, so as to make a crucial incision in it; this will relieve all tension. So also partially-divided muscular fibres require to be divided thoroughly and completely, not merely by an incision parallel to the fibres, but by a transverse one also, so as to give free vent to any discharges from the deeper part of the wound. But to dilate thus freely in every case would be very severe treatment, and it is only iu certain cases that it is necessary, though, until very recently, it was the recognised practice of French military sur- geons to dilate all punctured wounds at first. There is only one case in which we should have recourse to dilatation at first, and common sense would show the necessity for it—namely, when we ses symptoms of interstitial hemorrhage coming on, and the limb becoming rapidly swollen, then the wound should be freely dilated, so that the bleeding vessel may be seciired. In all cases of punctured wounds, opium is useful, especially when they have been dilated, to allay the pain and irritation. The patient should be kept at rest, and have antiphlogistic diet; febrifuge medicines, such as antimony or aconite, should be given, to meet the febrile excitement. After a time, especially when there is much suppuration from a dilated wound, the diet must be more nourishing. The ordinary stimulating lotions may then be applied