230 BURNS AND SCALDS. agglutination of the textures. In sucli cases we require not merely to cut across the tight band of skin, but to dissect it from the agglutinated tissue, going beyond it into the healthy textures, and bringing the margins together in the longitudinal direction. Or we may do it by dissecting and transplanting flaps of healthy skin to fill up the gap. In some cases, after such operations on the limbs, splints must be applied to prevent con- traction from again taking place. If we leave any part of the tissue undissected from the agglutinated base, the wound will not heal readily. In the arm I have frequently operated in this way with good success ; but in the cases of great contraction of the face and neck, the chances of a good result are doubtful. There is much careful consideration required in determining on the propriety of operating, and in planning the mode of pro- cedure in these cases of deformity resulting from burns. And though it is impossible to lay down rules for such irregular operations, as each case demands its special consideration ; yet, before concluding this lecture, I think it may be useful to in- dicate in a suggestive form, the principal points to be kept in view. As regards the propriety of operating. We should ascer- tain the length of time for which the contraction has existed, and whether the injury was received in early life. In many cases where the contraction has existed for a long series of years, and especially if the burn occurred in childhood, or indeed before adult life, the changes are not confined to the soft textures. The bones and joints in the vicinity have pro- bably undergone sxxch alteration in form and structure, as to render removal of deformity or restoration of the parts to their natural state quite hopeless, and so to contra-indicate operative interference. Thus in cases of contractions following extensive burns of the face and neck or upper part of the chest, the temporo- maxillary articulations are often either completely anchylosed or altered in form and movement ; whilst the ascending and horizontal rami of the lower jaw are so changed in form and rela- tion to each other as to resemble the jaw of some of the lower ani- mals. In such cases operative interference can only end in failure.