210 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. hemorrliage. If there be a risk of bleeding, it is better to meet it at once than afterwards, under less favourable circum- stances. There is scarcely a case in which a ball should not be extracted if possible ; but more especially is it necessary to ex- tract any wadding or portion of dress which may have entered, as these would give rise to great irritation, and from becoming softened in the discharge, would not after a time be easily recog- nised. The first thing to be done in a flesh bullet-wound, there- fore, is to ascertain the position of the ball, and then extract it, either by enlarging the aperture of entrance, or by making a counter-opening if the ball has lodged near the opposite side of the limb. Of course, if the ball has entered a cavity, such as the chest or abdomen, we could not attempt to extract it from among the viscera. In such cases we cannot interfere. There is another reason for extracting a ball when possible, namely, that the patient's mind never feels quite at ease when the ball is left, and a good deal of mental irritation is kept up. In flesh wounds inflicted by small-shot, it is necessary to remove all wadding and pellets; and it is often advisable to make a counter-opening, so as to let the wound be washed out freely, and the track kept clear. But here we need not try to get rid of every stray pellet, because from the scattering of the shot it is impossible to tell where they have all gone to; and besides, if left, they remain quiescent, and do not cause much irritation afterwards. If fired near the body, the pellets sometimes take very peculiar directions, and cannot be found easily. In a wound of the hip which I attended, some pellets passed oi;t per urethram from the bladder without any bad effects. Certainly, with much less mischief than would have happened had an attempt been made to extract them had their position been known. The treatment of gunshot wounds, after the extraction of the foreign bodies, is very simple. The surface and track of the wound may be moistened with very dilute carbolic acid or other antiseptic. Then apply cold or tepid water-dressings, lint dipt in carbolic oil, on the surface and along the track of the wound, washing out the wound occasionally, if there be a counter-open-