TERTIARY. 173 tissue between it and the pericraniuna ; a large ulcer is formed by the union of several smaller ones, and at the bottom of it is a quantity of bare carious bone constituting what is termed corona veneris. The disease may affect the membranes of the brain and so give rise to cerebral symptoms, and ultimately prove fatal. Besides these diseases of bone, there are also affections of the larynx met with in tertiary syphilis, such as ulceration of the larynx, which may also occur as a secondary symptom ; though in the tertiary stage it is much more severe, and generally affects the cartilages of the larynx as well as the mucous lining, pro- ducing a form of necrosis of the cartilages, similar to the cario- necrosis of the bones of the head. This condition often re- quires the performance of tracheotomy to obviate the risk of suffocation. Different forms of skin eruptions are also met with in the tertiary stages, such as the Eupia crustata, ptyriasis, and psoriasis, but they are essentially the same as in the secondary stage of the disease. In the treatment of tertiary syphilis I trust very much to the iodide of potassium as an internal remedy. Mercury, if it can possibly be avoided, should not be given. The nutrition of the patient, however, is the most essential part of the treatment in this stage, and if there is not much irritation present, some wine or other stimulant should be given. The iodide of potas- sium may be exhibited in five-grain doses twice or thrice a-day, and should be continued for some tiine. If, by itself, it does not produce very beneficial effects, Fowler's arsenical solution may be given along with it, though the iodide and the arsenic should not be mixed together, but taken separately, so that one or other may be discontinued if necessary. Our chief ob- ject in the treatment of tertiary syphilis is to get rid of the debilitated condition which characterises it by means of proper nourishment, the use of fresh air, change of occupation, and of scene, along with tonics, such as quinine, cod-liver oil, and preparations of iron. When once the general health is re-estab- lished, very little medicine will be required to cure the syphilitic symptoms.