215 INJURIES OF BONE. into the Haversian canals, and an unfavourable form of inflam- niation extends througtiout the bone, causing acute necrosis or death of portions of the bone. When the shaft is struck the worst effects of comminuted fracture are produced ; the dense texture has its vitality at once and completely destroyed, and the form of the fracture gives rise to longitudinal fissures, which are very unusual in other fractures; complete comminution and separation of different parts of the bone take place, and the peri- osteum is also separated from the bone, the vitality of the internal Haversian structure being also destroyed. Such an injury is therefore the most intense which can be inflicted upon a bone, and the harder the bone the more serious will be the effects produced. In the cancellated texture of bone the ball may pass through and leave a rounded opening, without causing any direct or immediate injury to the parts around, though, sooner or later, it does give rise to this. We sometimes find in the bones of animals, and especially in textures closely resembling bone, such as the tusks of different animals, that a ball has lodged and become encysted, as it is called, and it may lie there for years without producing any bad effects. So in man also, when a bullet strikes the cancellated texture of a bone, it may lodge in it and remain for a long time without doing any harm, and this sometimes happens. Amputation of a limb, however, may be required many months after the receipt of an injury of this kindjOwingto the bone becoming affected witha form of caries. In the upper extremity we may often attempt to save the limb after a gunshot injury, when we could not do so in the lower extremity. Formerly it was laid down as a rule, that in gunshot injuries of the femur, amputation was always required; but there are cases where, under favourable circumstances, we may be warranted in trying to save the limb. When the shaft of the femur or tibia is extensively broken up, then primary amputa- tion is the safest treatment, because, even under the most favour- able circumstances, when the patient does not require to be moved, and when every appliance is at hand, the process of healing is very prolonged and often ultimately fails. Moreover,