2 IN FLAM MA TION. and gradually becomes furred and foul; a bitter taste is felt; the urine is scanty and higb-coloured ; the bowels are generally constipated except when there is inflammation of the intestines— the nervous system is involved; there is headache, intolerance of light and sound, and occasionally delirium. In a word, we have Inflammatory or Symptomatic Fever, so called because it results from the action of the inflamed part upon the system generally. This fever is characterised by undiminished vital power, increased vascular action, and diminished secretion and excretion. I have in this way told you generally what are the local and the constitutional signs of inflammation ; let us now consider these more in detail. Eeturning to tlie consideration of the local affection, we observe that the early symptoms most marked, are redness and pain, the swelling being at first only slight and compressible. In the earlier stage the redness easily disappears on pressure, but as the action continues it becomes persistent and gradually assumes a deep crimson or lake tinge. The pain, at first of a hot, burning, and irritable character, becomes severe and throbbing, with sense of great tension. The swelling becomes unyielding, often hard and firm to the touch. These phenomena will vary according to certain conditions of the textures affected ; but I have described the typical form. In an inflamed limb some of these can be pretty well studied. In an organ such as the eye, however, where the structures affected are more or less trans- parent, we can actually trace the action through its different stages, and I now direct your attention to what we observe in a case of conjunctivitis, as I want you to know thoroughly the naked-eye appearances of an inflamed part before I speak of its microscopic characters. In inflammation of the conjunctiva there is at first a sense of irritation, as if some foreign body—such as dust or sand—were in the eye. Ere long the vessels of the membrane, which in the natural condition are invisible, become large and tortuous. This is tlie stage of active congestion. Vascular distension and engorgement increase; the membrane becomes swollen, assumes a uniform red colour, the individual