148 TUMOURS OF BONE. eyeball, and the tumour was supposed to be an abscess in the antrum. An incision was made into it, and a projecting part of the tumour was removed. This caused the tumour to adhere to the whole cheek, which soon became involved. The patient sub- sequently came under my care, and I removed the upper jaw, as the tumour was defined posteriorly and towards the orbit. All the adherent portion of the cheek was removed, and so I had to dissect a large flap from the neck to fill up the gap ; yet the wound healed, and the woman left the hospital apparently well. After some time, however, a similar tumour formed in the opposite antrum, and ultimately the disease destroyed the patient. If in this case—instead of the partial operation—com- plete removal of tiie jaw had been performed at first, while the cheek was still unaffected, then possibly the operation might have been successful, or at least several years might have elapsed before any return of the disease occurred. A tumour of the upper jaw, then, differs from one of the lower or from one in any long bone, as there is not the same limita- tion in the upper jaw. What limitation there is, is so thin that it is easily broken up by the mere pressure, and by the destruc- tive character of the tumour; and when one of the syniptonis present is eversion of the eyeball, we are not warranted in inter- fering, as this symptom shows that if the disease has not begun in the ethmoid bone, it has at least affected it secondarily. Therefore, while in most cases of malignant disease in bone we may interfere with greater propriety than if the disease were in the soft textures, on account of the anatomical limitation existing in bone ; yet there are exceptions to this rule, depend- ing on the structure of the bone and its anatomical relations, as in the case of the upper jaw. Osteoid Cancer is a very rare form of cancer in bone, which is not often described, and which might at first be mistaken for a simple exostosis. The "tumour occurs in young persons, grows slowly, and generally arises in the condyloid portion of a bone. When manipulated, it resembles very closely an ordinary exos- tosis ; but after a time the disease increases very rupidly. There