TUMOURS. 112 ulcerate, although this may sometimes arise from causes of irri- tation foreign to themselves—such as the application of pressure, caustics, or discutients. They are usually well defined by a delicate cyst of condensed cellular texture ; they have no tendency to involve neighbouring tissues in the same morbid action; and if once properly removed they never return again. In structure they are regular, and resemble in many cases some of the natural textures of the body. Thus we have fatty tumours, or tumours composed of fibrous tissue, or tumours closely resembling in structure the different glands. Simple growths are readily separable, and freely mov- able, so that after a careful examination they may easily be diagnosed. These characters will often enable us to distinguish simple from malignant tumours during an operation for their removal. It is most important to find out, say in a mammary tumour, whether it is completely movable, or whether at one point it is fixed or less defined. If there be complete definition, and if tlie other characteristics of a simple tumour be present, then the growth alone should be removed. But if the tumour be attached at one point, even though very movable at all others, then, if the patient be above middle life, the surgeon should rather remove the whole breast than run the risk of recurrence by excision of the tumour only. Again, in consider- ing the propriety of removing certain growths near important organs, if the tumour be simple we may proceed to remove it with almost a certainty of success, becaiise such a tumour has natural definitions which prevent it from including vessels or other important parts. For, as a rule, a simple growth, whilst it may adhere to, compress, or displace structures, has no tendency to destroy texture or invade organs contained in a common fibro-cellular sheath. In malignant growths it is different, be- cause in them the tumour often involves parts which it would be fatal to divide. Another essential difference between simple and malignant tumours is, that the former have no tendency to return after removal, either in the same part or elsewhere. The simple tumour has no tendency to ulcerate unless irii-