97 TREA TMENT. tional treatment—tlie use of diaphoretics and purgatives—will generally cure the disease. But such cases must be watched very carefully, because there may be effusion of purulent matter in the eyelids, and then we must make incisions to relieve the patient. Sometimes the face may be painted over with oil, which soothes and cools the part; but occasionally it seems to give rise to irrita- tion. A change from the powder to the oil often does good, but as a rule, the powder gives more relief, and is besides more cleanly. When hot fomentations are used, care should be taken, on their re- moval, to cover the part with a layer of cotton wadding to protect it, otherwise the irritation will be increased. In phlegmonous erysipelas free incisions are to be made in the part affected, because here not only is the skin af- fected, but after a time the fascia and intermuscular septa, as well as the subcutaneous and deep cellular tissue. Effusion, either serous or aplastic, takes place under the fascia, and between it and the skin, and hence the bogginess, ten- sion, and apparent softening of the limb. The treatment requires to be very active, and the incisions must divide freely the fascial texture. In the arm we often make incisions along the radial and ulnar sides as well as in the front. When infil- trated suppuration occurs, a mere opening and counter-opening, as in ordinary abscesses, will not do, but several incisions must be made to give free vent to the acrid purulent matter. Much sloughing of the aponeurotic textures will often take place, espe- cially when they are very dense, as for example the fascia lata of the thigh, or the fascia of the forearm, however active the treat- ment may have been, and hence the necessity for free incisions to allow the sloughs to escape or be removed, as they would other- wise keep up great irritation. A remedy very frequently used in erysipelas is the local application of nitrate of silver ; but, so far as my experience goes, it is not 'generally attended with good results. If we apply it over a large surface, the remedy becomes worse than the disease. Sometimes it is applied round the limb, beyond the affected part, so as to arrest the progress of the disease, and H