SPECIAL DANGERS. 191 by the workmen a "devil." In these wounds, the tearing or mincing of parts is very great. In lacerated wounds there are the risks of tetanus and irritative fever, and there is no chance of union by the first in- tention. They are more or less complicated, and we cannot therefore expect them to unite well, though, in those lacerated wounds made forcibly by a fine saw, there may be a chance of union by the first intention, owing to the comparatively even way in which the parts have been divided. The nerve filaments are torn partially or completely, but not evenly divided, and therefore there is a greater chance of inflam- mation and irritation succeeding. The tendinous and fascial textures too, from being torn are more apt to slough ; their vitality—never very great—is injured by the nature of the wound, and considerable sloughing follows. The primary hemorrhage in lacerated wounds may be trifling, or it may be very great. In a lacerated wound caused by twisting of the part, or where there is much contusion, the vessels are not likely to bleed much at the time, the internal coats of the vessels being turned in upon themselves, and by this torsion a mechanical barrier is formed to the flow of blood. We often see large vessels pulsating in lacerated wounds without any blood flowing from them, and this is due to the amount and kind of the force causing the injury. But this obstruction of the vessels at the time is not favourable to the hemostatic changes taking place: the coats of the vessels are injured, and there is a risk of secondary hemorrhage occurring in a few clays, from the sloughing which takes place consequent on the destruction of the vitality of the vascular coats. Primary hemorrhage occurs either when the parts are so far evenly divided as with a saw, or when a vessel has been injured at a point higher up than the main injury, and then profuse bleeding may occur at the time ; but in all cases, even though the primary hemorrhage is not great, there is a risk of secondary hemorrhage taking place from the sloughing which necessarily follows on the injury.