38 SUPPURATION. ment is to tie the vessel above and below the point where it has given way ; or, if the arteries be small and deeply seated, you may succeed in arresting the hemorrhage by pressure. The third class of dangers includes those affecting bones and fascia. In some cases of abscess the bone is primarily affected. Thus, in the case of whitlow, already alluded to, we have reason to believe that the inflammation does not always begin in the tendinous structures, but sometimes has its origin in the bone itself, and there are cases in which sinuses and fistulae are pre- vented from healing by the presence of diseased bone. There are other cases, however, in which a perfectly healthy bone may become diseased by the encroachment of a neighbouring abscess and have its vitality speedily destroyed. The fascial textures themselves are also liable to become involved in the morbid action, and when this does occur they suffer to a greater extent than do the softer tissues, owing to their denser texture and lower type of organisation. In connection with an abscess of the forearm or thigh, the fascia frequently sloughs extensively. These examples, therefore, will, I hope, suffice to impress on your minds the importance of opening acute abscesses mrly and freely, so as to relieve the existing disease, and prevent further destruction. Amongst the unfavourable results of suppuration, we often meet with the condition termed Sinus or Fistula. The term sinus is used to express that condition which we meet with in cases where the cavity of an evacuated abscess has failed. to contract and heal, but where it remains open and con- tinues to pour from its surfaces a thin unhealthy discharge of a gleety or muco-purulent character. Gradually the walls become thickened and callous, the cavity diminished in size, the lining surface smoothly glazed, like a mucous membrane, the discharge lessened in quantity and altered in quality. The action is sluggish, without tendency to heal, and thus the diseased con- dition becomes established. On introducing a probe at the opening, it is found to pass inwards in a widening course, while here and there it may meet with projections, which render its