BUBO 161 The treatmeut by rest and warm or cold applications to the gland will sometimes prevent the swelling going on to suppuration, though how far this is beneficial is very doubtful, for in the true syphilitic bubo there is more or less absorption of the venereal poison into the gland, and it is better that it should suppurate, discharge, and so eliminate the poison, than that the deobstruent effects of the remedies used should cause absorption of the virus into the system. It is difficult to prove that there is any danger of the absorption of the virus ; but I have noticed that secondary symptoms have often followed more rapidly and more seriously in cases where the bubo has been discussed than where it has not. In spite of all remedies, however, the bubo generally goes on to suppuration, and then the best treatment is to apply warm poultices to the gland, keep the patient at rest, and prevent any unnecessary irritation of the parts. When the abscess is fully j matured, then open it from one end to the other ; if we open it 1 when there is only a small quantity of fluid in it, the tendency i is for the hard matter left to act as a foreign body, and sinuses; are apt to form in the neighbourhood. In all cases I prefer to let the bubo maturate as quickly as possible, and when sup- puration is fairly established then to open it thoroughly and completely, passing fairly beyond the base of the swelling on each side, so as to lay it well open. This will prevent the risk of. sinuses forming subsequently. If there be any portion of the gland still left, and if it be at all troublesome, we should destroy it with potassa fusa or nitrate of silver, and so get rid of the hardened texture. Then apply poultices, and treat it like an ordinary abscess, applying after a time chlorinated soda and other stimulating lotions, and repressing unhealthy granulations. If there be any undermined integument at one point, it is better to lay it open as the bubo is contracting ; if we allow one sinus to form, others will form in connection with it. The above is the treatment for the acute bubo, but the chronic form is much more difficult to deal with. Here the gland is large and painful, but it does not go on actively to sup- puration ; there is not the same pain and tension that there is in M