81 CHRONIC GANGRENE. ing any external stimulation, in case it should hurry on the dis- eased action. As regards the constitutional conditions, tonic remedies are to be used. After a line of demarcation has formed, and when the patient's health is so far restored, amputation of the diseased part should be performed—but higher up the limb than the line of demarcation, so as to form a good stump. Amputation is proper in such cases, because there is no tendency for the stump to be affected by gangrene, the causes being only temporary. In chronic gangrene resulting from persistent constitutional causes the treatment is different. It may be due to obstruction or disease of the bloodvessels of the part, and the inflammation so set up. Or there may be a deposit in the coats of the arteries impeding the circulation. The Irritable form of chronic gangrene is of this kind. In it the disease is attended with a good deal of local inflammatory action ; some of the fluids are retained in the dead part, and there is constitutional disturbance. There is another form of chronic gangrene, in which the parts become quite dry and shrivelled, and where there is none of the local irritability that exists in the irritable chronic gangrene. The disease begins at one finger or toe and spreads from it to the others. The parts dry and shrivel up and give off all their fluids. There is thus less chance of blood-poisoning, and the constitution suffers very little, and sometimes only slight pain is experienced. The change seems to take place so slowly that the fluids are expelled before the deatli of the part, and so less rapid disintegration occurs and there is less constitutional disturbance. The constitutional treatment is here very slight. If the patient cannot sleep, opiates are to be given, along with nutritious and perhaps slightly stimulant diet, because there is no over- action of the diseased part; but beware of too much stimulation, lest you excite over-action in the dying part. The local treat- ment consists in wrapping the limb in cotton wadding, and placing it so as to favour the circulation. Here, as in all cases of gangrene, we must not apply any local stimulus, such as heat or stimulating liniments, to the part, as we might thereby bring on a more irritable action. All pressure on the limb is to be G