GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 216 the limb wliich is saved is deformed and shortened, and the patient is subject to a very great risk from the suppuration, and from abscesses forming in the soft parts around tl^e bone, and the chances of pytemia supervening are very great. As a general rule, gunshot fractures of the femur and tibia are cases where amputation is necessary. When the bone is hit by small-shot striking m masse, the amount of injury caused is still greater; the bone is broken up into fragments, the periosteum is stripped off, and the surrounding textures much torn up. In these cases, there- fore, amputation is even more necessary than when the bone is in- jiired by a ball. In the upper extremity we may run some risk for the chance of saving the limb; for even, though the humerus be deformed after saving the limb, if the fore-arm and hand be left uninjured, the result is a sufficient reward for the risk. Besides, the vitality of the textures in the upper extremity is greater than in the inferior extremities, being nearer the centre of circulation. The treatment also is easier, as the arm can be slung. And in military practice, a patient witli a fractured humerus can be moved about much more easily than one whose femur is broken. So that, for these reasons, the arm can often be saved when the leg cannot. When a ball strikes the cancellated texture of a bone it pro- duces different results. It generally makes a rut through the surface of the bone, and passes out again—just as in the softer textures—by a circular opening, without shattering or com- minuting the bone, unless the ball strikes with great force. In the bones of the cranium the ball sometimes passes out, making merely a small circular opening, though generally the inner table is extensively broken up ; and in such cases trepan- ning must be performed. When tlie ball strikes the cancellated texture of a bone in the neighbourhood of a joint, it may— according to the size of the ball and the particular bone struck— either rest in the cancellated texture of the condyloid end of the bone without entering into the joint, or it may break up, or else lodge in the joint. ISTear the knee joint—especially in the large condyloid extremity of the femur—the ball may enter