104 ANTHRAX. and consist of rigors, restlessness, and want of sleep, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhcea, alternating with profuse sweating. The tongue is pale, loaded, and flabby. The pulse is quick, weak, and irritable. The expression of the countenance is pinched and anxious. There is palpitation, and in bad cases giddiness, drowsiness, and tendency to coma, and sometimes low muttering delirium. With regard to the pathology, carbuncle may be classed with those diseases which are characterised by excessive local action, with deficiency of vital power. The local affection is similar to that of furunculus, only differing in degree and extent of diseased action, rather than in essential nature. The diseased skin has a brawn-like appearance when seen in section. The process of suppuration is tedious and partial, the death of the cellular tissue is very extensive, and ulceration of the surface takes place slowly, and as we have already stated the diseased action involves the fascia and deeper seated parts, and in some cases lays bare the muscles and vertebrje. The Local Treatment should consist in making free crucial incisions into and beyond the diseased part. By so doing we will not altogether prevent sloughing, because, from the very commencement of the disease, sloughs are almost sure to be pre- sent ; but we prevent the disease from spreading in surface and in depth, and also permit a free escape to the slough which keeps up the irritation. The incisions must be carefully made ; they must go completely through the inflamed textures, and beyond them into the healthy skin, otherwise the disease will extend from the circumference. Though smaller incisions may relieve the pain and tension for a time, they will not cure the disease. The whole texture having the little points of slough in it ought to be cut through. This looks cruel, but the amount of relief afforded by it is very great. No matter how weak the patient be, the incisions ought to be free. Sometimes when the carbuncle is large a third perpendicular incision may be made with advantage. After the incisions are made, charcoal or yeast poultices are to be applied, and if the