11 TREATMENT OF ACUTE INFLAMMATION. in this way lessen the vis a tergo by depressing the action of the heart. This, however, is merely a temporary effect, and the disease may become as bad as ever when reaction occurs. But by depletion we gain ground, and we should therefore endeavour to keep up its effect. AVith this view we give medicines which lessen the force and frequency of the heart's action—counter- stimulants—such as tartar-emetic, along with an opiate ; or, when we want to avoid nausea, small doses of aconite. When there is a hard and quick pulse, hot dry skin, scanty urine, and con- stipation, we must endeavour to restore and even to increase the secretions of the skin, kidney, and intestinal tract. To act on the skin we have recourse to remedies termed diaphoretics, such as the eighth of a grain of tartar-emetic, combined with a quarter to half-a-grain of opium, every four hours; in certain cases tartar-emetic is contra-indicated, and the opiate, either given by itself, or combined with, two grains of ipecacuan, may be substi- tuted ; the liquor ammonias acetatis is also useful as a stimulating diaphoretic. To act on the kidney we have recourse to medicines termed diuretics. We must be cautious in the use of stimulating- diuretics, such as sweet spirits of nitre, lest we over-excite the kidney, and increase the congestion of that organ. Acetate of potass, in doses of ten or fifteen grains, or small doses of sweet spirits of nitre, largely diluted, and simple cooling drinks, are our best remedies of this class. To stimulate the alvine secre- tions, and remove the constipation, we prescribe purgatives, which require to be varied according to circumstances. For ex- ample, in some cases we employ hydragogue cathartics to procure rapidly copious watery evacuations ; in other cases, where there are biliary symptoms, the use of alterative purgatives, such as mercurials, is indicated. During the active stage of inflammation, with its concomitant fever, the patient's diet requires to be care- fully regulated ; animal food should as a general rule be avoided, and the patient put upon a nutritious non-stimulating diet, con- sisting of millv and farinaceous food. "Wine and aU stimulants are contra-indicated in this stage, except under peculiar circum- stances. To procure disintegration and aljsorptiou of the exuda-