MALIGNANT TUMOURS, 136 frequently occurs in the skin or sub-cutaneous tissue, occasionally in the testicle, but most generally in the orbit, either as an in- dependent tumour round the optic nerve or as a tumour within the eye-ball itself. All its other characters are the same as in ordinary medullary sarcoma, with the tendency to fungate and ulcerate and spread by continuity of texture. When the tumour commences in the eye-ball itself, the case is not so favourable as when it lies external and does not affect the nerve; then it is at first circumscribed by a cyst of its own, and there is compara- tively little risk of its return if removed early. The melanotic cancer has this peculiarity—that a form of it occurs in the lower animals which cannot be distinguished from the black cancer in man. But in the former case it is not malignant and has no tendency to return after removal, while in the human subject it is plainly and certainly a malignant disease —a melanotic form of cerebriform cancer. With regard to the Treatment of the various forms of soft cancer, we may say that the same rule applies here as in carci- noma, though, if possible, more strongly. Whenever the disease is limited, and in the early stage, then operate at once, for the tumour, if left alone, will very'soon involve other textures, and there will be no limitation. When it occurs in a comparatively limited organ, such as the testicle or breast or in a gland, remove the growth as soon as possible ; if we put off doing so the delay is almost sure to lead to fatal consequences. We must, however always remember that the term limitation is used in a compara- tive sense, for there caa be no such thing as absolute limitation of a really malignant growth, so long as the circulation of the fluids through the body continues. Practically there is a great differ- ence between an organ which is anatomically limited, such as the testicle, and a part of the body not limited at all, as the skin or soft textures of a limb. In a limited organ we rarely, if ever, find that the disease returns in the same part, or in the same neighbour- hood after early removal, though it may do so in other organs. We must remember that when this tumour ulcerates and fungates, we can do less even to palliate the disease than in the hard cancer.