INFLAMMA TION. 4 we see the blood flowing through the capillaries and smaller arteries and veins ; we see that the yellow blood-corpuscles move rapidly along in the central part of the vessel, while on either side and close to its walls is a clear space filled with liquor sanguinis, with here and there a white corpuscle, moving much more slowly than the yellow corpuscles do ; this is termed the lymph space, and here the blood flows more slowly. The fluid part of the blood is that chiefly concerned in nutrition ; it contains in solu- tion the nutritive elements, and is absorbed by the various tex- tures. Nutrition is carried on entirely in the spaces between the capillaries by means of these vessels, which consist of a single thin coat, through which the nutritive material can easily pass. Every tissue has an inherent power of attracting and selecting from the blood those constituents best suited for its own nutri- tion. Bone selects more phosphates from the blood than the other textures; the liver selects materials to form bile, and_ the kidney those to form urine. This power, exerted by all the textures, is a very important one in maintaining the circulation. By it arterial blood is attracted towards the tissues, hence it is termed the vis a fronte, in contradistinction to the power exerted by the heart and the elastic coats of the arteries, which is called vis a tcrgo. To the attractive force of the various tissues is due the local determination of blood which occurs in inflam- mation. When we irritate the web of a frog's foot by some stimulus—such as a drop of acetic acid or a little mustard—in- flammation is induced, and we can observe under the microscope the changes which take place. The vessels at first contract, and the current of blood through them is more rapid. They then gradually dilate, but the current, though slackened in speed, still passes through them more rapidly than in the normal state, because the vis a f ronte is increased by the irritation ; the blood therefore now flows in larger quantity, and with increased rapidity, constituting what is known as determination of blood to the part. This is the stage of Active Congestion. It corre- sponds to that condition of the inflamed eye characterised by florid vascular arborescence. The vessels continue dilated, but