52 ULCERATION. to act like a many-tailed bandage. This supports the limb, and also acts as a gentle stimulus, and the exudation rapidly dis- appears. This treatment is to be continued for about a week, and then some stimulating lotion may be required. The ulcer diminishes very rapidly in size, owing to the relaxation of the skin, which arises from the cellular tissue being relieved of the exudation. After a time the action may flag, and then we must attend to the patient's health, and begin to employ more pressure, and paint over the surface with tincture of iodine to produce re- newed action. Should, however, the ulcer still refuse to heal, apply a second blister over those parts where the exudation is greatest, for the exudation is often thrown out in irregular masses. Lastly, when the ulcer becomes very small, we bandage the limb firmly from the foot upwards, and bring the margins of the sore together by broad straps of adhesive plaster. The plaster treatment should only be used when there is a very small sore. Another plan of treatment has been proposed for callous ulcers, which is founded on the principle of facilitating contrac- tion of the sore by relieving tension of the integuments. This is effected by making long collateral incisions through the the skin on either side of the ulcer, in the hope that its margins will thereby be allowed to contract. This method of treatment is occasionally useful; as a general rule, however, it is objection- able, because one or two new ulcers might form where the incisions were made. It may be employed sometimes when there seems to be an adhesion of the integument, but otherwise it is not nearly so good as the treatment previously described. I advise you not to apply blisters to callous ulcers when you find the urine highly albuminous, thereby indicating disease of the kidneys; for in that case the swelling of the limbs is general, and dependent largely on the diseased kidneys, and a blister will not remove it; moreover, the active principle of the blister, can- tharidine, may be absorbed, and cause still further irritation of the kidneys. Some have thought that the thickening of the edges of the