75 ACUTE GANGRENE. tlieir death. In the chronic form the gangrene supervenes slowly, and is not always or generally attended, either by the same violent local action, or by the same severe constitutional disturbance. Tt arises fromavariety of causes, and is modified accordingtothe cause. The best example of the Acute or Humid Gangrene is that arising from injuries. Extravasation of blood takes place, possibly from rupture of some of the more important vessels at the moment of the injury. Inflammation sets in; exudation and serous effusion are poured out, giving rise to increased swelling and tension, by which the circulation is impeded. In traumatic gangrene of the leg, the limb appears somewhat swollen and of a purplish or mottled colour ; at first its temperature is slightly raised, after- wards, hoAvever, it falls, and the foot assumes a livid appearance ; inflammatory action begins on the proximal side of the injured part, the injured parts and those on its distal side alter in colour ; the former becouie very dark, the latter become grey or ash- coloured. At and beyond the injured part vesications occur, filled with a dark-coloured fluid (jMyctcnoo). When a certain,amount of inflammatory action precedes, they are well marked; but when the vitality of the part has been very rapidly destroyed after reaction, the vesications are not so well seen. They depend on the separation of the cuticle, and the effusion of dark-coloured senmi between it and the true skin. They are not well marked if the skin has been much lacerated, for then the fluid escapes. When the disease progresses very rapidly, this separation of the cuticle does not take place; the parts directly injured become dark and dead, those beyond retain a certain degree of vitality ; all the neighbouring parts have a peculiar puffy appearance, and on pressure there is a feeling of crepitation, owing to the em- physema—that is, the presence of gas in the cellular tissue. The humid character of the gangrene is due to the tissues having died while still retaining their fluid contents. The swelling is the result partly of effusion, partly of the extrication of gases. When the gangrene ceases to extend, a line of demarcation is formed between the dead and the living tissues ; this line becomes a deep furrow, which slowly separates the completely dead from the living parts.