GRE V PHA GED^NA. GO being of a pale yellow colour. The pulse now rises, varying from 100 to 130 or higher, weak and often irregular even at an early period, and the patient is feeble and irritable, and per- spirations occur from time to time. The local changes proceed very rapidly, the edges of the wound separate, the tissues appear as if infiltrated by the grey exu- •dation, hence the surface enlarges with great rapidity. I have seen a stump of the thigh which was nearly healed open up completely in less than two days after it was attacked with this form of diseased action. At the same time, however, this form of phagedcena does not seem to cause such a loss of substance as the black form ; the skin seems to be rather pushed aside than destroyed, as I have seen stumps and large ulcers heal with very small cicatrices, after the action was arrested, although in some cases, when it attacked venereal buboes, I have known it produce great destruction of skin tissue. The constitutional symptoms are certainly characterised by greater debility than those which accompany black phagedtena. The causes which lead to this formidable disease are generally either endemic or epidemic. Occasionally we meet with sporadic cases, depending either on some unhealthy tendency in the individual, want of cleanliness, or from improper irritating dressings having been used, most likely from a combination of all these conditions ; but by far the largest number and best-marked cases arise either from endemic or epidemic influences. Examples of endemic causes, or those which originate and are developed in some particular locality, are those where the atmosphere pervading a house, hospital, or district, is con- taminated by the effluvia due to bad sewage and bad ventila- tion, or the gradually accumulating vitiated air in rooms or wards where several patients are more or less constantly confined, as in large hospitals, especially where there are many surgical cases under treatment. Indeed, so generally is this last example of endemic influence recognised, that phagedasna is often denominated hospital sore, or hospital gangrene. As