77 SYMPTOMS. be good, and the cause of the gangrene be distinctly local—that is to say, if the violence of the injury is quite sufficient to account for destruction of vitality in the injured structures—■ these symptoms may at first be very slight, as vs^as the case in this gangrene of the hand. But if the patient be of a weak constitution, the gangrene which sets in after an injury will have all the constitutional symptoms in great intensity, because there is, as it were, a constitution ready to be affected by a compara- tively slight cause. Hence, when the marked constitutional symptoms come on after a comparatively slight injury, we may infer that the constitution in such a case was debilitated. Another condition affecting the intensity of the local or con- stitutional symptoms, is the importance of the part injured. Sometimes a large slough separates without much harm being- done, as when a fascia sloughs. But if the gangrene be in an im- portant texture, such as a portion of bowel, even though only a small part of it be affected, all the constitutional symptoms come on iu a most intense form. As I have told yoii, acute gangrene may be due to injury. The injury alone may be so violent as to destroy the part, or it may be less severe^ and an unhealthy condition may deter- mine gangrene instead of healthy action. Acute gangrene of a very intense form may also result from extravasation of acrid fluids, such as urine, into the cellular tissue or into certain organs. In extravasation of urine in cases of stricture, the whole tex- tures die in the course of a very few hours. From almost the first there are marked and intense constitiitional symptoms— pulse weak, wandering, and then violent delirium ; the debility and irritative fever proceed very rapidly, though only a small amount of fluid be extravasated. These symptoms of urinary in- filtration are just the symptoms of gangrene. The Treatment of acute gangrene must greatly depend on the cause. If the cause be constriction of the tissues, as in hernia, the main indication is evidently to relieve the constriction. In a case where gangrene is imminent, from tight bandaging, of couise remove the bandage, and then, if necessary, make in-