ULCERATION. 44 vascular projections from the hollow and sides of the ulcers, which, being extremely delicate, are generally covered and pro- tected by a thin layer of pus. This also serves to keep them moist, and so favours their growth. These granulations are nourished by small loop-like vessels, which enter at their bases and are prolonged towards their apices ; this constitutes Granu- lation, a process of healing presently to be described. Ulceration and mortification bear very close relations to each other, the difference being that ulceration runs a much slower course. Perhaps the phagedenic ulcer may be regarded as the connecting link between ulceration and mortification ; it is just a very rapid form of ulceration. Before you can understand the principles of the treatment of ulcers, it is necessary that I should explain shortly the dif- ferent forms of the healing process. This may take place in two ways, either primarily or secondarily. The former consists in healing by adhesion without the formation of pus, and is termed primary union, or healing by the first intention. The latter con- sists in healing by granulation after the formation of pus, and is termed secondary union, or healing by the second intention. Healing by the first intention generally occurs in the case of wounds which have been inflicted by sharp cutting instru- ments, such as the blade of a knife, provided that the cut be not very large. In these cases, if the incised wound be healthy, and the severed surfaces be placed in close and accurate apposition, we shall find, after an interval of six or eight hours, that the line of union has become coated by a layer of viscid semi-gelatinous matter, by which the edges of the wound are retained in situ, and^the atmospheric air excluded. These gra- dually become reddened, painful, and tense; but the swelling which is present is merely excited action. The edges become glazed with lymph, the swelling decreases, and in ten days or so the edges are firmly united by newly-formed white fibrous tissue, which, at the cutaneous surface, produces a white mark termed a cicatrix. The deeper surfaces of the wound are at first glued together by coagulated lymph ; most probably