24 SUPPURATION. will at length burst, and the pus be evacuated, but it is danger- ous to leave it alone, especially if deep-seated, for the pus will destroy important textures in making its way to the surface. An abscess under the vasti muscles of the thigh, for example, may, if left to itself, ulcerate into the synovial membrane of the knee-joint; in like manner, an abscess in the neck may point towards and open, through the mucous membrane of the pharynx. One of the surest diagnostics of pus having formed is the feeling of fluctuation; the sensation of a fluid moving when pressure is made lightly with the finger on an abscess, if there is any quan- tity of pus present. In feeling for fluctuation, we should place lightly the points of the fingers of one hand upon the dependent part of the abscess, whilst with the fingers 6f the other hand we tap or press gently on the upper part of the swelling at the same time; this causes the fluid, if it be present, to impinge on the fingers at the lower part, and communicate a feeling of undulation. Care must be taken not to place the opposed hands too close to each other, as elasticity of the structures may in that case simulate the sensation of fluctuation. It is very important to make out this feeling of fluctuation before making an opening, for some tumours are apt to be mistaken for abscesses, and the treatment in the two cases is quite different. Still, in some cases, as in whitlow or in deep-seated abscesses in the neck or perineum, it is better to make an early incision than to wait for distinct fluctuation, or run the risk of the pus burrowing and thereby endangering important structures. In the Treatment of acute abscess, apply remedies which will tend to favour the formation of pus—namely, heat and moisture; and this should be done both in superficial and deep-seated abscesses. For this purpose, hot fomentations, warm poultices, fl.nd warm water lint, are used. If the pain be great, anodyne fomentations may be employed, also sedatives, as opium, given internally to procure rest at night. As soon as matter has formed, sometimes even before it has fairly formed, a free incision should be made into the abscess, so that the pus may be per- mitted to escape readily, and then a soft poultice should be