Ill CLASSIFICA TION. crease, wliile at tlie same time the surrounding textures and the body generally may be wasting away. Tumours, therefore, must be regarded as overgrowths pos- sessed of inherent self-organising powers, irrespective, in a great measure, of the maintenance of the rest of the body, and deve- loped withoxit any apparent function or purpose. Having thus briefly indicated the conditions which distinguish inflammatory swellings and simple hypertrophies from true tu- mour-growths, we shall next proceed to consider the Classifica- tion OF Tumours. Some difference of opinion exists in the jDresent day regarding the grounds on which our classification and nomenclature are to be based. Some pathologists propose that our distinctions should be founded on the appearance and structure presented by different growths as examined with the naked eye and by means of the microscope ; but, whilst by no means undervaluing such structural appearances, it seems to me that mere structure, apart from the vital characteristics of such growths, is by no means sufficient to enable us to dis- tinguish their true nature ; and as the structure cannot be fairly examined until after the removal of the growth, I think a more practical classification and nomenclature is that which recog- nises the characters of the growth, and indicates them by terms expressive of quality, nature, and tendency, rather than by such as denote structure alone. I will therefore adhere to the old terms—Simple and Malignant—as expressive of the two great classes into which all tumours may be divided. They are some- times classified as Solid and Cystic, or hollow; but some tumours are at one period of their growth quite solid, and at a later ♦ stage of progress they contain cysts in their interior. This should therefore be regarded as merely a subdivision, and not a classification. The vital manifestations of Simple Tumours are, slowness of growth, the absence of any affection of the general health con- stituting cachexy ; little local pain or uneasiness, except such as is produced by their bulk or pressure, interfering with the func- tions of important organs. They have no inherent tendency to