72 SL O UGHING PHA GEDjENA . unhealthy condition. We must remember that many of the causes of the vitiation of hosi^ital wards are cumulative, and hence I have for many years been in the habit of clearing out a ward at short intervals, if only for a few days, and having it washed and thoroughly fumigated, either with chlorine or sul- phurous acid fumes, and then all the windows kept open for thorough ventilation; and from experience I can strongly re- commend the general adoption of the plan. The treatment of phagedsena naturally divides itself into the local and general, and requires to be modified according to which of the two forms the disease assumes. The local treatment in both forms consists in destroying the diseased surface, and then using antiseptic applications with the view of preventmg the spread of the action. This indication is effected by the use of strong caustics, such as nitric or sulphuric acid, or even the actual cautery. I have tried all of these, and found the cautery to be generally followed by the rapid extension of the disease, so that I abandoned it, and used the mineral acids as better suited for the purjjose, their destructive action being more limited, the effects of the cautery apparently diminishing vitality in the surrounding tissues. In the grey phagedaena, or in ordinary foul sores, I prefer the application of a. saturated solution of cMoride of zinc, applied as a caustic, which acts also as a powerful antiseptic. In both forms of the disease I have found that wood charcoal poultices answered better than almost any other antiseptic remedy in deodorising and promoting a healthy action in the sores. But in many cases I have seen great advantage from the use of carbolic acid paste applied to sores of a phagedenic character, followed by the use of a dilute watery solution in warm water dressing. The amount of inflammatory redness and tension in cases of black phagedaena, and the benefit which sometimes occurs from accidental hemorrhage in such cases, might lead us to expect benefit from incisions ; and some have even recommended this, but the risk of the incisions becoming- new centres of diseased action, has always deterred me from venturing to try it, and I believe we can relieve the local inflam-