TREA TMENT. 181 quarter of an inch from each edge. Slightly waxed thread is the best substance to use with the needles, and as little pressure as possible should be applied. The needles are withdrawn about the fourth day, so as to prevent any irritation being caused by them, though, in some cases, they may be left in much longer. When we want to apply pressure on the deep as well as on the superficial part of the wound, the Qwillecl suhorc is employed. It is often used in cases of ruptured perineum, where, by pass- ing needles deeply, we keep the deep parts together, and by one or two interrupted sutures the edges are brought into close con- tact, for when the two pieces of quill or wax-bougie are placed in position, and the threads tied, the effect is slightly to evert tlie skin margins of the wound. When the injury is superficial, sutures are not required at all—strips of plaster are sufficient. It is only when there is any great depth or extent of wound, that they are necessary. As to local applications to incised wounds, many substances formerly were used to favour adhesion and prevent unhealthy action, such as Friar's balsam (the compound tincture of benzoin) and Arquebuzade, an aromatic spirit of rosemary. The former of these constituted a sort of varnish, and acted as a foreign body. The latter, which coagulated the albumen and glazed over the wound, answered better. Now-a-days all such preparations are given up, as being irritating and exciting, and so promoting too much action ; hence, the best treatment which can be adopted is to leave the wound alone. In large wounds after surgical operations, where there is a risk of suppuration occurring, and where we cannot expect the adhesive process to take place throughout the whole surface of the wound, or where there still remains on a flap part of the pyogenic membrane of an abscess—the tincture of iodine painted over the surface is very beneficial. Under the iodine the suppuration is arrested or diminished, and a more healthy action is excited. Another application I at one time used was carbolic acid in methylated spirit ; but I have found the iodine to answer better. After the removal of malignant growths, a weak solution of chloride