124 TUMOURS. seems to be some disease in the follicular apparatus of the skin leading to obstruction of its ducts, and an altered action resulting from that. There are generally several cysts present in the same patient, and not a single one ; when there is only a single wen we ought to be very careful, because these single growths are often a form of medullary sarcoma, and very different from the true simple wens or encysted tumours. The complete removal or destruction of the cyst is the principle of treatment of wens. This tumour is originally quite loosely connected, and so, in general, is easily dissected or pulled out; but in some cases, such as an encysted tumour of the lip or eyelid, where the cyst is very delicate and tears easily, we cannot generally dissect or tear it out entire. Therefore, as we cannot be sure of removing the whole cyst, we cut out an oval portion of the tumour, evacuate its contents, and then destroy the remainder of the cyst with a finely-pointed piece of caustic. Briefly, the treatment of the wen consists in complete removal of the cyst, either by excision or by destroying it with caustic, after evacuating its contents. Erectile Tumours or JST^vi.—These exist of various forms and sizes, from a small spot giving indication of a peculiar arrangement of the vessels of the part to a very large growth in muscles or in the cavities of bones. Some have made a distinction between the erectile tumour and the na^vus met with in children ; the former, say they, occurs in after-life from a tumour-growth really taking place, while the other is congenital. But it is very difficult to prove this distinction, because some erectile tumours in the adult may have been in existence as congenital conditions, and besides, the most minute examination will not show any difference as regards their characters. Occasionally, tumours have been called erectile which have had a truly malignant character. The erectile tumour is not so much a true tumour-growth as a peculiar arrangement of the capillaries and smaller arterial or venous branches of a part. When we cut into such a tumour it bleeds profusely, and when removed from the body, its structure is exactly like that of the corpus spongiosum urethrte. A section of such a tumour, after it has been injected, has been compared