SUPPURATION. 40 have been one or more counter-openings, then the pent-uj) matter does not get free vent, but is forced to burrow amongst and impair the vitality of the surroimding tissues, thus preparing the way for such results as we have described. Other examples of the consequences of inefficient treatment are found in cases where the diseased condition has been rendered persistent, in conse- quence of the original abscess having been opened too early, or allowed to remain unopened too long; also where it has been injudiciously stuffed with lint, or where poulticing has been too long continued. The causes which oppose successful treatment are, for most part, due either to the anatomical disposition of the part, or to tlie presence of foreign bodies or diseased bone. Thus, if the original abscess be so situated as to admit of movement of the textures one on another, the cavity may be prevented from closing by the friction of the opposed surfaces as well as by the movements which give rise to that friction. In such cases the parietes do not attain a great degree of callosity, but the surfaces present an unhealthy appearance, and the discharge is thin and copious. Examples may be found in abscess of the leg, or the axilla, or the ischio-rectal space. After an abscess situated under the deep fascia of the leg, a sinus may form, extending from the head of the fibula to the external mal- leolus, and be kept open by the movements of the part. Or, if the axilla be its seat, the motions of the arm may give rise to a similar result, aided by the facilities for burrowing afforded by the loose cellular tissue of the neighbourhood. The ischio-rectal space is peculiarly liable to disturbing influences from the movements to which the parts are subjected during the passage of fteces, or the act of coughing ; hence this space is a very common seat for sinus and fistula, and here they generally assume their most persistent form. The presence of foreign bodies, or substances which act as such, forms another barrier to successful treatment. These may be either intrinsic or adventitious, generally they are of the former kind, and the removal of the conditions wliich give