121 FIBROUS AND ADENOID. herent, it is better to remove the whole breast than risk recurrence from leaving any portion of the tumour, as the loss of the gland is not so important at that age. If a fibrous tumour be veiy large, with darting pains through it, and ulcerating oi fungating, with sanious discharge, the symptoms may be very similar to those of a malignant growth. These conditions, how- ever, in a tumour originally simple, do not contra-indicate an operation. We must here trust to the history of the case and the state of the constitution, whether there is any real constitutional cachexia, or only exhaustion from irritation and discharge. As regards the Treatment of all fibrous and adenoid tumours, even in the earlier stages, the best plan is excision, and the sooner it is performed the better, as there is less likelihood of other parts being interfered with by the tumour; and there is also less chance of any subsequent complication in the progress of the case. As I have already said, a fibrous or adenoid tumour may be removed with perfect safety, even though lying near important parts, because though it may displace these parts, and so require careful dissection, yet the other textures are never involved in the diseased action. In this case of fibrous tumour, which I now show you, the great sciatic nerve was completely embedded in the growth, but not affected in any way, so that it was readily dis- sected from the deep groove you see in it. Again, in this enormous tumour, which lay under the sterno-mastoid, and occu- pied also the deep parotid and facial regions in close contact with the great vessels, nerves, and important structures of the neck, I was able, by careful dissection, to remove the growth entire : it did not implicate these structures.* In this other cervical tumour, also from beneath the mastoid muscle, owing to the original development of the tumour, it had separated the internal jugular vein from the vagus nerve and the carotid artery, the vein being partially obliterated by long compression ; but the carotid and vagus, though lying closely related to it, were not involved, so that this tumour also was safely removed.f * See Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science for November 1863. t See Edinburgh Medical Journal, October 1867.