ULCER A TION. 60 a few days. Thereafter it may be treated by local remedies, to get rid of the foetid discharges and to promote healthy granulations. For this purpose we may use the chlorinated soda lotion or a solution of permanganate of potash, fol- lowed by a weak black lotion. Under this treatment the remaining exudation will gradually diminish, and a healthy action set in. Meantime the constitutional treatment must not be overlooked. Such ulcers are generally associated with tertiary symptoms or with an inherited syphilitic taint. The use of mercurials internally is rather contra-indicated, and the iodide of potassium should be used instead. This remedy may be given in five-grain doses twice or thrice a-day, and may with great advantage be combined with small doses of arsenic— say three to five drops of Towler's solution to each dose of iodide. They should be prescribed separately, so that one or other may be discontinued as occasion may require. By and by other remedies may be given, and of these certain chalybeates are often bene- ficial, more especially the syrup of the iodide of iron. Cod-liver oil may also be given with advantage, and the diet should be carefully regulated and of the most nourishing description. Sometimes the ulcer may assume characters different from those I have described, for example, it may become serpiginous, where a number of small points creep together, as it were, in a somewhat serpentine course and then coalesce, so as to form a large ulcer. In such cases, the application of sulphate of coj)per will be found preferable to a blister. The stimulating lotions, of whatever kind, should be changed from time to time, so as to main- tain their action, and thus sulphate of copper, nitrate of silver, and sulphate of zinc, may all be used in succession with advantage. We do not wish to increase the strength of the stimulant, but f^ change its form from time to time; for use seems to weaken its effect. In this case also the patient should be allowed good diet, and cod-liver oU may be taken with benefit, together with the iodide of potassium and arsenic.