ENCYSTED TUMOUR. 123 of treatment is umcli less certain. It may be followed by jjartial ulceration and fungation, and if the tumour were near important parts tills might prove very dangerous. In some cystic tumours of the breast, however, and in cystic tumours of the thyroid body, in which we cannot remove the tumour, we may lay open or tap it, and iuject iodine. We sometimes make counter-openings so as to favour the escape of the fluid, and prevent deep-seated inflammation. In such exceptional cases this is the best plan of treatment; but as a general rule the cystic tumour should be removed as soon as possible. In any form of tumour we may occasionally get rid of the growth by other means than excision, such as injecting the solution of chloride of zinc, or some other caustic solution, into the interior of the tumour, so as to cause it to slough out; but this is attended with considerably more pain and risk, and is by no means so certain as removal by the knife, which is, therefore, the best treatment in all simple fibrous or fibro-cystic tumours. Another form of simple tumour is the Encysted Tumour or Wen. The tumour consists of a sac filled with fluid, and it occurs just beneath the skin. Wens vary in size from that of a small seed to that of an orange, and though met with in other parts, are chiefly found on the scalp and face. The character of the encysted tumour or wen is different from that of the cystic sarcoma, in which the fibrous or adenoid tumour becomes converted into a tumour more or less cystic. In the wen the follicular apparatus is apparently deranged, and an altered secretion takes place. These tumours have received different names according to their contents, which are sometimes semifluid like honey, and are then called " nieliceritous," or greasy, when they are called " steatomatous," or they are of a curdy con- sistence, and are then called " atheromatous." But the contents are the least important part of the tumour; they have nothing to do with the tumour-growth. The cyst in this case is in reality the tumour, and the contents merely a secretion from it, so that if we remove the cyst and leave parts of the contents in the wound, they could not create a similar tumour, being simply a secretion without any vital power. The origin of the tumour