179 HEMORRHAGE. surfaces should be removed, and the edges kept in close contact and at perfect rest. Excited action must be controlled within moderate limits, though a certain amount of it is salutary, be- cause by it the plastic lymph is thrown out more abundantly. Hemorrhage, whether venous or arterial, must be arrested ; and this is the first thing which the surgeon has to attend to. If a small artery be partially cut, blood of a bright red colour spirts out in a jet; but if the vessel be completely cut across, the ends contract and retract witliin the cellular tissue, and the bleeding ceases. At the extremity or angle of a wound, where the vessel may be merely cut into, and only partly divided, the bleeding will, in some instances, continue or take place from time to time, and so prove serious. In such cases, the best plan is to extend the incision so as to divide the vessel completely. This enables us to see the divided ends which before were concealed ; and, if necessary, a ligature can be applied, though, generally, this will not be necessary, as the bleeding will probably cease very soon. So long as the vessel is only partially divided, it cannot retract within its sheath; but when cut through, the retraction takes place, and the hemorrhage is arrested naturally. The venous bleeding is generally easily arrested, if we attend to position. A good deal of it—especially after operations—depends on unequal pressure from bandaging or position, by removing which the oozing of blood will cease. Even when a large vein has been wounded, a little compression with a piece of lint, attention to position, and exposure of the wound to cold, will generally prove quite suflficient to arrest the bleed- ing ; but if not, we may tie the vein, or employ acupressure. Generally, there is no necessity for tying a vein, but the danger of doing it is not so great as is generally supposed—especially after amputation—as I have repeatedly proved in my own practice.* After the bleeding has been arrested, all clots and foreign substances must be removed from the wound. It might be * Natural and artificial hemostatics will be discussed in the lectures on injuries and diseases of the vascular system.