.1 182 INCISED WOUNDS. of zinc (1 part to 30) may be used with advantage. But in the \ majority of incised wounds, no such local applications are re- quired. For the first six or eight hours, cold dressings, as lint dipped in iced water, may be used; but this must not \ be applied too long, as it may do harm. Afterwards the wound is left uncovered, a piece of lint is laid lightly over the sur- face. Tlie lint, during warm weather, may be sprinkled over | with strong spirit of rosemary, or chlorinated wash, or carbolic | acid, so as to prevent putrescence. In wounds of joints, I generally apply ice, in gutta percha bags, over the part, so as to keep the temperature very low. I When this j^lan is adopted, the cold must be Icept up continu- : ously, or the reaction will do more harm than the irregular i application of cold will do good. In former days, surgeons used to apply pressure to a wound ' by plates of metal or wood, so as to keep the parts in close ] contact and prevent all movement. This was trying to force j nature, and often produced much interruption to the circula- tion, brought on inflammatory action, and sometimes led to j sloughing in a flap instead of union. Beyond inserting sutures; j and occasionally applying gentle siipport by means of a band- j age, the less meddling the better ; any attempt to force the j parts into contact will assuredly do harm. The regimen should ; be carefully attended to—the diet should be light and nourish- j ing. After operations, or after severe wounds, an opiate should ■ be given immediately to allay pain and shock, and procure | rest. When the pulse rises high, antimony may be given aloiig j with the opium, so as to diminish the force and frequency of the > heart's action, determine slightly towards the skin, and allay ^ fever. In cases where antimony cannot be given, from its I causing great nausea, aconite is very useful as a sedative. It ! may be given in half-drop doses of Fleming's tincture every i three or four hours. When the pulse becomes moderate, the 1 aconite should be discontinued. After a few days, a more i generous diet should be given, especially after severe wounds or | operations. A great error is committed by continuing a low !