64 ULCERATION. times slightly cedematoiis, but presents no breach on the surface. By and by patches of a similar kind make their appearance on other parts of the body. The pulse becomes weak, the gums spongy and tender, and there is often bleeding from them and from the nose, with foetor of the breath. Over one or other of the affected parts, the skin at length gives way, and a scorbutic ulcer is formed. The ulcer, although weak from the first, extends very rapidly, so that it may, within forty- eight hours, assume rather formidable dimensions. Bleed- ing takes place from the surface from time to time, and at length a large fungoid mass protrudes from the centre, having the appearance of boiled liver—or "bullock's liver," as it is sometimes called by sailors—and consisting chiefly of imperfectly clotted blood, the fibrine being thrown out, and formed into a spongy mass. The surface of the sore presents an unhealthy brownish appearance, and the patient complains of great lassi- tude and weakness. The treatment of the scorbutic ulcer must be almost entirely constitutional, so as to get rid of the depraved condition of the system which gives rise to it, for until this be effected, local remedies are of no use whatever. As the cause is generally improper diet, so the cure must consist in correcting that defect, and with this view we administer milk and fresh animal and vegetable food, together with fresh fruit—such as oranges and apples, if obtainable—and acidulated drinks, such as lime-juice, or other vegetable acids diluted with water. The administration of fresh vegetables should be guarded at first, as they are apt to produce diarrhoea. Slight stimulants may be given in the form of light wines, and of these claret is the best. Under this treat- ment the symptoms of debility soon pass away, the ulcer ceases to bleed and assumes a healthy character, the fungoid mass tlrops off, and the part may be afterwards treated as an ordinary healing sore. Should bleeding occur from the surface of the ulcer during its progress, either spontaneously or from improper attempts to remove the fungoid mass, it ouglit to be arrested by the application of some styptic preparation, such as tincture of