QUESTION OF AMPUTATION. 221 man under my care, the injury looked as if it had been inflicted by the butt-end of a gun, but the edges were blackened and a few pellets had lodged. The man was suffering from symptoms of compression; the bone was quite comminuted, but no hole was to be seen. As soon, however, as one fragment was taken out the rest became quite loose ; the dura mater was not visibly injured, but in three or four days it lost its natural appearance, and that part of it, corresponding to the injury of the bone, sloiighed. As regards the general rules for amputation in gunshot injuries: These are very much the same as in railway injuries, and other severe lacerated and contused wounds. One point of difference to be at- tended to, however, is that it may be necessitated by what may ap- pear a slight injury, implicating only one or two important textures, as for example, the femoral artery or vein may be injured without any of the other important parts ui the neighbourhood, and then primary amputation is necessary, as the amount of subsequent swelling interferes with the collateral circulation, and a sort of low traumatic gangrene takes place. In the upper extremity, in a similar case, I would not have recourse to amputation. If secondary liemorrhage does take place,by tying the injured artery, and watching to see that the collateral circulation is carried on properly, we can often save the limb; but when the femoral artery or vein is injured there is not the same chance of saving the limb, and therefore amputation is required. When the great sciatic nerve is injured, primary amputation is generally considered necessary, because the whole innervation of the leg, at least below the knee, is impaired; but still this is not so urgent a case as when the femoral vessels are injured, and I would rather wait a little to see whether innervation might be carried on from other sources. In such cases, when gangrene sets in, it is of a subacute or chronic character. When the femur or tibia, or even the humerus, is comminuted to a great extent, and when there is much bruising of the soft parts along with such an injury —Amputate. Shell or a round shot striking a limb necessitates amputation generally. These general rules, however, must be