PYEMIA. 33 four days, wo may suspect something wrong. The disease is usually ushered in by marked symptoms, the most prominent of which are not, however, always the first to appear: they are, restlessness; diy tongue, the breath has a smell of new-made hay, and—what is a most important symptom—the skin, especially by the side of the nose and about the eyebrows, becomes yellow. These less- marked symptoms may exist for two or three weeks before pyaemia decidedly sets in, then there wUl be a rigor, at first perhaps not oftener than once in the twenty-four hours. In the interval the patient feels well, or merely complains of what he considers rheumatic pains in some of his joints; but soon the rigors become much more frequent, and are followed Ijy profuse perspiration. The peculiar odoiir of the breath becomes more marked ; the pulse rises very liigh ; the skin assumes a general yellow tinge ; pain is felt over the liver ; bronchitis supervenes, and vomiting of dark-coloured matter, and delirium, soon herald a fatal issue. After death, abscesses are usually found in the liver and lungs, sometimes in the larger joints. It was formerly supposed that this condition was due to absorption of pixs, and to its circulation in the blood, hence the term—pya3mia. This theory is now, however, abandoned, for the injection of healthy pus into the circulation is not found to give rise to the symptoms I have described. They seem, however, to be due to some ichoroiis matter either developed there or absorbed from the wound, so that the term ichorsemia would per- haps be a fitter one than pyaemia. It is objectionable, however, to alter names, if it can possibly be avoided, so that I will still adhere to the term pyaemia, begging you to remember the symptoms indicated by the name and not to be misled by its literal signification. Pyremia is thought by some to be con- tagious ; when one patient in the ward of an hospital becomes its subject, other patients who have been operated upon only too frequently become victims. This, however, is not sufficient proof of its being contagious. It is said that pyaemia very rarely occurs except in hospitals. Various reasons are assigned for this, D