48 ULCERATION. The Weak Ulcee may owe its character either to diminished vitality of the part, or to debility of the constitution generally. The following distinctive features may enable you to recognise it :—You will find it to be pale and yellowish in colour, usually soft, but sometimes oedematous ; the surface elevated above the level of surrounding parts, and covered over with exuberant granulations, which sometimes present '-a purple congested appearance, and sometimes assume a pale, flabby, pinkish or yellowish colour, but never the bright red colour presented by a healthy healing sore. The margins are generally either colourless or of a pale purplish colour, and the surrounding integument either may or may not be swollen and oedematous. Now, you might very naturally suppose that these exuberant granulations were an indication of active growth, but such is not the case, for although excessive in quantity, they are greatly deficient in quality. They are just badly-formed granulations, infiltrated with serum, and are entirely different in character from the short, firm, solid granulations, which are to be seen in healing sores, or in the ulcers of strong and healthy patients. Sometimes the granulations give way, and then the contained serum is poured out on the surface, and a yellowish, sloughy appearance is produced. A somewhat similar result may some- times follow the injudicious application of a stimulating lotion. Ulcers arising from bixrns or scalds are always weak, owing to the impaired vitality of the part, and the slow process of healing, together with the extreme exhaustion of the constitution, which always follows severe burns. In other cases the weak action arises from constitutional causes ; any injury inflicted on a person of feeble health may give rise to a weak ulcer. Like most other ulcers, they are generally more commonly met with in the inferior than the superior extremities. This is due to the fact that the lower extremities are more liable to exposure and violence than the upper, and they are also more apt to be con- gested from their dependent position. Weak ulcers are, how- ever, oftener met with in the arm than any other ordinary form of ulcer.