ix CONTENTS. LECTURE XXIII. Malignant Tumours of Bone and their Analogues in the other Textures—Their Symptoms and Effects, Local and Constitutional—Tlie Parts most liable to be attacked by them—The conditions under which Malignant Tumours may be modified anatomically, and how these should Influence our Treatment— Case—Osteoid Cancer ..... Pages 145-149 LECTUEE XXIV. Syphilis, its meaning and modes of propagation—its division into primary, second- ary, and tertiary—Primary Syphilis—outline of the characters, appearances, and symptoms of Hard and Soft Chancres—the treatment of each form 150-158 LECTURE XXV. Secondary Syphilis—Bubo, Acute and Chronic—Syphilitic Sore Throat—Syi^hi- litic Affections of the Skin—Papular, Pustular, Squamous, and Vesicular— Their Treatment ...... 159-167 LECTURE XXVL Secondary Syphilis, continued—Condyloma and Warty Growths—Affections of the Lips and Tongue—Phymosis—Fissures and Contractions. Tertiary Syphilis—Tertiary Ulcers and Abscesses—Diseases of the Periosteum, Bone, and Cartilage—Treatment. Congenital Syphilis: its nature, symptoms, and treatment ....... 168-176 LECTURE XXVIL Wounds : their Natui'e and Classification—Incised Wounds : mode" of Infliction ; Appearance—The circumstances which modify or aggravate their Severity— Treatment of Incised Wounds—Arrestment of Hemorrhage—Cleanliness— Apposition of Severed Surfaces—Position of Part—Sutures—Local Applica- tions—Danger of Undue Pressure—Regimen—-Opiates—Rest . 177-183 LECTURE XXVIIL Punctured Wounds : their characteristics—The Special Dangers attending them such as—Erysipelatous Inflammation—Softening of the Muscles and Pysemia —Treatment of Punctured Wounds—By rest—Application of Cold and Anti- phlogistic Regimen—By Dilatation and Conversion into Incised Wounds— Contused and I^acerated Wounds ; definition and mode of infliction—Nature and treatment of Contusions—Lacerated Contused Wounds : how produced— Attended with great Destruction of Te.xtiu'es—Examples—Risks of Tetanus and Secondary Hemorrhage ... . 184-191