6 INFLAMMA TION. such quantity that the lymphatics are unequal to the task of conveying it away, it accumulates in the inflamed part. I must say, however, that I do not think that the rapid for- mation of the plastic exudation, as "we see it in acute peritonitis arising from injury, could be easily accounted for on the supposi- tion that it is derived from an increased action of the epithelium lining the membrane, or from its connective tissue. The theory that this fluid oozes directly out of the bloodvessels is, I be- lieve, a more correct one. But whatever be its source, this exudation is always present either in the neighbourhood or in the substance of an inflamed part. It is this abnormal exudation, which, by altering structure and interfering with natural func- tions, leads to organic change. This is well seen in the case of the inflamed cornea. The exuded material, furnished by the capillaries at the margin of the cornea, gradually occupies the branching spaces—which form channels of nutrition in the cor- neal substance—-and produces opacity. Having thus described to you the phenomena, both as ob- served by the naked eye and microscope, you will now be in a position to understand tlie causes of these phenomena. The redness is obviously due to an increased amount of blood in tlie vessels of the part ; the increased heat is chiefly produced in the same way, but more rapid oxidation of texture and molecular change in the inflamed part assist. The pain is referable at first probably to the impression made on the organic nerves which accompany the vessels, but in the advanced stages it is apparently due to direct irritation of the sensory nerves themselves by the swollen vessels, and subsequently by the pressure of the swollen textures. The swellin" is due to the distension of the vessels and the exudation. The great question now comes to be, "What causes the stagnation of the blood ?" for this is regarded by most authors as the point of departure from healthy action. Boerhaave founded his tlieoiy of inflammation upon an observation of Loewenhock, who supposed he had discovered, by means of the microscope, three different sizes of blood-corpuscles, and inferred tliat there were different sets of capillaries to suit, and that in