205 PROGRESS. time it becomes so softened, and soaked with blood and other discharges, that it is very difficult to distinguish it from the soft tissues. A careful examination must therefore be made as soon as possible, and all the paper removed. As regards the progress of gunshot wounds in the soft parts, all these wounds have a tendency to suppurate and slough to a certain extent, and to heal by secondary intention or granulation— not by the first intention. Instances have occurred of gunshot wounds healing by the first intention, but these are the excep- tions to the general rule—the very nature of the wound prevents it—the dead portions must be first got rid of by suppuration and sloughing. In most cases the track of the wound becomes inflamed, red, and swoUen ; the edges of the apertures become everted, and suppuration soon commences ; the slough separates, and then the aperture changes in character, the orifice enlarges according to the extent of the loss of vitality of the soft textures. In many cases of small-shot wounds, from the very nature of the wound, the discharges take place freely ; parts of the torn fascial textures are got rid of at once, and often suppuration, rather than much sloughing, takes place. In some cases a large wound will heal very quickly, with little or no constitutional disturbance, but gene- rally it is very different, even though the wound may not seem very serious, and where no hemorrhage of any consequence takes place. In some cases the patient may go on well for some days, then rigors set in, the tongue gets foul, and other symptoms of febrile excitement arise. The limb becomes swollen and has a glisten- ing appearance ; this condition occurs in small-shot as well as in bnllet wounds. Mr. Guthrie, who described this symptom, attributed it to phlebitis. In cases of stabs, also, as already mentioned, the muscles are found to be softened and broken down in texture. This arises from an unhealthy form of in- flammation being set up in the muscxilar textures, and leading to symptoms of pyaemia and secondary abscesses. I have seen a fatal result follow from this cause in what seemed a very trivial case of wound by smaU shot. Only a few pellets had struck the leg, and most of them only superficially. The symptoms de-