SNAKE-BITES. 199 All the symptoms generally disappear under mild treatment, such as warm fomentations, anodynes, such as Battley's solution of opium, or a drop of medicinal hydrocyanic acid in water, ap- plied locally after suction of the wound, or some slight internal stimulus ; but if the earlier symptoms have been neglected in a person of weak constitution, fatal results may follow. On the other hand, in a bite from a very venomous serpent—as the cobra—the treatment must be immediate and energetic, as the poison runs its course very rapidly, and soon proves fatal if efficient treatment be not adopted. There is chilliness and tremor, the pulse becomes low and intermittent, there is a tendency to collapse, and death may occur within a few hours ; hence the necessity for active treatment. The poison must be destroyed at once, to prevent it from getting into the system : the limb should be tied tightly above the bite, and the wound should be sucked, or a cupping-glass may be applied instead. There is no danger whatever in sucking a poisoned wound from snake-bite, provided there be no abrasion of the mucous mem- brane of the mouth or lips ; but a wine-glass, exhausted of air by a bit of burning paper, makes efficient suction without risk. Then the actual or potential cautery should be applied freely, and some strong alkaline solution to wash the parts, so as to remove all the poison. The constitutional remedies must be very powerful. Diffusible stimulants are to be given; and perhaps the best is a preparation of ammonia, called"Eau de Luce," which maybe given in doses of a teaspoonful, and at frequent intervals, along with brandy or other common stimulants to sustain the circulation, and prevent the direct sedative effect of the poison upon the heart. When the wound is on the trunk, or when the limb has been bitten high up, after trying to arrest the circulation, the cupping-glass should be applied, so as to remove the poison by suction, and tlien the cautery applied, and diffusable stimulants promptly exhibited. Afterwards, opiates may be given to pro- cure rest and allay irritation. If the patient escapes the first dangers, he very soon recovers, though sometimes secondary irri- tative fever follows and proves serious.