195 POISONED WOUNDS. the risk to tlie patient's life in trying to save the limb is much greater than after amputation. Still, in many cases, nature performs some wonderful cures : occasionally the skin borrowed from above may cover over a large surface without any great, contraction. In one case, I found the whole integuments of the penis and scrotum torn off by the bite of a horse, and left hanging loosely b]^ a mere shred. The skin was drawn back into position, and an attempt made to save it; but very soon it sloughed, and the whole penis and the testicles were left bare: yet this wound healed perfectly, so much so that little or no trace of the injury was left. In the hand, however, there is very little chance of the skin healing over the denuded parts without great permanent contraction. In other respects, the general question of amputation must be decided according to the amount of destruction of parts, and the state of the great vessels and nerves. The next division of this subject includes the various kinds of Poisoned Wounds.—The severer forms of this class of wounds are not often met with in this country, though the more trifling ones are common enough. These vary in char- acter, according to the nature of the poison. They may arise from decomposing animal matter, and such are dissection wounds, and the malignant pustule met with occasionally in butchers, which arises from their working constantly amongst dead animal matter. Wounds from punctures inflicted in the dissecting-room are not uncommon ; but, at the same time, are seldom trouble- some, unless some peculiar poison has existed in the dead body, such as that of glanders, or unless the patient's health has not been good. There is almost always something also in the state of the constitution of the recipient, which causes a simple dissec- tion wound to take on an unhealthy action. The best thing to do with a dissection wound is to suck the part well at the time, or enlarge the puncture or in- cision, so as to let it bleed more freely,, and then wash it with warm water, and perhaps take a little opening medi- cine. If we find the wound getting irritable, red, and