100 FURUNCULUS. The progress of formation may be either rapid or slow, accord- ing to the state of the constitution and the violence of the disease. The first form it assumes is that of a small pimple-like projec- tion, and the pain is of a hot, itching, and irritable character. The patient, probably, irritates it further by scratcliing or squeez- ing, and, instead of going away, the swelling increases, the base becomes broader and harder, and the body prominent and conical. Thereafter it gradually becomes more congested, until at length it presents the character already described. At length the skin be- gins slowly to ulcerate, and that generally by a series of small openings. From these unhealthy pus is discharged, and ulti- mately the minute apertures in the skin merge into one. A small mass of dead cellular tissue—the core as it is called—is then discharged, and thereafter the pain ceases. Healthy action suc- ceeds, and the part contracts and heals rapidly. The disease is essentially a circumscribed unhealthy form of inflammation of the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue, terminating in imperfect suppuration. This suppuration is in- duced by a mortification of the affected cellular substance, which proves a source of irritation. Wlien this is discharged by ulcera- tion of the apex, the disturbing cause is removed, the diseased action ceases, and the part heals. The states of the constitution which give rise to, or accompany it, are generally those as- sociated with derangement of the digestive functions. This is the case in almost all diseases of the skin—over-feeding or starva- tion may give rise to it. Eich and stimulating diet, pastry or sweetmeats, over-indulgence in the use of wine, spirits, or malt liquors, or, in short, anything which tends to disorder the system. Exposure to cold and wet, sleeping on a damp bed, or extra- ordinary fatigue, may also induce the disease. It frequently occurs, also, during the convalescence of patients from febrile attacks, and is often associated with rheumatism. The Local Treatment of Furunculus is very simple, so much so, that in. ordinary cases surgeons are seldom consulted. The boil should be first poulticed, and after a time opened by means of a crucial incision. A narrow bistoury should be run fairly