SINUS. 39 progress irregular and tortuous. After a time these attempts at closure may become more numerous and continuous, until at length the original cavity, thus Kmited by them, may assume the character of a small hardened tubular canal. From the inner surface of this channel a thickened moisture exudes, and lymph is effused into the surrounding textures, so that the channel becomes more callous and persistent, having just sufficient vitality to prevent it from sloughing, but not enough to produce healing action. A sinus may be either straight, or tortuous, generally the latter, and it may have either one or two openings. If it has only one opening it is termed incom- plete or blind: if it has two—the ond opening internally, the other externally—it is termed a complete fistula. An incom- plete fistula may have its opening either on an internal or an external surface ; in the former case it is more likely to be- come a complete fistula than in the latter, on account of the tendency of discharges to make their escape through the integu- ment. The conditions which give rise to the formation of sinus and fistula may be regarded as being partly vital and partly mechanical. The vit5,l causes consist in an original depravity or induced debility of constitution. The mechanical are—The extent and character of the original abscess ; inefficient treat- ment of the original abscess ; special causes opposing successful treatment. The tendency to the formation of sinus and fistula is regarded by some as being simply a manifestation of the strumous taint in the constitution, hence the frequency with which it is found associated with that habit; and as such patients are also the most liable to suffer from chronic abscess, we find that in nine cases out of ten, sinus and fistula supervene on that form of suppuration. But if the vital powers be lowered from any cause whatever, the liability may be induced thereby, and that all the more if aided by inefficient treatment on the part of the surgeon. For if an ordinary abscess has been only partially opened, or if one opening only has been made where there should