120 TUMOURS. them aside, or even become adherent to them, but they never really involve other structures, so that they can be safely removed by careful dissection, which we could not calculate on effecting were the tumour malignant. The tendency to ossification or calcification is most marked in the true fibrous tumours, especially those of the uterus This ossification is due to a deposition of earthy matter, carbonate or phosphate of lime, into the tumour, which gradually becomes smaller, the organic matter diminishing as the proportion of earthy matter increases. It is a slow process, and generally occurs in tumours in the structure organs. This tendency to deposit of earthy matter in fibrous tumours may, however, occa- sionally take place rapidly, and accompanied by symptoms which embarrass our diagnosis. In the case from which I removed this tumour from the forearm, the history was very much that of a malignant growth. It had attained its present size in less than three months, was very hard, irregular in form, adherent to the skin, which was beginning to ulcerate, and adherent also to the deeper structures, and the patient suffered from severe darting pains along the forearm. Yet you see it is merely a calcified tumour, which by its pressure irritated the neighbouring parts, and so gave rise to these symptoms. Although the general history of the adenoid is very much the same as that of the fibrous tumour; its growth is sometimes more ra- )iid, especially in the later stages, owing to its increased vascularity. A tumour like the fibrous or adenoid, of dense structure, may lead to ulceration from its pressure on the superimposed ])arts, and so give rise to symptoms of malignancy. The diagnosis between a small, deep-seated, fibrous tumour, and a scirrhous tumour of the breast, is sometimes difficult. The chief points to be noticed are the regular and defined form, the greater mobility of the fibrous tumour, and the absence of any retraction of the nipple, together with the age of the patient and the history of the case. When the patient is above thirty- eight—before which time scirrhus seldom appears—if the dia- gnosis be doubtful, and we find the tumour undefined and ad-