160 ^ YPHILIS. both groins affected with enlargement, redness, and pain, and sometimes even suppurating ; but these symptoms generally pass off as soon as the painful stage of the gonorrhoea ceases, and there is little tendency to suppuration. A bubo may arise from an ordinary non-syphilitic abrasion of the peiiis, just as we have buboes in the groin arising from some irritation about the toe- nails ; but in the syphilitic bubo the poison is conveyed by the lymphatics into the gland, where it seems to be elaborated, and the pus which forms in it produces exactly the same effects as the syphilitic virus, and by inoculation with such pus we can produce a chancre like the primary sore. The progress of a bubo is simply that of a gland going on from inflammation to suppuration and sometimes to ulceration. In the earlier stages we have it marked by hardness of the gland and redness on its surface, and after a time the agglutina- tion of the textures with the cutaneous surface ; the inflamma- tion extends, the parts soften, and the abscess points, and ultimately, if left to itself, ulcerates and bursts. In the earlier stages several glands may be enlarged, but in true syphilitic bubo we seldom have more than one gland affected. There the diseased condition seems to concentrate itself and the inflam- matory action goes on to suppuration. Patients are very often anxious to have the tumour discussed, to prevent this result. With this view the best treatment to adopt is to keep the patient at perfect rest in the recumbent position ; apply acetate of lead and opium, or muriate of ammonia lotions, either cold or tepid, to the surface of the bubo, and put the patient on anti- phlogistic regimen and diet. Sometimes, at the very first, and before there is any redness on the surface, or before any great amount of inflammation is present, the ectrotic treatment of bubo by pressure is employed. Firm pressure is applied over the gland, so as to give rise to discussion and prevent inflammatory swelling going on ; but this is seldom beneficial, and often tends to increase the irritation. The pain caused by the pressure is almost intolerable, and, moreover, it can only be employed at the very first, in the stage when the surgeon rarely sees the bubo.