188 CONTUSED WOUNDS. to the wound, such as solutions of chloride of soda, sulphate of zinc, or sulphate of copper, and a many-tailed bandage should be applied, so as to give some degree of compression and support to the parts. Contused and Lacerated Wounds.—All lacerated wounds are more or less contused, though some only to a very small extent. By a contusion is meant an injury inflicted by some blunt or obtuse weapon, without any breach of the integument. There may be merely rupture of some small bloodvessel, which pours out its blood into the cellular tissue, producing slight ecchy- mosis; or the force may be so great as to give rise to complete destruction of the deeper-seated soft textures, whilst the elastic skin resists the action, and even retains its vitality for some time afterwards ; for example, a spent cannon-ball or the buffers of a railway waggon may strike a limb so as to reduce it to a pulp. The great vessels are torn and injured, and the limb all but dead, while there is no division of the skin. Tliis is a bruise; so is a black eye ; but they are very different degrees of the same injury. Contusion may be a very slight or a very serious compli- cation. In all cases of bruise there is more or less ecchymosis, depending on the blood passing into the loose cellular tissue. When the deeper-seated parts have been very much contused, the ecchymosis does not appear for some days after the injury has been received ; thus, in fracture of the fibula, caused by a twist, there is, at first, pain and slight swelling of the limb, but no discoloration. The fracture is put up, and when the apparatus is removed, the skin is found to be mottled, and of a purplish and yellow colour. This arises simply from the discoloration coming towards the surface from the bruised parts under- neath. It cannot show at first, as it is deep-seated. It is important, in medical jurisprudence, to distinguish be- tween a post-mortem injury and one inflicted during life. If adead body be bruised with great force, can there be ecchymosis ? It is quite possible that, from the rupture of some of the larger veins shortly after death, a little semi-fluid blood may be effused ; but we do not have the incorporation of the blood with