165 SECONDAR Y ERUPTIONS. I than the original eruption. This copper-colour is distinctly 'marked in all the syphilitic eruptions. The febrile excitement is often well marked : the pulse is quick, there is sickness and vomiting, generally with headache, and sometimes with delirium. In other cases, as in lichen, there is no marked fever, though in every case there is more or less of a febrile state of the constitution. The third form of eruption is the Psoriasis syphilitica. This forms red spots raised from the surface of the body, and varying in size from that of a pea to that of a sixpence. They have a sort of vesicle on the top, the base being of a bright vivid red colour, and they have rather the appearance of suppuration. The fluid exudes from below the surface, and the parts desqua- mate. We have the face swollen and covered over with the red spots, and a general irritation of the skin in the neighbourhood ; and as the desquamation goes on the whole surface scales over. This condition was termed by the old writers the " true scaly- pox ;" and it is this form of eruption, above all others, which follows upon the indurated chancre, and hence some would limit the term "true pox" to this form of disease arising from the true or hard chancre. The psoriasis syphilitica is attended with a good deal of constitutional disturbance. And in it also the syphilitic sore throat is most marked and severe, though in all cases of skin eruption it is present, to a greater or less degree. The psoriasis recurs from time to time, and in the tertiary stage it sometimes becomes persistent and is very troublesome to cure ; but when it is treated actively in the secondary stage, we can generally prevent or modify its recurrence. The fourth form of eruption is the vesicular form, this very often assumes a tubercular appearance. The vesicles are slightly rounded and elevated, and are filled with opaque serous fluid; tlie vesicle bursts and forms a dark crust, under which ulceration takes place. Sometimes the ulceration undermines the parts until it comes out from below the crust; at other times it gives rise to the serpiginous ulceration so often met with in syphylitic