31 CARBOLIC ACID. sphere, and which are by some regarded as the cause of all the evils which follow on wounds and operations. Whenever, there- fore, one of these living organisms—real or ideal—or a spore of one of them, approaches a wound which has been treated in the manner I have described, it dies, and thus, the cause of all the evil being destroyed, no harm can arise from its presence in the opened abscess. As to the correctness of the theory there is very great room for doubt, but as to its practical results I can speak from my own experience, and it so happens that this has been con- siderable, for lately I have had to treat an unusual number of chronic abscesses and cases of compound fracture in my wards in the Infirmary, and in all these this method has been employed. Well, of nine cases of chronic abscess so treated, the notes of which I hold in my hand, secondary suppuration in the cavity of the abscess has not been completely checked in a single instance, and in many of them, as you may have seen, irritative fever has followed just as it does when they are treated in the ordinary way—neither better nor worse. The treatment of compound fracture has, in my hands, been attended with similar results, except indeed that the irritation in the wound seems greater than where no such means are used. Nevertheless, I will give it a further trial, because, although I do not expect such magical results as others seem to have obtained, yet I know from my own past experience that carbolic acid is most useful as an antiseptic. Some five years ago I made use of carbolic acid freely—on the recommendation of Dr. Crompton of Manchester—for foul sores, with great benefit, and subsequently I tried it in several cases of amputation as an antiseptic application to the surfaces of the flaps, but I gave it up as I found that tincture of iodine answered better. I believe that carbolic acid is really valuable as an antiseptic dressing, but I fear that, like many other excel- lent things, it will suffer from over-laudation. In this way many remedies fall out of use entirely. They are found wanting in the virtues with which enthusiasm invests them, and thus we lose the benefit of the real good they might effect.