ULCERATION. 59 upon the constitution, the special treatment is entirely constitu- tional. Some forms of ulcers of this class require particular notice, and of these we shall first consider the so-called Constitutional Sore, or Cellular Tissue Ulcer. This is a chronic form of ulceration dependent upon constitutional causes ; it is often the result of struma and syphilis combined, the syphilis being of the tertiary form. The patient, as might be expected, is generally pale and anaemic, and has a cachectic expression. The iilcer varies in ap- pearance somewhat according to the part it attacks. When situated in the limbs, it somewhat resembles the callous sore, being equally deep and thick at the edges, but these are rather more rounded and irritable. The surrounding skin is of a more delicate | shade of colour ; for while in the callous it is dark and purplish, in the constitutional it is light and pinkish. They both present the _ same glazed appearance on the surface. Tlie thickened margins are due to exudation into the cellular tissue beneath tlie skin, but the exudation is always aplastic and circumscribed in its extent. It seems to be thrown out only in the neighbourhood of the diseased part, and so the swelling is limited to the immediate vicinity of the ulcer or ulcers ; for frequently the neighbourhood becomes dotted over with a series of smaller sores. In this form of ulcer we see a marked contrast to the callous sore, for where the lat- ter exists the limb, as we have already indicated, becomes irregularly swollen and thickened throughout, giving rise to a condition resembling elephantiasis. The treatment must be both local and constitutional. In the earlier stages, when there is considerable swelling present, the application of iodine or of a blister over the exudation and round the margins of the sore will often serve, as in the case of the callous ulcer, to cause absorption of the exudation and stimulate tlie sore to a more healthy action. More sloughing and dis- integration, however, may be expected to follow here than in the case of the callous ulcer, owing to the lower vitality of the exudation in this form of ulcer. After removal of the blister, warm-water lint-dressing and bandages should be applied for