ULCERA TION. 62 Lupus is attended with a peculiar burning heat in the part, together with excessive pain and very often accompanied with fever of a low hectic kind. The Treatment, lilce that of the other specific sores, should be both local and constitutional. If in a strumous patient we find this form of herpetic eruption, or the tubercular masses beginning to form, we may have recourse to the local appli- cation of soothing remedies, such as anodyne solutions. If, notwithstanding this, the disease still advance, we must begin more active treatment at once. The surface of the ulcer should be destroyed throughout its whole extent by the application of sulphuric acid or potassa fusa. Nitric acid is more generally used for this purpose ; but I object to it because it has the effect of coagulating the albuminous portions of the textures, and thus creates a barrier which prevents its full caustic action on the whole extent of the diseased surface beyond. Afterwards simple warm-water dressings, to which a little of Condy's fluid has been added, are to be used until the irritation ceases. When the slough produced by the escharotic separates, the denuded surface may be treated with weak black lotion, which sometimes heals it up very rapidly. Should that fail, how- ever, and the sore threaten to extend, sulphate of copper may be applied either in the solid form or in saturated solution. In such cases, the sulphate will be found very useful ; it being in fact almost a specific for lupus. When much irritation exists, the stimulating lotions should be discontinued, 'and warm-water dressings resumed. Meantime the general health must be carefully attended to. Iodide of potassium should be administered in three or four grain doses, along with either arsenic or cod-liver oil, according to circumstances. Or, should the patient be very antemic, the syrup of the iodide of iron may be given at first, along with cod-liver oil. Quinine, although useful in the later stages, should not be ordered in the earlier, as it is too stimulat- ing to be of service then. Occasionally a gentle saline purgative may be of use, and although, as a rule, it is not advisable to