SYPHILIS. 156 prophylactic to prevent the accession of secondary symptoms. As a remedy to promote the healing of the indurated sore, I have no faith in it, but as a remedy in secondary, and in some forms of tertiary syphilis, it is very valuable. The remedies most to be trusted to are the preparations of mercury, given in small doses, and only when the sore does not heal readily. Mercury is not to be given in every case as a prophylactic, or to cure the primary sore, unless it refuses to heal under the use of the ordi- nary remedies. Mercury has fallen very much into disrepute from its having been formerly pushed to an excess. It used to be considered as a specific for all venereal cases, even for gonorrhoea ; and in all sores, whether they were healing or not, it was given as a prophylactic in large quantities, the patient being expected to spit so much saliva every day. But this was merely the abiise of a very useful remedy. In many cases, undoubtedly, mercury will produce symptoms very like those of secondary or tertiary syphilis, but except in certain constitutions, mercury in small doses is the proper remedy to give when the indurated sore re- fuses to heal. It is sometimes said that secondary symptoms do not follow after an indurated chancre which has healed rapidly ; but this mistake arises in great measure from patients being told by the surgeon that there is no risk of secondary symptoms coming on after the primary sore is healed. If, however, as not unfrequently happens, secondary symptoms do appear, then the patient, losing confidence, applies to another surgeon for advice, and hence arises the fallac}^ as to the non-occurrence of secondary symptoms after an indurated chancre. In the Lock Hospital, however, especially among the female patients, who are necessi- tated to come back to the hospital for treatment, it is found that secondary symptoms do follow, even though the primary hard chancre has healed rapidly. The mercurial treatment should not be pushed too far ; the simple blue pill or the iodide of mercury in small doses may be given until the slightest foetor in the breath is produced, or until very slight salivation occur, and then the mercury should be discontinued. We may afterwards use some gentle saline laxative