125 ERECTILE. to a portion of fine sponge wliich lias imbibed a large quantity of red wax, and which has been cut open after cooling. In the great majority of cases of erectile tumour, and especially in the earlier stages, there is no tendency to enlargement of the great vessels in the neighbourhood, nor do the vessels entering the tumour present any very great enlargement outside the tumour, though they become dilated and tortuous immediately after they enter it. There is a form of aneurism by anastomosis, where we find a large number of dilated and tortuous vessels, behind the ear and on the scalp, but this is different from the erectile tumour. The ntevus is sometimes merely a discoloured mark, and not a prominent tumour, or it may project as a distinct erectile tumour. Formerly this form of disease was considered to be malignant; Mr. John Bell stated that the tumour, if interfered with at all, should be cut out and not cut into, and that there would be little or no bleeding, and no tendency to return if we cut wide of the growth. He was the first who drew attention to the fact that the neighbouring vessels were not at all enlarged, but he was wrong in supposing the disease to be malignant. As regards the Treatmmi of erectile tumours, the general principle is to cause obliteration of the vascular texture by in- ducing inflammation and coagulation ; and this may be effected in various ways. Cure, more or less complete, may arise from the part becoming inflamed from accidental causes, as in this remarkable case of arterial njevus of one side of the face, in which gumboil resulting from a carious tooth led to inflammation and abscess of the cheek, and to obliteration of the greater portion of the nasvus. There was not the slightest tendency to htemorrhage when I opened the abscess, and the part which had been affected by inflammation gradually assumed the natural colour and ap- pearance. I wished to excite inflammation in the rest of the nsevus, but the patient declined, so the nose and upper part of the face remain vascular and discoloured. We may strangulate erectile tumours by passing needles with strong threads through the base of the growth and tying them very tightly ; the part which projects sloughs off, and the part still left is affected by the inflammatory action set up, and this action is sufficient to obliterate it. Tliis