23 ACUTE ABSCESS. margins of the wound become red, tense, and everted ; the patient has a chill or a rigor ; and when this occurs, we infer that sup- puration is about to take place. Then the edges become more everted, pus is formed and thrown off freely, the pain begins to abate, and the symptomatic fever declines. Though the wound still retains a slightly purplish colour, the tension, redness, and hardness, diminish. The symptomatic fever was formerly con- sidered to be caused by pus circulating in the blood. This idea, however, has been abandoned. The alleviation of the constitutional symptoms is due to the relief of the local conges- tion and tension. In Interstitial Suppuration or Abscess the fever and rigor occur as in superficial suppuration ; but when the ]3us has formed, no relief is obtained—the pain and tension are in fact increased, for here the i)urident matter is confined, and gives rise to increased tension and pain. Abscess occurs in two forms —the ac%te, and chronic. The acute form is divided into circum- scribed, diffused, and infiltrated. In Circumscribed Acute Abscess the ordinary symptoms of acute inflammation precede the suppuration ; the pain and ten- sion increase, inflammatory fever supervenes, the colour of the part changes to first a bright red and then a purplish hue, and when the abscess is deeply situated, there is acute oedema of, the superimposed cellular tissue. The hardness increases from the exudation which is thrown out. Succeeding these symptoms we have a distinct chill or rigor, indicating incipient suppuration. In the centre or focus of the diseased action pus is formed, and 'around this is a layer of condensed plastic material forming a hard boundary : this has been called the cyst of the abscess. As the suppuration goes on, the lymph decreases in quantity and density. The purulent fluid, liy its presence, causes absorption of the plastic matter, and tends to point towards one or other of the free surfaces of the body—the cuta- neous or the mucous ; generally the former. If situated near the surface tliere is redness and swelling, with a hard resisting portion around the abscess. If the abscess be left untouched, it