58 THE CONSTITUTIONAL ULCER. The margins may be thickened and rounded, or irregular and ragged, and are liable to be modified by rapid inflammation attack- ing the original sore. The ulcer appears as if scooped out with a gouge ; its form and peculiarities, however, are chiefly determined by the constitutional conditions which accompany it, and these must in all cases be our guides as regards the treatment. We can follow no fixed indiscriminate rule, but nmst adapt our remedies to the constitutional peculiarity. Thus in some cases of cancerous ulcer we have no hesitation in cutting out tlae sore, provided that the patient be strong, the disease still distinctly localised, and the neighbouring glands unaffected, for by doing so we prevent the disease from spreading by continuity to the adjoining textures, and perhaps save the system from being involved in the morbid action. On the other hand, if the same case, or a case having a similar history, should be seen for the first time after the neighbouring tissues and the constitution have become affected, our treatment must be merely palliative, for active in- terference in such a case would only accelerate the destructive process. For although it is probable that the primary cause of the affection is to be found in some peculiarity of constitution in the blood or in the solid textures, it is nevertheless true that the local disease acts as a germinal centre for the propagation of the malignant action, and supplies materials for the develop- ment of morbid deposits in other regions of the body. So that, by timely excision, we not only delay the fatal result, but give the patient the only chance of permanent innnunity from the disease. In other forms of specific ulcer, due to constitutional causes, we do not have recourse to removal by the knife, because the parts beyond would immediately take on the diseased condition, but we combine internal remedies with local treatment. In primary syphilis, for example, we treat the local disease by applying escharotics so as to destroy the surface of the chancre ; and if constitutional symptoms afterwards appear, we give mercurials along with iodide of potassium—but we do not excise the ulcer. In scrofulous ulcer, which is chiefly dependent