INFLAMMA TION. 10 lieve the choice of hot or cold applications is a matter of tact and experience. It is true we try to explain their modus operandi by saying that cold allays irritation of the part, and moderates excessive vascular action by causing vital contraction of the vessels, so limiting inflammation to tlie minimum; and that heat acts by soothing the nerves and relaxing the vessels and tissues, so that the vessels more easily relieve themselves by effusion. But the great question is, in what conditions does the one or other of these remedies act beneficially ? What indica- tions has the surgeon which of them to prescribe? My own experience leads me to believe that the benefit of cold applica- tions is limited to a comparatively short period of the inflamma- tory process—viz. excited action, and perhaps active congestion of a part—and is chiefly useful as preventing or modifying the subsequent phenomena. Heat, on the other hand, in the form of tepid applications such as lint dipped in lukewarm water answers better, and is more soothing when inflammation is fully established ; and I have especially noticed this in great wounds, in which, if cold be continued beyond six or eight hours, uneasi- ness, increased pain, and a low form of local inflammation are induced, whereas a change to tepid applications soothes, removes redness and swelling, and favours the healing process. We can relieve the congested capillaries directly by local depletion, or indirectly by diminishing the force of the heart, while we at the same time do what we can to allay local irrita- tion. We can readily deplete some inflamed parts by making an incision into them ; the incision, in addition to relieving the distended blood-vessels, permits the pent-up exudation to escape, and so diminishes tension. In some cases, instead of bleeding the inflamed part itself, we draw blood from a neighbouring part, whose vessels directly communicate with it. In conjunctivitis, for example, if blood be taken from the anterior branch of the temporal artery, we find that the vessels of the conjunctiva are emptied, and the part begins, under the bleeding, to assume its normal appearance. This form of depletion may, however, affect the inflammation in another way ; it may cause faintness, and