172 SYPHILIS. and after it may be several attacks of the secondary condition, and tlie symptoms are generally most marked when the patient's health has begun to deteriorate from some other cause. Sq long as the patient is well nourished and taken care of, the tertiary symptoms may be altogether absent or very much modified, even though the primary and secondary conditions have been very severe ; but on the other hand the patient may have very slight secondary symptoms, perhaps none to attract attention, and yet suffer from tertiary symptoms. In the tertiary stage pains are felt in the joints and long bones, with rheumatic pains in the head and intense headache, and occasional attacks of sore throat. Constitutional or cellular- tissue ulcers, as they are termed, occur in different parts of the body. These ulcers present the appearances already spoken of —namely, either a circumscribed exudation round a hoUowed-out sore, with unhealthy-looking surface, sometimes very irritable, or showing a tendency to burrow, or they may assume the serpiginous form, the whole limb presenting the appearance of a mass of ulcers which blend into one another. In these cases we almost invariably find that the constitution is debilitated from some previous cause, either from an extremely scrofulous diathesis, or from the effects of large doses of mercury, or very generally from a combination of these, with dissipated habits or other causes of weakness. The symptoms met with in tertiary syphilis are constitutional ulcers, inflammation and pain in the bones, and the formation of granular nodes. Under the periosteum there may be a feeling of fluctuation and a raised swelling ; if an opening be made at the part a few drops of unhealthy pus escape, but a considerable amount of exudation still remains, and the part is certain to ulcerate and expose unhealthy bone below; this condition is termed the syphilitic periostitic abscess, and it ought never to be opened if we can possibly avoid doing so. Again, in the head there is intense rheumatic or periostitic headache. Ulcerations of the scalp take place, attended with unhealthy exudation into the scalp tissue, and the connective