CA USES. 91 interfered with and obscured by tlie swelling, so tliat the whole countenance assumes a passive stolid expression, or rather want of expression, which we meet with in almost no other con- dition. In all cases of erysipelas, but more esx^ecially when the head and face are affected, there is a tendency to wandering and delirium ; and even in its slightest forms we may expect to find this present in some degree. The causes of erysipelas may be epidemic, local, or consti- tutional. It may arise locally from injury, or from improper, foul, or rancid dressings to wounds or sores; but probably, in almost every case, the disease is more or less dependent upon some exciting cause, either epidemic or constitutional. It occurs most frequently in those who live freely, and in- dulge in the abuse of spirituous liquors. It is sometimes caused by mental emotions, which give rise to disturbance of the phy- sical condition of the body. It may also arise from exposure to extremes of cold or heat. The latter is a very frequent cause ; and to this we may perhaps attribute the frequency with which erysipelas of the head and face attacks cooks and others whose occupations expose them to constant high temperatures ; per- haps, also, somewhat to their habits. In certain states of the atmosphere erysipelas prevails very generally—most usually during the spring and autumn months. It has been remarked that puerperal fever and scarlatina often prevail at the same time; and this, taken with the fact that attendance on one may communicate the other, inclines me to believe that a strong analogy exists between these diseases ; and midwifery practitioners are properly very cautious of attending on erysipelatous diseases. Of the terminations of erysipelas the most desirable is resolu- tion. When this takes place the redness gradually fades, the swelling subsides, the vesicles disappear, absorption progresses, the skin becomes shrivelled, and the cuticle speedily desqua- mates ; the constitutional symptoms disappear. Thereafter the parts gradually resume their wonted character and appearance. When the inflammation has extended to the cellular tissue