119 FIBROUS AND ADENOID. cisioii, and that as early as possible, before complicatious arise, and before its bulk renders its removal formidable. The Fibrous Tumoue is composed of fibrous texture ar- ranged in regular masses, and sometimes lobulated. Between the different layers of fibre there are generally interstices con- taining fluid. When a section of the tumour is made, the appearance presented is very like that of the fibrous textures of the body. It is separated from the surrounding structures by a layer of condensed cellular tissue, and has often a sort of cyst or covering of its own. Adenoid Tumouks, Pancreatic saixoma of Abernethy, are usually included under fibrous tumours. They have nearly all the characteristics of fibrous tumours, but are different in structure. They were originally called pancreatic, from their great similarity in appearance to the pancreas. Their general history is the same as that of the fibrous tumour—slowness of growth, greater consistency than the vascular sarcoma or fatty tumour, and greater tendency to undergo local degeneration or breaking-down, or to become ossified or calcified, though the latter change takes place much oftener in the true fibrous than in the pancreatic tumour. Under the term pancreatic sarcoma used to be included many tumours which were not very like the pancreas, though possessing a gland-like structure, and there- fore the term adenoid or gland-like tumour is now used, as being- more correct, to include them alL The Adenoid Tumour is frequently developed in the neighbourhood of glands, such as the parotid, compressing that structure, or displacing it, so as to resemble a tumour of the parotid itself. Fibrous and adenoid tumours are perfectly simple ; they have no tendency to become malignant, though they may de- generate locally so as to ulcerate and fungate, and give rise to symptoms of malignancy, they do not become truly malignant so as to afiect the constitution and forbid their removal by opera- tion. They are very firm in consistence, and are well defined. When they come in contact with important parts, such as large vessels or nerves, they may lie irpon_, partially surround or push