68 SL O UGHING PHA GED.-ENA. great destruction of tissue may occur. In some cases of black phagedenic chancre on the prepuce, the whole integument of the penis, and ocoasionallj^ even large portions of that organ, may slough in the course of twenty-four hours. As the ulceratiou or slough- ing extends, some of the enlarged subcutaneous vessels may be opened into without time being given for hjemostatic changes, and very considerable loss of blood may occur. Occasionally when this takes place the surrounding tension and redness diminish and the action is arrested for a time or altogether. These local conditions are either preceded or accompanied by very marked constitutional symptoms of a febrile character, but these are rather of the irritative type, as in most inflammations of the erysipelatous form. There are rigors, violent headache, generally referred to the supra-orbital region, nausea, and occa- sionally vomiting of bilious or greenish-coloured matter. The tongue is foul and furred, with red edges, but dry and brown in the centre; and the pulse feels full and bounding, but after a short time becomes easily compressible. In the advanced stage we have perspirations, diarrhoea, and great prostration. The other form of phagedsena presents diflerent characters, both as regards the local appearances and the constitutional symptoms. From the appearance presented by the surface of the sore it has been named the Grey Pultaceous PhageDzENA. It is more insidious in its mode of invasion than the black phage- daena, and as it is the form which most frequently attacks opera- tion and other wounds, it is well to note its usual progress. On examination it will be found that the patient has been out of sorts for a few days before anything was noticeable in the wound. There have been chilliness, quick pulse, foul tongue, and loss of appetite, and want of sleep or disturbed sleep. The edges of the wound or sore become infiltrated, swollen, and everted, and the surface appears as if covered with a soft granular deposit of a dirty grey colour. Soon after these appearances are observed, the limb or other part becomes swollen, often very tense, of a hght pink tinge, which is deeper at the margins of the sore; in some cases there is no redness at all, the swollen limb