189 TREA TMENT OF CONTUSION. the cellular tissue, as we have in ecchymosis caused during life. The blood effused after death may discolour the parts, but it does not become incorporated with them, and we can wash or scrape it off, which cannot be done in the other case, owing to the complete incorporation which exists between it and the cellular tissue. The treatment of bruises, when slight, consists in the applica- tion of warm lotions, or opiate applications, or cold water con- tinuously applied ; but if the bruise be severe, cold may be dangerous to the vitality of the part. In the slighter bruises, when we wish to prevent the discoloration, the application of cold or evaporating lotions of acetate of lead, muriate of ammonia, or vinegar, to the surface is useful. A very popular remedy, but one v/hich can never be beneficial, particularly in bruises connected with fracture, is the application of leeches to get rid of the bruised blood; but, as has been already mentioned, the effused blood becomes incorporated with the cellular tissue, and cannot therefore be drawn off by the leeches. In fractures attended with bruising, the leeches not only do no good, but do positive harm ; they prevent the fracture from being put up at once, and the bites often create irritation. The blood, which the leeches do suck, is healthy blood, which we do not want to get rid of. When inflammatory action sets in after a contusion, then the leeches may be of use, but not otherwise. Where we have a large effusion of blood, as from rupture of a large vein, we are likely to do much harm by making incisions into the part at first, because the blood is apt to decompose and give rise to unhealthy suppuration, and thus occasion great diffi- culty in healing the wound. We rather try to get rid of it by using evaj)orating lotions to promote absorption and to prevent further extravasation from taking place. In this way we often find large quantities of extravasated blood disappearing without the necessity of making any incisions. But, if after eight or ten days, there occur rigors and feverishness, followed by redness, tension, pain, and fluctuation in the part, then an incision should be made, because suppuration has probably