J 180 INCISED WOUNDS. j supposed that an incised wound was not likely to have any ! foreign body in it. Nor has it when made by the surgeon. But, in other cases, the wound may be filled with dust and dirt, I from the patient falling and struggling on the ground after receiv- ,;i ing the wound. And in such cases this must all be removed, i either by a sponge or by the point of the finger, and afterwards ; by a stream of tepid water poured from a height. The next \ thing to be attended to is position, and bringing the parts into accurate contact. Here the direction of the wound must be j considered. If the muscular fibres be deeply divided, it is as well ; to allow the wound to remain open from six to eight hours ; or \ if we employ sutures, we should leave them loose, so that they can be easily tied afterwards. At all events, we leave the wound ] so far open that the blood and serous discharge may escape ; j and after a few hours we may wash out any clots, and bring I the edges accurately together, and so secure them. This is to be j done partly by sutures or plaster, partly by attention to position. j If the wound be parallel to the axis of the limb, we simply place ! the limb in an easy and natural position, and put in a few i sutures about an inch or so apart. The edges will unite readily ^ enough if we leave them rmcovered. If the wound be transverse | to the axis of the limb, it is as well to relax the muscular \ fibres, so as to leave as small an interval between them as ; possible. We must also prevent any accum^llation of blood or \ discharge into the cavity of a deep wound, by means of properly 1 applied compresses and bandaging, leaving the wound partially | open, and attending to position, so as to favour the discharge. Various forms of suture are employed in keeping the edges of ! incised wounds together. The ordinary Interrupted suture is j the most common. If the thread or wire causes any irritation, j it should be at once removed; and in doing so, it is better to I remove the lateral sutures, leaving the central one in, than to i remove the central ones. If the irritation caused by the sutures | be very great, they should all be removed. The Ilarclip, or con- ■ voluted suture, is also sometimes employed. The needles should j be passed deeply through the parts, and introduced at least a 1