SYPHILIS. 174 The subject of Congenital Syphilis is one of great interest in many respects ; but in a course of lectures on surgery it is im- possible, clue regard being bad to other subjects, to enter on it further than to describe its general symptoms and treatment, so that you may be able to recognise the diseased condition and adopt the proper measures for its cure when j'ou meet with it in practice; and this I shall do very briefly. By congenital syphilis, we mean syphilis contracted by a child during intra-uterine life. The transmission of the disease to the fcetus may be due to either the father or mother, or both being syphilitic at the period of conception, or the mother may contract syphilis during gestation, and transmit it to the fcetus. The child is usually weak and shrivelled at birth, and continues to have a dwining appearance, and very generally it has a peculiar snuffling breathing, accompanied with discharge of offensive mucus from the nostrils, and irritation about the eyes and eyelids. Soon after birth, affections of the skin and mucous membranes begin to show themselves in the form of cracks and ulcerations or swellings at the orifices of the mucous canals. One of the most characteristic symptoms is the occurrence of mucous tubercular patches on inside of the thighs, the nates near the anus, or on the sides of the vulva in the female, or scrotum in the male. These patches are of a brown or red colour, of copper tint, slightly elevated ; occasionally they are of a dull white colour, and vary in bulk from the size of a split j)ea to that of a shilling. They are often very irritable, and exude a thin moisture or discharge, and are of the nature of condylomata. The cutaneous eruptions are most usually either pustular or vesicular—ecthyma and eczema, are common ; the papular and squamous are less common. In children who have been affected by congenital syphilis, the teeth generally undergo a crumbling decay at an early period, the central incisors of the upper jaw being usually the first to give way. This degeneration affects the permanent, as well as the temporary, teeth, the former being usually short and pegged. As the patient grows up, he is subject to chronic pains in the bones and joints, and sometimes