42 SUPPURATION. external malleolus, it would be very severe treatment to make an incision along its whole extent, and in such a case it is better to enlarge the openings above and below to an inch or two in length, then introduce a piece of drainage tubing, or a strip of lint soaked in tincture of iodine, and draw it through the sinus, leaving it for a little tUl some action is excited ; a bandage is then applied, with a view to press the one wall of the sinus against the other, the openings being left uncovered. The sinus soon begins to heal; if, however, the part in the centre does not heal readily, we must make an incision into it and paint it with iodine as before. If this does not cure it, we must open it above and below ; and should even this prove insufficient, we must lay it open along its entire length. We may require to apply a poultice, after opening the sinus ;—according to some, this softens the callous parts. In fistula in ano, the rectal wall of the fistula is divided, like any ordinary sinus, with a probe-pointed bistoury. If any col- lateral sinuses exist, they must also be incised. In fistula in perineo, if the sinus be due to a stricture, the first part of the treatment is to cure the stricture, either by splitting it or by gradual dilatation, or by perineal section. When this is done, the urine passes more readily by the urethra than by the fistu- lous opening, and often we do not require to touch the sinus at all, as it generally soon heals of itself If, however, the sinus still continue, we must adopt other treatment. Here we do not require to open up the whole length of the sinus, but merely to dilate the orifice, and to stimulate tlie fistula, by touching it with nitrate of silver or tincture of iodine, or a red-hot wire. Fistula in perineo sometimes depends on chronic abscess of the prostate, and is exceedingly obstinate. Unless the prostatic disease be removed, the fistula may prove incurable. Ordinary fistulai, however, speedily yield to the treatment I have spoken of