THE IRRITABLE ULCER. 57 the digestive system deranged, and low febrile symptoms mani- fest themselves. All this may occur without the local inflam- mation extending far. A peculiar morbid nervous irritability in and around the margins of the sore is characteristic of this form of ulcer. The Treatment varies according to the view taken of the patho- logy of the ulcer. Opium has been greatly reconmaended both ex- ternally and internally; but although I advocate its local appli- cation in the form of fomentations, I cannot say that I so highly approve of its internal administration. I am inclined to think that it will be more likely to do harm than good, by deranging the digestive organs and arresting hepatic secretion. By far the best treatment, in my opinion, is to exhaust the morbid irrita- bility of the sore, in the early stages, by means of a thorough application of tlie solid nitrate of silver. It must not be applied lightly, but must be rubbed into the sore strongly and thoroughly. This remedy is undoubtedly painful at the time, but it is followed almost immediately by the most complete relief; the nocturnal exacerbations are got rid of, and opiates are thus rendered un- necessary. The part should be treated afterwards with warm- water dressing, and supported by bandages. If opiates have been given, they should i;ow be withdrawn, and tonics, especially chalybeate tonics, administered instead, together with a nutrient diet. This method of treatment will seldom fail to cure the irritable ulcer. It must be remembered that though in irritable ulcer you may have sometimes severe inflammation set up, with deter- mination of blood to the part, yet these are only accessory and adventitious conditions, and form no part of the special charac- teristics of the ulcer. The third class consists of ulcers which do not heal on ac- count of specific action, or peculiarity of action.—Under this head come cancerous or cancroid, syijhilitic, strumous, and scorbutic ulcers. The surface of these sores is very peculiar. It is gene- rally covered with a sloughy material of a dirty-grey or pale- yellow colour, and emits an unhealthy discharge.