PASSIVE CONGEST/ON. 5 the blood soon begins to flow with diminished rapidity ; it then moves to and fro—that is, it oscillates ; and finally comes to a complete standstill, stagnation, or stasis. This is the stage of Passive Congestion. In the normal state of the circulation you can distinguisli the individual corpuscles in the moving blood ; when complete stasis occurs, however, the outlines of the corpuscles can no longer be recognised, and the capillaries are filled with a semi-fluid gelatinous red mass. Soon after stagna- tion has taken place the intervascular spaces become clouded with a fluid of a pale straw colour. By many this fluid is sup- posed to be the liquor sanguinis which has oozed out of the vessels, and it is in consequence termed the Exudation. By others, however, it is supposed that this fluid is actually formed by the tissues outside the vessels. These changes may all be seen in the field of the microscope at one time; some regard them as concurrent phenomena, but I believe that they follow in regular sequence—each resulting from the one which preceded it. Various explanations have been offc'red as to the proximate causes of inflammation. Macartney supposed that irritation of the organic nerves of a part constituted the first cause of active congestion. Others have supposed that all the changes must be ascribed to the effect of the irritant upon the iiltimate tissues. According to some, the vital activity of the tissues is dimi- nished ' according to others, it is increased, but at the same time perverted. Professor Bennett supposes that in inflammation the power of selection possessed by the tissues is lowered, while their power of attraction is so increased that they attract the liquor sanguinis itself from the vessels, which in this way constitutes the exudation. Though it is probable that the so-called exiida- tion is derived from the vessels, it is nevertlieless maintained by Virchow and others that it is formed from the inflamed tissue itself. According to Virchow, a fluid similar to the liquor san- guinis is being constantly formed as the result of vital changes in the tissues. This fluid is conveyed to the blood by the lym- phatics. If the tissue be irritated, and this fluid produced in