154 SYPHILIS. necessary ; but it is generally very difficult to get the patient to remain quiet and not go about as usual. Treatment of the Indurated Chancre.—Here we require to be very active in our treatment. If we see the case early we must destroy the sore thoroughly and completely by another form of caustic—viz. potassa fusa, which is by far the most certain and effective caustic in destroying the indurated chancre. We must apply the caustic, not only to the surface of the sore, but also to its hard ring or base. As the potassa fusa is a very diffusible caustic, care must be taken not to let it spread too much; and for this purpose a little vinegar or lard should be applied, so as to check the too extensive progress of the caustic. The potassa fusa is preferable to nitrate of silver in cases of hard chancre, for the nitrate does not affect the deeper part of the sore, but merely destroys its surface. Nitric acid, likewise, does not reach the deeper part of the sore, and is perhaps less valuable as a caustic than the nitrate of silver. The potassa fusa destroys the whole sore, and though very painful at first, the pain is les- sened as we work down to the base, the vitality of the parts being destroyed. Another advantage of the potassa is, that its alkaline quality tends to destroy the virus more completely than any other caustic. Sulphuric acid is not so applicable to the hard chancre as the potassa fusa, for the sore is generally raised, and a fluid caustic cannot therefore be well applied. Hence, of all caustics the potassa fusa is the most readily applied, the most complete in its action, and produces no undue contraction of the parts afterwards ; but if we wish to do any good, we must be very careful to destroy every portion of the I hardened base of the sore. After the chancre has been destroyed 1 by the caustic, a poultice should be applied till the slough is quite separated. There is then an apparently increased surface of sore, but tliis is due to the retraction of the skin. Afterwards the black lotion should be applied, unless the sore has assumed i an irritable condition. This lotion is even more beneficial in the I hard than in the soft chancre; the sulphate of copper lotion I (3 or 4 grains to the ounce), or the sulphate of zinc (2 grains