SORE THROAT. 163 troublesome, slougliing, and becoming phagedenic. The treat- ment of the phagedenic bubo is to apply nitric acid or some other caustic to it so as to destroy the phagedenic ulcer- ation, and afterwards use charcoal poultices and other antiseptic remedies just as in ordinary phagedtena. This form of bubo, however, is attended with great danger to the patient, for it extends rapidly both in surface and depth, and we sometimes see the femoral artery exposed and pulsating in the sore; and if the diseased action be allowed to go on, the coats of the artery may give way and fatal hemorrhage ensue. Another secondary condition of syphilis following after the primary sore is the Acute Syphilitic Sore Throat.—This can hardly be mis- taken for an ordinary sore throat. The tonsils are of a dark-red colour, they rapidly become ulcerated, the edges of the ulcer are ragged, and have an angry red look, and the surface pre- sents a dirty yellow appearance. Owing to the swelling of its edges it looks like a deep excavation. The ulcer generally occu- pies one or other of the tonsils, but sometimes it passes towards the uvula and pillars of the fauces. There is often a con- siderable amount of febrile excitement accompanying the disease, just as in ordinary tonsillitis. The local treatment consists in the application of nitrate of silver to the surface of the ulcer. The use of warm-water gargle, and subsequently chlorate of potash gargle, or the chlorine lotion or alum gargle, may be used. Occasionally when the uvula is oedematous, we require to make punctures or scarify it, as there is a risk of acute oedema glottidis supervening, and with a view to prevent the oedema extending in other directions, we should in some cases remove part of the uvula. The usual antiphlogistic reme- dies are to be adopted to prevent the further progress of the inflammation. A more chronic form of the same disease is met with as a tertiary symptom, but it yields readily enough to local applica- tions of nitrate of silver, combined with the internal use of iodide of potassium.