CARBUNCULAR BOIL. 101 tlirougli the base in botli directions, and then the core or slough squeezed out. Should the core prove slow of separation, how- ever, touch it over freely with nitrate of silver. Thereafter apply poultices, and when the slough has separated use simple warm-water dressings or stimulating lotions as the case may require. The Constitutional Treatment must be conducted on general principles, according to the circumstances of each particular case. If the patient be feverish, with hot skin, scanty urine, and con- stipation, small doses of colchicum, and saline purgatives, are use- ful, followed by small doses of rhubarb and potash to regulate the bowels. If the urine be very acid, alkalies should be exhibited, but if it be at all phosphatic, alkalies are to be avoided, and dilute nitric or nitro-muriatic acid given instead. In cases ac- companied with anaemia, the use of chalybeate remedies will be found very beneficial; and in cases of debility, the use of quinine and other bitter tonics may be had recourse to with advantage. But this department of the treatment really belongs more to the domain of the physician than the surgeon. Sometimes we meet with cases in which, after the small boils fade away, one particular boil becomes very much enlarged and prominent, assuming a less acuminated form, and having a broader and more congested base, with greater surrounding hard- ness. This is termed the Carbuncular Boil. In this form the skin texture is more largely affected, and the subcutaneous cellular tissue becomes secondarily involved. The Local Treatment of carbuncular boil is of greater import- ance than that of the simple form. We require to make very free crucial incisions through and beyond the base—not only in order to allow the matter at the top to escape, but also to provide for the separation of the slough, which would cause great irrita- tion if left behind. This treatment will also tend to relieve tension and diminish pain. Poultices are then applied to allay irritation, and favour the separation of the slough. The consti- tutional treatment must, as in the case of ordinary boil, be regulated according to the condition of the patient's health.