XIII EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 121. The tumour was sixteen years in attaining tlie bulk shown in tlie plate. Fig. 2 is from a photograph of a patient who was under my care in the Royal Infirmary. In her case the tumour developed itself in less than eighteen months, and was attended with great pain. TUMOURS.—Plate VI.—Page 142. Osteosarcomatous Tumour of Fore-arm, described at p. 142. WOUNDS.—Plate VIL—Page 184. Fig. 1. Sketch of a wounded soldier. The ball entered in the forehead, penetrated the skull and drove up the bone, elevating two por- tions at an angle. (From sketch by the late Sir Charles Bell. Finished oil-painting in Museiun of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.) Fig. 2. Sketch showing the apparently eccentric course of a bullet. When the arm is extended it j)resents the appearance of having been penetrated by two separate balls instead of one. This is due to the position in which the arm was when wounded. That posi- tion is indicated by the dotted outline. The bullet entered the back of the wrist, came out at the front of the fore-arm, re-entered the front of the arm, and ultimately was lodged under the skin at the back of the upper arm—pp. 201-2. Fig. 3. Sketch showing nature of wound inflicted by a charge of small shot when fired close to the part. The aperture of entrance is small and well defined, not unlike that caused by a bidlet. The aperture of exit is large and irregular, the textures being torn i;p by the shot, from the expansion of the charge in passing through them—pp. 203-4. Fig. 4. Sketch of penetrating bayonet wound, illustrating the appearance of punctured wounds in general. The form of wound is caused by the triangular shape of the weapon. The edges are slightly inverted, and so contracted by the elasticity of the skin as merely to represent three lines meeting in the centre. The darkness is caused by extravasation of blood under the integument. This wound penetrated the liver, diaphragm, and lung. The peculiar expression of face is the effect of these internal lesions. (From a patient, L'Hospital de la Charite, Paris, sketched by Dr. John Smith, Feb. 1850.) WOUNDS.—Plate VIU.—Page 214. The sketches in this plate exhibit the immediate and secondary effects of gunshot wounds in the shaft of a long bone. (The specimens are in the Aloock Collection in the University of Edinburgh.) Fig. 1. Gunshot fracture of femur. The large and somewhat square opening marks the exit of the ball ; whilst a longitudinal