219 RESECTION. cases submitted to expectant treatment, because less severely wounded, 8 died from exhausting suppuration, 4 left with fistu- lous openings, and 3 were cured by secondary excisions. Out of 40 resections of the elbow only 6 died, 1 required secondary amputation for gangrene of the fore-arm. Of the rest, some were anchylosed, which result is attributed—justly, I think—to the operation being performed secondarily. I think that to give the operation a fair chance it should be performed as soon after the receipt of the injury as possible ; because inflammation and suppuration soon set in, and the operation has then to be performed under great disadvantages. In injuries of joints caused by small shot, excision is unsuitable, because the shot expands after entering, breaks up the bone into fragments, and tears all the surrounding soft parts. These injuries are therefore not to be considered in the same category as the former, where there is simply the track of the ball, which may be converted into part of the incision. Indeed a method of treating gunshot wounds of the soft parts has been tried in America during the late war—namely, to con- vert them into incised wounds—and the results in some cases have been favourable, and in excision of the joint, this is what we do as regards the soft parts wounded. In small-shot wounds ampu- tation is necessary as a rule, though there are exceptional cases on record in which the joint was greatly injured and yet the limb saved. In the lower extremity, the treatment of gunshot wounds of the hip, knee, and ankle presents points of difference from that of injiaries of the arm. In civil practice, or in cases where there is an hospital at hand, and in military practice, when an army is in position, we may attempt primary excision of the knee or ankle; but when we require to transport the wounded a considerable distance, and when the patient is subjected to un- favourable conditions, excision cannot be expected to prove so successful. In the upper extremity, amputation should not be performed till excision has been tried ; if the bone be found shat- tered into the shaft, then amputation must be performed. When the ball is lodged in a bone near the surface we proceed on the