110 TUMOURS. increases by any inherent power or self-organising matter, but rather the contrary ; for we have seen that if inflammatory exudation be poured ou.t rapidly, and in large amount, it may interrupt the nutrition and destroy the vitality of the part. On the other hand, tumour-growth is of itself; it has a vital and pathological individuality of character, so that while tumours may be regarded as parts of the body, yet they grow by an in- herent force of attraction and assimilation, by multiplication of their own cells, and they depend upon the surrounding textures for little more than the blood from which they derive the mate- rials appropriate for the purpose of organisation. A tumour increases constantly and with increasing rapidity. An inflam- matory swelling increases only so long as the morbid condition of the surrounding parts continues. Second. The material or exudation thrown out in each case has different capacities of development, for while in tumours the new material may alternately assume a variety of forms or structures, the inflammatory exudation possesses scarcely more than the single capacity to form white fibroid tissue. But perhaps the most marked points of contrast between inflammatory swelling and tumour-growth are to be found in the conditions which are presented by each subsequently to the organisation of the materials or exudations which compose them. Organised inflammatory exudations, like those provided for the repair of injuries, are usually of a kind which constantly approximate to the healthy condition and form, if not to the exact tissue of the parts amongst which they are situated, or they gradually waste away, and all superabundant matter is thus got rid of With tumours the case is just the reverse. In them the new material continues to increase and develope by inherent and peculiar self-organising power, diverging further and further from the natural form and structure. Although resembling natural tissues, yet they differ in their laws of development; they are not dependent on, nor do they grow in proportion to the rest of the body, but often seem to develope themselves at the expense of the system, for they continue to in-