SYPHILIS. 152 ments of the penis, or on the prepuce, and whilst it ex- tends in surface the hard base continues to extend likewise. The ulcerated surface may heal and yet the induration remain, so that in the prepuce we often find an indurated mass remaining after the ulceration has healed, from which the diseased condition may spread. As the ulceration goes on, the edge may become less marked perhaps, but there is still left a dense ring or margin, very distinct from that of the simple chancre. Even in cases where, from particular local action taking place, phagedsena or sloughing occurs, and where there may be great loss of substance, still the hard margins remain to mark the true character of the sore, and hence this may be considered as one of the most characteristic features of the Hunterian chancre. The constitutional effects following on the indurated chancre are most marked, and it is on this account called the true as contrasted with the soft chancre. Unity and Duality of the Syphilitic Vines.—Some hold that the different characters of the primary sores and of their effects show that there are two distinct forms of the poison—one miich more virulent than the other ; but from what I have seen myself of the disease, and judging by the evidence adduced, I do not believe in two distinct poisons, though I consider that the poison may differ in degree rather than kind, and that the same poison may produce different forms of sores, owing to the susceptibility of the part affected and other conditions. In proof of this, it has been found that two men have been affected with different forms of sore from the same woman ; and several instances of this occurrence are recorded. As regards the secondary symptoms, we can never tell when they may arise. The character of the soft chancre generally shows that the poison has been less virulent; but, at the same time, secondary symptoms may follow under certain consti- tutional conditions : even when the soft chancre has healed, and in cases where no hardness whatever had existed, I have seen secondary symptoms ensue. The simple soft chancre is much less likely to be followed by constitutional symptoms than the