203 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. scribed above came on three weeks after injury. On examina- tion of tlae wounded limb after death, two or three No. 4 shot were found to have penetrated the substance of the gastrocnemus, and its fibres were softened and studded with little points of suppuration. In those cases where the shot strikes the surface rather than enters cn masse, the wound goes on more favourably; the degree of force is not so great, and the skin is thrust aside rather than injured ; and though sloughing of the deeper textures takes place, there is plenty of skin left to cover in the wound, and the results are generally favourable. In some cases, however, of gunshot wounds, whether inflicted by small shot or ball, there is a risk of secondary hemorrhage. Primary hemorrhage is not so com- mon in bullet wounds as in those from small shot, especially if the shot be enclosed in a cartridge. A ball entering the thigh may not cut across the femoral artery, it may strike the sheath of the vessel and impair its vitality, and so lead to unhealthy sup- puration—the coat of the artery sloughs, giving rise to secondary hemorrhage ; or the same may take place with the femoral vein. In cases of secondary hem_orrhage, when the bleeding vessel is secured, we must watch how the collateral circulation is carried on. In one of my cases, the brachial artery was exposed, and remained intact, though one of the veins was injured, and the ulnar nerve and inferior profunda artery divided. The limb be- came swollen, and about a week after the injuiy v/as received bleeding from the main artery took place, which was at once ar- rested by a ligature. In this case the circulation went on quite well by the remaining collateral branches, and the man made a good recovery with little loss of power in the arm. As regards lesion of nerves. If a nerve be torn or partially divided, it should be completely divided, just as in lacerated wounds. If it be completely torn across, the torn end should be cut evenly across so as to prevent nervous irritation, which might give rise to tetanus ; partially-divided large nerves such as the sciatic or median, should not be cut across ; opiates are to be given to relieve the pain and constitutional irritation.