19 CUPPING. their use is somewhat difficult to estimate or regulate. If, how- ever, leeches are to be applied, the surface should first be well washed with warm water. When they drop off, a warm sponge should be held to the part to encourage the flow of blood. If the bleeding from a leech-bite threatens to be troublesome, it may be arrested by taking a small needle and transfixing the wound, then tying a thread round it. Cupping is the more convenient mode of depletion ; it is very beneficial in certain cases, such as acute affections of the joints. The operation consists in placing an exhausted glass cup over a number of scarifications made by an instrument designed for the purpose. The scarificator consists of a metallic box, with slits corresponding to a dozen revolving lancets contained within it ; these, when at rest, are concealed from the view, but, oij touching a spring on the side of the instrument, they are made to perform an instantaneous revolution, and, in doing so, each point projects for a certain distance through a narrow slit in the case ; and if the scarificator be placed against the surface of the body and the trigger pressed, each lancet makes a corre- sponding incision through the skin. Then a cupping glass, which resembles a small tumbler, is exhausted of air by means of a spirit-lamp, and placed over these incisions, and the blood is rapidly drawn into it by means of suction. Before the incisions are made, the part should be well warmed, and an exhausted cup applied so as to determine the blood to the siu'face. The scarificator should then be " set" so as thereby to determine the depth of the scarifications. By placing the instrument on half-cock, yoii will at once see the length to which each point will project when in action, and you must be guided in adjusting them by the stoutness or leanness of your patient, and the part of the body on which you are to operate. Be care- ful to follow a middle course. Do not make the incisions too deep, lest you penetrate the cellular tissue, and so cause the blood to flow into it, nor too shallow, or but little blood will come, nor