CONGENITAL. 175 a peculiar joint affection closely resembling white swelling ; which, however, is more amenable to appropriate treatment. If the patient be of a strumous diathesis, all the constitutional symptoms become more serious. Treatment.—Looking to the dwining, weakly, and irritable state of the infant, you might think congenital syphilis a very hopeless disease for treatment, and yet I know few diseases where appropriate remedies judiciously exhibited, and combined with nutritious diet, so rapidly effect a change for the better in the state of the patient. A few doses of gray powder produce almost j marvellous results. The marasmus or wasting is arrested, the ' child begins to take food, nutrition goes on, and the skin-affec- tions and condylomatous patches on the nates or genitals begin to disappear under the action of the medicine ; or if they prove obstinate, dusting them with calomel, or the application of sulphate of copper, either in solid or solution, speedily effects their removal. The calomel is the preferable application as being devoid of pain, and it is very effectual; it should be puffed upon the affected part from a small India rubber injecting-bag, so that it is ap- plied in the form of an impalpable powder. Inunction Avith weak mercurial ointment has been recommended as preferable to giving grey powder or other mercurials internally, but I have found the grey powder so simple and efficacious that I have never tried any other alterative remedy. It seldom requires to be given for any length of time, and so soon as the infant begins to gain flesh and to take food, and nutrition is fairly established, little or no treatment is required, except, perhaps, local applications. Salivation is not to be looked for, indeed it is almost impossible to salivate an infant, nor is it desirable ; all that we want is a slight alterative effect of the mercury, and that is sufficiently gained by a few doses of 1 two grains of gray powder. In regard to nourishment—the really | most important part of the treatment—a healthy nurse should, if possible, be obtained, or, failing that, goat or ass milk, or cream and whey with a small proportion of sugar, given in preference to farinaceous food. As the child grows up, beef-tea, essence of beef, and cod-liver oil may be given if they agree with the