THE VARICOSE ULCER. 65 perchloride of iron or tincture of matico. The epistaxis, if troublesome, sliould be arrested by plugging the nostrils. In this disease comparatively slight exertion on the part of the patient may be followed by fatal syncope, and hence great caution is required. Another form of ulcer arising from a special cause is the Varicose Ulcer. This possesses the characters of a weak or in- dolent sore. It generally occurs on the legs, and always in con- nection with dilated and varicose veins. In these the blood accumulates, the circulation is retarded, and the proper nutrition of the limb is thu.s interfered with. Oedema takes place in the neighbourhood of the affected veins; this leads to undue pres- sure, hence to loss of vitality, and at length to ulceration. In the first stage the ulcer so produced has a slightly raised margin. Its surface is brownish in colour and imhealthy in appearance, and its action is weak. Gradually the oedema increases, the infiltration becomes more solid, the limb becomes unshapely and the sore gradually assumes the appearance and character of a callous ulcer. When we have to treat an ulcer of this kind, the patient should be placed in the recumbent posture and the limb slightly raised, so as to favour the venous return. Local support should be afforded by means of a bandage applied round the limb from the foot upwards, so as to aid the circulation and promote ab- sorption. The ulcer should be treated by the application of black wash to the surface, and in some cases this may with ad- vantage be preceded by the use of nitrate of silver. Under such treatment the sore will heal rapidly in most cases. The black lotion in particular seems to possess an almost specific action, but occasionally the chlorinated soda or chloride of zinc lotions may be used alternately with it. If the ulcer assumes an in- dolent form, it should be treated in the manner already indicated for the cure of indolent sores. After being healed, such ulcers are very liable to break out again, as the varicose condition which gives rise to them can seldom be completely remedied. F