212 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. be temporarily arrested, but occurs again and again till the patient is exhausted. The bleeding does not come from any particular vessel. It may even occur when the patient is con- valescent. Mr. Guthrie attributed it to the state of the patient. It occurred in several cases in the Peninsular war, but it is not a common form of hemorrhage, and I have never seen it occur after gunshot wounds, though I have seen a form of hemorrhage like it after operations for malignant disease—a grumous bloody discharge going on incessantly from the whole surface of the wound. As regards the prognosis of bullet flesh wounds : If no bone be broken, or if no great vessel be injured, and if the ball be extracted immediately, the result will most likely be favourable ; though fatal consequences may follow from the softening of the nmscular texture, and from pytemia and phlebitis setting in. The prognosis in the case of small-shot flesh wounds is not so favourable, as the amount of injury is difficult to estimate. In one case the injury appeared very trifling, and the surgeon tried to save tlie hand, but in a few days inflammation set in, with great swelling of the limb, and the patient was placed under my care. I then made incisions in different parts of the limb to allow of' the escape of the discharges, and removed all the wadding ; the limb was placed in a tepid bath, and the other treatment carefully attended to ; but, notwithstanding, secondary amputation was required, and this had to be performed in the upper arm, and under much less favourable circumstances than if partial amputation of the hand had been performed at once. In this case some of the metacarpal bones were injured, having the periosteum stripped off, and this formed an important feature in the injury. In another case under my care the injury looked much more formidable : the man had received the shot from both barrels of a gun in the fore-arm, where the charges had lodged; the whole limb, when he came into the hospital, was tense, painful, and erysipelatous, and the pulse could not be felt; but the patient was not in a state for amputation being performed. Here I enlarged the opening of entrance, and