32 SUPPURATION. The dangers accompanying suppuration, whether in the acute or chronic form, are of two kinds—constitutional and local. The Constitutional Dangers are the liability to three forms of fever—the Irritative, of which I have already spoken, Hectic, and Pyccmia. Hectic Fever either succeeds the irritative fever, or occurs when the discharge of pus is profuse or long-continued. During the day the patient feels comparatively well, but towards evening the skin becomes hot, the pulse rises, and he complains of weariness and lassitude ; while at night the symptoms are much more intense, aching pains are felt all over the body, and, after a feverish slumber, the patient awakes in the morning covered with perspiration. The cheeks are flushed, but the rest of the face is pale. The rapidity and compressibility of the pulse increase. The patient gradually grows weaker, and often dies from exhaustion. Hectic fever used to be considered as an intermittent fever, but it is really more of the remittent type, because, during the intervals between the attacks—that is, during the day—the patient is never perfectly well. In irritative fever the secretions are arrested, but in hectic the urine is often increased in quantity, and may be loaded with urates ; whilst, if perspiration be checked, diarrhoea generally comes on. Some- times, however, it does so while the perspiration continues. This is a very bad sign, and generally precedes the fatal issue. The treatment of hectic fever consists in getting rid of the source of irritation and of the discharge, and in supporting the patient's strength as much as possible by tonics—iron, wine, cod-liver oil, and nourishing diet. If the disease depends on some affection of internal organs, we can only palliate the symptoms, as we cannot remove the source of the irritation, which lies beyond our reach. Pyemia is another of the constitutional dangers. It is generally met with in connection with deep-seated suppur- ation, and after operations and severe injuries. Wlien pyasmia is about to supervene upon an operation or injury, the pulse keeps high. Indeed, if the pulse do not fall below 100 after three or