78: MORTIFICA TION. cisions so as to relieve the tension, get rid of the sloughs, allow the escape of the gases which may have been formed, and so give a chance of recovery. After the incisions, apply charcoal poultices to the part affected. In extravasation of urine, it would do no good to pass a catheter and draw off the urine ; it would certainly prevent further extravasation, but it would not affect the textures injured by the urine already extravasated. The treatment is obviously to make free incisions in the scrotum and perineum, or other part, in order to allow the extravasated urine and sloughs to escape. In cases of gangrene, generally, where there is any tension, we make incisions into the part to allow the exudation and gases to escape. And by making free cuts through the slough we do good, because it often forms a sort of mechanical barrier to the escape of the putrid fluids below it. In cases of acute gangrene we must be very cautious about giving stimulants at first. When the patient is weak, however, we require to give them in sniall but gradually increasing- quantities, as well as opiates and nourishing diet. Ammonia may also be given in extreme cases to stimulate the patient, but not in cases of urinary infiltration, for it tends to ren- der the urine alkaline, and thereby to favour its decomposition. During the irritative fever, we must avoid over-stimulation, which might excite the gangrenous process to greater activity ; and therefore we give nourishing but not very stimulating diet —such as farinaceous with a little animal food. The excretions must of course be attended to. As regards the question of Amputation in Traumatic Gan- grene in cases of acute gangrene, where the violence of the injury has been of such a kind as qiiite to account for the loss of vitality of the part, there can be no hesitation as to the pro- priety of the operation. Where the part is quite gangrenous we should amputate at once, before constitutional symptoms have set in, because if we leave it alone the gangrene will certainly spread, and irritative fever afterwards supervene; or if we wait for nature to form a Line of demarcation, the patient's