TREATMENT OF BULLET WOUNDS. 209 but even in these cases, a portion of a shell striking obliquely— if it does not fracture bones or injure any of the great vessels —will not inflict so much injury as a cannon ball. There is in this form of gunshot wounds—as in incised and lacerated wounds—a great risk of hemorrhage. The sharp edge of the thin metal of a gun barrel will divide the vessels it comes in contact with, and cause primary hemorrhage, though it may occasionally pass close to large vessels without injuring them; but if it strikes them they will be cut. We shall now consider the Treatment of Gunshot Wotbncls. The treatment of a flesh bullet-wound is very simple. The first point to be attended to is to ascertain whether the ball has passed out or not. If it has lodged, we must ascertain its position, and then extract it by enlarging the wound when necessary. If the ball has passed nearly across the limb, and has lodged near the op- posite side from where it entered, it is best to make a counter- opening, and cut down upon the ball, and thus complete the track of the wound, so as to allow discharge and sloughs to escape readily. If the ball lies deeply, or has passed about half-way across the limb, then the aperture of entrance should be enlarged, and the ball extracted with the bullet-forceps, without making any counter-opening. Some surgeons recommend that when the ball is deeply seated, or where it has lodged near important organs, it should be left alone, and not interfered with. This is not good practice, unless it so happen that we cannot reach the ball without endangering some of the great vessels of the part; but even then, the practice is questionable on account of the very fact that the ball by lying near great vessels will injuriously affect these vessels from the sloughing and suppuration, which will be set up ; and, therefore, in all cases where it is practicable, the ball should be extracted at once. For example, in the case of a ball entering the thigh and lodging close upon the course of the femoral vessels, the opening should be enlarged and the ball extracted. The presence of the ball, if left in, would be very apt to give rise to irritation and inflamma- tion of the parts, and so cause a great risk of secondary P