162 SYPHILIS. the acute bubo, and tlie inflammation is of a sub-acute or chronic type, the integuments are rather purplish than red. After some time we may feel a little fluid in the gland, which, however, seems to pass off, and the gland appears to be the same as before, and then becomes indurated. In this form of bubo, a good deal of time is often wasted in the treatment by applying poultices, and giving a more stimulating diet, which really do very little good. Much the most effective plan is to apply a blister over the bubo, which will either discuss it, or cause it to suppurate—more generally the latter. The blister excites a more healthy action, and we get rid of great part of the exudation, whilst the gland texture of the bubo proper is stimu- lated to more active suppuration, and once it is brought to the suppurative condition, the treatment is the same as that of an acute bubo. Wlien there is much hard gland texture, it is well to destroy it with potassa fusa, which also excites a more healthy action tlie unhealthy parts, instead of leaving a chronic con- dition. When the skin of the bubo is very thin at certain points, and the great mass of the bubo hard, with little boggy points here and there, and a feeling of some thin fluid at inter- vals in the swelling, and when the skin is of a bluish colour, a very good plan is to open the bubo with potassa fusa. This was once considered the best method of opening all buboes; but in ordinary acute bubo it is not advisable, as it would over- stimulate the parts—there the knife is better ; but in chronic bubo, especially in that form of chronic bubo where there is much hardness, and the unhealthy appearance of the undermined integument, the potassa fusa is very useful, as it not only destroys the part acted on to evacuate the contents, but the neighbouring skin, having very little vitality, sloughs, and a healthy action is induced in the harder parts beyond. In all cases it is well to apply some alkaline lotion on the bubo and parts around before and after opening it, so as to prevent any risk of contamination by the venereal virus. The after treatment of bubo is not the same in all cases, for buboes take on different actions ; sometimes they prove very