TETANUS. 236 from one to six grains, has also been administered in a few cases. In most cases the bowels are obstinately constipated, and the nse of active purgatives is requisite. As there is often even at first a difficulty in swallowing, the use of croton oil in a little mucilage will be found the most manageable form. It is stated by some writers that retention of urine occurs in consequence of spasm at the neck of the bladder; but although I have treated many cases of tetanus, I have never seen this con- dition, but usually the opposite, from the contractions of the detrusor urina3. Ice to the spine or cold affusion is often very beneficial in relieving tl^e spasms for a time ; the patient should be placed in a bath, and cold water dashed upon the spine and back, but this, like other remedies, gradually loses its power. Warm affusion and the warm bath have long been used, but the patient cannot be kept for any great length of time in the bath. Chloro- form given internally, and also by inhalation, checks the convul- sive spasms, and when combined with cannabis indica often affords great relief. But after all, when once the disease has gone a certain length, it gets beyond our control, and our reme- dies can do little good. If the exciting cause of the tetanus be a wounded limb, ought we to amputate and so remove the source of the irritation ? I have done so myself in some cases ; but I never saw any benefit derived from it. If the part injured be a finger only, and if the operation be performed at the very first, before the symptoms have made any great progress, the result may be favourable ; but after the disease has progressed—when the trismus and spasms have become marked—or when the disease has passed beyond stiffness in the neck and difficulty in swallowing, then amputation wiH do no good, as by that time the disease has been propagated to the ■ nervous centres. In the larger am- putations the patient often suffers from the effect of the operation, and the symptoms of tetanus become more marked and more severe than they were before the amputation. In