TETANUS. 233 monitory stage, but it is often so sliglit as not to attract atten- tion ; there is a feeling of some uneasiness and stiffness about the neck and face, which the patient perhaps attributes to the effects of cold. He next feels increased stiffness about^ the same parts, with twitching pains. The features have a peculiar expression ; the facial muscles are more pronoimced ; the eyeballs are more prominent, although the eyes appear smaller from approximation of the eyelids; the lips seem thin and drawn inwards, the mouth being sometimes twisted to one side; these appearances are, however, subject to exceptional variations; the jaws get gradually stiffer till the patient becomes unable to open his mouth ; there is a constant painful contrac- tion of the masseters; while diiring the attack the muscles are rigid as iron. This condition lasts for a time, and then passes off, but soon returns—the intervals between the attacks always getting shorter, and the paroxysms becom- ing more severe and more marked. The head is bent to one side or backwards ; there is sometimes pain over the abdomen and in the limbs, till at last the whole muscles of the body, or a system of muscles, are involved. In some cases the flexor muscles are affected, the body is bent backwards, giving rise to opisthotonos ; or the muscles on the anterior aspect of the thorax and abdomen may become rigid, and the body is then bent slightly forwards, causing emprosthotonos, but this con- dition is neither so marked nor so common as opisthotonos. There is also a peculiar pain extending from the ensiform cartilage towards the spine, accompanied with great difficulty of breathing—a condition due apparently to spasm of the diaphragm. In fatal cases the patient may die gradually exhausted, but more generally he dies from asjihyxia dixring one of the spasms of the diaphragm and intercostal muscles. Sometimes, in a very early stage, the patient finds it almost impossible to swallow, especially hot or cold fluids, as these stimulate the throat, and lead to the paroxysms. This symptom might make us think the case to be one of hydrophobia, but the other symptoms can scarcely be mistaken.