INFLAMMA TION. 16 line of the artery, and of a sufficient size to afford a good stream of blood. Having decided on the vein to be opened, we first place a bandage, tied with a slip-knot, round the arm, above the point where the opening is to be made. This serves to obstruct the current of blood returning to the heart, and causes the vein to distend. We then draw the thumb of the left hand upwards over the course of the vein, and press on it just below the part where it is to be opened. We next push the point of the lancet into the distended vein until resistance ceases, or untQ we see blood; then move the blade so as to make an oblique opening in the vein, and divide the skin more largely than the vessel. It is necessary that tlie wound be oblique ; for if it be longi- tudinal the blood does not flow readily, and if transverse the vein may be cut completely across. The incision in the skin ought to be larger than the opening in the vein, otherwise some blood may find a lodgment under the skin, and thus give rise to the condition termed thrombus, already alluded to. When the blood flows sluggishly, we desire the patient to move his fingers while grasping in his hand a piece of wood or other firm substance. This causes compression of the deeper veins, and so produces in those more superficial an increased flow of blood. The amount of blood to be abstracted must be regulated by the effect produced on the circulation and the extent to which depletion is indicated. When we wish to stop the bleeding, the fillet must be removed ; but, before doing so, the thumb should be placed on the bleeding orifice. Thereafter, the arm being placed in a bent position, a compress of lint should be applied on the wound, and retained in that position by means of a figure-of-8 bandage. The arm should then be supported in a sling. Venesection of the external jugular is sometimes performed. It is had recourse to in certain cases of croup in young children, and apoplexy in adults, and often affords great relief. It is also useful in cases accompanied with venous congestion of the great vessels of the head or chest. The operation can be per-