153 SOFT CHANCRE. indurated ; but we ought never to trust to this, nor tell our pa- tients that there is no risk of after symptoms occurring. Treatment of the Soft Chancre.—The treatment is to destroy the sore as early as possible with caustic—nitrate of silver and sulphuric acid being the best forms of caustic for the purpose. The escharotic should be applied thoroughly, so as to destroy the sore completely. This application causes a slough to separate, and the sore then generally heals. When we want to be quite sure of destroying the sore, we should employ sulphuric acid, as it chars the surface completely, and the slough separates more quickly than after the use of the nitrate of silver. After the slough has formed and is separating, warm-water dressings shoidd be used—a piece of lint, cut to the size of the sore, is soaked in warm water and applied, the prepuce being brought over the part. This should be changed frequently, and the parts around washed with a weak alkaline lotion, when the dressings are changed, so as to prevent any tendency of the discharges to cause similar soft chancres. The alkaline lotion destroys the potency of the virus to a great extent. Attention to cleanliness is very important, for nmch of the virulence of the disease depends on a want of cleanliness. After the slough has separated, and when the Wound has so far healed, the most useful remedy is the weak black lotion : this is far the best lotion, but we must take care not to use it stronger than four grains of calomel to the ounce of lime water, if of greater strength it might irritate the parts ; but here, as with all other sores, we must attend to the appearance of the ulcer under the use of the lotion, as it may lose its effect, though generally it causes the sore to heal rapidly. When the black wash does not answer, the weak sulphate of copper lotion, or the chlorinated soda, or sulphate of zinc lotions, are very useful, but they are not often required. One important point in the local treatment of all syphilitic sores is perfect rest. The patient should be kept recumbent, and the penis suspended towards the abdomen — at least for a few days. If the penis be allowed to hang, it will give rise to increased irritation and vascularity. Eest is absolutely