133 MEDULLAR V SARCOAIA. been tied in a case of cerebriform tumour under tlie belief that it was an aneurism. This disease occurs at all ages, and may attack every part of the body, but most frequently the osseous textures, mammary glands, the testicles, and the glands throughout the body gener- ally. In its vital manifestations or natural history, the cerebri- form tumour differs from the hard cancer in growing much more rapidly—taking sometimes only two or three mouths to attain a large size, while the scirrhus proceeds with comparative slowness for a malignant growth. This characteristic should al- ways be kept in view. There is not so much pain perhaps in the soft cancer as exists in scirrhus, but the pain is more con- tinuous. Another character is the vascularity of the part, as shown by the venous enlargement : this may occur in other tumours from the pressure of the tumour obstructing the circu- lation, but in the later stages of medullary sarcoma it is a very constant characteristic. Ulceration proceeds rapidly, so does the fungation, and they soon involve the surrounding textures. The pulse is generally very quick and somewhat irritable : the patient may not at first look anaemic or cachectic, because this tumour more frequently occurs before middle life than after^—- generally before thirty—while true scirrhus is rarely seen till after thirty-five. The patient may have a ruddy appearance, but there is generally a tawny colour of the skin. As soon as the tumour gets large, it unmistakably begins to affect the constitu- tion—the patient begins to look ansemic and yellow, and there is some febrile excitement at night indicating the hectic condi- tion. From the softness and brain-like consistence and vascular character of the growth, and from its occurring as it often does in organs which are circumscribed by a dense resisting membrane, as in the testicle or breast, we often have the tumour presenting a sort of elastic or fluctuating feeling, exactly like that of chronic abscess, so that the difficulty of diagnosis between them is some- times great. Again, the contents of the tumour are not only cere- briform, but sometimes fluid or gelatinous, and then there is a distinct feeling of elasticity or fluctuation, and the difficulty of