3 SCLEROTITIS AND IRITIS. vessels disappear, and passive congestion with effusion takes place. This constitutes chemosis. Another condition termed ecchymosis, may take place from rupture of the over-dis- tended vessels, and consequent extravasation of blood; and lastly, j)us may form on the mucous surface. If the inflammation extend to the cornea, or if that structure be originally attacked, we see vascularity only at its margin and in the parts external to it, because the cornea possesses no vessels in its intimate structure; but we perceive a gradually-increasing opacity or cloudiness, due to a material which has exuded into its texture. In inflammation of the sclerotic and deeper-seated parts of the eyeball, the pain is intense and accompanied with headache, the redness is of a pinldsh hue, and less marked than it is in conjunctivitis, and the redness seems to terminate in a zone at a little distance from the cornea. These peculiarities depend not on any difference in the diseased action, but upon the density of the structure and the anatomical arrangement of its blood- vessels. When the inflammation extends to the iris, giving rise to the condition termed iritis, we have first contracted and then irregular pupil, appearances arising from the special functions of the structure ; and here we have a good opportunity of observing one of the phenomena of the inflammatory process^—namely the exudation poured out on the surface of the iris, and sometimes causing adhesion of its pupillary margin. Having traced the phenomena as they can be observed by the naked eye, we may now proceed to consider the diseased action as it can be further studied with the aid of the microscope. Before, however, I speak of the microscopic appearances of an inflamed part, it is necessary to allude briefly to the functions of the circulation in health, in order that the junior student may be enabled more fully to understand the diseased action. The blood is composed of two portions, one fluid—the liquor sanguinis, consisting of fibrin and serum—the other solid—the blood discs or corpuscles, of which there are two kinds, the yellow and the white. If we examine a transparent membrane, such as tlie bat's wing or web of the frog's foot, by means of a microscoi)e