147 MALIGNANT. I the texture at the symphysis helps to limit the disease at the mesial Kne, so that we may safely remove half of the lower jaw, as there is sufficient limitation, and there is no greater tendency to the return of the disease than in the femur or other long bones. Of course malignant tumours of this kind are never to be considered so favourable with regard to prognosis as simple tumours of bone ; there is always a greater tendency to a return of the disease, and also a greater risk of pyaemia supervening after operation. Whilst we may remove the lower jaw for these tumours at an early period in some cases, in regard to the upper jaw, on the contrary, the conditions are entirely different. In it the antrum of Highmore is not truly limited; and, moreover, the so- caUed tumours of the upper jaw do not always occur within the antrum, and even if they do, the diseased condition extends, and projects into and affects other parts. It may even begin in the turbinated and ethmoid bones, and spread to the superior maxilla ; so that in tumours of the upper jaw the disease is by no means necessarily confined to that bone. In such tumours of the upper jaw we may have a sort of polypus projecting into the nostril, with pain felt in the face occasionally, and the eyeball protruded and everted. If the eyeball is merely thrust forwards and upwards, the case is not so unfavourable, as it may depend on the pressure of the tumour on the floor of the orbit ; but if the eyeball is turned outwards at the same time, we should avoid all interference, for this condition shows that the tumour has arisen in or has affected secondarily the orbital plate of the ethmoid bone, and probably the base of the cranium; there would therefore be no limitation in such a case. The walls of the antrum of Highmore also are very thin, and soon become involved in the diseased action, and thus there is no definition; so that, though we might remove part of the tumour, we could not remove the whole. We may, however, interfere occasionally to palliate the disease if we do so early. In one case the patient at first was affected with a swelling of the antrum of Highmore, which projected towards the moiith. There was no eversion of the