BURNS AND SCALDS. 224 into account in estimating the amount of injury done. In regard to scalds by boiling water, the temperature can never be above 212° F., and is very generally below it. When the water is upset, a certain amount of temperature is lost by the time it reaches the body, and if the part be covered with woollen clothing—which is a bad conductor of heat—still more of the tem- perature is lost, as the water permeates through the dress; and so, iu many cases of scalds from boiling water, comparatively trifling effects are produced to what we might expect. But if a person falls into boiling water, then the effects are much more intense, on account of the water being at the boiling-point. If boiling water be applied almost directly to the surfixce of the skin it will seldom completely destroy the vitality of the true skin or cutis. It may do so partially, but seldom completely over a large surface, and it never primarily affects the cellular tissue lying under the true skin. There may be effusion, and a slight amount of inflammatory action, but never any peculiar altera- tion in the cellular tissue—far less in the fascial or muscular textures. In scalds there are generally vesications over the burned part, caused by separation of the cuticle from the true skin. As a general rule, a scald is a less severe injury than a burn. When a scald is produced by other fluids than water— such as boiling oil, or chemical liquids ; or in breweries— wherever the fluid requires a higher temperature than 212° F. to boil it—there is a greater intensity of heat, and, therefore, a greater effect produced upon the cutis, the vitality of which may be lost over a large surface, and an unhealthy condition may be brought on in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Another point to be attended to in scalds, and also in burns, is that the danger to life depends partly on the extent of surface affected, and also on the part of the body injured. When the surface burnt covers a part of the body not essential to life, the danger is much less than when there is any risk to vital parts. Hence a scalded limb is a less formidable injury than a scald on such parts as the thorax and abdomen, where there is a chance of the con- tained viscera being affected secondarily. But if a limb or other