DANGERS OF PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 185 blade thin or blunt. The most typical example of a punctured wound is that caused by a rapier or small sword, where the edges become blunted as they go upwards from the point. In a wound inflicted by the thrust of a broad-sword, or ordinary military regTi- lation-sword, where the blade is thin, and the edge sharp some distance from the point, the weapon has more breadth and extent of cutting edge than in the former case ; and here, moreover, the external orifice does not close so much. The special dangers attending punctured wounds are con- siderable. First, there is the confinement of blood and other fluids in the deeper part of the wound, caused by the contraction of the external orifice, and its small size compared with that underneath. This may lead to serious consequences, especially if the wound be in an important part. Secondly, a peculiar diffuse or erysipelatous form of inflammation, followed by great tension, is very apt to supervene, especially when fasciae and muscles are implicated. Another point, not often alluded to in surgical works, is the softening of the punctured muscles. The muscles become inflamed and softened, and in such cases symptoms of pytemia are apt to set in. The j)atient, perhaps, goes on very well for ten or fifteen days, then rigors come on, the limb becomes tense and glazed but not red, the pulse gets very quick, irritative fever is set up, and death follows, attended with all the symptoms of pypemia. On examining the nuiscles in such cases, they are found to be softened and paler than usual; sometimes, however, they are of a dark brown colour and broken down in texture. This softening of the muscles takes place very often in simple flesh wounds, either inflicted by a stab, or even in the slighter forms of gunshot wounds. The danger of hemorrhage—either venous or arterial—in punctured wounds, within the textures, or into cavities, is great; as when the wound has penetrated any cavity, such as the abdomen, where the blood cannot pass readily outwards ; or when import- ant organs like tlie lungs are injured, where the internal hemor- rhage would be very serious. There is greater danger of inter- stitial hemorrhage taking place in punctured than in any other