GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 204 a case of gunshot wound of the abdomen recently in hospital, under my care, in which the charge lodged in the abdominal cavity, the aperture of exit in the abdominal parietes was smaller than the aperture of entrance. It is difiicult to explain this ; unless it was due to the elasticity of the parts. The textures are usually much torn up, giving the aperture of exit a very ragged appearance, when compared with the aperture of exit in bullet wounds. If such a wound pass somewhat obliquely through the soft parts, it has in many cases a slit-like appear- ance. Even though the shot enter m masse, there is always more or less scattering of the shot along the track of the wound, tearing up the fascial and muscular textures, and if a bone be struck it is shattered completely ; there is therefore great suppura- tion and sloughing, as in lacerated wounds. In some cases the shot may pass out again en masse, when enclosed in a cartridge, and the effect will be like that of a ball : there "vv^ill, however, be more destruction of parts, and contusion of the textures, and, consequently, a greater absolute loss of vitality. In some cases the shot strikes obliquely, and tears the surface, thrusting aside the superficial parts rather than entering. It is important to remember in lacerated wounds, and in this form of gunshot wounds, that when much muscular texture is torn away or sloughs afterwards, the wound will heal by contraction, and leave a tolerably useful limb, provided much skin be not lost ; but if a large amount of skin is torn off, and little muscular texture, the wound will not heal readily, as the contraction would be very great, and a comparatively useless limb would be left. Another form of gunshot wound met with in civil practice is that inflicted by paper wadding only ; it also occurs in military practice, occasionally, with blank cartridge. In many cases the wound very closely resembles that caused by a bullet, and the track it makes is very much the same. From the loss of vitality of the parts, and consequent sloughing and irritation, it is a very troublesome, and sometimes a dangerous, form of wound. The great point is to examine the wound early, when we can distin- guish the wadding from the other textures ; if left in for a short