166 SYPHILIS. diseases. The crust formed is very marked, and wlien removed it forms again. In tertiary sypliilis it is met with in its more distinctive forms. When the ulcerated crust is removed the surface presents a peculiar excavated, rounded, or serpiginous appearance, with no tendency in the ulcer to heal, and the crust forms anew. Sometimes the crust is very prominent, and so causes great deformity. This is the rufia crustata. It occurs chiefly in tertiary syphilis, which is merely a more ad- vanced stage of the disease—there being no natural division between the secondary and tertiary stages. Treatvient of the Skin Urtqjtions.—The papular and pustular forms may occur after a soft chancre. The third or scaly eruption seldom occurs after a soft chancre, but almost always after the hard. During the irritable or febrile state the treat- ment must be nearly the same in all cases—viz. to allay the febrile excitement before using specific remedies. In this stage the stomach is out of order, the tongue foul and furred, and the secretions are often arrested, and before giving remedies like the iodide of potassium we must first get rid of these symptoms by the use of alteratives, purgatives, various diaphoretics, such as acetate of ammonia, along with an occasional opiate, keeping the patient at rest being of course important. When we have to deal with the papular or pustidar eruptions after the febrile condition has been got rid of, the surface assumes a dark brownish appearance, and then the best remedy—espe- cially in the papular eruption—is the iodide of potassium, which is here really beneficial; it should not be given along with any other medicine, and it must be given in doses propor- tioned to the age of the patient; begin with three or four grain doses twice a-day, and increase it gradually to five-grain doses, but not more. Under the use of the iodide the sore throat and the papular and pustular eruptions disappear very rapidly ; the pains in the bones and joints, which are sometimes complained of also disappear and the patient is relieved from all uneasy symptoms. It is seldom, if ever, necessary—especially in the papular eruption—to have recourse to mercury, which at the