117 VASCULAR SARCOMA. also arises from an increased vascular supply of tlie part. So long as the part remains of the normal form and type it is considered to be hypertrophy of the skin, but when a tumour diverging from the natural form of the part is produced, giving rise to great pro- jection as in this case, then it is called a vascular sarcoma. The tongue sometimes, from an increased vascular supply, becomes very much enlarged, but this is only hypertrophy, as the swelling- keeps to the normal type and form of the organ, and is not dis- cordant from the natural textures. There are other kinds of simple sarcomatous tumours, but their characters are much the same as those mentioned. They all grow from an increased vascular supply, and at first their growth is very slow. It is this form of growth, and especially the hypertrophies included in it, that we can do most to get rid of by medical treatment and local applications without the necessity of operation, especially in the earlier stages of the growth. The application of blisters or iodine to the tumour, and the use of the iodide of potassium internally, often cause simple tumours of the thyroid body to disappear very rapidly, though certain forms, such as the vascular pulsating tumour of the thyroid gland, do not disappear so readily, but these possess some of the characters of an erectUe tumour. In hypertropliy of the tongue also we may often avoid the necessity for operation by the use of deobstruent re- medies, as iodine, or by applying pressure on the tongue, along with deobstruents internally—avoiding all preparations of mer- cury. Occasionally, however, operation, by incisions or excision of a V-shaped portion of the organ, must be resorted to. It does not follow that because such medical and local remedies may pre- vent the necessity of operating, it is the safest or best method of treatment. For example, in polypus of the nose no one would continue a long course of deobstruent remedies when a single twist of the forceps removes the disease effectually with little pain and no danger. So also, in lipoma of the nose, the disease might be got rid of, perhaps, by strict diet and regimen, or local deobstruent applications, but it can be much sooner removed, and with less harm to the constitution, by operation. Generally,