143 OSTEOSARCOMA AND OSTEOCYSTOMA. the above case began in tlie nlna, and as it enlarged it encroaclied upon the interosseous space, wliicli was destroyed by the pres- sure. The osseous surface of the tumour at last became blended with the radius, and then, having the same vascular supply, both bones became affected, but not in the same way as occurs in malignant growths. The two bones simply coalesced from the pressure of close contact, and from their vascidar supply becoming the same, but this only took place at a very late period of the growth of the tumour.* The Trmtment of osteosarcoma is very simple—namely, early removal by excision or amputation, just as in the simple fibrous tumour of the soft parts. It should never be tampered with, but removed as early as possible, as we may thus be able to save a great paTt of the bone. There is no reason for delaying the operation, as the tumour is sure to increase in size, and its removal is then rendered more serious. The term Osteocystoma denotes a cystic tumour of bone, which is analogous to the fibro-cystic tumour of the soft parts. The various small cysts, which always exist in the interior of the fibrous matter of fibro-cystic tumours, may unite into one large cyst, or one cyst may develope itself at the expense of the others, enlarging and compressing them. In bone the progress is somewhat analogous. A cyst very often forms which contains a sort of fluid matter, the walls of the cyst being composed of the denser portion of the bone. By removing the anterior part of the cyst—and so giving free vent to its contents—and painting its interior afterwards with iodine, we very frequently find that the cavity contracts, the texture be- comes condensed, and no recurrence of the tumour or other bad consequences follow. When, however, the bone is very much altered in form, then a part of the bone itself should be removed along with the cyst. We may open up the cyst in its earlier stages, or afterwards remove it together with a portion of bone on either side, or amputate the limb close to the tumour, witliout any fear of reproduction of the growth. This cystic * Edinhvrgh Blonilily Medical Journal, March 1854.