EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. xiv fissure extends upwards from it, with transverse fissure lower down. Fig. 2. Gunshot fracture of tibia. The aperture of entrance of the ball is shown. Longitudinal, transverse, and irregular fissures are seen extending from the wound in all directions, showing the ex- tensive comminution in such cases. Figs. 3 and 4 are diff'erent views of the same bone. They exhibit the abortive attempts at repair in a case of gunshot fracture of the femur. The extensive comminution and death of the com- minuted fragments reveal the carises of failure. The limb required to be amputated fifty-three days after the injury. WOUNDS.—Plate IX.—Page 216. Figures 1, 2, 3, and 4, exhibit the effects of bullet-wounds in the can- cellated structure of the articular extremities of long bones.—See Lecture Fig. \. Ball lodged in the articular end of humerus, at the junction of its head with the tuberosities, and splintering the bone into the shoulder-joint. An attempt was made to save the limb, but the patient died on the eleventh day. This is a typical case for primary excision. Fig. 2. Elbow-joint in which the ball passed obliquely through the external condyle of humerus, not perceptibly fissuriag the bone. Com- plete bony anchylosis took place, but a form of caries supervened. Amputation was necessitated 136 days after the injury. This is a beautiful specimen of the perforating wounds described by Dupv;ytren as proper cases for attempting to save the Unab. It is one of a class I consider specially suitable for primary excision of the elbow. (Sketched by Dr. R. Caton.) Fig. 3. Lower third of femur, showing a musket-ball lodged a little above the external condyle, just at the junction of the epiphysis. The wound does not implicate the articular surface. Primary ampu- tation was performed. This is one of the cases suitable for extracting the ball, gouging out the surrounding cancellated texture, and trying to save the limb. (Sketched by Dr. R. Caton.) Fig. 4 Is a similar injury in the head of the tibia. There was no shatter- ing of the bone, but there was slight fissure of the articular surface ; so that primary excision might be preferable in such a case. Amputation was performed eighteen hours after the injury. Fig. 5. Thumb injured by the bursting of a fowling-piece. The clean de- fined lines of the divided skin were cut by the fragments of the gun-barrel, a mere touch of the knife being required to disarti- culate the thumb.—Case referred to in Lecture xxxi. p. 208 (Sketched by Dr. R. Caton.)