GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 202 other cases, a ball may enter, pass out, re-enter, and finally, lodge, so as to give the appearance of the part having been penetrated by two separate missiles. In such cases, we must attend carefully to the position of the limb at the time when the injury was received. In the case shewn in this sketch, a ball entered the back of the wrist, came out at the front of the fore-arm, re-entered the front of the arm, and then lodged under the skin, at the back of the upper arm. This injury looks at first as if it had been caused by two balls ; but, on examina- tion, it was found that the man was taking aim when he re- ceived the wound, and the course of the ball was then easily understood. Again, if the leg be bent when the injury is received, a charge may enter twice, and come out again twice, in the same manner, as occurred in a case lately under my care in the hospital. In some cases, the bullet may pass out by the aperture of entrance. In one case a bullet passed right round the neck, and all but dropped out again at the spot where it had entered. Sometimes two balls enter by the same opening; and care must be taken to remove both. In civil practice we must be more careful, on account of the varying nature of the charge^ and be- cause the principal part of it may be left in, while only a small portion is removed. We must, therefore, in all gunshot wounds, remember how easily a ball is deilected from its course, and must also attend to the position of the part at the time the injury was received. The constitutional effects of gunshot wounds vary. They may depend in great measure on some peculiar condition, but in many cases they are altogether absent. When present, the surface of the body becomes chiUed, there are generally tremors, and a certain amount of shock, the body is covered with a cold sweat, and a feeling of faintness comes on. Tliere are many instances on record, however, in which men have re- ceived gunshot wounds in action without knowing it, their attention being first drawn to it by some one else; and in many other cases the only sensation is that of a hard blow.