FISTULA. 41 rise to tliem must form a special part of tlie treatment. Thus, in stricture of the urethra, the irritation may give rise to an abscess in the cellular tissue of the perineum ; this may at length open into the iirethra, and by means of it the urine will escape into the abscess, where, acting as a foreign body, it will prevent the healing process. At length an opening occurs in the skin, through which the urine passes, and thus a fistula in perineo is established. So long as the urine escapes the fistula remains, and the urine will escape as long as the stricture remains—for such fistula3 always open posteriorly to the stricture—consequently to cure the fistula we must first re- move the stricture. In cases of fistula in ano, mucus from the bowel, or thin fluid foecal matter, may enter and act as a foreign body, thus keeping up the irritation ; so that in this case we have some- thing superadded to the movements of the parts, which forms a barrier to treatment. In such a case we must cut open the bowel along the whole length of the diseased tract, and divide the sphincter ani, so as thereby to give the diseased parts com- plete rest. These two cases—fistula in ano and in perineo—arise from, and are kept up by, special causes, and therefore require the special treatment I have indicated. The treatment of an ordinary sinus, resulting from an abscess, is very simple. A director is passed along the whole extent of the sinus, and the tract laid completely open with a curved sharp-pointed bistoury, or a probe-pointed bistoury alone may be used. Afterwards the application of warm-water dressings, or some stimulating lotion, will promote gradual absorption of the hardened walls, granulation, and cicatrisation. In most cases this is sufficient, but sometimes, when the tract is very hard, the use of iodine, blisters, and nitrate of silver, as stimu- lants, may be required. If the part is very hard, or if a por- tion of dead cellular tissue be present, it may be necessary to destroy it with potassa fusa. In a very long sinus, as for example one extending from the head of the fibula down to the