186 TREA TMENT. form of wound, because the deeper muscular textures retract, and leave a space where bleeding may go on, while the super- ficial skin and fascial textures contract so that the blood cannot escape, and at last the whole textures become infiltrated with blood, and so lead to very serious consequences, independently of the mere loss of blood. This is shown by the ecchymosis which takes place afterwards. We must, therefore, in all wounds of this kind, look to the appearance of the patient, the state of the pulse, and the colour of the skin, as these will give indications, of any internal hemorrhage taking place. The principal dangers, then, in punctured wounds are : — 1. Con- finement of blood or other discharges in the deep part of the wound, owing to the contraction of the external orifice. 2. In- flammation, especially of the fascial textures, followed by effusion under the fascia, and a peculiar form of erysipelatous inflam- mation supervening. 3. Softening of the muscular textures, followed by irritative fever and pyjemia. 4. Hemorrhage either by simple loss of blood, as from internal hemorrhage, or by causing infiltration of blood into the textures leading to un- healthy suppuration. The Treatment of punctured wounds used to be, at once to convert them into incised wounds, and, accordingly, all such wounds were freely dilated as soon as possible. The principle was good, but it was carried to an absurd extent. Thus, in punctured wounds of cavities, counter-openings were made, and even setons introduced through the cavity. As regards the oozing of blood, or internal hemorrhage, this must be looked to very carefully, and must be met according to the special organ wounded. With reference to the principle of dilating these wounds at first, it is quite true that dilatation is a proper method of meeting some of the special risks in punctured wounds; but does this class of wounds always require such severe treatment ? The punctured wounds inflicted by a trocar are not necessarily followed by any bad effects, and in many cases of punctured wounds we may avoid the necessity of dilatation, by having re- course to simpler remedies, such as keeping the part at rest,