70 SLOUGHING PHAGEDJENA. au epidemic, pliagediena occurs very generally at seasons when erysipelas, scarlatina, and dix:)litlieria prevail. These causes should be carefully kept in mind, both in regard to prophylaxis and treatment. The epidemic causes not being under our control, a know- ledge of them is chiefly of use as guarding us against per- forming any operation v^^e can possibly avoid during the prevalence of any of the epidemics formerly alluded to. But in reference to the effects of irritating dressings, or the endemic influences, these, being greatly under the control of the surgeon, should be very carefully attended to, so that they may be diminished or altogether obviated. Thus, great care should be taken as regards cleanliness—all old dressings taken away and burned. The use of sponges to w^ash sores or wounds should be scrupulously avoided, tow being iised instead, and the tow of course destroyed after the dressing. Dressings should be light and unirritating, and in warm weather they should be sprinkled with some antiseptic fluid. In hospitals, or other places temporarily used as hospitals, overcrowding the wards should be prevented, and sufficiency of air be thus obtained for each patient. Great attention should be given to proper drainage and ventilation—the latter by natural means, such as windows and open fire-places. Mechanical methods of ventilation— such as heated shafts for extracting the foul air—are almost always disappointing, their success being usually in the inverse ratio to the amount of ingenuity displayed in the arrangements, and the complexity of the apparatus. I had the misfortune to experience this in my own hospital practice shortly after I took charge of the Senior Surgeon's wards in the new Surgical Hospital. These wards had only then been in use for about three years, and had been arranged as model wards, and ventilated on the purest and most approved scientific prin- ciples. Notwithstanding this, it had been noticed that cases did not go on so favourably as in less favoured localities; and two or