96 ERYSIPELAS. which would suddenly repel the action might induce metastasis to a more important part. Warm or tepid lotions are pleasanter to the patient, and are attended with greater benefit. They soothe and relieve, while, at the same time, they are unattended with danger if carefuUv attended to. If a part be affected with acute erysipelas, arising after an operation, and the erysipelatous action spread and become diffuse, then the stitches should be taken out and the wound left open, so as to relieve the tension and favour the escape of the discharges. Where the erysipelas is idiopathic, the application of anodyne fomentations, such as some very weak acetate of lead and opium lotion, or even dusting with finely powdered starch (hair powder), will often be sufficient. When the local inflammation is tense and painful, and where there is a risk of its spreading, we must use more active measures. In some cases punctures in the part are indicated, and these, with warm fomentations after- wards, answer very well. In other cases incisions give more relief. The late Sir William Lawrence proposed to make one or two long inci-sions when the limb was very tense, instead of several smaller ones : he said it produced less irritation ; but this causes great deformity ; and, moreover, the surface of such a wound is apt to take on an unhealthy action; so that it is better to make several incisions about two inches in length, than to make one incision six inches long. The incisions relieve tension not only by depletion, but by allowing the exudation and sloughs—if there be any—to escape. In erysipelas of the face, incisions should not be made, even though the tension be great, and even punctures are objectionable, on account of the deformity they would produce. When the disease attacks the scalp, how- ever, it is often necessary to make incisions, to prevent the im- portant deep structures from being affected. In erysipelas of the face, the best local treatment consists in the application of some fine bland powder, which will allay the local irritability ; the part should then be covered with a layer of cotton wadding, to protect it from the air. This, with proper constitu-