GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 220 same principle as in bullet wounds of the soft parts. We cut down iipon the joint on the outside, so as to avoid opening the joint, which the ball may not have done, and then, with a gouge or pair of sharp-edged bullet-forceps, extract the ball from the bone, or with a trepan take off part of the bone covering the ball; we can thus extract the ball from the cancellated tex- ture as easily as from the soft parts. We thus get rid of the foreign body, and prevent bad consequences following, such as abscesses and secondary disease ; and it is perhaps better to gouge away some of the cancellated texture in which the ball was lying. In the iipper extremity, however, I would much prefer excision to any attempt to extract the ball, because the ball can hardly have struck the head or condyles of the humerus or the upper part of the ulna without implicating the shoulder or elbow joints more or less directly. In most cases of injuries to bones and joints from shot, cannon balls, and shells, the limb is either completely, or all but, torn from the trunk ; in such cases therefore, or where a spent ball has struck a limb and reduced it to a piilp, there can be no doubt as to the propriety of amputation. If the injury be on the trunk the patient is generally beyond relief AVhen the bullet or piece of shell strikes obliquely, it may not do much more harm than the bursting of a gun-barrel, but this is a rare occurrence, and when it happens, the case is to be treated in the ordinary way. When a round shot strikes a limb, even when it is spent, the amount of force is such that though the bone does not appear to be much injured, if the soft parts are, then it is a case for amputation. In gunshot wounds of the cranial bones, when the ball partially or completely perforates the bones of the cranium, trepanning is necessary ; if the ball has not passed out, we can feel it, and it should be extracted during the operation. Even when the ball passes between the bone and the scalp, the result is almost always unfavourable; great effusion of blood takes place between the bone and the dura mater, and the loss of vitality of the bone itself is so great as to lead to necrosis afterwards, and on examination the bone is found to be full of small fissures. In one case of a