POISONED WOUNDS. 196 painful at niglit, so as to cause want of sleep, and if the patient feels out of sorts, then the wound should be enlarged a little, and should be touched with nitrate of silver, which, though a painful remedy, destroys the morbid irritability, and then the local and constitutional distuAance ceases. A little saline medicine, or a chalybeate, may also be taken internally. But, as before mentioned, it is only when the health is not good that ordinary dissection wounds give any trouble. Punctures re- ceived in post-mortem examinations are very different—espe- cially in puerperal cases—when, even though the person be in good health, much constitutional disturbance follows on the wound. There is rigor or chilliness, and a feeling of pain extending up the arm ; red lines are seen running upwards along the course of the veins. These are the inflamed absorbents, and ultimately the venous system becomes affected: the glands in the axilla become tender and sometimes enlarged, and there is pain extending up to the shoulder, and, in the more severe cases, the rigors are repeated, with headache, and a tendency to delirium. There is' sleeplessness at night, arrested secretions, and other symptoms of irritative fever, with a peculiar feeling of depression, prsecordial uneasiness, and a desire to yawn and sigh. In these cases the patient should be at once put to bed and heat applied to prevent rigors ; the bowels should be cleared out by an active purgative, and an opiate given to allay the irritability, and anodyne fomentations to the wound and along the arm. If the wound be at all tense or irritable, it should be at once freely enlarged, and the nitrate of silver applied to destroy its morbid irritability: then apply poultices, and, if possible, place the limb in a tepid bath as recommended for lacerated wounds. The use of aconite, to allay the irritability of the pulse, is not so safe in this as in other forms of wounds; because in such dissection wounds there is a peculiar risk of sudden and sometimes fatal syncope. If the aconite is given, its effects should be watched very carefully. After anodynes and local antiphlogistic treat- ment, we require to use stimulants and nourishing diet. The sesqui-carbonate of ammonia is useful in this class of wounds.