TREATMENT. 55 a cliarcoal-poultice as antiseptic to tlie sloughing part. There is no remedy equal to charcoal for checking this form of diseased ac- tion. The charcoal-poultice is made by dusting a little powdered charcoal over the surface of an ordinary linseed-meal poultice; after its removal, warm-water lotions containing opium should be ap- plied, and the warmth carefully sustained between the fomentations. When the acute action has sixbsided, granulations of a normal kind begin to appear, the skin contracts, and the healing process is established. The local treatment at this stage is a matter of some importance, and great care miist be taken to avoid doing either too little or too much. Warm-water dressing must be continued for some time before using stimulants to the part. The after-treatment consists in the x:se of such lotions as are suitable to the general treatment of a healthy healing sore. The part should be bandaged in order to give support and to afford the sliglit stimulus of pressure, but great care must be exercised in regulating the amount of that pressure. The " many- tailed" is the best form of bandage to apply ; it should be made of lint, and applied just after beiug wrung out of hot water. Constitutional Treatment.—This, as we have already indicated, should consist chiefly in the use of opium and antimony, and in the careful regulation of the diet. The antimony is given to relieve the circulation, and by its use a mor^ heroic treatment may often be avoided. If the patient cannot stand antimony, then we give diaphoretics, such as the compound powder of ipecacuan and opium, or small doses of the acetate of ammonia. If the inflammation should change to an erysipelatous type, then give tincture of the muriate of iron, in medium or large doses, three or four times a-day, watching its effects. Camphor mix- ture, with sweet spirit of nitre, may be given in small doses, so as to act gently on the kidneys, and large quantities of bland diluents to wash out the tubuli uriniferi. The great danger to be avoided with regard to diet is over- stimulation at first. Give mild and nutritious diet to begin with, gradually increasing tlie quantity and strength according to the requirements of the case.