108 TUMOURS The definition given above seems to include some cases of liypertropliy, wliicli consists of mere increase in development. And as many of these come practically to be spoken of and treated as tumours—both being expressive of a morbid formative force tending to increase—they are often included in the same class. There are, however, some well-marked points of difference ; and as these have practical bearings on the mode of treatment, and as the enumeration of them may serve to bring out more clearly the characteristics of true tumours, I shall endeavour to point out—First, the distinctions between hypertrophies and true tumours ; Secondly, tlie difference between inflammatory swellings and tumour-growths. In simple hypertrophy, the enlarged organ maintains its natural type, form, and structure, however much it may increase in size—it is, as it were, merely magnified. Thus, in hypertrophy of the thyroid body, the gland becomes simply enlarged, but this enlargement differs from tumour-growth, inasmuch as the organ is not materially altered in structure, form, or function, but is simply magnified in size. Then, again, in enlargement of the prostate we have mere hypertrophy; the lateral and middle lobes become enlarged and project beyond their natural boundaries, but no abnormal formation of texture exists in connection with it. Another example may be found in the pregnant uterus. The walls of that organ undergo during gestation an enormous hypertrophy, yet its type, form, and functions remain unchanged, only modified. Again, in hypertrophy of the heart, we find another instance of a similar kind. Now, in tumour-growth there is an essential deviation from the normal form and type tending towards deformity, and this deviation goes on increasingly even in the simplest examples, where at first the structure of the tumour is anala- gous to that of the organ or part in which it has been de- veloped. Thus, for example, in fibrous tumour of the uterus, there is at first a great similarity to the texture from which it grows, but gradually it assumes a distinct form and character of its own. Again, in the case of nasal polypus, the growth is