MORTIFICA TION. 76 Along witli tliese local symptoms of acute gangrene, we have certain constitutional symptoms present. The irritative fever which is set up varies in its intensity. In the first stage of reaction, after such an injury as I have described, the pulse rises, the skin becomes hot and feverish, the tongue foul but not dry, still, however, with a tendency to become dry at the back part. The pulse very soon loses its fulness and force; in most cases it becomes soft. The fever becomes irritative, and then delirium sets in. Delirium shows itself first by a tendency to wandering at night, and then becomes constant and more violent in character. This form of delirium is that known as delirium traxmiatimm. Next, the tongue becomes dry, the pulse more frequent and compressible, the features sharp and of a leaden hue, the eyes sunken ; cold clammy sweats set in, at first partial, then over the whole body. There is vomiting and hiccup—the latter being a very marked condition, es- pecially in hernia when part of the bowel becomes gan- grenous. Such are the general symptoms of acute gangrene. The local phenomena are due, either to sudden disintegration of the parts, or the interruption of the circulation by the violence of the injury, or more slowly to the inflammatory action which results ; the part being so debilitated that it cannot resist death when inflammation sets in. The grey appearance is that which first resi;lts in the decom- position of tissues containing little or no blood. The black appearance is, in the first instance, due to a deoxidation of the colouring matter of the blood, or to special compounds formed by the action of the liberated gases upon it, and finally to its complete decomposition and that of the tissues,. The constitu- tional symptoms may be due to a form of blood-poisoning, the result of absorption by the vessels either of the poisonous gases which come off, and which do not get free vent exter- nally, or of the putrid fluids. The constitutional symptoms in traumatic gangrene are not always intense in proportion to the violence of the injury or the complete death of the part. Very much depends on the health of the patient. If the constitution