151 PRIMARY SYPHILIS. sore, such as disease of bone, chronic affections of the larynx, chronic eruptions, disease of the brain, lungs, liver, kidneys, and other internal organs, accompanied occasionally with specific deposits in the tissues of each, and a peculiar cachectic con- dition of the patient. As surgeons, our chief concern is with the primary and secondary forms. Tertiary and congenital syphilis we must con- sider more briefly. Meantime I direct your attention to Primary Syphilis.—The primary local affections may be divided, for all practical purposes, into two forms—viz. the simple or soft chancre, and the indurated, Hunterian, or true chancre. The simple chancre is characterised by the shallow- ness of its surface, which is of a dirty-yellowish colour. It exhibits but little action either in extending or in its tendency to heal. It is a sore prevented from healing by specific action. There is no hardness of the edges, and though they may be irritable, they are generally without any deposit or thickening below them, and there is frequently more than one ulcer present at a time. Some apply the term abrasion or excoriation to the simple sore to distinguish it from the true or Hunterian chancre; but this is an improper use of terms ; for an abrasion may arise from many causes which are non-syphilitic, such as some local irritation, or even from want of cleanliness. The simple chancre presents the above appearances, but it must not be confounded with a simple abrasion of the mucous mem- brane of the prepuce or glans penis arising from non-syphilitic causes. An abrasion is never followed by any constitutional effects, whilst the simplest form of soft excoriated chancre may be followed by very distinct secondary and even tertiary symptoms. The indurated or Hunterian chancre generally exists as a single sore. It begins as a pimple or pustule with a hard base ; the apex or superficial aspect ulcerates, and extends more or less rapidly by ulceration ; after a time it proceeds more slowly, the hard base extending and forming an indurated ring round the sore. Like the soft chancre, the hard chancre is slow of healing. The sore may commence on the side of the integii-