84 MORTIFICA TION. must wait long enougli to know exactly where tlie diseased action has ceased. The best example of chronic gangrene arising from a local and temporary debilitating cause, is that resulting from cold. In such a case, we cannot tell how far the cold has affected the limb. That cause is generally in operation along with others, such as want of food, or other great hardships. This form of chronic gangrene is not attended by very great constitutional disturb- ance. The part seems simply affected by depression of the circulation from the cold. After reaction, the effusion which takes place gives rise to still further obstruction of the circulation, and death of the part follows. It is generally the feet or hands that are thus affected. The treatment consists in giving the patient nutritious diet, cautiously avoiding stimulation, and wrapping the limb in wadding. Or a charcoal-poultice, not much above the temperature of the sound part of the limb, may be applied to prevent factor and favour separation of the dead parts. In cases of this kind amputation should ultimately be performed ; but we must wait till the line of demarcation is thoroughly formed before doing so, for we cannot otherwise tell how far the cold has exercised its fatal influence. I remember a case of gangrene arising from cold —of which I show you a sketch—in which a deep line of demarcation formed on the dorsum of the foot, but not on the sole. Well, amputation through the tarsus was about to be per- formed, when suddenly the gangrene, which seemed to have ceased, attacked the heel and spread from that to the front of the foot, and not for some time afterwards was there a complete line of demarcation formed above the ankle, so that amputation could be performed through the leg. Eemember, then, that in such cases there is a tendency to the gangrene recommencing, and wait till complete demarcation takes place. A peculiar sub-acute form of gangrene sometimes results after ligatiire of a vessel, such as the superficial femoral artery in cases of popliteal aneurism. The gangrene may supervene in the foot; there is not usually much constitutional disturb-