194 LACERATED IVOUNDS. might serve as a source of irritation and lead to tetanus. But it is too ]ate to do this after a few days, because by tliat time tlie mischief has been propagated to the nervous centres, and is then travelling thence to the circumference. As regards the after treatment of lacerated Avounds, when the suppuration has been established and the parts have begun to granulate, the treatment is just the same as in any granulating sore. Contraction of the parts is favoured by giving a moderate amount of support to the integument by a many-tailed bandage of lint, which not only gives support but also serves as a means for local applications. The ordinary stimulating lotions, such as those containing chloride of soda, are to be used, but weak at first; afterwards, those of a more astringent and stimulating kind, such as the sulphate of zinC' lotion, should be employed. Another question arising in cases of lacerated wounds is that of amputation. If the textures be very much torn, and the great vessels much injured, or a joint opened ; if, in fact, there be such a destruction of parts that we cannot save the whole limb, then we must amputate, but still try to save as much of it as possible. But do not try to save too much, or you will lose by it: the contraction during the healing of the wound will be so great as to leave a useless stump. This is most to be attended to in the hand; where sometimes—by trying to save the whole, or by removing-only one or two fingers—the remaining poi'tion is left quite useless, from the contraction of the skin and other textures. By taking off more fingers, more skin is left to cover over the wound, and a much more useful result is obtained. Does mere loss of skin or fascial texture require amputation ? This injury is most commonly seen in the hand and foot, where we sometimes have the whole skin stripped off and hanging like an inverted glove from the points of the fingers or toes. If the skin be lost on both aspects of the hand and wrist, we caimot expect the skin from the fore-arm to cover the whole hand without great contraction taking place, and here therefore we must amputate,, simply on account of the loss of skin —even though the great vessels and nerves may be entire: besides.