201 PECULIARITIES. ball has travelled any distance, they are not at all blackened ; a considerable extent of ecchymosis, however, may surround the part. The aperture of exit has a different appearance ; the edges are everted by the baU passing out; they are somewhat ragged and torn; and the opening is larger than the aperture of entrance, though not always larger than the bullet. The aperture of exit is more variable than that of entrance, and in a few instances has been found smaller, but this is difficult to account for. It may have occurred from the irregular shape of the missile, such as a slug. If we look at the track of a bullet-wound, we see that the skin has been thrust in, and that the surface of the wound is of a dull greyish colour, and, if recent, presents a smooth appearance. The skin at the edges of the wound sloughs, so that the aperture of entrance becomes enlarged. The textures in the track of the wound slough, and also those at the aperture of exit, so that the whole track becomes larger than it was at first. Enter- ing with great force, the ball must affect the different textures in different degrees. Those textures lying in the immediate vicinity of the passing ball have their vitality completely destroyed, while those just beyond are more or less impaired. It may be laid down as a general rule that the vitality of the texture immediately in contact with the ball is almost if not altogether, destroyed. If the gun has been fired close, the skin will probably be blackened with the powder, some grains of which may lodge in the skin ; and sometimes the edges have a livid appearance at first. The course which bullets take requires to be carefully attended to. A very slight object will deflect a ball from its course—such as a piece of cartilage or the angle of a rib—and so prevent the bal] from going into the chest, but make it course round among the muscles, and pass out again. This gives rise to the appearance of the chest having been perforated by a ball, especially when the track of the bullet is not very plain.* In * When the Duke of Edinburgh was fired at by an assassin at Sydney, the ball entered behind near the spinal column, and was extracted in front, near to the um- bilicus, without having penetrated the thorax or abdomen.