218 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. The same had been pointed out by Henuen and other military surgeons, who showed that in certain cases wounds of joints did get better, and surgeons therefore became more careful about amputating in all cases. But when we come to look at the results of their experience, we are led to the conclusion that perhaps amputation might have proved better treatment, from the number of lives lost in attempting to save limbs, and from the comparatively useless limbs left. During the war in Algeria, and that in Schleswig-Holstein in 1848, the plan of treatment was first generally adopted which had been often proposed but never carried into effect—namely, Pkimary Excision of the wounded joint. In all cases of injuries of joints caused by bullets, where the soft parts are merely traversed by the ball, and where the joint is directly or indirectly injured by the ball passing through or near it, this is the best operation that can be performed. It is a conservative operation, and is not attended with the same risks as is amputation or the expectant treatment. If neither amputation nor excision be performed, secondary disease is likely to follow—a peculiar chronic affection of the bone takes place, abscesses form about the joint, and the patient's health gives way, even though anchylosis may have occurred. Such cases show the risk run in trying to save the limb. If excision of the joint be performed as soon after the injury is received as possible, the limb is saved, the source of irritation leading to secondary disease is got rid of, there is less chance of bad consequences, and a much more useful limb is left than if amputation had been performed or a cure by anchylosis obtained : the results of primary excision in such cases are much more favourable than those of amputation or any other method of treatment. In ordinary surgical practice we often perform excision of joints secondarily, for the effects of fractures or other injuries leading to stiffness of the joint from anchylosis. The results given by Professor Langenbeck of Berlin, M. Baudens in Algeria, and Esclnnarck of Hol- stein, are very favourable : Out of 11 primary excisions of the shoulder-joint 10 recovered, and only 1 died. Out of 15