ANTHRAX. 102 Anthrax or Carbuncle is another form of inflammatory disease of the skin tissiie, having some similarity to boil, but much more serious in its character, always attended by great constitutional disturbance, and not unfrequently terminating fatally. It is a most painful and exhausting disease, generally associated with a weak, irritable, and vitiated state of the system, and has its origin chiefly in predisposing constitutional causes. The disease may be described as being a peculiar form of inflammation of the skin texture, to which it is at first wholly limited. Small points of unhealthy pus are deposited in the in- tegument, and this process is attended with intense pain of a hot, burning character, owing to the denseuess of the texture, and the consequent resistance which the fluid meets with in the process of deposition. The substance so thrown out can hardly be called pus ; it consists rather of a sloughy material, formed from the debris of broken-down texture which has been destroyed by the violence of the inflammation. The swelling is at first of a hard and brawny consistence, and a dusky red colour, but it soon becomes boggy in character, and the red darkens into a livid purple hue. In form it is more flattened and diffuse, and not acuminated as in the common boiL It is usually extensive, but varies in its dimensions from the size of half a small orange to that of an ordinary saucer, or even larger. For example, it may sometimes extend from the neck down to the shoulders and upper part of the back. On close examination we find that the skin texture has become thickened and somewhat opened out by the exudation deposited in it, and by the increased vascularity, while its interior is found to be studded over with little white suppurating points. These at length ulcerate, and pour out a flaky semi- purulent fluid ; afterwards they tend to enlarge, and at length coalesce and form an opening large enough for the escape of the slough. This separates very slowly, but when once completely thrown off the healing action sets in. Although the disease lies originally in the skin, it may,