TUMOURS. 138 the former operations, and presented a sort of tense elastic feeling. It had a transparent pinkish colour on the surface. At some points it was more dense than at others, and at one part it had ulcerated. It had also a long hardened base. In this case, after each removal, the tumour had been examined by Mr. Paget of Lon- don, who found the structure of it to be the same in every instance. When I removed it on the last occasion, it was examined by Dr. Haldane, and also by Mr. Paget, and no alteration whatever in its structure could be noticed. It was composed of a sort of fibrous texture, with a softish gelatinous-looking material filling up the interstices, and from its composition it received the name of fibro-plastic tumour. This condition is visible to the naked eye. The amount of soft material in the tumour may vary in amount, and may form a sort of nucleated mass at different points. Ten years after I had removed this tumour I saw the patient, and she was quite well, and there was then no tendency to a return of the tumour, its non-recurrence being probably due to some alteration in the constitution of the patient. This case was marked by the following symptoms :—the recurrence of the tumour took place at different intervals without any affection of the general health, and without any deterioration in the character of the growth itself There were no symptoms of malignancy beyond the mere recurrence, and there was no ten- dency to involve other textures in the diseased action. It was therefore a simple recurrent tumour. Many recorded cases of such tumours are really not so, though they may be fibro-plastic in structure. The history of such a malignant recurrent tumour may be mentioned as a contrast to the former case. A man about thirty-five years of age had a tumour in the epigastric region, which was removed by a surgeon, and returned. Eighteen months or so afterwards it was removed a second time and again returned. Three years subsequently he applied to Mr. Goodsir to have it operated on, and I then saw it. It was removed thoroughly and completely the third time, but the man had now an anxious look and slightly anaemic appearance. This patient had, moreover, a tumour on the scalp, which, after the removal