ULCERATION. 54 matory action is confined to tlie site of the ulcer, little con- stitutional disturbance accompanies it; but when the inflam- mation is extensive it is attended with considerable distress; the pulse becomes quick, hard, full, and the other febrile symptoms manifest themselves. The causes may be of an endemic or of an epidemic nature, but most commonly it arises as the result of the irritation of a sore already existing ; from the part being over-stimulated, as by cold, heat, exercise, or some irritant. Treatment must necessarily be of a twofold character—local and constitutional—and each must be modified according to circumstances. In most cases it must be active. If symptom- atic fever be present, apply simple poultices to the sore, to- gether with opiate fomentations to the inflamed portions of the limb. If there be a great amount of tension in the part, we endeavour to relieve it by means of incisions or punctures along the limb, and afterwards bathing or fomenting it. Thus, the serous discharge is favoured, the inflammatory congestion of the part relieved, and the acute oeclema frequently dispersed. During this stage constitutional symptoms must be combated. When a moderate amount of depletion has been effected by the incisions, we give antimony and opiates internally to produce diaphoresis. The diet should be antiphlogistic in its nature— nutritive yet non-stimulant. But if the sore be in a more ad- vanced condition its character will have changed; and if there be a great amount of exudation and tension, it may threaten to break down and point. In such a case you must deplete locally, but you must not adhere to the antiphlogistic diet; beef-tea, iron, and wine must be given. Where there are bridges of skin as alr-eady described, they should be simply cut across ; by so doing you deplete, relieve tension, allow the skin to retract and the matter to escape. This, instead of destroying, really becomes the means of saving the skin, for if not so divided it would speedily ulcerate and slough away. Favour the escape of the exudation by the application of poultices. If a black point be beginning to form, then apply