46 ULCERA TION. The older surgeons supposed that in the case of ulcers the process of healing was effected by these granulations forming new texture, layer after layer, until the cavity of the sore was filled up, and that then the cicatrix spread over it from the sides and afforded a covering. Some held that the fibrous tissue forming the cicatrix might be thrown out from any part of the granulating surface, while others believed that the cicatrix spread always from the skin at the margins of the sore and extended inwards towards the centre. This is now known to be the correct theory. Sometimes we have the appearance of detached islands of cicatricial texture forming in the area of the ulcerated surface ; but in such cases the cicatrix is always developed from portions of true skin which have not been destroyed by the ulceration. This is very well exemplified in cases of burns and scalds, where the whole surface of the wound looks red and granular, although the whole of the true skin has not been destroyed ; so that what looks like the granular surface is really the skin, and from it the cicatrix spreads. In other cases, where the ulceration leads to complete loss of skin on the surface, it always heals from the circumference to the centre. It is thought by some that in secondary union the sore heals entirely by contraction, and that the granulations never fill up the hollow. They say that if we look at the cicatrix of an old ulcer we always find a depressed cicatrix ; while, had the wound been healed by filKng up, then there ought to be a level cicatrix. According to these authorities, the real loss of texture in an ulcer is not nearly so great as it seems to be. The depth of an ulcer depends on the swelling of the surrounding textures. The healing of the sore entirely depends on the subsidence of the in- flammatory action, or the disintegration and absorption of the exudation; thus reducing the tension, and therefore diminish- ing the surface of the sore, through the edges of the skin approach- ing each other when the swelling is reduced. This doctrine, in its essential points, is the true one, but it goes too far when