LOCAL DANGERS. abscess forms frequently over a lai'ge artery, and, in such parts as the neck and axilla, where there is abundance of loose cellular tissue, the purulent matter finds ready access to the vessel, and, although vascular textures are very tenacious of A'itality, yet if they be fairly dissected, as it were, by the pus, their vascular supply is destroyed ; and their vitality, being thus impaired, vilceration follows, and the coats give way before the pressure of the circulation, and the blood then escapes into the cavity of the abscess. It must, indeed, be admitted that the giving way of an artery into an abscess is a very rare occurrence ; yet it does sometimes happen. Mr. Listen on one occasion opened such an abscess, and was surprised to find the incision followed by a gush of blood. A case of a similar kind occurred in our own Infirmary, under the care of the late Dr. Mackenzie ; but in that instance the abscess simulated an axillary aneurism, and the operation for that disease was performed ; but the patient died from secondary hemorrhage, and on iiost mortem examination it was found that the artery had been opened into by ulceration from an abscess surrounding it, and that the pulsation so com- municated had given rise to the idea that it was an aneurism.* This danger, therefore, should always be borne in mind, as a reason for promptly opening abscesses near vessels ; and even, if on opening such an abscess, nothing but pure pus escape at the time, you must not consider this to be conclusive evidence that the vessel is unaffected, but watch the case care- fully, for after a lapse of six or eight hours the artery or vein may give way, and serious hemorrhage result. This is probably caused by the weakened coats yielding to the force of the circu- lation, after the equable fluid pressure which surrounded them has been removed, or it may, as stated by some, be due to the entrance of atmospheric air, which hastens putrefaction—and the consequent bursting of the coats of the vessel. At all events, one thing is evident, namely, this, that abscesses so situated should be opened early, for otherwise the veins and arteries are in great danger. If bleeding does occur in such a case, the best treat- * Ediiihurijh Medical MonlhJy Journal. February 1852.