22 SUPPURATION. it brings into view the nucleus, wliich usually consists of three granules adhering one to another. Pus-cells closely resemble mucus corpuscles and the white-blood corpuscles. Chemically, pus consists of fat, albumen, globulin, and salts. Its specific gravity varies from 1021 to 1041; on heating, the albumen is coagulated. A solution of caustic potash converts it into a thick, tenacious fluid. This agent may be used as a test to dis- tinguish pus from mucus, for while it renders pus more tenacious it renders mucus more fluid. Much discussion has taken place regarding the origin of pus- corpuscles. Two theories are now held as to their development; one is termed the molecular, and the other the cellular theory. According to the molecular theory, pus-cells, and indeed many other morbid cells, are formed by the aggregation of molecules of the fibrin of the exudation. According to the cellular theory, pus-corpuscles, like all other cells, are derived from pre- existing cells. This theory has undergone a considerable modi- fication since it was first propounded. It has become a nuclear as well as a cellular theory, and its upholders now maintain that all cells are derived from other cells or nuclei. The most common seat of the formation of pus is in areolar tissue ; and the cellular or nuclear theorists suppose the nuclei of the connective tissue—connective tissue corpuscles as they are termed—to be the parents of the pus-cells. The process of suppuration is either superficial or interstitial: the former occurs from a wounded or abraded surface, or from a nmcous membrane even when its surface is entire, as seen in conjunctivitis and gonorrhoea. Interstitial suppuration takes place in the interior of organs, and gives rise to collections of pus termed abscesses. SuPEEFiciAL Suppuration takes places in all wounds which do not heal by a rapid union of the cut surfaces—union by the first intention as it is called. The surface of the wound assumes a greyish or dirty-orange colour, the margins become purple and swollen, and a thin serous or viscid exudation appears on its surface. If the wound be large, inflammatory fever sets in ; the