103 SYMPTOMS. iu consequence of the violence of the inflammation, spread by contiguity to the deeper-seated textures. Thus it generally involves the cellular tissue beneath the skin, and often extends to the fascia beyond. The fascia, if dense, presents very little vascularity ; it therefore speedily undergoes a sloughing, un- healthy action, and so the diseased condition spreads to the muscles underneath, and may thus involve greater depth of parts, in some cases laying bare even the bones if not interfered with. We seldom meet with more than one carbuncle at a time, and it is generally situated on the back or on a part endowed with but little vitality. Sometimes, however, it occurs on the forehead or on the scalp ; and I liave seen a very considerable one form on the epigastric region in a patient who had long suffered from dyspepsia. The disease occurs for most part in people of debilitated constitutions, who have formerly lived freely. Mr. Hunter states that he never saw carbuncle in an hospital patient but once, and that was in a gentleman's butler. This broad state- ment, although true in the main, might tend to mislead, for we do find the disease occurring in patients in the lower ranks of life, more especially amongst such of them as are debilitated from previous habits of intemperance or from disease. Its chief victims, however, are those who take much animal food and wine without taking sufficient exercise. In these the digestive organs become deranged and unfitted to do their work. The kidneys also become affected, and the urea which they ought to eliminate is retained and circulates in the blood. One very frequent predisposing cause is to be found in the gouty habit; and some of the worst cases I have seen have occurred in connection with Briglit's disease, on account of the blood- poisoning which arises from the urea not being eliminated from the system. It is said to be a symptom or accompaniment of malignant fevers, as the plague, where usually several of these tumours appear simultaneously. The constitutional symptoms which accompany this local affection are generally those of irritative fever tending to typhoid.