25 ACUTE ABSCESS. applied for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. The pouhice should not, however, be continued too long, as it may give rise to weak action in the cavity of the abscess. Afterwards, slips of lint dipped in warm water are applied in the form of a many-tailed bandage, so as to cause a moderate amount of pressure on the walls of the cavity and thereby promote absorption. After a few days, slightly stimulating lotions are applied to the wound. The lotion may consist of one grain of sulphate of zinc dissolved in an ounce of water, or a weak solution of chlorinated soda. In the treatment of abscesses, the position of the patient is very important; he should be so placed that the opening may be free and as dependent as possible, in order to allow the matter to escape readily. Diffuse Acute Abscess—This is a form of abscess where, althoiigh some lymph is thrown out, yet the purulent matter is diffused throu"h the surrounding textures from the anatomical disposition of the part—as when suppuration occurs under the fascia lata of the thigh, or deep fascia of the arm ; in such a case the pus may spread right round the limb. In opening such an abscess a free incision should be made towards its outer and lower part, but this may not in every position of the patient be the most dependent part, and hence a free vent will not always be given for the escape of the matter ; we must therefore make a counter- opening at a point opposite the first, and some distance from it. If the abscess be very large, three incisions are sometimes required, A piece of caoutchouc tubing—the wall of which is riddled with holes—may then be introdiiced to permit of free drainage of the abscess and to keep it open : this, moreover, enables us to wash out the cavity of the abscess. We afterwards apply warm water lint and a light bandage, leaving the openings uncovered. Under this treatment you will generally find that these abscesses, though usually rather large, heal very readily. Infiltrated Suppuration, sometimes also termed Difiuse Cellular Infiltration, generally occurs as the result of erysi- pelatous inflammation. The pus is not healthy, but thin and acrid, and possesses destructive properties independent of the bad