THE HEALING PROCESS 45 they are united permanently by new-formed fibrous tissue ; but this is not known to be always certainly the case, for sometimes two cut surfaces unite in such a way that it is impossible to say exactly wliere the wound had been. The older surgeons used to think that wounds could heal only if the edges were applied together with such exactitude that the mouths of the divided vessels might be brought together, each to each, and the nutri- tion of the part thereby secured. We now know, however, that too much pressure gives rise to morbid instead of healthy action, and therefore we have recourse only to very slight dressing in the treatment of such wounds. A strip of dry lint should be laid along the line of union, and no other dressing used; the lymph will then form with the lint a covering, which gives ad- ditional protection, and at the same time prevents the entrance of atmospheric air. I said dry lint, for no wet dressings should be used, as these tend to disintegrate the lymph, and so pre- vent the formation of an adhesive coagulum over the wound. The part should also be kept cool, for a high temperature tends to produce excitement, and favours the development of pus from the cut surfaces. Healing by second intention, or by granulation. When a wound fails to heal by the first intention, it gradually assumes the appearance of an ulcer; suppuration takes place on its surface, and under the thin superficial layer of pus are formed a number of small bright-red acuminated granulations. In min- ute structure these granulations consist of delicate fibro-plastic cells and fibres, with a minute loop of bloodvessels. The fibro- plastic cells give off from their surface a series of prolongations, which go to the formation of white fibrous tissue. According to the cell-pathologists, these fibre-cells are formed from the nuclei of pre-existing fibrous tissue. But according to the molecular pathologists, they are formed from an exudation. The pus which covers the granulations is said by the former authorities to be formed from the cells of the granulations, while the latter suppose it to be the result of an exudation thrown out on their surface.