SUPPURATION. 30 almost certain to supervene. Chronic abscess near diseased hip- joint, however, may sometimes be opened with advantage. In this case, or in abscess connected with the great serous cavities, the exhausting syringe should be used to draw off the pus, not so much to prevent air entering, into the cavity of the abscess as into the cavity with which it is connected. After- wards apply a compress and bandage over the part. Another method of preventing the entrance of air is to open the abscess by a trocar and canula, to which is fitted a stop-cock and a piece of india-rubber tubing. The free end of the tubing is immersed in water, and in this way no air can enter the abscess. Should irritative fever set in, after the pus has been drawn off in this manner, we must make a free incision into the abscess, and then apply warm-water dressings, followed, after a time, by some stimulating lotion, either on the surface or injected into the cavity. Besides the local treatment, the state of the constitution must be attended to. The patient's strength must be supported by nutritious and slightly stimulating diet. Another mode of treating large or chronic abscesses has come into fasliion lately, and seems to have been followed in some quarters with good results. It is called the carbolic acid method, and consists in using that substance in such a way as to render its presence a barrier against all putrefactive agencies. The prescribed mode of use is as follows :—You take one part of the acid and mix with three parts of linseed-oil; you then take a piece of lint and saturate it freely with the mixture. This you lay flatly on the swelling. Thereafter you raise the one side gently, so as to obtain room for making an incision into tlie abscess, taking care to replace it immediately afterwards, and allowing the contents of the abscess to escape through or under- neath the lint. Finally, you cover up the portion of lint which over- lies the opening with a piece of tinfoil which has been previously covered with a thickish layer of carbolic acid paste, then tlie whole must be retained in position by strips of adhesive plaster. Carbolic acid is supposed to be fatally destructive to those innumerable invisible germs which are said to infest the atmo-