142 1 TUMOURS OF BONE. often performed'for sucli a tumour occurring in one of the meta- carpal bones. It would be perfectly safe to remove the diseased metacarpal bone alone, but the finger so left would be a very use- less one, and hence amputation of the finger is generally pre- ferred. OSTEOSAECOMA. is a tumour of bone analogous to the fibrous growth in the soft parts. The term is sometimes used to imply a malignant growth, but it is really a simple tumour, con- taining organic or fibrous matter blended with the osseous, and assuming almost a fibrous character. It is perfectly simple, has no tendency to involve other textures, and must be care- fully distinguished from certain other tumours of bone, such as cancer of bone or osteocephaloma. Sometimes the osteo- sarcoma is exceedingly like an ordinary fibrous tumour, a section of the one being hardly distinguishable from that of the other. The tumour is perfectly defined and circumscribed naturally, and can be easily dissected out. It is exactly analo- gous to the fibrous tumour of the soft parts in all its vital manifest- ations. Its development is very slow ; but if left alone it may attain a large size. In one case of enormous osteo-sarcoma which ultimately came under my care the application of caustics and iodine had caused the tumour to ulcerate. Amputation was performed under unfavourable circumstances—the patient being very cachectic and exhausted by constant bleeding and discharge from the tumour in consequence of necrosis of the osseous matter of the growth. The great vessels and nerves of the limb passed through the tumour, but were not truly involved in it. There was an enlarged gland in the axilla ; but from the history of the case and the feeling of the tumour I knew the growth to be a simple one, and I accordingly amputated the arm. The patient made a good recovery, and there was no tendency to any recurrence of the tumour. One peculiarity in tliis case was that the tumour involved' both bones of the forearm, while in the metacarpal bones, though the whole hand seems to be involved, yet almost always it is only one finger that is affected ; the other bones are pressed upon, but are not involved in the disease. The tumour in