90 ERYSIPELAS. disease, both in its local and constitutional symptoms, and can scarcely be regarded as being merely inflammation of the skin, for it extends to and involves the cellular tissue, and also the fascia. The swelling is more deeply seated and extensive than in any of the other forms. The pain also is more intense, and is of a throbbing burning character. The skin usually assumes a dark red hue, and there is great tension of the affected parts. The pulse rises in frequency to about 120 ; the general surface becomes hot and dry ; the tongue becomes dark in colour, and parched on tlie surface, with the tip and edges reddened and glazed ; the secretions are arrested ; there is want of sleep at night, and often acute delirium—all the symptoms, in fact, of severe irritative fever ; but the sickness and foul taste in the mouth do not usually come on until the violence of the disease begins to subside. CEdematous Erysipelas may either be simply the residt of the vessels of the skin relieving themselves by serous effusion into the loose cellular tissue, where that tissue is abimdant, or it may occur in old or debilitated patients, when the symptoms in general are those of a weak inflammatory oedematous state of the lower limbs ; and we also often find erysipelas supervening on anasarca, and then the parts involved assume this form of the disease. In such cases we have always a considerable degree of debility, complicated with low irritative fever, and this con- dition must never be lost sight of in the treatment. Erysipelas of the head and face is a condition which is marked by very characteristic appearances. The scalp becomes red, tense, and painful, but there is little swelling owing to the density of the scalp tissues ; when, however, it spreads to the face, where there is great vasciilarity and abundance of loose cellular tissue, a great degree of swelling and consequent de- formity rapidly take place. The fine cellular tissue of the eyelids becomes infiltrated, congested, and distended, so as to close up the eyes. The cheeks, lips, forehead, and parts over and under the jaw, next become swollen in succession. The action of the muscles, which give expression to the face, is both