128 MALIGNANT TUMOURS. tion, the cells are found to possess a form different from the ordinary cancer-cells, but closely resembling those of epithelium; though larger and containing more nuclei, being more proliferoiis. From its resemblance to epithelial structure, this form of growth was at first supposed to be innocent, and not really cancerous. It frequently occurs in the lower lip. In certain cases the hard cancer assumes a somewhat different form, when it occurs as an infiltration poured out rapidly into the tissue of an organ, distending it and giving it a very swollen appearance. These are all forms of carcinoma possessing different structure and different appearance, but the vital manifestations of the tumour are the same in all cases. The hard cancer differs from the simple tumours essentially in possessing all the characters of malignancy. It is of slow growth compared with some other forms of malignant disease; but is always rapid compared with the simple growths. It has not so much tendency to involve the parts in the immediate neighbourhood as the soft cancer or medullary sarcoma has, but it affects the lymphatics at an earlier period. It gradually, however, breaks through tlie limits of the organ in which it is developed, and then involves the neighbouring textures in a similar disease, and proceeds very rapidly. The general health of the patient is always affected sooner or later, and generally from the beginning. The patient has an exhausted and anaemic appearance—the cheeks are sunken, and there is a yellowish colour of the skin, with a quick pulse, and this even in the early stage. It used to be a question whether the constitution was affected in the first instance, giving rise to the cancerous deposits ; or whether it was affected secondarily as a result of the cancerous growth. Now, however, there can be little doubt that we must look upon true carcinoma as a constitutional disease, though it may be excited by local causes ; and in the latter case, the prognosis for relief will be more favourable. Still, in such cases the condition would not have occurred unless there had been the predisposing cause in the constitution. The disease is very often hereditary, though it may not affect every