POTTS GANGRENE. 83 tlie use of opiates internally, and to avoid all over-stimulation of the patient, giving enough food for nourishment and of a kind easily digested—such as farinaceous food and milk. In this disease the opiates are not found to interfere so much with the digestive organs as they usually do. No bark should be given, at least in the earlier stages. The local treatment used to consist in scari- fication and the application of hot dressings and stimulating ointments, to excite the part and hasten the separation of the sloughs and gangrenous parts. This generally terminated in increasing the gangrene. The local treatment adopted by Pott was very different. He wrapped the parts affected, and indeed the greater part of the limbs, in cotton wadding, so as to maintain the temperature, and endeavour as much as possible to avoid pressure on the limb and favour the circulation in it; but he avoided all stimulants, either local or general. This is the true principle of treatment, and it is found to be far more successful than the former plan of stimula- tion, by which the disease was quickened and caused to spread. Under non-stimulating treatment the gangrene generally ceases, and a line of demarcation forms sooner, and so there is a greater chance of recovery. The patient may be so weak, however, that stimulants are absolutely required, but experience must guide us in deciding in special cases. As to amputation in constitutional gangrene.—In cases arising from a temporary constitutional cause, such as that oc- curring after a fever, we amputate above nature's line of demarca- tion. But where the constitutional causes are persistent we should not amputate at aU; even after a line of demarcation has formed we should not interfere, beyond dividing a dead tendon or piece of skin, so as to let the part drop off sooner. We should let nature form a stump of her own. Interference only renders the gangrene irritable, and causes it to spread more rapidly. We cannot tell how far the vascular system is affected in such cases, and very little local irritation will set up diseased action afresh. When the cause is embolism, or arrestment of the circulation from intlammation of a vessel, we may after a time amputate ; but we