CONDYLOMATA. 169 irritable, and assumes the appearance of cancroid disease; and-^ hence a correct diagnosis of these condylomata is very important, and, for this reason in ulcers of the lip we should not be too hasty in operating. One guide to the diagnosis is, that true cancroid disease is not common, as a rule, in young people. The mucous condyloma is more characteristic of the pure syphilitic origin ; it has a smooth mucous surface, with a hard raised base, and secretes a fluid which, touching the neighbouring integument, seems to give rise to other condylomata. Co-existent with it there is often a condylomatous sore-throat, which is a chronic condition, and is quite different from the acute syphilitic sore throat. The mucous condylomata may be got rid of very readily by local treatment only, such as dusting calomel over the condy- lomata, which will cause them to disappear without leaving any tendency to the reproduction of the disease. When the condylomata resist the calomel, they can generally be cured by applying locally a strong saturated solution of sulphate of copper, or, better stUl, rubbing them with the solid sulphate of. copper, though this is a much more painful remedy than the i calomel. But we can hasten the disappearance of the condylo- mata by giving internal remedies, such as the iodide of potassiiim, in pretty large doses, or a few doses of grey powder, taking care not to carry the latter very far. We sometimes find that patients suffering from condylomata are very weak and ex- hausted, and in these cases the use of mercurials is contra-indi- cated. Here we require to restore the general health, and trust to the local treatment; and afterwards, when the patient be- comes stronger, we may give the iodide of potassium or grey powder. The calomel is not so efficient in the case of the warty con- dylomata as it is in the mucous condylomata. Id. the former the strong acetic acid or chromic acid, applied upon the surface, is more useful. But when they are very large and numerous, it is better to remove the warts by operation, along with part of the integument from which they arise, perhaps touching the parts,