51 THE CALLOUS ULCER. thickening is due to the solid, chronic cedema of the cellular tissue around the ulcer, which, by distending the skin, separates still further its margins, producing a constant tendency to increase rather than diminution of the idcer. Fortunately for the patient, this form of sore is not very painful. The callous ulcer often supervenes on the varicose, as that condition of the veins tends to favour oedema of the limbs, and consequently the develojDment of such ulcers. Treatment.—The first indication is to get rid of the chronic oedema, and formerly this was sought to be accomplished by the application of bandages and plasters; but now we adopt a much quicker and surer mode, which consists in the application of a fly- blister. This acts as a deobstruent, and under its influence the hardened margins slough, the exudation becomes absorbed, and healthy action begins. The first thing to be done is to keep the patient perfectly quiet in a recumbent posture. After a day or so we apply a blister round the sore. When the ulcer is large it is best to leave the surface of the sore uncovered by the blister, because in the centre there is not much exudation to be got rid of, and there is a risk of over-excitement in the sore, and of absorption of the cantharides, by which strangury might be produced. When the ulcer is small we may apply the bKster over the whole surface. The blister is to be kept on for ten or twelve hours, till it begins to rise ; the skin will not vesicate as healthy skin does, but sufficient irritation will be excited. After the blister is removed we apply warm-water dressings, or a soft linseed-meal poultice over the blistered part. Under this treatment the margins of the sore, which have little or no vitality, generally slough and leave a healthy margin. At first the skin appears more swollen, and the surface of the ulcer looks less healthy, but gradually the swelling diminishes, and after four or five days the skin feels soft again, the surface of the sore becomes granular, and loses the varnished appearance which it had at first, and the ulcer begins to assume a more healthy character. We then apply a bandage from the foot upwards, with strips of warm-water lint crossing over the surface of the sore, so as