13 TREA TMENT. at some points, the acetate of lead and opium lotion, or a decoction of camomile and opium, is applied. We cannot, however, trust to these measures alone, so we deplete from the anterior branch of the temporal artery, from the angular vein of the eye, or by leeches; and then give small doses of tartar- emetic and opium, which keep down the excited action and also act as diaphoretics. These measures, conjoined with the use of purgatives, are all that is required in most cases. Scari- fications are sometimes employed, but they are apt to cause too much irritation. In the chronic state, blisters on the temple produce great benefit. In the further stages of the disease different treatment must be adopted. Shoidd there be chemosis or projection of the swollen conjunctiva over the cornea, this requires that membrane to be snipped, lest by pressure it should interfere with the vitality of the cornea. Subsequently warm fomentations are applied, which may be changed after a little to tepid or cold dressings. In sclerotitis there is often a specific condition present—viz. rheumatism or syphilis—and this must be kept in mind in treating the disease. Here, as in con- junctivitis, we have recourse to depletion, and we treat the specific condition by exhibiting colchicum or iodide of potassium, whilst cold local applications should be avoided. Alterative doses of mercury, followed by a saline, may often be given with advantage. In iritis, besides the general treatment already alluded to, we employ a specific remedy to prevent contraction of the pupil—viz. belladonna, or a solution of atropia in glycerine, rubbed over the eyebrow or around the eyelids. To get rid of the effused lymph we give mercury, which acts almost like a charm in causing it to disappear. In all cases of inflammation it is important that the inflamed part should be kept at rest, so that in the case of the eye the organ should be protected from light and other sources of irritation. The diet and regimen must be strictly antiphlogistic. Chronic Inflammatoey Action.—When inflammation is chronic, the symptoms are negative rather than positive; tliere is no violent action ; the vascidarity is but little marked ; there