SYPHILIS. 164 Along with these conditions, we have one or other of the skin affections or eruptions. In secondary syphilis these are very numerous and various, and we often have them mixed together, such as the papular and pustular forms, being both present at the same time. There are four special kinds of erup- tion generally met with in the secondary stage proper, as dis- tinguished from the tertiary stage. The papular are, lichen syphiliticus ; the pustular, ecthyma syiohiliticum; the squamous, psoriasis syphilitica; and the vesicular, eczema syphiliticimi— the first two being by far the most frequent. The papular form of eruption consists of pimples or raised spots scattered over the whole surface of the body in groups, sometimes absolutely confluent. The pimples are not very acuminated. On the top of each is a sort of vesicle containing a milky-looking serum, which in some cases appears very like pus. This form of eruption generally occurs in clusters, some- times over the whole surface of the body, generally beginning on the chest, arms, and face, and passing thence to the lower extremities. The pimples generally fade away in from three to four weeks, first disappearing from one part of the body and then from another, leaving the site of the eruption covered with red- dish spots, which also gradually disappear. The piistular eruption consists of pustules of various sizes, which have a raised papular form, very like the preceding, but usually somewhat larger. In some cases the pustules are confluent, and so very much like those of small-pox as to be hardly distinguishable from them. The syphilitic pustules, however, are generally much smaller than those in small-pox ; and besides, in the latter disease, the pustules go through a regular course, while in the former we have various crops of pustules coming out at different times, and, as these pass off, others come out elsewhere. This symptom will generally serve as a diagnostic between the two diseases. Both the papular and pustular forms of eruption are attended with some fever, some- times with great febrile 'excitement. When the pustules fade away they leave a peculiar copper-coloured spot of a larger size