137 FJBRO-PLASriC OR RECURRENT. We may employ opiates internally, and anodyne applications to the part with the perchloride of iron to check any bleeding from the fungus, and we must support the patient's general health by proper diet. This, however, will only relieve for a short time, and hence the necessity for removing all cerebriform and melanotic tumours early, for here it is even greater than in the case of hard cancer. The injections of acetic acid have not been tried yet in cases of soft cancer, though there is nothing to prevent their use ; the acid might, from the softness of the tumour, destroy its cells more easily than those of scirrhus. There is both in the hard and soft cancer a risk of exciting irritation by the use of the acetic acid, and of causing the tumour to fungate more rapidly; but we would be perfectly justified in trying the injections, at least when the tumour had begun to fungate, because then very little can be done to palliate the disease. FiBRO-PLASTic OK Eecureent Tumours.—The peculiarity of these tumours is that whilst they are perfectly non-malignant, they return after removal. A very large number of cases, however, which are termed recurrent tumours, are really growths of a malig- nant character, belonging to the medullary group of tumours. These differ in structure in the earlier stages from an ordinary medullary growth, in being firmer and more like a fibrous tu- mour, but they gradually tend to deteriorate locally and become softer, every recurrence of the growth being marked by a deteri- oration in its character. The simple recurrent tumour has none of these tendencies, and I believe it to be an exceedingly rare form of growth. The best authenticated case of pure simple recurrent tumour occurred in Edinburgh some years ago, in the practice of the late Dr. Maclagan. The patient was a young woman, and the tumour was situated on the back ; it was removed on two occasions by Dr. Maclagan, and again by Dr. D. Maclagan at intervals of three to five years ; and after it had been removed three times the patient was free from it for many years. When she was about thirty-five years of age the tumour again returned, and I had then an opportunity of seeing it. The tumour was growing in the immediate vicinity of the cicatrices of