THE SCORBUTIC ULCER. 63 give mercurials, yet they may now and then be combined with the saline, as alteratives, with advantage. The diet should be of a simple nutritive kind, and if wine be given, it also should be light, and given sparingly. Lupus has a great tendency to return, and therefore, although the medical treatment may be intermitted, the nutritive should be continued for some time afterwards. As might be expected, this disease, however well treated, often results in great deformity ; and for the remedy of this defect, plastic operations are often required. Let me warn you, however, never to proceed to operate without the greatest caution, for as I have already said, very little irritation will cause the lupus to break out afresh. You ought therefore to wait for at least a year after the cessation of the disease, and complete cicatrisation of the wound, before proceeding to operate, for if you do so earlier bad results are almost certain to follow. The Scorbutic Ulcer is a form which we occasionally meet with in practice. It arises during the progress of scurvy, and is therefore found amongst those who are most liable to be affected with that disease—namely, sailors or the navvies em- ployed on railways. These men live mostly on salt provisions, seldom tasting either milk or vegetables, and thus, whether landsmen or seamen, they soon become affected with scurvy. I have seen the disease occur on board ship, even where the necessary precautions regarding diet had been used, and a plentiful supply of lime juice, preserved milk, and vegetables provided, but in such cases it arises from special conditions, as close confinement, bad air, and debilitated constitutions. True scurvy begins in a somewhat peculiar way. The symp- toms are at first those of languor and weakness; at length uneasiness almost amounting to pain is felt, and attention is drawn to a peculiar ecchymosed appearance generally over the front of the tibia. This condition precisely resembles that which might be produced by a bruise. Its colour deepens towards the centre, and gradually shades off towards the circumference, the surrounding skin being of a yellowish hue. The limb is some-