190 LACE J? A TED WOUNDS. ^ commenced from tlie decomposition of the extravasated blooJ, I wliicli should therefore be got rid of at once. After making j the incision, the cavity should be washed out with Condy's \ fluid or carbolic acid lotion, and a poultice applied. But ! the incision should not be made at first, especially when the I bruise is on the scalp, as it is apt to prove very trouble- j some. j The Lacerated contused woimd is one inflicted by some instrument or machinery which tears rather than cuts—where the parts are divided, but the edges are ragged and torn, and the ■ textures only partially divided here and there and not equally, > the least resisting textures yielding more readily than the more • resisting. Thus, the muscles and vessels may be divided and ! torn by a force which the nerves and tendons resist, or by which they are merely partially torn and dragged out. The force may be so great as to make almost an incision from its di- "^dding the textures so evenly; but the parts are not really divided so cleanly as they seem. In other cases, the force may be applied in such a way as to tear out textures without dividing them completely. There is always more or less ecchymosis surround- ing the edges of the wound, with more or less twisting and tearing of the textures, and therefore there is great risk of sloughing taking place, and scarcely any chance of union by the first intention. In the simpler forms of lacerated wounds we may j have a wound closely approaching to the simple incised wound— as, when it is made with a very fine saw moved with great force, the wound is practically an incised one. In other cases, the machinery inflicting the wound is of a tearing nature, and then j the textures are much torn and not evenly divided. Sometimes heat is added to this, so that there is scorching as well as bruising. An example of this is seen in accidents caxised by the heated cylinders used in paper-mills for smoothing the ' paper. The wounds resulting from these are much lacerated and bruised, and the parts are also more or less burned. Good | examples of lacerated wounds are tbose caused by a machine ' used in paper-mills for tearing up the rags, and which is called