178 INCISED WOUNDS. miiscles so divided be deeply situated, a cavity will be formed in whicli blood and other discharges are apt to collect, and so complicate the treatment. For example, suppose a person has received a superficial longitudinal wound along the front of the thigh, it will gape very little if the limb be kept in a straight position, because the margins of the wound keep in contact; but if the wound be deep, and the muscular fibres transversely divided, though the edges of the wound may lie together superficially, the deep part will gape and form a cavity in which blood and discharges will accumulate. The Treatment of incised wounds is very simple, the object being to promote immediate union, or union by the first in- tention. A certain amount of excited action is necessary to lead to exudation of plastic material for the purpose of ag- glutinating the edges of the wound at first; afterwards, this material becomes organised and forms a permanent fibrous texture or cicatrix. In all cases of union, we find that there is some difference in structure between the cicatrix and the natural tissues. In fractures, the material which unites the bone becomes ossified, and resembles in a great measure the osseous texture, but still its character is somewhat different from that of the surrounding bones. So in the skin, though the cicatrix resembles very closely the skin tissue, we can always distinguish it, even when old, by a slight difference in colour, especially when the j)art is cold. In scurvy, we find fractures and old cicatrices which had healed long before, giving way, showing that there is a difference of vitality between the new material and the old. In muscles the new material never be- comes identical with the existing muscular texture, but forms a sort of break in the continuity of the muscular fibres, though the muscle is as useful as before, from the uniting medium joining the other fibres together. To favour the process of union by the first intention, which is desirable in incised wounds, there should be as little separation of parts as possible, so that there may be no deformity, and that the usefulness of the part be not destroyed. Hence all foreign substances between the cut