TETANUS. 228 the kidneys become congested, from the arrested cutaneous transpiration, we must be careful not to stimulate them by giving strong diuretics, such as the sweet spirit of nitre. In these cases ; aerated potash water answers very well, it acts on the kid- neys as a diluent without overstimulating them. We must watch for any symptoms of acute albuminuria coming on, and if these occur, we may require to apply leeches or a sinapism over the kidneys, so as to relieve the congestion of the organs in the first instance, and give internally small doses of Dover's powder, with the potash water, or the acetate of potash in solution. The number of local applications which have been proposed for burns and scalds is very great; amongst others, turpentine, oil, collodion, vinegar, flour, wadding, and carboHc acid, all have been used with more or less success. One point should be kept in mind—namely this, that the patient feels great relief from having the part protected from the air, and from the press;ire of the bed-clothes, and therefore the use of cotton wadding wrapped round the limb answers very well. If a scald be seen at the very first, before any vesications have risen, I know of no better appli- cation than cold-water cloths placed round the limb. This imme- diately relieves the pain and often prevents vesications from rising. But if the vesications have risen, then before applying cold-water cloths or any other dressing whatever, we should let out the fluid in the vesications with the point of a needle or a pair of scissors, so as to smooth down the cuticle. If the cuticle be ruffled we expose a raw irritable surface, which does much harm. Afterwards we may apply a piece of lint soaked in Carron oil, or even in cold water, and then wrap some wadding round the limb, and in many cases, with rest and proper internal treatment, the part will heal readily without much irritation or pain. In burns, the best plan is to wrap the part in wadding at once. Mr. Listen used to object to this treatment, considering it to be a dirty apphcation, and instead of it he used to apply flour to the part, so as to form a crust on it, and when the discharge soaked through more flour was dusted on till a sort of paste was formed. But this never appeared to me to be a very clear application; it forms a mass of dirt