18 INFLAMMA TION. Akteriotomy is now performed only on the anterior brancli of the temporal artery, and chiefly for affections of the eye. The temporal artery, though apparently superficial, is covered by a layer of dense fascia which prevents you from reaching the vessel so readily as you might expect. The arteries are not uniformly dilated as are the veins ; and as the vessel should be in a state of dilatation when the opening is to be made through its coats, we endeavour to attain this by compressing it on the distal side of the intended opening. When the vessel is thus distended, we cut down upon it with the edge of the lancet. Having thus laid it bare, we make an oblique opening into it with the point of the instrument. We must take care not to make a transverse open- ing, for by so doing, we would be very likely to cut the artery completely through. An nnexhausted cupping-glass may be placed over the opening for the sake of cleanliness, and to prevent spirting of the blood. When about to arrest the flow, the artery should be cut completely through, its coats will then contract and retract, and the bleeding will cease. A com- press and bandage should be applied, the bandage twisted firmly over the pad and tied imder the chin. Should there be any difiiculty in arresting the flow of blood by compression, you should tie the cut ends of the vessel, or secure them by means of acupressure. Do not attempt to draw off the blood by means of an exhamtccl cupping-glass, for the edges of the glass would press on the artery, and thereby completely arrest the flow of blood. Punctures, Scarifications, and Incisions, are sometimes had recourse to as means of local depletion; and if our object be simply to draw blood, without seeking to effect relief of tension, the incisions need not be made deejier than the skin ; but generally we make the incisions sufficiently deep to permit the escape of serum, or other effusions, so as to relieve tension of the parts affected. Cupping and Leeching are other methods of bloodletting. Leeching is a favourite mode, but leeches cannot always be ob- tained, and, when obtainable, they have the disadvantage of being less certain in their action, and the flow of blood which follows