17 VENESECTION. formed veiy readily, and the point at wliicli the opening should be made is just where the vein lies upon the sterno-mastoid muscle, for there it is more fixed and more superficial than at any other part of its course. The external jugular, however, is not quite superficial like the median cephalic and basilic veins ; it is covered by the platysma-myoides muscle, and for tliat reason it must be opened in a different way from the veins at the bend of the arm. If opened by one cut in a line oblique to its own course, but parallel to the fibres of the platysma, these, by their position, would prevent a free exit to the blood, and thereby give rise to the danger of extravasation and throm- bus. The opening in the skin should be made with the edge of the lancet obliquely to the course of the vein, and then the fibres of muscle divided transversely before opening the vein, so that they, by contracting, may cause the wound to gape and thereby secure a wide external opening. The other steps of the operation are similar to those already described. The vein should be compressed by means of the finger or thumb above the clavicle, and below the point where you intend to enter the lancet. This is necessary in order not only to make the vein rise, but also to prevent the entrance of air into it, which cir- cumstance, if it occurred, might be attended with a fatal result. The vein should then be opened obliquely as we have already indicated. When a sufiScieut quantity of blood has been withdrawn, the flow should be arrested by means of a pad of lint placed over the wound, and retained in that position by strips of adhesive plaster. These serve the purpose better than a circular bandage round the neck, as they are less liable to occa- sion congestion. In restless patients—as children—the pad may be kept on by aneans of a bandage passing obliquely over the neck, and tied imder the opposite armpit. Venesection of the jugular vein is popularly regarded as being a very for- midable operation—people speak of opening the great jugular with feelings of dread. This is, however, unwarranted apprehen- sion, for the bleeding is not more difficult to arrest here than in the arm.