146 TUMOURS OF BONE. affected. The cancerous deposit often takes place in circular tuberous masses, just as we find it in cancer of the liver. These malignant tumours may attack any part of a bone, the condyloid portion or the shaft. In bones where there are hollow spaces, as in the upper jaw, or even in the lower jaw, the soft malignant disease generally develops itself either within the bone or between it and the periosteum. In dif- ferent bones or bony cavities, however, there are some points of difference. If the disease develops itself within the shaft of a bone such as the femur or humerus, then we have a very considerable degree of limitation, perhaps the most distinct limitation anatomically that we can have in the body. The malignant disease is limited so far as it can ever be said to be limited, and hence the local disease can be more thoroughly removed when occurring in the shaft of a bone than when it is in the soft parts. It is shut off, as it were, from the neighbouring textures by the dense osseous walls of the shaft, by the strong fibrous periosteum investing it, and at either extremity by the articular cartilage. Hence this is plainly very different from the same disease occurring in the softer textures, commencing external to the bone and affecting it secondarily, where all the textures become rapidly involved in the diseased action, and no anatomical limitation whatever exists. To profit fully by the limitation, however, it is evidently necessary to amputate at the articulation beyond the tumour, not through the continuity of the diseased bone, so that the cartilage of encrustation may form a complete barrier. At the same time, we must remember that even where the tumour is limited to a bone, there is a great tendency to the appearance of the proliferous cancer-cells in the texture of the neighbouring muscles; and hence in such cases we ought to remove the muscles wide of the diseased condition. Cer- tain bones present more limitation to tumour-growth than others—the lower jaw for example. In tumours of that bone situated between the symphysis and ascending ramus, we should always disarticulate even though part of the bone may seem to be rmaffected. From the original development.