SUB-ACUTE GANGRENE. 85 ance, thougli in some cases there is more than in ordinary chronic gangrene. The local disease sometimes spreads very rapidly, extending even above the seat of ligature if allowed to proceed. In this class of cases we employ the ordinary treat- nient for chronic gangrene : maintain the temperature of the limb, prevent pressure on it, and support the patient's strength. But in this form of gangrene we know where the j^oint of obstruction in the circulation is, and so when the gangrene spreads, and we see that amputation must be performed sooner or later, we shoixld do it at once. We should not, liovrever, amputate below the knee in gangrene after ligature of the femoral for popliteal aneurism, because the diseased condition which rendered the ligature necessary still exists, and there is a great tendency in the gangrene to spread up to the knee. Some surgeons say that we should amputate above the liga- ture—at the trochanters, or at the hip ; but there is no necessity for this. If the gangrene has not passed the knee, we need not go higher than the middle third of the tliigh, or even the lower third. The obstructed vessel chiefly supplies the leg and foot, and there is still sufficient vascular suj)ply left for the thigh by the deep femoral and other arteries. In gangrene arising from ligature of the femoral artery, we should therefore amputate, but not below the knee, nor above the middle third of the thigh, unless the disease has spread higher up before the operation. I shall conclude this lecture by giving a general recapitula- tion of the rules for amputation in different forms of gangrene. \st. In traumatic gangrene, where the violence of the injury is such as to account for the destruction and loss of vitality of the parts, ampu.tate at once, and not necessarily very high up. Id. In traumatic spreading gangrene, where the original injury was not sufficiently severe to account for the gangrene, and where we therefore suspect the constitution, and that some de- bilitating cause is co-operating with the injury, and where the gangrene is spreading, amputate without waiting for a line of demarcation. It is not a favourable case any way, but the best