EXOSTOSIS. 141 texture resembling cartilage of encrustation, so as to favour the action of the muscles. The tumour is generally attached to the bone by a narrow pedicle, but it may have a broad base. Its bulk externally appears to be much larger than it really is, on account of the thick muscles covering it. There is no character what- ever of malignancy in this tumour ; it is of slow compact growth, and has no tendency to involve neighbouring textures. The Treatment is much the same as in vascular sarcoma, though internal remedies are here useless. An incision is made over the tumour through the skin and superimposed muscles, and the pedicle of the tumour is cut through with the bone-pliers, or with a very fine saw, close to the shaft of the bone, but we do not require to remove any portion of the bone from which it grows. Inflammatory action takes place on the surface of section and closes it, and there is no tendency to the recurrence of the exostosis. In many cases nature effects the same process herself to a certain extent, but always with more risk to the patient's life. The pedicle of the tumour sometimes breaks across, and the loose body is left moving about under the muscles. It loses its vitality and leads to suppuration. The abscess so formed bursts or is opened, and the dead portion of bone may be thus got rid of Tliis accidental occurrence shows us the proper treatment of such a tumour, and even under these circumstances there is no tendency to its recurrence. In that part of bone where there is cartilage, as in the epi- physis, a tumour is sometimes developed which is analogous to the fibro-cartilaginous tumour of the soft parts. This is called Enchondroma. It often occurs in the heads of the metacarpal bones, but neighbouring metacarpal bones rarely become affected, as the tumour does not involve other textures. The growth looks just like a mass of cartilage. After a time there may be some deposition of earthy matter in the cartilaginous matrix, but the cartilaginous condition is the more obvious. It is a simple tumour limited to the texture in which it occurs, and when removed has no tendency to retiirn. Amputation of a finger is