TREA TMENT 193 able trough. The limb floats partly in the water, and is partly suspended by slips of bandage, so as to prevent any pressure on it. The heat and moisture can by these means be continuously kept up, without disturbing the patient. The bath is fitted with a tap, by which the soiled water is allowed to run oft', while fresh water is occasionally added. On the Continent, especially in Holland and Germany, this is done by having te|)id water constantly trickling into the bath, an equal quantity of cold being allowed to escape. A little of Condy's fluid may some- times be added to the water with advantage, not only on accoixnt of its antiseptic properties, but because the alteration of colour which takes place serves as a good indication o% the freqtiency with which the water should be changed. After a little time, the part gets a sodden appearance, but the irritation is much lessened, and the suppuration goes on more favourably, and with less irritative fever than usual. I have found this plan attended with great success in the treatment of severe lacerated wounds and in compound fractures of the fore-arm and hand. In some cases this treatment cannot be adopted, and in some it is not necessary; in these we substitute warm water lint, covered with gutta percha or fomentation cloths, as the best methods of applying heat and moisture. In lacerated wounds of small joints, such as those of the thumb and fingers, the constant application of cold is found very useful, but this must be done with care, as the cold may further weaken or even destroy the already impaired vitality of the part. It is only in lacerated wounds where the injured joint forms the most important part, and the laceration is the least feature of the injury, that the use of cold water or ice-bags is advisable. The application of heat and moisture is safer and better when the injury is a simple laceration, though where a small joint is implicated, cold may be applied instead. If we see any fascial texture partially torn, it is best to clip it ~ away at once, as it is sure to slough afterwards. Partially divided filaments of nerves should be completely divided, and the ends of the larger torn nerves should be cut across, taking away, of course, only the torn end of the nerve. These, if left 0