135 MELANOSIS. less serious character. lu one case the patient got a blow upon the testicle, which was followed by hydrocele ; this was tapped, and the man was quite well. Afterwards he again hurt his testicle slightly; it then swelled very rapidly, and was again tapped, but this time a liquid like hfematocele fluid came away, and the swelling increased very rapidly. Here the history was very like that of hydrocele converted into hsematocele from the irritation caused by tlie injury. The patient then came under my care; the tumour was removed, and on examination was found to be a soft malignant growth of peculiar character which you see in this preparation. In another case a boy received a blow with a stone between the eyes. An abscess followed which was opened. A good deal of bleeding occurred from time to time, which afterwards became more profuse. The appearances were not unlike those of necrosis of some of the bones, but a soft cancerous tumour formed, which assumed the form of fungus hsematodes, and ultimately proved fatal by repeated loss of blood. These cases show that a soft cancerous tumour may resemble very closely other diseases. Another form is much firmer, sometimes almost solid and semi-cartilaginous a,t some points, while cerebriform at others, but it does not differ in true character or vital manifestations from the ordinary medullary sarcoma. But there is a form where the tumour is much more firm and equal, slower in growing, and the structure of which is much more regular, and contains much fibrous tissue, very like the simple recurrent tumour. Its development at first is slow, its structure more equal, and it does not spread so directly by contiguity; but after a certain time it grows quite as rapidly as the cerebriform tumour, and then involves other textures by contiguity of structure. It is only a modification of the medullary sarcoma. Another form of soft cancer is that termed Melanosis or Black Cancer. It is very distinct in appearance from the other forms of soft cancer, its colour being always dark brown or black, though it is the same as ordinary cerebriform tumours in its history and vital manifestations. It is of a very soft consistence, and