TERM IN A TIONS AND TREA TMENT. 9 obtain, is resolution—a condition iu which the increased vascu- larity, pain, and tension disappear, and the exudation becomes absorbed, the part returning to its natural condition, or nearly so. This may be seen in many cases of conjunctivitis when actively treated ; and may also be well studied in cases of orchitis or inflamed testicle. Sometimes, on the termination of inflamma- tory action in one part, it reappears in another : this is termed metastasis. This is sometimes seen in erysipelas, where the inflammation may cease in the skin—the part originally affected —and reappear in a mucous membrane or elsewhere. It is merely a change of the disease from one place to another, and therefore cannot be considered a termination of inflanmiation. We shall consider the other terminations—such as suppuration and ulceration, in due time. We now proceed to discuss the treatment of acute inflamma- tion with the view of procuring resolution. The General Indi- tions are—1st. To remove the cause ; 2lI. To moderate excessive vascular action, and to relieve the congested capillaries ; 2>d. To restore such natural secretions as have either been diminished or altogether arrested; 4:th. To produce disintegration and ab- sorption of the exudation ; and lastly, in certain cases, more especially of chronic inflammation, to create metastasis, by exciting inflammation in a less important part. If any foreign body, or other source of irritation, be present, it must be removed at once, for even though its removal may not altogether arrest the diseased action, its presence tends to keep it up, and will prevent its successful treatment. Vas- cular action may be diminished by lessening the irritation which gives rise to it. This may be done by giving opiates internally, or by anodyne fomentations. Hot or cold appli- cations are frequently used. In regard to the application of heat or cold in local inflammations, you may very natu- rally ask what rules are to guide you in prescribing such appa- rently opposite remedies ; and, in point of fact, the answer is not quite so easy to give in words as might be expected from the familiar way iu which we speak of tliose remedies. I be-