129 CARCINOMA. generation. We must not trust too mixcli to the history we get from the patient, because those affected witli cancer often try to keep it as secret as possible ; and so otiier members of the same family may have been affected without the patient knowing it. Where the cancer arises from local causes—and certain forms of epithelial cancer very often do so —such as the chimney- sweepers' cancer, —■ which is of local origin, but is truly epithelial cancer,—in these cases there is little tendency to the return of the disease after removal. In the lip, also, there occurs a c'ancroid form of epithelioma, arising from some local irritation, such as that from a decayed tooth, or from smoking strong tobacco in a short pipe. In such cases tiiere is little tendency to a return of the disease ; whilst other forms of epi- thelioma, not arising from local irritation, though removed wide of the disease, return either in the same part or elsewhere. In true epithelial cancer the disease is not more localised than in the other forms of cancer. The symptoms of carcinoma are a peculiar hardness, pain of a sharp darting character shooting through and from the centre of the part. This sometimes occurs in irregular paroxysms, while at other times the pain is hot, burning, and almost constant; the latter more especially in epithelial cancer. In old people the pain is generally not so severe. The peculiar hardness of scirrhus is important in diagnosing between ilj and other tumours, except, perhaps, fibrous tumours, which are sometimes rather difficult to distinguish from hard cancer. We must therefore look to other symptoms than the mere hardness. The want of com- plete definition will help you to diagnose between fibrous and carcinomatous tumours. If there be any want of definition, we should remove the whole, organ in which it is situated, as for example, the breast rather than the tumour alone. Hard cancer attacks the mamma very frequently, also the testicle—though not so often as the soft cancer—and very often the uterus. Also glandular structures generally, and parts of the mucous membrane—the mouth and lips, the rectum, anus, and the pyloric orifice of the stomach. The lungs and liver are not K