BURNS AND SCALDS. 226 The parts directly subjected to the heat are destroyed, the parts beyond that are destroyed also if the heat has been long applied ; but the parts beyond that again, though their vitality is not absolutely destroyed, undergo a peculiar change. The cellular tissue ruider the skin, if the burn has not been sufficiently severe to destroy its vitality, loses its elasticity, and forms a substratum of solid agglutinated material, which prevents the contraction of the wound afterwards, and to this is to be attri- buted the slow healing of the wound. This solid substratum drags the skin from all directions, causing great deformity some- times, and under it the muscular texture is generally affected also. This is a most important peculiarity in burns. Contrast a burn with the eschar made by a potential cautery, which de- stroys the vitaKty of the skin and cellular tissue quite as much as the burn. The eschar separates, and the wound gapes, but then the healing action begins, inflammation and swelling sub- side, the cellular tissue is not affected as in the burn, the wound contracts and heals readily, and there is no cicatrix, except at the point where the caustics were applied. While in a burn involving the same extent of surface, the healing process would be slow, and would leave much greater contraction and harder cicatrix on account of the heat radiating deeper and affecting some of the textures permanently, consolidating them, and so hindering them from healing by contraction. Scalds and burns have certain dangers in common. One of these is the interruption to the cutaneous transpiration, and also the irritation produced by a large surface being affected with intense pain. The first effect noticed from a burn or scald is the shock or collapse, Avhich is very great, when the injury is severe. The pulse is weak, the skin which has not been burned is cold and clammy, the patient has a sunken look, and though great pain is felt, it is still so far dulled at first by the shock. Even when the body is charred in a great measure, and the pain is very great, still, looking at the amount of surface burned, and the severity of the accident, we wonder how little complaint of actual pain there is. There is a feeling of restlessness and of