89 ERYTHEMA. iiig it under the several heads of Erythema—Bilious-—Phleg- monous, and (Edcmatov,s Erysipelas. By the term Erythema is understood that form of the disease which consists of mere redness or erysipelatous blush of the skin, followed by efflorescence without swelling or vesication, and accompanied in general by only very slight constitutional dis- turbance or fever. It is attended with a sensation of heat, which hardly amounts to pain, and it generally terminates in resolution. In some cases, however, the appearance of this erythematic blush after an operation, and more especially if it assumes the erratic form (erythema erratica), is indicative of serious mischief, and therefore ought not to be disregarded. In these cases the pulse becomes very quick, the tongue furred, and there exists a great tendency to the occurrence of typhoid symptoms. The erythema passes from the skin to the mucous surfaces ; chiefly to the mucous membranes of the air-passages and intestines. It rarely passes from the scrotiim or penis to the nnicous membrane of the urethra, bladder, or kidney. In one case, in which I had removed the breast it passed to the lungs, giving rise to broncho- pneumonia. When the pulmonary symptoms ceased, erythema occurred in the thigh, and thence travelled up to the breast on the opposite side to that removed, but it never appeared near the wound itself Afterwards it passed to the mucous membrane of the bowels, giving rise to acute dysentery. Ultimately the patient recovered. This case illustrates the metastatic tendency of the disease. Though it appears to be a trifling affection, yet it is really a very serious one; it is a pure blood-disease, and is attended with considerable danger. Bilious Erysipelas is ushered in with rigors. The colour of the affected skin is rather of an orange than a lake red, the tongue becomes foul, furred, and of a brownish-yellow colour ; the eyes are dull and yellowish ; and there are more signs of derange- ment of the digestive organs than in other forms of the disease. The cutaneous inflammation is preceded by a bitter foul taste in the mouth, nausea, and vomiting. Phlegmonous Erysipelas is a much more violent form of the