198 POISONED WOUNDS. after death, is found to be dry, red, and sub-acutely inflamed, and the mucous membrane lias a glazed appearance. The patient has a constant desire to drink, though, at the same time, he is un- able to swallow any fluid. He coughs with a peculiar dry, husky cough, which is not unlike a bark, and this gave rise to the notion that the patient barked like the dog which had bitten him. This cough is produced by the irritation of the larynx and pharynx. Afterwards, fever supervenes ; the pulse becomes quick, and de- lirium sets in; the patient is very restless, can swallow nothing, and dies from exhaustion and irritation. The only Treatment of hydrophobia is prophylactic. If there be any doubt whether the animal that inflicted the bite is rabid, then it is best to apply the actual cautery to the wound, however slight it may be, and afterwards wash it and the surrounding skin with some alkaline lotion, such as di- luted liquor potassas, or a solution of pearl-ash ; or, when these are not at hand, a strong solution of soap and water, so as to get rid of all tlie poison. Catting out the bitten part is not so good, as we cannot be sure of removing all the poisoned matter, some of which may still exist on the edges ; and, besides, we cannot always cut out the wound when it is deep, whereas we can always cauterise the surface which has been in contact with the poison. As regards the after treatment, opiates and various other remedies have been tried, and occasionally a cure is report- ed, but none of the remedies yet tried can be trusted to ; the only remedy being the application of the actual cautery at the first. Should the dog or other animal which inflicted the bite be destroyed ? Not unless it is certainly rabid, and then it should be killed at once ; but if this is doubtful, it should be kept apart, under surveillance, so that, if it show no further symptoms of madness, we can assure the patient that there is no danger of hydrophobia coming on. Poisoned wounds from bites of insects and snakes.—These vary in intensity—from the bite of a scorpion or centipede to that inflicted by the cobra. In the former, there is not necessarily any great risk to the patient, unless his constitution be delicate.