OPERA TIONS. 229 inside with a little clean flour on the top, and in my opinion is not so cleanly as the wadding. When there is much irritation and inflammation, or where a large surface is burned, then warm water lint, or a soft poultice, may be applied instead of the wadding. Carron oil is another application often used, and in many cases relieves the pain, and besides allows the dressing to be more easily changed. As regards amputation—either primary or secondary—in cases of burns and scalds : Primary amputation is sometimes, though not often, required when the limb is very much burnt; but here there is a difiiculty in calculating the extent of the radi- ation of the heat, and how far the injury is limited. In many cases, where the burn reaches much above the middle of the arm, I would amputate at the shoulder-joint, because the risk of tlie weak action or sloughing extending is very great, and the opera- tion is not more dangerous than sawing through the humerus. It is not generally difficult to decide whether to amputate second- arily or not—when the patient is becoming exhausted from the irritation and discharge, and when it is desirable to remove de- formity, as in the limbs I show you. The limb should be ampu- tated, and very soon afterwards the patient's general health be- comes re-established. The difficulty is in the intermediary class of cases, where the irritative fever still exists along with discharge, and where every dressing of the wound is attended with great suffering—^thenwe must do something to relieve the patient, though the chances are much against amputation. I have performed the operation under such circumstances, in some cases successfully, but the results are not usually so. The intense amount of suffering, however, would alone produce death, and so we are forced to amputate sometimes by way of giving the patient the only chance. The operation relieves the intense sufferings, and acts as a palliative; and although the chances of recovery ar© very small indeed, still we are bound to give the patient what little chance there is. Operations are sometimes required secondarily on account of the great contraction of the parts, which is caused by