SPECIAL DANGERS. 225 part of the body be scalded over a large surface, there is a special danger caused by the obstacle so raised to the insensible cuta- neous transpiration. This is entirely and completely arrested, and the work must be carried on by other parts of the skin ; but the irritation and fever which follow upon the injury prevent this being done properly, and so the kidneys and other internal secreting organs become congested. They have more work to do, and soon cease to perform their functions properly, and this leads to very serious consequences. Sometimes inflam- mation occurs in serous membranes in cavities, at a distance from the injured part, and the brain may become secondarily affected. A Burn is caused by intense heat, such as fire, or by heated metal, which soon destroys the vitaKty of the part to which it is applied. In burns, as in scalds, various conditions must be kept in mind in estimating the severity of the injury. The clothes of the patient may take fire, and if they are bad conductors of heat, the burns will not be equal in intensity, but will be more severe at some parts than at others. In burns from heated metal, the surface to which it is applied is imme- diately destroyed; but in accidents in foundries, where the molten metal often falls on the feet, the loss of vitality is not so great as might be expected. This is due to the circum- stance of the metal being in contact with the part only for a very short space of time. When it falls on the dorsum of the foot, it immediately rolls off, and does not rest on it for any length of time; but if the molten metal get between the shoe and the foot, so that it cannot roll off, then the vitality of the part is at once and completely destroyed, and great destruction of texture is produced. In all cases, the local effects of burns by fire are very severe, compared with those produced by scalds. In the one case, we have merely destruction of the skin, and sometimes not even that; while in the burn, there is not only destruction of the true skin and of the subjacent cellular tissue, but beyond that there are changes going on which, though not destructive, have a most important bearing on the after progress of the case. Q