203 EFFECTS OF SMALL SHOT. We now proceed to consider more in detail Cfunslwt wounds, such as are met with in civil practice infl-ictcd hy svicdl shot, or hy the bursting of a gun, or hy the entrance of wadding. If the gun be fired at a distance, the small shot may not give rise to any serious consequences, as, from the scattering of the shot, only a few pellets will lodge here and there, and only a slight shock will be felt. But if the charge of small shot be fired at all close to the body, or if it be enclosed in a cartridge, or tightly rammed down, the effects will be very serious, even more so sometimes than those resulting from a bullet wound. One form of cartridge—namely, the wire-cartridge —is particularly dangerous, as the wire is always more or less torn up, and the fine points of it are very apt to tear and lacerate the blood-vessels, giving rise to great hemorrhage even from the smaller vessels, just as in lacerated wounds ; and, there- fore, there is a greater risk of primary hemorrhage from wounds made with small shot than from bullet wounds. In bullet wounds, and in many small-shot wounds, the risk of primary hemorrhage is not so great as that of secondary hemorrhage. The bullet may strike the sheath of the vessels, but they yield before the force, so that there is no bleeding at the time ; though the sloughing which takes place afterwards causes secondary hemorrhage. The characters of the small-sliot wound will differ as the shot enters en masse, or more or less scattered. If it enter en masse, and if the gun be fired close to the body, the appearance of the external wound is like the aperture of entrance in a bullet wound ; there is the same small rounded opening, but when we come to examine more closely, we can easily dis- tinguish between a small-shot and bullet wound. In the former the edges are cut round, as it were, and somewhat ragged—not depressed as in the bullet wound—and always when the shot is fired very close^ the powder is ingrained into the cellular tissue about the wou.nd, giving it a dark greyish or blackened appear- ance. The aperture of exit is very different. As a general rale it is very much larger than the aperture of entrance. In