114 TUMOURS. Thus the whole system becomes involved in the mischief, and an operation, if performed, is followed at best only by temporary benefit, and, sooner or later, there is recurrence of the disease either in the same locality or some other part. But in addition to these—malignant growths have some special characteristics which more particularly demand our attention. 1st. The structure of malignant growths, whether viewed by the naked eye or by the aid of the microscope, presents appear- ances very different from what are to be found in simple tumours. They are of a very unequal consistence, varying from a gela- tinous or cerebriform pulpiness to fibroid or fibro-cartilaginous hardness ; and all these different conditions may be found in the same growth. Their intimate structure is composed of cells re- sembling those of glands or epithelium, but larger, and studded with numerous nuclei, showing great power of rapid development. Their structure is not imiform, but consists of dissimilar cells heaped together irregularly. In certain forms of malignant growth, however, the arrangement is more regular, and in these the size of the cells, together with their numerous nuclei, form the dis- tinctive structural character. Malignant growths may at first assume a definite outline and form, or they may appear as infiltrations into the proper structure of organs, as in acute cancer of the mamma; but this seems to be modified by the structure of the organ affected. Thus, scirrhus or hard cancer of bone, at first appears defined in form, so also do the cancerous deposits in the liver. Soft cancer, when it affects the uterus, generally appears as an infiltration. In the breast at first it frequently assumes the appearance of a defined tumour ; in reality, however, there is no true definition, the sur- rounding structures yield to the influence, and not only become affected by, but propagate, the diseased action. Whilst malignant growths may be anatomically limited or defined by the structure of the organ in which they occur, yet they are not physiologi- cally so limited. Thus, a malignant tumour, commencing in the interior of the shaft of a bone, is bounded laterally by the dense osseous wall of the bone and periosteum, and at either end