235 PA THOLOGY AND TREA TMENT. done away with and soft poultices applied, the number of deaths was greatly diminished. Besides removing the source of irritation, we must also use ac- tive measures towards relieving the congestion of the sj)inal mar- row and its membranes, which leads to muscular spasms. For this purpose, cupping along the course of the spine may be resorted to : where the patient is robust and healthy we may use the wet-cup- ping, but when much depletion cannot be borne the dry-cupping should be employed. The use of warm fomentations, and rubbing in the extract of belladonna with some mercurial ointment and opium along the spine, will be of benefit. Internal remedies are also to be given, such as opiates, and specific remedies, such as the cannabis indica, which acts as a sedative, but still main- tains the force of the pulse without increasing its frequency. Wh-ether we give opium or cannabis indica, one point to be attended to is, that the medicine should not be given in a solid, but in some easily diffusible form. Large quantities of opium are given in tetanus without producing any effect, and after death it has been found undigested in the stomach. This shows that the medicine ought to be given in a liquid and not in the solid form. By some opium is supposed to produce con- gestion and excitement of spinal cord, and to be on these accounts objectionable. The best method of exhibiting the cannabis indica is to drop the tincture on a little raw sugar, as the resin becomes concrete if we mix it with water. In many cases we find that, by introducing a tube into the rectum, by which the vapour of the cannabis indica may be injected as it were, the system becomes very readily affected ; and this is specially useful when the patient cannot swallow from the trismus being complete. Various other remedies have been proposed; among them calomel and opium are generally resorted to. Mercurial preparations are sometimes rubbed over the spine and groin; but I have never seen any good effects pro- duced by these remedies. The alkaloid curarine, the active principle of the woorara poison, has been used as a subcutaneous injection, but with little success. The Calabar bean, in doses of