INDURATED CHANCRE. 155 to the ounce), may also be used occasionally. This sore does not heal so rapidly as the simple chancre. There is a greater specific constitutional cause in action, and the ulcer sometimes remains, not extending, but in a sort of passive condition, show- ing no tendency to heal, though as soon as the healthy action is once established, the sore generally heals quickly. In some cases, after we have destroyed the hardened base, though more generally when the base has not been thoroughly destroyed, the hard edge reappears, and the sore seems to be deep. When this occurs, the potassa fusa must be again applied to the edge, and slightly also the surface of the sore ; but we cannot now be so sure of destroying the whole surface as at first. In both the hard and soft chancre we meet with a certain amount of febrile excitement: sometimes it is very slight, but in all cases of venereal sores it is present, and particularly towards night; in some cases it is very marked, and then we require to have recourse to certain remedies, such as acetate of ammonia, and other febrifuge mixtures, along with a little ipeca- cuan. The bowels should be kept open by saline laxatives, and strict attention paid to the diet, which should be non-stimulating. During the treatment of the primary sore rest, as already stated, is absolutely necessary. The indurated sore in many cases refuses to heal; it remains quite stationary, the edges show no tendency to contract, and its surface begins to assume the dirty-grey sloughy appearance it had at first. If this happens after all the ordinary local remedies have been used, then we should lose no time in having recourse to constitutional remedies—viz. preparations of mercury or of iodine, which seem to have a specific action on the diseased condition. Some surgeons in the present day never use the mercurial preparations, but trust entirely to the preparations of iodine, especially the iodide of potassium ; but in the treatment of the primary indurated sore, I have no more confidence in the iodide of potassium than I have in so much water. It is very useful in secondary syphilitic affections, but not in the primary stage of the disease, and it is of no use whatever as a