TREA TMENT. 105 slougli be slow of separating, the application of nitric or sulphuric acid or potassa fusa to it is useful, so as to destroy it thoroughly and rapidly. These escharotics should only be applied on the dead textures, and not on the skin. The incisions are apt to bleed very smartly, but we need not be afraid of this, unless in certain localities, such as the scalp, and there the vessels must be tied. An ordinary carbuncle on the back or hips seldom goes deep enough to involve any large vessel. The bleeding in these cases comes from the highly inflamed and highly vascular integument. In certain states of the constitution, however, as in cases where it is complicated with, or supervenes on albuminuria, we need to beware of continued slow hemorrhage. For in such cases the blood is apt to be deficient in fibrine, and wants the natural tendency to coagulate: hence the part may not bleed much when cut into, but afterwards the blood begins to ooze away gradually, and would soon exhaust the patient if not ar- rested. When this happens, the actual or potential cautery should be applied so as to check the oozing. This, however, will seldom be required if the patient be carefully watched. Different opinions are held as to the constitutional treatment of carbuncle. Some hold that it is a disease of debility, whether induced by over-feeding or want of nourishment, and that, therefore, we should support the patient's strength by giving quinine, animal food, and stimulants from the first. Others, again, consider it to be a very violent form of inflam- mation, and hold that the treatment ought to be antiphlogistic, consisting of low diet, and the use of antimonials to allay the fever. Now, either of these plans, if carried out to the extreme, would be dangerous. The disease is one of irritability of constitution, mixed up with considerable debility, and it ought not, therefore, to be treated either with large quantities of stimulants or with remedies of a too depressing nature. The constitutional treatment should be conducted on the same principles as those inculcated in the treatment of the senile gangrene of Pott; for in both of these diseases there are irritable states of the constitution, and a tendency to weakness