217 INJURIES OF JOINTS. at the side without opening the synovial sac, and lodge in the large amount of cancellated texture there, and it may remain there for many years, sometimes without producing any bad effects, beyond causing stiffness of the joint and the risk of exciting disease. The secondary effects of gunshot injuries of bone must, however, always be taken iuto account, as they may give rise to a disease analogous to caries, and necessitate amputa- tion long after the receipt of the injury. Sooner or later such injuries lead to suppuration, and give much distress to the patient, and ultimately may necessitate operations, which would have been much better done at first. If the ball has entered the joint, or broken up the bone into the joint, or if it lie very close to the articular texture, so as to project the articular surface of the bone before it, then the injury is a very dangerous one. At one time, all injuries of joints—whether inflicted by a ball or by small shot—were considered as cases for amputa- tion. All wounds of joints are dangerous, and gunshot woixnds are especially so, from the foreign body being generally lodged in the joint. Hence, the general experience of military surgeons, up to A.D. 1800, was, that in gunshot injuries of joints in the lower extremity, and even in the upper extremity, amputa- tion was as a rule necessary. But it is an operation which should be avoided if possible, provided that at the same time, the source of irritation can be got rid of, and a tolerably useful limb left. Afterwards, some surgeons adopted the expectant plan of treatment, which consisted in applying hot or cold applications to the limb, and keeping it at rest, so as to pro- cure anchylosis. In 1830 many cases of these injuries occurred in Paris, and were carefully investigated by the late Baron Dupuytren. He pointed out that, in the upper extremity, and even in the lower extremity, in hospital practice, where all proper appliances can be readily obtained, many limbs might be saved by extracting the ball, and allowing the joint to anchylose, though, of course, the joint would be quite stiff, and the heal- ing process would take a long time. If the great vessels of the limb have been injured, then amputation would be required.