28 SUPPURATION. SO that great care is needed to arrive at a correct diagnosis ; and it is most important that a correct diagnosis should be formed, for the treatment of chronic abscess is very different from that of some tumours. Should a fatty tumour be mistaken for a chronic abscess, and an incision made into it, no great harm is done, for the tumour can be excised then and there ; but if this be done in a case of medullary sarcoma, the incision will cause the tumour to grov? with increased rapidity, and the fatal results will be precipitated. There is considerable difference of opinion as to the Treat- ment of this form of abscess—some surgeons hold that it should be opened like an ordinary acute abscess, while others main- tain a different opinion. In many cases we avoid opening a chronic abscess, if it be large, for there may be no pain or constitutional disturbance ; while, if opened, irritative fever may be set up, which often proves fatal. There are cases, however, in which we are justified in interfering—namely, those in which the abscess is quite circumscribed, and when it is not connected directly with any joint or large cavity. When the abscess communicates with a joint, we should delay opening it as long as possible; though, when pain and constitutional disturbance supervene, we may sometimes open the abscess in order to give the patient relief from suffering, and afford him the only chance of recovery. The bad symptoms which generally supervene on opening a chronic abscess are these; the patient complains of general uneasi- ness, shivering followed by pain and heat over the whole body, the skin becomes hot and dry, the urine is scanty and high-coloured, and the bowels generally constipated; there is nausea and vomiting; the pulse is quick—from 120 to 130 — small and compressible ; the patient has a sunk appearance, and the tongue becomes dry and furred—in a word, he has irritative fever. The frequency with which this fever follows the opening of chronic abscesses deters many surgeons from opening them at all. The late Mr. Abernethy supposed that these bad symptoms were due to the entrance of air into the cavity of the abscess. He