95 TREA TMENl. is great. Stimulants do good in some forms of oedematous erysipelas, especially when it occurs in patients of dissipated habits. They are often indicated at an early period of the disease, more especially if the pulse be soft, tremulous, and quick, and the delirium of a low muttering character. Stimu- lants should be given cautiously, however, and , their effects narrowly watched, and care must be taken at the same time that the bowels be properly regulated. In all severe cases, during the latter stages, or so soon as the skin becomes moist and the febrile symptoms subside, or when typhoid symptoms appear, we should exhibit tonics, stimulants, and nutrient diet. Quinine, with mineral acids, wine, ale, or porter, are the best. The diet should consist of animal food; but must be regulated according to circumstances. The patient must be cautioned against any violent exertion during con- valescence, as fatal syncope sometimes occurs under these cir- cumstances, as it does after severe fever. During the progress of the erysipelas, preparations of iron are very beneficial, and during convalescence they should still be given, but then only at intervals and not continuously. By some, iron is considered a specific in all forms of the disease, but my experience warrants me in saying that the impression is erroneous, though in many forms of erysipelas it is a most valuable remedy. It should be given in moderate doses, say from 15 to 20 minims of the tincture of the perchloride four or :^ve times a-day. I have found iron to be especially useful in cases of the erythematic form ; but when the disease assumes an acute character, and is accompanied with a quick full pulse, or in erysipelas of the head when there is a tendency to violent delirium, iron should not be given. Great care and judgment are required in the use of local measures, such as cold and warmth. The application of cold has a tendency to lower greatly the vitality of the part, and is therefore objectionable in many cases; but a stronger reason why it should be avoided is, that it may do positive harm, for as the local affection is, in general, only symptomatic, any agency