88 ERYSIPELAS. Erysipelas may be either idiopathic or traumatic. The former arises from some epidemic or constitutional cause, and the latter results from some external wound or injury. Generally, however, there are evidences of constitutional disturbance prior to the appearance of the cutaneous affection; so the proba- bility is that, even when it supervenes upon, or seems to be induced by, an external injury, some constitutional exciting cause must be at the same time in operation. The premonitory symptoms, too, are alike, whether the caixse be idiopathic or traumatic ; they consist generally of chilliness, rigors, nausea, headache, and not unfrequently an attack of vomiting or diarrhcea. The distinguishing marks between erysipelas and pure phleg- mon are, that in erysipelas the inflammation is more diffuse and tends to spread over the surrounding surface, whereas in phleg- mon it is limited to the part where it began, which portion only becomes swollen. But the best diagnostic mark, perhaps, is that phlegmon is always defined by a hardened boundary, from the effusion of coagulable lymph into the surrounding cellular structure, whilst in erysipelas the swelling is diffuse. The inflammatory action in erysipelas being confined to the skin, swelling cannot occur to any great extent, but effusion takes place beneath the cuticle aud puffs it up into small vesi- cations. When the inflammation of the skin begins to subside, then soft swelling often takes place, in consequence of the vessels of the part relieving themselves by effusion into the subjacent cellular tissue. A very constant and characteristic symptom of erysipelas is a tendency to wandering and delirium at night; this occurs often even in the slightest cases. So much for the general characters of erysipelas; but' as it presents itself in a greater variety of circumstances and condi- tions, it is necessary that we should examine these states more particularly. The disease used formerly to be divided into several different species, according to the symptoms or termina- tions of the inflammatory action. But we will simplify the subject, without losing anything of practical utility, liy consider-