126 TUMOURS. plan is the best when the na3vus is very prominent. In other cases, tlie nsevus may be destroyed by introducing a fine sharp-pointed syringe, and with it tearing up the vascular structure, and then injecting a little of the perchloride of iron, which will cause coagulation, followed by inflammation and obliteration of the vas- cular texture. The principle of treatment is to cause inflamma- tion with effusion of lymph into the vascular texture, and con- sequent obliteration of the vessels. It is right to mention here that cases are recorded in which fatal results have followed on treatment by injection. I have not seen any such cases, but can imagine the possibility of the point of the syringe penetrating a vein, and the injection forcing a coagulum into the circulation, and so leading to fatal results. The rule for avoiding such a result is that which I have just indicated^—namely, to break iip the vascular structure with the point of the syringe first, and then to inject the perchloride solution. Another remedy is the use of galvano-pimcture to cause coagulation of the blood and excited action, first breaking up the tumour with the needles to allow the action to pervade the whole growth. It has also been proposed to tie the large vessels passing to the tumour. The conmion carotid artery has been tied in erectile tumours in the orbit, and the operation has been occasionally successful. Here the tumour, and the vessels supplying it, are limited by osseous boundaries and canals, and the obstruction of its vascular supply to a con- siderable extent may prove successful. But in erectile tumours of the soft parts, such as this erectile tumour of the long flexor of the great toe, in which I tied both the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries without effect, ligatixre of the vessels is not so certain. Where the tumour is suitable, the best plan is to strangulate it. The perchloride of iron injected, or threads dipped in it passed through the tumom- are very useful, and so is galvauo- puncture. Ligature of the great vessels, though sometimes successful, cannot be depended on. The venous ntevus is larger and more flattened generally, and wants the pulsating feel, but is in all other respects the same as the arterial neevus, and the treatment is the same.