47 GRANULATION. it affirms that no new material is formed, because some per- manent tissue is formed by tbe granulating process. For example, in ulceration over a bone when the periosteiim has given way, as the ulcer heals there is a layer of granulations spread over the bone ; the wound heals principally by contrac- tion, but there is always a certain amount of new fibrous tissue formed by the granulations, though not enough to fill up the cavity of the sore. "When there is much muscular texture lost and not much skin, the wound will heal very rapidly, and with a very small cicatrix; but when much skin is lost, by sloughing, a large cicatrix is formed, and contraction of the part follows. I believe, then, that in aU cases of healing by secondary union there is a small amount of new texture formed from the granulations; that the cicatrix grows from the surrounding skin, and that contraction of the surrounding parts is the chief cause of the closing in of ulcers. The cicatrix is a substitute for skin. It consists of white fibrous tissue, and is very unyielding, being firmly attached. Its vitality is low, in consequence of which it easily dies when in- flammation is set up in it. Usually it is possessed of but slight sensibility ; at other times, however, it is extremely sensitive. Ulceus may be divided into three classes :— 1. Those in which ulceration is slow and the healing process seems to be prevented by low vitality and defective action. Of these we have good examples in the Weak and Callous iilcers. 2. Those in which the ulceration progresses rapidly and the healing process is prevented by over-excitement, excessive action or irritability of the part. This class is exemplified in the inflamed and irritable ulcers. 3. Ulcers in which healing is prevented by specific action, as in the case of strumous, syphilitic, and cancerous sores. To the first class belong the wtah ulcer, and the callous, indolent or chronic. These two, although classed together, are nevertheless widely different in their character, and require different treatment.