63 777^ INFLAMED ULCER. vilcer resembles the thickening of the skin called a corn, and have recommended that the skin should be sliced away as we would do a corn. But this is only an example of the bad treat- ment to which a bad pathology leads. A corn is due to thicken- ing of the epidermis, whereas the thickening of the skin around a chronic ulcer is due to exudation in the true skin and sub- cutaneous areolar tissue. The second class includes ulcers prevented from healing by excessive action.'—Two ulcers are included in this class—the Inflamed and the Irritable. (1.) The Inflamed Ulcer.—A sore may possess this character from the commencement, or one of any other kind may assume this form. It is recognised by a bright red colour of the skin, irregular eaten-out margins, and viscid unhealthy discharge, which is frequently mixed with blood. Its surface is covered with florid, vascular, and very sensitive granulations, or an ash- coloured slough. The surrounding integument becomes tense, glistening, and painful; in colour it varies from bright red to a crimson or lake, and its temperature becomes elevated consider- ably, although not to a degree equal to the sensations of the patient. The blush or discoloration of the skin is not limited to the immediate vicinity of the idcer, but may extend for a considerable distance up and down the limb. The swelling is also diffuse, and under the pressure of the unhealthy exuda- tion which is poured out into the areolar tissue, disintegration takes place, and small outlets or ulcers are formed, leaving between them narrow bridges of skin, gradually merging to- wards one another ; these at length give way, and a large rugged ulcer is formed. This condition is attended with all the cardinal symptoms of inflammatory action. The limb has a pulsating feeling, and sometimes becomes erysipelatous. The surface of the sore often takes on a sloughing action, and gangrene may supervene. An example of this is sometimes seen in acute inflammation of the glans penis, which is very frequently followed by death of the part. When the inflam-