71 HYGIENE. three weeks after I had removed my patieuts into these wards, first some stumps, which were nearly healed, took on an unhealthy action, and soon all sores and wounds presented the characters of either the black or grey phagedasna. The slightest abrasion or cut was infallibly attacked by the diseased action, which was most intractable. The patients were removed to a small reserve hospital on the grounds, occasionally used as a fever-house; and though not perhaps a model hospital, the change of locality acted like magic on the patients. The sores began to amend almost from the time of the removal; and ultimately every patient who had been removed made a good recovery. Indeed the only two fatal cases occurred at the commencement of the outbreak, and these were originally amongst the most trivial wounds — one a case of simple fracture of the thigh, with slight abrasion over the knee. The case had been under treatment about a fortnight when the abrasion presented the appearance of black phagedajna, and resisted all treatment. In the other fatal case, the phagedenic action followed upon an incision of the prepuce, for phymosis, in a man of worn-out constitution. Careful investigation showed how very imperfect the removal of the vitiated air must have been. And now that natural ventilation by the windows and air-chambers, by the ventilator in the roof, and open fire- places, has been adopted, and other changes made in the arrange- ment of the wards, I have not for many years seen phagedenic sores unless when brought into the house from without, or occasionally when unhealthy tendencies prevailed generally in the city and neighbourhood as epidemics. I think it right, however, to express my opinion that we must not trust implicitly, even to the best arranged and venti- lated wards, to the exclusion of other precautions. I have noticed that the best wards are not unfrequently those in which unhealthy conditions manifest themselves ; and the cause is not far to seek. Being the best, they are the wards in which, for obvious reasons, we place our operation and other important cases, and after a time our favourite ward becomes the scene of some unexpected